xiv SECOND REPORT OF THE
Second Report of the Code Commissioners.
On-'xcn or ComussIormns dI-' Cons,
Raleigh, August 31st, 1868.
To the General Assembly qf the Sfate Q/` North Carolina .-
The Commissioners appointed by the Constitutional Con-
vention, to prepare among other things, a Code of Practice
and Procedure in civil actions for the courts of this State,
respectfully present the concluding portion of that Code
with the exception of certain detailed regulations for what
are called " Special Proceedings, " including:
1. Application for year's provision of a widow.
2. The laying off of dower.
3. Partition of real and personal property.
4. Foreclosure of mortgage.
5. Habeas Corpus.
6. Mandamus.
7. Laying off property exempt from execution.
8. Ejectment tbr the recovery of real estate.
9. Proceedings in contempt.
10. Proceedings on impeachment.
As they understand the law of New York, these proceed-
ings are only generally, and not fully, provided for in its
Code of Procedure, but are regulated at least in part, by cer-
tain statutes contained in the second volume of their Revised
Statutes.
Proceedings in these cases, are accordingly left by your
Commissioners for the present, to be governed by the exist-
ing Statutes, as tar as may be consistently with the provis-
ions of the Code of Civil Procedure
The Commissioners ask leave to submit a few observations
respecting the circumstances under which their work has
been performed, and the manner of its performance.
Diginzed by Google
CODE COMMISSIONERS. XV
The Constitution required ,that 1l.ey blmuld present such
a Code £o the Legislature at its present session; it contem-
plated the abolition, as soon as such u Code could be pre-
pared, of all existing forms of actions, and of all distinctions
between actions at law and suits in Equity; Courts ol Equity
were immediately abolished by the Constitution. The Com-
missioners felt the necessity of diligence and even of a
degree of haste incompatible with the perfection which
mightreasonably be expected from a longer time for consid-
eration and review. They commenced their labors as soon
as they had any assurance that the Constitution would
become the law of the State, and in two months have pre-
pared and presented to your body:
1. An Analysis of the entire Code of the State.
2. A bill for the government oi counties.
3. A bill defining the powers and duties of Clérk's of the
Superior Courts as Judges of Probate.
4. A bill concerning the Jurisdiction of Justices of the
Peace.
5. A Code of Civil Procedure for the Superior Courts.
Besides many others on subjects of great importance,
requiring both research and reflection, but upon which
members of your body thought early legislation necessary
for the public good. Some idea may be formed of the dili-
gence with which the Commissioners have. labored, when it
is considered that nearly five years elapsed between the
appointment of the Commissioners to prepare the Revised
Code, and its publication. In reference to the Code of
Practice, so great has been their sense of the necessity for
promptly providing rules ibr thejguidance of the newly
created Courts, that they have ventured to present it to you
in piece meal, without reserving to themselves any oppor-
tunity for reviewing it as a whole.
Under such circumstances, it is inevitable that imperfec
tions will be found,Which such a review would have readily
disclosed. We feel authorized, therefore, to ask a generous .
criticism of our laborsfrom you, as well as from the profes-
sion, which because it is.best'able to gappreciate the diiiicul-
Diginzed by C008 le
'xvi SECOND REPORT OF THE
ties of the task, is always disposed to regard in a kindly
spirit, every effort directed in good fhith to improve the
administration ofjustice.
As the Constitution adopted the language of the law of
New York in its provisions for abolishing the distinction in
the forms of actions; and as the Code of that State was the
iirst adopted, and has been the model on which those of
many other States have been since framed, the Commis-
sioners did not hesitate to take the Code of New York as
*the basis of that to be prepared for this State, with such
modifications as the differing circumstances of the two States
might make expedientl
In general, they have endeavored to make such changes
only as were absolutely commanded or clearly implied in
the words oi the Constitution, or as were manifestly proper.
To point out the changes in detail, would occupy too much
of your time.
The Code we present, forms as nearly as was possible
under the circumstances in which it has been prepared, a
consistent whole; there is scarce any part which can be
altered without involving alteration in some or numerous
others. We therefore invite your honorable body to pass i-t
as it is, and leave to experience, to expose the places which
require amendment. The Code of New York was adopted
.in 1848 as it come from the hands of the Commissioners,
and has ever since been undergoing amendments, suggested
by experience, and so framed by the most able lawyers, as
to lit in and harmonize with the other parts.
All can understand the value to a people, of a Code of
laws, embodying and regulating according to justice and
reason, the rights and duties of men in all the varying rela-
tions oflife and business; but none but those whose profes-
sion makes them necessarily familliar with the modes of
applying Qzose principles to actual transactions, can appre-
ciate that the machinery for such application is as essential
to justice as is the recognition of its principles.
In every Code for the administration of law, much is fixed
by the laws of the human mind, and is, therefore, essentially
Diginzed by C008 le
CODE COMMISSIONERS. xvii
alike in the practices of all countries; while much also is
purely arbitrary, and depends for its wisdom, on the habits
and condition of the people to whom it is applied.
For example: every man who has a complaint against his
neighbor, for which he seeks redress, must first summon the
supposed wrong-doer before some Judge, and must inform
him of the grounds of the complaint, and the defendant must
have an opportunity to answer.
These things are fixed in justice, and are to be found in
the practice of all countries. But what shall be the nature
of the summons,-whether or not the defendant shall be
arrested and held to bail, the time of notice, the manner of
service, and a vast number of other details which it is indis-
pensable lbr the convenience of all parties shall be prescribed
by some fixed and certain law, are purely arbitrary, and are
scarcely ever the same in any two States. It is not so
important what they are, as that they should be fixed and
clear and known, and conformable to the business usages of
a people, their grade of culture and facilities for mutual
intercourse.
WVe make these general observations to show the views
which have guided us in the preparation of this Code, con-
fident, that whatever may be the skill with which we have
applied them, the views themselves will be received by all,
as true. .
Detailed regulations for what are called " Special Proceed-
ings" are not urgent, they being sufficiently provided for, at
present, by the Code, and by the existing laws; we do not
propose, therefore, to present those at this, session of the
Legislature. -Very respectfully,
WM. B. RODMAN,
A. W. TOURGEE,
V. C. BARRINGER
B
\
Diginzed by C008 le
Diginzed by (2009 le
ANALYSIS
OP THE
CODE 0F C ,IVIL PROCEDURE.
I_.
TITLE GENERAL PROVISIONS IN BBGARD TO ACTIONS.
II. SUPERIOR COURTS.
III. GENERAL PROVISIONS AS To CIVIL ACTIONS.
IV. LImunou OF ACTIONS.
V. PARTIES-T0 o1v1L ACTIONS.
VI. OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.
VII. MANNEB OF COMHENCING CIVIL AUIIONS mn THE
SERVICE 0F THE srnmoNs.
VIII. OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
IX. OF THE PROVISIONAL Rmmnms IN CIVIL wrrons.
X. Or THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
XI. OF THE mmcvrron OF JUDaxmN'r IN crvn. Acrrxous.
XII. OF THE COSTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
XIII. OF APPEAIS IN CIVIL ACUONS.
XIV. OF THE HISGELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS IN own.
ACTIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
XV. Acnoxés IN PARTICULAR CASES.
XVI. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
XVII. REGULATIONS RESPECTING EXISTING SUITS.
XVIII. OF THE Surnmm COURT.
XIX. PROBATE counrs.
XX. THE COURTS 0F Jusnons OF THE PEACE.
XXI. FEES OF CLERKS AND OTHER OFFICERS.
XXII. QF THE PRINTING OF 'mm CODE OF CIVIL mo-
CEDURE.
-XXIII. RATIFIOATION OF STATUTES courosnra 'mls coma.
Diginzed by C008 le
xx ANALYSIS.
TITLE I.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sze. 8. To what actions these enactments applicable.
9. DeHnition of Court; to mean clerk, when.
TITLE 11.
SUPERIOR COURTS.
Sac. 10. Original civiljurisdic tion of the Superior Courts.
11. Terms of the several Superior Court~.
TITLE III.
GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO own. ACTIONS.
Snc. 12. Forms of civil actions-Distinction between actio s at law and n
suits in equity abolished.
13. Parties designated, plaintiff and defendant.
14. Actions on judgmexis when they may be brought.
15._Feigned issues abolished.
TITLE IV.
LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
CHAPTER I.
Actions in General.
Bnc. 16. Time of commencing actions in general.
_ 17. Period of limitation; objection must t be taken by answpr.
CHAPTER II.
Time of commencing actions for the recovery ot real property.
Sac. 18. When the State will not sue. Thirty years possession. Twenty-
one years possession under oolorab e l tbl i e.
19. Such possession valid against claimants under the State.
20. When persons having title must sue,
Diginzed by C008 le
ANALYSIS. xxi
Slc. 21. Proviso in case of judgment for plaintid reversed, &w.
22. Seiziu within twenty years when necessary.
23. When adverse possession for twenty years.
24. Action after entry.
25. Possession presumed. Occupation when deemed under legal title.
26. Relation of landlord and tenant.
27. Persons under disabilities.
28. Cumulative disabilities.
29. Railroads, &4., not barred.
CHAPTER III
Time of commencing actions other than for the recovery of real
property.
Sic. 30. Periods of limitation prescribed.
81.. Ten years.
82. Seven years.
33. Six years.
34. Three years.
85. One year.
36. Six months.
37. Action for other relief.
38. Limitations to apply to actions by the State.
39. Action upon an account current; the statute begins to run when.
CHAPTER IV.
General provision as to the 1'me ot commencing actions.
Sac. 40. When action deemed commenced.
41. Exception-defendant out of the State.
42. Exceptions-persons under difficulties.
43. Death of a person entitled before limitation expires.
44. Actions by aliens; time of war not counted.
45. When judgment reversed, &c.
46. Time of stay by injunction, not counted.
47. Time during controversy about probate of will, &,c., not_counted.
48. Disability must exist when the right of action accrued.
49. When several disabilities ; all must be removed.
60: Acknowledgment by partner, &c., after dissolution.
51. Acknowledgment or new promise must be in writing.
52. Co-tenants; when some barred, others not.
53. This title not applicable to bills, &c., of corporationsf or to
bank notes.
64. Nor to actions against directors, &c., of moneyed corporations`or
banking associations; limitation in such cases prescribed.
Diginzed by C008 le
xxii ANALYSIS.
TITLE V.
PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.
Sac. 55. Party in interest to sue. Action by grantee of land held adversely.
Assignment of thing ln action.
58. Action by md against a married woman.
57. Action by executor, trustee, dzc.
58. Infant to appear by guardian.
59, Appointment of guardian in particular action.
60. Who to be plaintiiil
81. Who to be defendant.
sz. Parties to be joined, &c.
68. Parties to bills and notes, &c.
64. Existing suits; action when not to abate.
65. Court may determine controversy and interpleader.
TITLE VI.
OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS..
Sec 60. Actions to be tried where subject matter situated.
67. Actions to be tried where cause of action arose.
68. Actions to be tried where defendant resides.
69. Change of place of trial.
TITLE VII.
OF THE IANNEB. OF COMHENCING CIVIL ACTIONS, AND THE SERVIUE
OF THE BUMMONS.
Sac. 70. Manner of commencing civil actions.
71. Bummons; by whom Issued, &c._
72. Power to sue as a pauper; how obtained.
78. Form ot the summons.
74. What summons to contain.
75. Return of summons.
78. Service of the complaint.
77. Plaintiff failing to file complaint within ten days.
78. Pla.lntlH failing m lilo complaint within the time for defendants
appeamnce.
79. Tlme of dling pleadings may be enlarged.
80. Plpintiff shall name an attorney.
Diginzed by C008 le
109
ANALYSIS.
-Sac. 81. Notion of no persomlclaim
82. Manner of aervica of summonl.
sa. Service by publication; form of summons.
84. Manner and effect of publication.
85. Defendnnt nllowecfto defend before Ind mer judgment.
86. Action for foreclosure of mortgage.
87 Joint and several Debtors-Parties.
88. When servioe complete.
89. Proof of service.
90. Jurlsdiction-Appearance-Appou~anc¢-Notice of his pendqw.
TITLE VIII.
or rm: PLEADINGS m cxvu. ACTION.
CHAPTER I.
Of the Complaint.
Sac. 91. Forms of pleading.
92. Complaint.
93. Complaint, what to contain.
CHAPTER n.
The Demurrer.
Bw. 94. Defendant vo demnr or answer.
95. When defendant may demur.
98. Demnrner shall specify grounds of objection.
97. How to proceed if complaint be amended.
98. Objection not appearing on complaint.
99. Objection when deemed waived.
CHAPTER III.
" The Answor.
.8zo. 100. Answer what to contain.
100. Counter claim; Several defences.
101. Demurrer and answer.
102. Blum irrelevant defences.
CHAPTER IV.
. The Reply.
~Blc. 105. Reply; demurrer to answer.
\ 106. Motion for judgment on answer.
107. Demurrer to reply.
Diginzed by C008 le
xxiv ANALYSIS.
CHAPTER V.
Duties and powers of the Clerk of the ;Superlor Court in relation
\ to the pleadings, and in collateral matters.
Src. 108. Jurisdiction of clerk on pleadingfivc.
109. Either party may appeal.
110. Duty of the clerk on appeal prayed.
111. Issues of law, sont m Judge.
112. Party tc be heard before Judge.
118. Duty of Judge on appeal.
114. Judge to keep a Docket.
115. Judgment on matter of fact final: on: matter of law may be
appealed from.
•
CHAPTER VI.
General rules of pleading.
Src. 116. Pleadings to be subscribed and verified.
117. Pleadings, how veritied.
118. Items of amount; particulars.
119. Pleadings, how construed. 1
120. Irrelevant or redundant; indefinite or uncertain.
121. Judgments, how to be pleaded.
122. Conditions precedent, how to be pleaded ; instrument for pay-
ment of money only.
123. Private statutes, how to be pleaded]
124. Libel and slander, how stated in complaint.
125. Answer in such cases.
128. What causes of action may be joined in the same complaint.
\ 127. Allegation not denied, when to be deemed true.
CHAPTER VII,
Mistakes lu pleading and amendments.
Bac. 128. Material variance.
129. Immaterial variance.
130. A failure of proof, when.
1 31. Amendment of course after allowance of demurrer.
132. Amendments by order.
1 33. Relief, in case of a mistake.
134. When plaintiff ignorant of the name of defendant.
135. Errors or defects not substantial to be disregarded.
136. Supplemental pleadings.
Diginzed by (2008 le
ANALYSIS. xxv
CHAPTER vm.
Of the qualification and general duties of Clerks of the Superior
Courts.
Snc. 137. Bond of Clerk.
138. Bond, how approved.
189. Qualification of Clerks.
140. Failure to give bond, &c.
141. Office, where to be kept; when to be open.
142. To receive official papers, &»c.
143, To keep records.
144. Books to be kept by Clerks.
145. Books to be furnished by Secretary of State.
146. Papers in each action to be kept separate and filed together.
147. Solicitor to examine records.
TITLE IX.
OF THE PROVISIONAL nmnznlzs IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
CHAPTER I.-Anmzsr AND BML.
" II.-CLAIM AND Dzuvzav ol* Pznsoxu. 1'RoPzn'rv.
" III.-Issuncrxon.
II lv.-ATTACHMENT.
H V.-PnovlsIoxur. REMEDIES.
CHAPTER I.
Arrest and Bail.
Sac. 148. No person to be arrested, except as prescribed.
149. In what cases.
150. Order for arrqst, by who to be made.
151. Aftidavit to obtain order for arrest. To what actions this chap-
fer applies.
152. Security by plaintiff before order for arrest.
153. Order, when made, and its form.
154. Afiidavit and order to be delivered to sheriff; and copy to de-
fendant.
155. Arrest, how made.
156. Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.
157. Bail, how given.
158. Surrender of defendant.
159. Surrender of defendant.
160. Bail, how proceeded against.
Diginzed by C008 le
xxvi ANALYSIS.
8nc. -l6l. Bail, how oxoneratéd.
162. Delivery of undertaking to p1aimiti§ and its acceptance or rejw-
tion by him.
183. Notice of justidcation. New bail.
164. Qualidcaiion of bail.
165. Justification of bail.
166. Allowance of bail.
167. Deposit with the Shadi
188. Payment of deposit into court.
169. Substituting bail for deposit.
170. Deposit, how disposed ot
171. Sheriff; when liable as bail.
172. Proeeedings on judgment against sheridl
173. Bail liable m sheriili
174. Vacating order of arrest or reducing bail.
115. Ailldavits on motlon.
CHAPTER II.
Claim and Delivex-yof Personal Property.
B1c. 176. Delivery of personal property.
177. Atlidavit and its requisites.
178. Requisition to sheriH` to take' and deliver the property.
179. Security by plaintiff.
180. Exception w sux-eties.
181. Defendant, when entitled to re-delivery.
182. Justification of defendaut's sureties.
183. Qualidcation and justification of sureties.
184. Property, how taken when concealed in building or inclosure.
185. Property, how kept.
186. Claim of property by third person.
187. Notice and amdavit, when and where to be filed.
CHAPTER III.
injunction,
Sac. 188. Injunction by order.
189. Injunctlon, in what cases.
190. At what time it may be granwd. Copy affidavit to bo served.
191. Injunction aMr`mswer.
192. Security upon injunction. Damages.
193. Order to show cause. Restraint in meantime.
194. Security upon injunction to suspland business of corporation.
195. Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
196. Atiidavita on motion.
Diginzed by C008 le
ANALYSIS. xxvii
CHAPTER IV.
Attachment.
Sac. 197. Property of foreign corporations, and of non-resident or abscond-
ing, or concealed defendants, may be attached.
198. Publication to be made.
199. Warrant, by whom granted.
200. When warrant granted by Justice of the Peace.
201. In what cases warrant may be issued. Aflidavits may be tiled.
202. Security on obtaining warrant.
203. Warrant, to whom directed and what to require.
204. Mode of proceding in executing warrant.
205. Proceedings in case of perishable property or vessels.
206. Interest in corporations or associations liable to attachment.
207. Attachment, how executed on property incapable of manual
delivery.
208. Certificate of defendants interest to be furnished.
209. Judgment, how satisfied.
-210. When action oo recover notes, &c., of defendant, may be prose-
cuted by plaintid in the action in which the attachment Issued.
21 1 Bond to sheriff on attachment, how dispo$d of on judgment for
defendant,
212. Discharge of attachment, and return of property or its proceeds,
to defendant on his appearance in action.
'213. Undertaking on the part of the defendant. Discharge of attach-
ment.
214. When the sheriff to return warrant and proceedings thereon.
CHAPTER v.
Provisional Remedies.
Sac. 215. Powers of court as to receiver's, deposit of money, &c., in court,
and other prqvisional remedies. Judgment for sum admit-
ted due.
TITLE X.
ON THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT IN cmr. ACTIONS.
c
¢Can'mn I.-Junaxnnruron .FAILURE TO ANSWER, ac.
" II.--Issuna nn Tax non: or Tarn..
" III.-Tnur. nv JURY.
u IV.-Tnur. nr rn: Coum.
* V.-Tarn. nr Rsrsnnns.
u VI.-Tas lunnn or nxvrnnma Junaxnxr.
Diginzed by C008 le
xxviii ANALYSIS.
CHAPTER I.
Judgment upon failure to answer, ézc.
Sic. 216. Judgment dedned.
217. Judgment on failure of defendant to answer, or for excess over
counter-claim.
218. Judgment on privolons demurrer, answer or reply.
CHAPTER II.
Issues and Mode of Trial.
Snc. 219. The different kind: of issues.
220. Issue of law.
221. Issue of fact. .
222. On issues of both law and fact, the issue of law to be drst tried.
223. Trial dedned.
224. Issues, how tried.
225. Other issues to be tried by the Court or Judge.
226. Issues of fact when to be tried.
227. Trial may be postponed by Clerk, when.
228. Trial postponed by Judge in term, when.
229. Criminal calendar ilrst disposed of. Order of disposing of issues
in civil actions.
CHAPTER III.
Trial by Jury.
Sac. 230. Separate trials.
231 Judge to be furnished with copy of pleadings.
232. General and special verdicts defined.
233. When jury may render either general or special verdict, and'
when, Judge may direct special finding.
234. On special finding with general verdict, the former to control.
235. Jury to assess defendant, damages in certain cases.
236. Entry of the verdict. Motion for new trial on Judge's minutes.
237. Judge to explain law, but to express no opinion on facts.
238. Judge to put his instructions in writing.
239. Counsel to put their prayer for instructions in writing.
CHAPTER IV.
I
Trial by the Court.
8sc. 240. Trial by jury, how waived.
241 On trial by the Court, judgment how to be given.
242. Exceptions, how and when taken.
243. Proceedings upon judgment on issue of law,
Diginzed by C008 le
ANALYSIS. xxix
CHAPTER v.
Trhl by Referees.
ISEC. 244. All issues referable by consent.
245. When reference may be compulsively ordered.
246. Mode of trial; Effect of report; Review.
247. Referees, how chosen. Who may be Referee. Report.
CHAPTER vi.
Manner of Entering Judgment.
-Sac. 248. Judgment may be for, or against, any of the parties; may grant
dependentafflrmative relief. Complaint may be dismissed for
neglect to prosecute action. Judgment against married wo-
man.
249 I The relief to be awarded to the plaintitil
250. Rate of damages, where damages are recoverable.
251. Judgment in action for recovery of personal property.
252. Clerk to enter judgments on Judgment Book, also judgments
rendered in other Courts, and index them.
253. Judgment roll.
254. Existing suits, Judgments when and how to be docketed. Se-
cured on appeal.
TITLE XI.
OF THE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT IN c1vrL ACTIONS.
CHAPTER I.
The Execution.
350. 255. Execution within three years of course.
256 After three years, to be issued only by leave of Court. Leave
how obtained.
257. Judgments, how enforced.
258. The different kinds of execution.
259. To what counties execution may be issued. Execution against
a married woman.
260. Execution against the person, in what cases.
261. Form of the execution.
262. To be returnable in sixty days.
263. Existing laws relating to executions continued until otherwise
provided.
Diginzed by C008 le
xxx ANA LYSIS.
CHAPTER II.
Proceedings Supplementary to the Execution.
Slc. 264. Existing suits. Order for discovery of property. Exuminulonf
of judgment, debtor, &c.
265. Existing suits. Any debtor may pay execution against his
creditor.
266. Existing suits. Examination of debtors of judgment debtor, or
of those having property belonging to him. Joint debtors.
287. Existing suits, Witness required to testify.
268. Existing suits. Compelling party or witnesses to attend.
269. Existing suits. What property may be ordered to be applied tn-
the execution.
270. Existing suits. Judge may appoint reoeiver, and forbid transfer,
dw., of property-order, dmc.
271. Existing suits. Proceedings upon claim of another par ty .to-
property, or on denial of indebtedness to judgment debtor.
272. Existing suits. Refaence by Judge.
278. Existing suits. Costs of proceeding.
274. Existing suits. Disobedience of order how punished.
TITLE XII.
OF THE COSTS IN clvn. ACTIONS.
Ssc. 275. Fee bill of Attorney abolished.
276. When allowed of course to the plaintiti. Several actions on one
instrument.
277. When allowed to defendant.
278. When allowed to either party ln the discretion of the court.
279. Amount of costs allowed.
280. Additional allowance.
281. Allowance, how computed. Difficult and extraordinary cases.
282. Report, when allowed.
283. Costs, how to be inserted in judgment. Adjustment of inter-
locutory ('03L8_
284. Fees of clerks, shedffs, dw.
285. Referees fees.
286. Costa against infant plaintilil
287. Costs in action by or against an execution or administrator, trun-
tees of an express trust, or a person expressly authorised by
statute to sue.
288. Costs in civil actions by the State.
289. Costs in actions by the State, for a private person. •
290. Costs against assignee after action brought, of cause ot action.
Diginzed by C008 le
ANALYS1S. xxxi
Sm 291. Costs on a settlement.
102. Colts on appeals.
298. Costs in existing actions.
294 . Costs in specisl proceedings.
295. Costs on appeals from Justices of the Peace.
TITLE XIII.
OF APPEALS IN CIVIL Acmous
S1c. 298. Existing suits; writs of error abolished, and appeals substituted.
297. Orders made out of court, how vacated or modified.
298. Existing suits; who may appeal.
299. Appeal; ln what cases lt may be taken.
300. When taken; execution not suspended when.
301. Appeal to be entered by clerk on Judgment Docket, cue how
stated and settled.
302. Clerk to make copy of judgment roll, and to send m Clerk of
Supreme Court.
303. On appeal, security must be given, or deposit made, unless waived.
304. Existing suits-on judgment for money-security to stay execu-
ecution-new undertaking on snreties in drst-becoming ln-
solvent.
805. Existing suits-if judgment be to deliver document or personal
property, it must deposited or security given.
306. Existing suits-if to execute conveyance, It must be executed
md deposited.
307. Existing suits-security where judgment is to deliver real prop-
erty, or for a sale of mortgaged premises.
308. Existing suits-stay of proceedings upon security being given.
309. Existing suils-Undertakings may be In one instruments or
several.
810. Existing suite-security to be approved and to justify.
811. Existing suits-perishable property may be sold notwithstanding
appeal.
312. Existing suite-undertaking must be died.
313. Existing suits-intermediate orders ed'ecting the judgment may
be renewed on the appeal
314. Existing suits--judgment on appeai-restitution.
Diginzed by C008 le
ww-
xxxii ANALYsIs.
TITLE XIV.
'OF THE MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS AND GENERAL
PROVISIONS.
CHAPTER I.
Submitting a Controversy without Action.
Sac. 315. Controversy how submitted without action.
316. Judgment.
817. Judgment how enforced or appealed from.
CHAPTER II.
Proceedings against Joint Debtors, Heirs, Devlsees, Legatees, and
Tenants holding under a Judgment Debtor,
SEG. 318. Parties, not summoned in action on joint contract, may be sum-
moned after judgment.
319. If judgment debtor die, his representatives may be summoned.
820. Form of summons.
821. To be accompanied by affidavit of amount due.
322. Party summoned may answer and defend.
323. Subsequent. pleadings and proceedings same as in action.
324. Answer and reply to be verified.
CHAPTER III.
Confession of Judgment without Action.
SEC. 825. Judgment may be confessed for debt due or contingent liability.
326. Btatement in writing and form thereof.
327. Judgment and execution.
CHAPTER 1v.
Otfor of the delieudaut to compromise the whole or a part of the
Action.
SEC. 328. Oiier of compromise.
829. Dependant may offer to liquidate damages conditionally.
830. Effect of~ acceptance or refusal of offer.
CHAPTER. 'yi
Admission or Inspection of Writing.
Sac. 331. Existing suits, Inspection and copy, of books,'papers and docu-
ments, how obtained.
Diginzed by C008 le
ANALYSIS.
CHAPTER VI.
Eiaminatlon of Parties.
8:c. 882. Action for discovery abolished. .
833. Existing suits; a pujty may examine his adversary as a witness.
834. " " Such examination also allowed before trial.
335. " " Party how compelled to attend.
388. " " Testimony of party may be rebutted.
837. " " Edbct of refusal to testify.
838. " " Testimony of apsrty not responsive $0 the inquir-
ies, may be rebutted by the oath of f calling him.
339. Existing suits; Pefions for whom action s brought or defended
may be examined.
340. Existing suits; Examination of co-plaintiff or co-defendant.
341. Husband and wife, witnesses.
CHAPTER VII. g
Exsmlnstion of Witnesses.
8zc. 342. Existing suits; Interest not to exclude s witness.
343. Existing suits ; parties fn actions md spedal proéeedings may be
examined as witnesses on their own behalf, except in oextsin
uses.
CHAPTER VIII.
Motions and 01'den,
Sac. 344. Definition of an order.
345. Definition of a motion. Motions how and where made, Stay of
proceedings, compelling parties to testify, Decision on motion.
848. Notice of motion.
9
CAHPTEB IX.
Entltling Amd|Y|tS,
Snc. 347. Existing suits; aflidavits defectively entitled, valid.
CHAPTER X. .
Computation of Time.
Sac. 348. Time, how computed.
CHAPTER XI.
Notes and Filing and Service of Papers.
Src. 349. Existing zulu. Notice, Gm., how served; subpoena for witnesses
350. Existing mill; service by mail.
351. Exiatingihitl; service by mail.
852. Existing suits; double time when served by mail.
363. When this chapter does not appiy.
C
Diginzed by C008 le
xxdv ANALYSIS. •
CHAPTER XII.
Duty of Sherlllh and Coroners.
Bnc. 854. Duty of sheritf and coroner in serving or executing prooessand
how enforced; may return process by mail.
CHAPTER XIII.
Accountability of Guardians.
Sac: 865. Guardian not to receive property until security given.
0 CHAPTER xlv.
Powers of Referees.
Src. 858. Powers of referees.
CHAPTER xv.
Miscellaneous Provisions. •
Sac. 867. Papers lost or withheld, how supplied.
868. Whom undertaking to be died. .
859. Time for publication of notices, how computed, how improved.
380. Laws of other States and governments.
TITLE XV.
ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.
CHAPTER 1.
Actions against Foreign Corporation.
Src. 881. Where and by whom brought.
¢ CHAPTER II.
Actions m place of sein faehs, quo warranto, and of informations ln
the nature of quo wan-anto.
Sac. 862. Bcire facias and quo warranw abolished and this chapter aub-
stitnfed.
888. Action may be brought by Attomey-General to vacate a chariot,
by direction of the Legislature.
864. Acidn to annul a corporation, when and how brought by Attor-
ney-General, by have of the Buprexno Court.
Diginzed by C008 le
ANALYSIS. xxxv
Sac. 865. Leave how obtained.
388. Action upon infomation or complaint of course.
867. Action, when and how brought to vacate letters patent.
868. Belator, when to be joined as plantifil
869. Complaint, and arrest of defendant, in action for usurping an
oflioe.
870. Judgment ln such actions.
871. Assumption of otlice, &,¢., by relator, when judgment is_in his
favor.
372. Proceedings against defendant, on refusal to deliver bookslor
papers,
878. Damages, how recovered
874. One action against several persons claiming oilice or franchise."
375. Penalty for usurping oiiice or franchise; how awarded
876. Judgment of forfeiture against e corporation.
377. Costs against a corporation, or persons Elaiming t,o_be such,how
collected.
378. Restraining corporation, and appointment of receiver.
879. Copy ofjudgment-roll against corporation, where to be Bled.
380. Entry of judgment relating to letters patent.
881. Actions for forfeiture of property to the State.
CHAPTER nl.
Action for the Partition of Real Property,f&c.
B1c. a82. Provisions of the Revised Code applicablé wactions for partition.
CHAPTER Iv.
Actions for Waste and Nuisance.
Sxc. 383. Action of waste abolished. Waste how remediable.
884. Provisions of Revised Code applicable w action for waste under
this act.
385. When judgment of forfeiture and eviction to be given.
386. Writ of nuisance abolished.
887. Remedy for injuries heretofore remediable by writ of nuisance.
TITLE XVI.
Géneral Provisions.
Sac. aes. Delinition of " real property."
389. Definition of "personal property."
390. Dednition of u property."
391. Rule of construction.
Diginzed by C008 le
nxvi ANALYSIS.
Bzc. 392. Statutory provisions inconsistentwith'th1s aotfrvpbalbd.
893. Ruksmnd practice inconsistentwith tins-utfzbrogathd.
8944 J U, of Supremo Courtelmil nnh|:rulm.of prlctiiae; _
895. Judges of Superior Oourtw to nggosvruiea:
896. If Judge'of a Superior Court not present, Court to be aqioum-
ed, when.
897. If tdal for felony in progress at expiration of a term, tenn to be
prolonged.
398. Pleadings, Gm., how written.
899. Judges of Superior Courts to issue write of habeas corpus.
TITLE XVI I.
Regulations Respecting Existing Suits,
Sac. 400. Clerk of Superior Court to transfer existing suits in which no
dual judgment.
401. Bults not transferred to abate.
402. If transferred how proceeded with.
408, Existing judgments not dormant, may be transferred.
404. Dorman! judgments, how revived.
405. Actions to recover debts, embraced in stay law.
406. Executions levied on personal property.
407. Executions satisfied.
408. Executions not levied at all, or levied on real property.
409. Executions to be docketed.
410. Penalty on Sheriff for failing to return.
41 1. Judgments not dormant, when.
412. Ordinance of 11th March, 1868, not effected.
I
TITLE XVIII.
OF THE surnmm COURT.
;_ Bac. 413. Jurisdiction of Supreme Court.
414. Cases, how taken to Supremo Court.
415. Claims against the State.
416. Manner of prosecutirg claims against the State.
Diginzed by C008 le
ANADYSIS. xxxvii
TITLE XIX.
PROBATE coulrrs.
Q
CHAPTER I.
Jurisdiction and Powers.
Sac. 417. Judges of probate.
418. Jurisdiction.
419. Disqnalliication to act.
420. Wwlver of disqualitlcation.
421. Removal of proceedings.
422. Enumeration of powers. ¢
423. How party may appear.
424. Judge of Probate not to act as Attorney.
425. Beals.
426. Files.
427. Records.
428. Books to be furnished by Secretary of Sta te, and to;be indexed.
CHAPTER II.
Probate of Deeds.
850. 429. How made, &c.
430. When land lies in two or more counties.
431. Official bonds.
432. When Judge of probate disqualified to act.
CHAPTER III. O I
Jurisdiction over the Estates of Deceased Persons.
434. When Probate Judge has jurisdiction of the estate.
435. Probate Judge first acquiring jurisdiction, to have exclusive
jurisdiction.
CHAPTER IV.
Probate of Wllls.
I
SBC. 435. How wills admitted to probate.
| 438. Executor not incompetent as a witness.
l 437. Proof and examinations in writing.
438. Probate, how far conclusive.
4489. Who may apply for probate.
440. Who may apply when executor does not.
441. What to be shown on application.
442. Production of will compelled by process.
Diginzed by C008 le
xxxviii ANALYSIS.
Snc. 443. Will made without the State; how proved.
444. Will of citizen or subject of anelier country; how ailowed and
recorded in this State.
445. Will of citizen of this State proved elsewhere; how proved and
recorded here.
448. Caveat.
447. Tranferred to Superior Ccurt; when.
448. Order to suspend proceedings.
CHAPTER V.
Letters Testamentary.
Sac. 449. Who is disqualified to serve as executor.
\
450. Executor may renounce.
451. When excutm deemed to have renounced(
452. Executor under disqualification of age or absence.
CHAPTER VI.
Letters of Administration with the Wlll Annexed.
Sac. 453. To be granted; when and to whom.
454. Qualifications, &c.
455. Will of testator to be observed.
CHAPTER VII.
Letters of Administration.
Sac. 456. To whom 'Whom granted.
457. Disqualification. • I
458. Uoining persons not entitled.
459. Reniinciation of persons having prior right.
460. Persons having prior right disqualified or absent.
461. What must be shown on application.
462. Contested administration.
CHAPTER VIII.
Letters of c0lle0cn n.
Ssd. 463. When to ssue and to whom.
464. _Qua1iHcation, &c.
465. Authority, &c. •
466. Authority, when to cease, &c.
I
Diginzed by C008 le
ANALYSIS. xxdx
CHAPTER IX.
General Provisions Respecting Executors.
8nc.§467. Oath, &c.
468. Bond, aw.
469, Revocation of letters on proof of will, &/c.
470. Revocation on ground of disqualilication or default.
471. _Letters, how issued and tested.
CHAPTER X.
Guardian and Ward.
8sc.}4'72. Power over orphan's estates, and to appoint guardians.
473. Inquisition of Lunacy.
474. Proceedings on application for guardianship.
475. Letters of appointment.
476. Reference to seltions 456, 467, 469.
CHAPTER XI.
•
Accounting by Executors, Administrators, Collector s and Guardians,
and Auditing by Judge of Probate.
Snc. 477. Make return on oath; when.
478. Annual accounts. •
479. Failure to account.
480. Vouchers.
481. Final accounts.
CHAPTER XII.
Masters and Apprentices.
SBC. 482. Binding to be by indenture.
483. Remedy thereon.
484. Who may be apprenticed.
485. For what time bound.
486. Duties of master.
487. Duty of Probate Judge.
488. Apprentices, how compelled to serve.
489. Misconduct of masters.
CHAPTER XIII.
Transfer and Appeal.
- Sac. 490. Issues of fact and matters of law.
491. No bond required.
9 492. Appeals when taken and.by whom.
4
a a
Diginzed by C008 le
xl ANAEYSIS.
CHAPTER XIV.
What Laws Repealed and Uurepealed.
Snc. 493. What laws repealed and unrepealed.
'I`ITLE XX.
THE COURTS OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.
CHAPTER I.
Manner ol' Commcnclng mu lctfnms In Justkvs warts..
Bac. 494. Laws repealed.
495. Summons.
496. Summons, by whom issued.
497. Service and return of summons.
CHAPTER II. D
Jurlsdktlon and Manner of Pmeeedhng.
Sm. 498. Judsdiction.
499. Wlme sum demanded exceeds two hundred dollars.
500. Answer to title.
501. Action to be dismissed, when.
502. Another action may be brought.
503. Docketing Just.ice's judgment.
504. Rules of proceeding in Justices Court.
505. Execution; on what, and from what time a lien.
506. 8tay of execution; security.
507. Former judgment.
508. Application for rehearing.
509. Justice's judgment removed to another county; how.
501. Witnesses, penalties, &c.
CHAPTER ur.
Arrest and Ball-
SEC. 511. Provisions of Code of Civil Procedure Applicable,
512. Arrest, in what cases.
513. Order for arrest, by whom made.
514. Ailidavit to obtain order.
515. To what actions this chapter applies.
•
Diginzed by C008 le
¢
ANA,;,YsIs. xli I
°94Pw= gv.
Mews-
Sac. 516. Provisions of Code of Civiil Procedure Applicable.
l CHAPTER v.
Jury Trials In coqrts ul ~!u¢U¢e'| or tlqo reage-
Snc. 517. Jury list furnished to each Justice.
518. Justice to keep jury box.
519. Names of jurors to be deposited in jury box.
520. When tial by jury demanded or waived.
521. Jury drawn and trial postponed.
522. Summoning of the jury.
523. The jury for the trial of the cause.
524. Challenge,
525, What names to bo be returned to jury box or destroyed.
528. Tales jurors may be summoned.
527. Jufy sworn and empannelled-verdict, &c.
528. New trial--appeal.
529. Less than six, may be a jury, when.
530. Not compelleed to serve out of township.
531, Jurors sexving on a trial, &c.
532. Deposit of jury fees.
538. Adjournment upon return of the jury.
CHAPTER VI.
Appeal.
Sac. 584. °Appeal, execution.
545. Appeal, when to be taken.
536. Notice of appeal, on whom served.
537. Return to the appeal.
588. Defective return.
539. On return to the appeal what to be done.
640. Appeal on what heard.
541. Execution of the iudgment, how stayed.
542. Same, undertaking to be given.
543. Same, delivery and service of the order, .on whom.
544. Restitution.
545. Costs how awarded. '
U
Diginzed by C008 le
xlii ANALYSIS.
• CHAPTER VII.
Jlenenl Pnvlslbns respntlng Justices of the Peace.
.Slc. 548. Within what time to qualify.
647. Removal out of township nik months to forfeit office. •
648. Resignation.
549, May issue process and try causes, where.
650. Otlice under the United States.
561. Punishment on conviction of infamous crime, Gzc.
552. Filing docket with clerks.
558. Delivery of untilled docket`t,o successor.
554. Filing and delivery, how enforced.
TITLE XXI.
FEES.
CHAPTER I. -Gxnnnn PROVISIONS.
cz II.-FEBS or Bomclrons.
cc III.-Fuss or Cnxnxs or 1-nz Surunxon Counrs.
1. In CIVIL Acnous.
2. IN CRIMINAL Aczrlons.
H IV.-Fans or Rsalsrnns or Dnzns.
ec V.-Fnzs or Snnmrvs.
rr VI.-Tana or Conosnns.
I¢ VII.-Fnxs or Jusrrcsa or THE PEACE.
ll VIII.--Fans or Consunnns.
H IX.-Fuss or Jlmons.
rc X.-Fuss Ann SnmIss or Cnnnxs or THE Surasls COURT.
CHAPTER I.
Goneral Provlslons.
Sac. 555. Fees of ofiicers, by whom, and how, payable.
556. Copy sheet defined.
557. Fees on returns m Secretary of State.
558. Oiiicers to make returns of fees.
559. Clerks to furnish blank writs.
560. Who to pay costs in criminal aetions.
561. Half fees, if convict insolvent.
.562. How fees of odicers received.
• •
Diginzed by C008 le
ANALYSIS. x1iii
CHAPTER II.
Foes of Solicitors.
Sac. 668. When to receivd fees salary.
I 564. Solicitors' fees-for what.
CHAPTER III.
The fees of Clerks of the Superlor (bull.
• 4830. 565. What fees and for what.
I. In Civil Cases.
II. In Criminal Actions.
CHAPTER IV.
Fees of Beglsters nf Deeds.
Sac. 666. Specification.
CHAPTER v.
I
Fees of Sherl&.
Sac. 567. Specifica' ion.
CHAPTER VI.
Fees of Coroners.
* Sac. * sea Specidcation.
CHAPTER II.
Fees of Justices of the Penn.
Sac. 669. Specifications.
CHAPTER VIII.
Fees of Constables. »
Sac. 570. Like those of the sherifil
• CHAPTER IX.
Fees of Jnrors.
Sac. 571. Day and mileage.
CHAPTER X.
Fees ami Salaries of the Supreme Colm.
U Bnc. 572. To remain as heretofore.
Diginzed by C008 le
xliv ANALYSIS.
TITLE XXII.
of the printing d the We of ¢lvll Pmednre.
8no. 678. Code as printed under the supervision of the Commissioners,
evidence of the law. 9
574. Copies, how distributed.
TITLE XXIII. •
Ratlllcatlon of Statutes composing this Code.
Ssc. 575. Date oi Ratification.
s
O
Diginzed by C008 le
D
•
0
4
s h
•
•
•
9
•
•
Diginzed by C008 le
l
4
v
o
•
•
¢
I'
Diginzed by (2009 le
I
•
CODE 'oF CIVIL PRQGEDURE.
Digihz @dby(§oo3le
r-
1
•
Diginzed by C008 le
•
THE
CODE 0F CIVIL PROGEDURE
OF
NORTH CAROLINA.
Wnnnnus, it is ordained by Section 1, Article IV of the
Constitution of North Carolina, that:
" The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity
and the forms of all such actions and suits shall be abolished,
and there shall be in this State but one form of action for the
enforcement or protection of private rights or the redress of
private wrongs, which shall bc denominated a civil action;
and every action prosecuted by the people of the State as a
party against a person charged with a public offence shall be
termed a criminal action. Feigned issues shall also be abol-
ished, and the fact at issue tried by order of court before a
jury r A
The General Assembly of the State of North Carolina, for
the purpose of carrying into effect the said section, and regu-
lating the practice and procedure in civil actions, in the seve
ral courts of this State, do enact a8 follows:
GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND DWISIONS.
$1 .-Indies.
Remedies in the courts of justice are divided into-
1. Actions.
2. Special proceedings.
Diginzed by C008 le
•
2 THE CODE OF
M.-Actions.
An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of justice,
by which a party prosecutes another party, for the enforcement
or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a Wrong,
or the punishment of a public offence.
§8--Speclnl Proceedings.
Every other remedy is a special proceeding.
§4.-Dlvlslon of Actions.
Actions are of two kinds:
1. Civil.
2. Criminal.
55.-crnmmu Action.
A criminal action is,
1. An action prosecuted by the State as a party against a
person charged with a public offence, for the punishment
thereof.
2. An action prosecuted by the State, at the instance of an
individual, to prevent an apprehended crime against his person
or property.
ts.-cml Action.
Every other is a civil action.
§7.-Remedies not Merged»
Where the violation of a right aclmits both of a civil and
criminal remedy, the right to prosecutethe one, is not merged
in the other.
1
TITLE I.
GENERAL PROVISIONS IN REGMD To ACTIONS.
58.-To what ntlons tlmse mactments are applicable.
The following enactments are applicable to:
1. Civil actions, which at the approval, by the government
of the United States, of the Constitution adopted by a Conven-
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 3
tion of this State, on the sixteenth day of March, 1868, were
pending in any County Court, Superior Court of law, or
Court of Equity, of this State, and which were not founded on
contract, as far as they may be, according to the stage of pro-
gress of the action, and having regard to it8 subject and not
to its form.
2. All civil actions which shall be commenced after the rat-
ification of this Act, not founded on a contract made prior to
its ratiiication.
3. All civil actions commenced prior to the ratiyication of this
Act, or which shall be commenced hereafter,_/'or causes of action
included within the provisions of an ordinance, entitled "An
Ordinance respecting the jurisdiction of the courts of this State,"
ratified on the fourteenth day of March 1868, shud be governed
in respect to the practrhe and procedure therein, by the provisions
4' that ordinance, and by the existing laws, as far as they may
be, except as to form.-[See Appendix]
4. All actions commenced prior to the mtitication of this
Act, or which shall be hereafter commenced, founded on a con-
tract made prior to the ratification of this Act, and not em-
braced in the ordinance abovementioned shall be governed in
respect to the practice and procedure therein, up to, and in-
cluding the judgment, by the laws existing prior to the ratifi-
cation of this Act, as near as may be, and the practice in such
actions subsequent to judgment, shall be governed by the en-
aetments of this Act.
49,-:mmm of 0al rt T o len 0lerk, when.
In those of the following enactments, which confer juris-
diction or power, or impose duties, when the words Superior
Court, or " Court," in reference to a Superior Court are used,
they mean the Clerk of the Superior Court, unless otherwise
specially stated, or unless reference is made to afregular term
of the Court, in which cases the Judge of the Court alone, is
meant.
Diginzed by C008 le
4 TI-IECODEOF
TITLE II.
svrnmoa COURTS.
§l0.-0rlgln| (lvll Jlrlsiletlon of the Superior Courts.
The Superior Courts shall have exclusive original j1u°isdic=
tion of all civil actions, whereof exclusive original jurisdiction
is not given to some other Court. (Const. Art. IV, Sect. 15.)
su.-'mu pf the several Superior (hurts.
The terms of the several Superior Courts, of this State, shall
begin in each year, at the times herein stated, and shall cou-
tinue to be held for two weeks (Sundays and legal holidays
excepted) unless the business be sooner disposed of.
Fmsr JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
Bertie County, on the first Monday in March and October.
Hertford County, on the third Monday in March and October.
Gates County, on the fourth Monday after the first Monday
in March and October.
Chowan County, on the sixth Monday after the first Monday
in March and October.
Perquimans County, on the eighth Monday after the first
Monday in March and October.
Pasquotank County, on the tenth Monday after the first
Monday in March and October.
Camden County, on the twelfth Monday after the first Mon-
day in March and October. ..
Currituck County, on the fourteenth Monday after the first
Monday in March and October.
SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
Tyrell County, on the Iirst Monday in September and Feb~
ruary.
Washington County, on the third Monday in September and
February.
Beaufort County, on the sixth Monday after the third
Monday in September and February.
Diginzed by (2009 le
CIVIL PRO CEDURE. 5
Pitt Cohnty, on the eighth Monday after the third Monday
in September and February.
Edgeeombe County, on the tenth Monday after the third
Monday in September and February.
THIRD JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
Wayne County, on the nrst Monday in September and
February.
Jones County, on the third Monday in September and
February.
Onslow County, on the first Monday after the fourth Mon-
day in September and February.
Craven County, on the third Monday after the fourth Mon-
day in September and February.
Lenoir County, on the 'iifth Monday after the fourth Mon-
day in September and February.
GreeneCounty, on the seventh Monday after the foEtT1
Monday in September and February.
Carteret County, on the ninth Monday after the fourth
Monday in September and February.
Wilson County, on the eleventh Monday after the fourth
Monday in September and February.
FOURTH JunIoin. DISTRICT.
Robeson County, on the fourth Monday in August and
February.
Bladen County, on the second Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February.
Columbus County, on the fourth Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February.
Brunswick County, on the sixth Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February.
New Hanover County, on the eighth Monday after the
fourth Monday in August and February.
Sampson County, on the tenth Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February.
Duplin County, on the twelfth Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February.
Diginzed by C008 le
6 THE CODE. OF
Martin County, on the second Monday after the third Mon
day in September and February.
Hyde County, on the fourth Monday after the third Mon-
day in September and February.
FIFTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
Harnett County, on the second Monday in August and
February.
Moore County, on the second Monday afinar the second
Monday in August and February.
Montgomery County, on the fourth Monday after the .second
Monday in August and February.
Stanly County, on the sixth Monday after the second Mon-
day in August and February.
Union County, on the eighth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February. _
Anson County, on the tenth Monday after the second Mon-~
day in August and February.
Richmond County, on the twelfth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.
Cumberland County, on the fourteenth Monday after the
second Monday in August and February.
SIXTH JUD ICIAL DISTRICT.
Granville County, on the second Mdnday in August and
February.
Warren County on the second Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.
Franklin County, on the fourth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.
Johnston County, on the sixth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.
Wake County, on the eighth Monday after the second Mon-
day in August February.
Nash County, on the tenth Monday after the second Monday
in August and February.
Halifax County on the twelfth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 7
Northampton County, on the fourteenth Monday after the
second Monday in August and February.
SEVENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
Guilford County, on the first Monday in March and Sep-
tember.
Rockingham County, on the second Monday after the first
Monday in March and September.
Caswell Coumty, on the fourth Monday after the 'first Mon-
day in March and September.
Person County, on the sixth Monday after the first Monday
in March and September.
Orange County, on the eighth Monday after the 'first Monday
in March and September. ,
Chatham County, on the tenth Monday after the first Monday
in March and September.
Randolph County, on the twelfth Monday after the first
,Monday in March and September.
Alamance County, on the fourteenth Monday after the first
Monday in March and September.
EIGHTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
Davie County, on the Iirst Monday in April and September.
Rowan County, on the third Monday in April and Sep-
tember.
Davidson County, on the second Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.
Forsyth County, on the fourth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.
Stokes County, on`the sixth Monday after the third Monday
v in April and September.
Surry County, on the eighth Monday after the third Monday
in April and September.
Yadkin County, onthe tenth Monday after the third Monday
in April and September.
NINTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
Polk County, on the first Monday in March and September.
Diginzed by C008 le
8 THE CODE OF
Rutherford County, on the third Monday in March and
September.
Cleaveland County, on the second Monday after the third
Monday in March and September.
Lincoln County, on the fourth Monday after the third Mon-
day in March and September.
Gaston County, on the sixth Monday after the third Monday
in March and September.
Mecklenburg County, on the eighth Monday after the third
Monday in March and September.
Cabarrus County, on the tenth Monday after the third Mon-
day in March and September.
TENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
Catawba County, on the first Monday in March and Sep-
tember.
Alexander County, on the third Monday in March and Sep-
tember.
Iredell County, on the second Monday after the third Mon-
day in March and September.
Wilkes County, on the fourth Monday after the third Mon-
day in March and September.
Caldwell County, on the sixth Monday after the third Mon-
day in March and September.
Burke County, on the eighth Monday after the third Mon-
day in March and September.
McDowell County, on the tenth Monday after the third
Monday in March and September.
ELEVENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
Alleghany County, on the Iirst Monday in April and Sep-
tember.
Ashe County, on the third Monday in April and September.
Watauga County, on the second Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.
Mitchell County, on the fourth Monday after the third Mon-
day in April and September.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PRO CEDURE. 9
Yancey County, on the sixth Monday .after the third Mon~
d'ey in April and September.
Madison County, on the eighth Monday after the third Mon-
day in Apri1_and September.
Buncombe County, on the tenth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.
TWELFTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
Clay County, on the lirst Monday in April and September.
Cherokee County, on the third Monday in .April and Sep-
tember.
Macon County, on the second Monday after the third Mon-
day in April and September.
Jackson County, on the fourth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.
Haywood County, on the sixth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September. .
Transylvania County, on the eighth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.
Henderson County, on the tenth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.
TITLE III.
GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO CIVIL ACTIONS.
§l2.-Forms of Civil Aetlons---Dlstlnetml between Aetlons at Law and Salts
ln Equity abolished.
The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity,
and the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore exist-
ing, are abolished; and there shall be, in this State, here
after, but one form of action, for the enforcement or protec-
tion of private rights and the redress of private wrongs,
which shall be denominated a civil action. (Const. Art. IV.
Sec. 1»)
Diginzed by (2009 le
10 THE CODE OF
918.-Parties deslgnated-Plahtll and Defendant.
In such action, the party complaining shall be known as the
plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant. •
jlb-Actions on Julglents-When they may be brought.
No actionshall be brought upon a judgment rendered in a
any court of this State, which shall be rendered after the
ratification of this act, except a court of a Justice of the
Peace, between the same parties, without the leave of the
Judge of the court, either in or out of term, for good cause
shown, on notice to the adverse party.
915.-Felgned issues mama.
Feigned issues are abolished; and instead thereof; in the
cases where the power now exists to order a feigned issue,
or when a question of fact not put in issue by the pleadings,
is to be tried by a' jury, an order for the trial may be made,
by the. Judge, stating distinctly and plainly the question of
fact to be tried; and such order shall be 'the only authority
necessary for a trial.
TITLE IV.
LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
(Jhapter I, Actions In General,
" II, Actions for the recovery of Real Property,
" m_ Aetlons for the recovery of Property other than Beal.
" IV, General provisions as to the Gon1meneement of Action,
CHAPTER 1.
ACTIONS IN GENERAL.
§l8.-Tile of wmmenclng Actions ln General.
The provisions contained in chapter sixty-five of the Re
vised Code, entitled "Limitations," age repealed, and the pro-
visions of this title are substituted. This title shall not
extend to actions already commenced, or to cases where the
Diginzed by C008 le
CWIL PRO CEDURE. 11
right of action has already accrued, but the statutes in force
previous to the ratification of this act shall be applicable to
such cases; and in cases where the right of action has already
accrued, but the action has not been commenced, the said
statutes shall be applied according to the subjectfmatter of the
action, and without regard to the form.
917.-Period of Llnltntlol-0hje¢tlo| nut M taken by answer.
Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods pre
scribed in this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued,
except where, in special cases, a different limitation is pre-
scribed by statute. But the objection that the action was not
commenced within the time limited, can only be taken by an-
swer.
CHAPTER II.
ACTIONS FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY-TIME OF COM-
MENCING.
918.-Whe1 the sms will ut sue; Thirty years possession; Twenty-one
one yous possession uder eolorable title,
The State will not sue any person for, or in respect of, any
real property, or the issues or profits thereof, by reason of the,
right or title of the State to the same;
1. When the person in possession thereof, or those under
whom he claims, shall have been in the adverse possession
thereof for thirty years, such possession having been ascertain-
ed and identified under known and visible lines or boundaries;
and such possession, so held, shall give a title in fee to the pos-
sessor.
2. When the person in possession thereof, or those under
whom he claims, shall have been in possession under colorable
title for twenty-one years, such possession having been ascer-
tained and identihed under known and visible lines or bound-
arles.
91 9.-Such possession valid agalnst eldmants under the State.
All such possession as is described in the preceding section,
under such title as is therein described, is hereby ratified and
Digi zed by C008 le
12 THE CODE OF
confirmed, and deblared to be a good and legal bar against
the entry or suit of any person under the right or claim of the
State.
920.-Wm porsons having Tltle iw sue.
When the person in possession of any real property, or those
under whom he claims, shall have been possessed of the same,
under known and visible lines and boundaries, and under col-
orable title for seven years, no entry shall be made or action
sustained against such possessor, by any person having any
right or title to the same, except during the seven years next,
after his right or title shall have descended or accrued, who in
default of sueing within the time aforesaid, shall be excluded
from any claim thereafter to be made; and such possession, so
held, shall bc a perpetual bar against all persons; subject to
the qualifications in sections twentyeight and twenty-nine of
this title.
421.-Provlso in use sf Judgment for Plalntll reversed, ac.
If in any action for real property, the plaintii be non-suited,
or judgment be given for him, and the same be reversed for
error, or a verdict pass for the plaintiif, and judgment thereon
be arrested, thenin any such case, the plaintilf may commence
a new action from time to time, within one year after non-suit,
judgment reversed or stayed as aforesaid, notwithstanding the
time limited in the foregoing section (twenty) for bringing
such action as may have expired, if thc action first brought,
was commenced within the time above prescribed for bringing
such actions.
922.-Solznro wlthln twenty years when necessary,
No action for the recovery of real property, or the possession
thereof, shall be maintained, unless it appear that the plaintiif,
or those under whom he claims, was seized or possessed of the
premises in question within twenty years before the commence-
ment of such action; subject to the qualications in sections
twenty-nine and thirty.
Diginzed by C008 le
0
1
CWIL PROCEDURE. 18,
§2$.-Whe1 adverse peseesden for twenty yean.
No action for the recovery of real property, or the posses
sion thereo£ or the issues and pro'dts.thereoi0 shell be main-
tained when the person in possession thereo£ or the defendant
inmehwtiomorfhoseunderwhomhaelsimsshtll hovers#-
sessed such real property under knownandvisiblelinaand
boundaries adversely to all other persons for twenty yeam;
and such possession, so hdd, shall give s, title in fee to the pos-
sessor, in such property, against all persons not under disability.
§n.-1414 um my.
No entry upon real estate shall be deemed suflicient or valid,
as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon, within
one year after the making of such entry, and within the time
prescribed in this title.
985.-Possession pruned-0c¢|patlon when deemed under legd Title.
In every action for the recovery of real property, or the
possession thereof, or damages for a trespass on such posses-
sion, the person establishing a legal title to the premises, shall
be presumed to have been possessed thereof within the time
required by law; and the occupation of such premises by any
other person shall be deemed to have been under and in sub-
ordinationto the legal title, unless it appears that such premi-
ses have been held and possessed adversely to such legal title,'
for the time prescribed by law before the commencement of
such action.
928.-Relatlon of Landlord nd Tennt.
Whenever the relation of landlord and tenant shall have
existed between any persons, the.po8ses8ion of the tenant shall
be deemed the possession of the landlord, until the expiration
of twenty years from the termination of the tenancy; or where
there has been no written lease, until the expiration of twenty
years from the time of the last payment of rent, notwithstand-
ing that such tenantmay have acquired another title, or may
have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord. But such .pre
sumptions shall not be made afterthe periods herein limited.
Diginzed by C008 le
s 14 THE CODE OF
927.-Persons under dlsabllltlos.
If a person entitled to commence any action for the recovery
of real property, or to make an entry or defence founded on
the title to real property, or to rents and services out of the
same, be, at the time such title shall descend or accrue, either,
1. Within the age of twenty-one years, or
2. Insane, or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon
conviction of a criminal olfence, or
4. A married woman; .
Then such person may, notwithstanding the time of limita-
tion prescribed in this title be expired, commence his action,
or make his entry, within three years next after full age, com-
ing of sound mind, enlargement out of prison, or discoverture,
and at no time thereafter.
428.-Gnmulatlvo Disabilities,
When two or more disabilities shall co-exist, or when one
disability shall supervene an existing one, the period prescribed
within which on action may be brought, shall not begin to run
until the termination of latest disability.
929.-nn loads, tc., not boned.
No Rail Road, Plank Road, Turnpike or Canal Company,
shall be barred 08 or presumed m have conveyed, any real
estate, right of way, easement, leasehold or other interest in
the soil which may have been condemned, or otherwise obtained
for its use, as a right of way, depot, statiomhouse or place of
landing, by any statute of limitation or by occupation of the
same by any person whatever.
CHAPTER III.
ACTIONS OTHER THAN FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY.
TIME OF COMHENCING.
§80.-Periods of Limitation prescribed.
The periods prescribed for the commencement of actions,
other than for the recovery of real property, shall be as fol-
lows:
•
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 15
581,-To1 years.
Within ten years.
1. An action upon ajudgrnent or decree of any Court of the
United States, or of any State or territory thereof;
2. An action upon a sealed instrument not negotiable,
against the principals thereto;
3. An action for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or deed in
trust for creditors with a power of sale, of real property, where
the mortgagor or grantor has been in possession of the prop-
erty, within ten years after the forfeiture of the mortgage, or
after the power of sale became absolute, or within ten years
after the last payment on the same;
4. An action for the redemption of a mortgage, where the
mortgagee has been in possession, or for a residuary interest
under a deed in trust for creditors, where the trustee or those
holding under him, shall have been in possession; within ten
years after the right of action accrued.
»§32~-Seven years.
Within seven years.
1. On a judgment rendered by a Justice of the Peace.
2. By any creditor of a deceased person against his personal
or real representative; Within seven years next after the quali-
zlication of the executor or administrator and his making tho
advertisement required by law, for creditors of the deceased to
present their claims, where no personal service of such notice
in writing is made upon the creditor; and a creditor thus bar-
red of a recovery against the representative of any principal
debtor, shall also be barred of a recovery against any surety
to such debt.
33 .-Sl! y¢ll'S~ /
'Within six years.
1. An action upon the official bond Of any public oiiicer.
2. An action. against any executor, administrator, or guar-
dian on his oiiicial bond, within six years after the auditing of
this final accounts by the proper oiiicer, and the filing of such
audited account as required by law.
3. An action for injury to any incorporeal hereditament.
Diginzed by C008 le
16 THE CODE OF
984.-Three years.
Within three years.
1. An action upon a. contract, obligation, or liability arising
out of a contrast, express or implied, except those mentioned
in the pweeding sections;
2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than
a penalty or forfeiture, unless some other time be mentioned in
the statute, creating it;
3. Au qction fontrespass upon real property;
4. An action for taking, detaining, converting, or injuring
any goods or chattels, including actions-for thdr.speeilic.re-
oovery ;
5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other in-
jury to theperson or rights of another, not arising on contract
and' not hereinafter enunciated;
6. An action against the suretics of any executor, adminis-
trator or guardian, on the oiiicial bond of their principal;
within three years after the breach thereof complained of ;
7. An action against bail; within three years after judgment
against their principal, but bail may discharge themselves by a
Surrender of their principal, at any time before final judgment
against them;
8. Fees due to any clerk, sheriff or other officer, by the
judgment of a Court; within three years from the time of the
judgment rendered, or of the issuing of the last execution
therefor;
9. An action for relief on the ground of fraud, in cases
which heretofore were solely cognizable by Courts of Equity,
the cause of action in such case not to .be deemed to have
accrued until the discovery by the aggrieved party, of the facts
constituting fraud.
9554--(hh rm.
1. An action against a sheriff; coroner, or constable, or other
public officer for a trespass under color of his office;
2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture,
where the action is given to the State alone, or in whole or
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 17
in part, to the party grieved, or to a common informer, ex-
cept where the statute imposing it prescribes a different
limitation;
3. An action for libel, assault, battery, or false imprison-
ment;
4. An action against a sheriff or- other officer, for the
escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on dvil process;
5. An action by a creditor of any deceased person, on
whom personal notice in writing to present his claim to the
personal representative of the deceased has been served, and
who has failed so to (105 within one year after the service of
such notice, and any such creditor, barred of a recovery
against the personal representative of a principal debtor,
by reason of such default, shall also be barred of a recovery
against the sureties for such debt.` '
§80.-Six Months.
Within six monizhs.
1. An action for slander.
§8'¥.-Action for other Relieil
An action for relief not herein provided for, must be com~
menced within ten years after the cause of action shall have
accrued.
§38.-Actions by the State; Limitations to apply to.
The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall apply to
civil actions brought in the name of the State, or for its
beneht, in thesame manner as to actions by or for the ben-
efit of private parties.
§39.-Action upon an account Current, when cause Actrues.
In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a
mutual, open and current account, where there have been
reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of action
shall be deemed to have accrued from the timeof the latest
item proved in the account on either dde.
2
Diginzed by C008 le
118 THE CODE OF
CHAPTER III. P
GENERAL PROWSIONS AS 'ro THE 'rum OF comuszncnw ACTIONS.
940.--When action deemcd commenced.
An action is oommsnced as to each defendant when the
summons is issued issued against him. .
§il»-Exception z Defendant out at the State.
If when the cause of action accrue against any person, he
shall be out of the State, such action may be commenced
Within the terms herein respectivelylimited, after the return
of such person into this State; and if after such cause of
action shall have accrued, such person shall depart from
and reside out of this State, or remain continuously absent
therefrom for the space of one year or more, the time of his
absence shall not be deemed or taken as any part of the time
limited for the commencement of such action.
§42.-Exceptions; Persons under Disabilities.
If a person entitled to bring dn action mentioned in the
last chapter, except .for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a
sheriff or other oflicer for an escape, be at the time the cause
of action accrued, either,.
1. Within the ageof twenty-one years; or
2. Insane; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under
the sentence of a criminal court for a term less than his
natural life; or
4. A maMed woman;
Then such person may bring their actions within the times
before limited, after their disabilities shall be removed.
§43.-Death af penan entitled, before limitation expires.
If a person entitled to bring an action die before the
expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof;
and the cause of action survive, an action may be com-
menced by his representatives after the expiration of that
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 19
time, and within one year from his death. If a person
against whom an action may be brought die before the
expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof}
and the cause of action survive, an action may be com~
menced against his executors or administrators after the
expiration of that time, and within one year after the issuing
of letters testamentary or of administration.
544.- ations by Aliens; time of war not eountul.
When a periion shall be an alien, subject or citizen of a
oountry, at war with the United States, the time of the con-
tinuance of the war shall not be part of the period limited
ibr thecommenoement of the action.
§45.-Where judgment reversed Am; Pluinujf may commence new
action.
If an action shall be commenced within the time pre-
scribed therefor, and the plaintiff be non-suited, or a judg-
ment therein be reversed on appeal, or be arrested, the plain-
tiff; or if 'he die and the cause of action survive, his heirs or
representatives may commence a new action within one
year after such non-suit, reversal, or arrest of judgment..
948.-Time of Stay by lnjunction, am., not counted.
When the commencement of an action shall be stayed br
injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the contin~
uance of the injunction or prohibition shall not be part of
the time limited for the commencement of the action.
941.--Time during controversy about Probate of Wm, dsc., not.,
counted.
In reckoning time when pleaded as a bar to suits, thatf.
period shall not be counted, which elapses during any con-
troversy on the probate of a. will or granting letters of ad~_
ministration, unless there be an administrator, appointed.
during the pendency of thesuit, and it be provided hy law,,
that suit may be brought aga'nst him.
Diginzed by C008 le
/
20 THE CODE OF
MS,-Disability must exist when the right of action accrued.
No person shall avail himself of a disability, unless it
existed when his right of action accmed.
Q49.-Where several Dlasbllltles, all must be removed.
Where two or more disabilities shall co~exist aft the time
the right of action accrues, the limitation shall not attach
until they all be removed.
§50.-Acknowledgment by partner, &c., after dissolution.
No act, admission or acknowledgment by any partner
after the dissolution of the co-partnership, or by any of the
makers of a promissory note or bond after the statute of
limitations shall have barred the same, shall be received as
evidence to repel the statute, except against the partner or
maker of the promissory note or bond, doing the act, or
making the admission or acknowledgment.
§5l.-Acknowledgment or new promise must be in wrlglng.
No acknowledgment or promise shall be received as evi-
dence of a new or -continuing contract, whereby to take the
case out of the operation of this title, unless the same be
contained in some writing signed by the party to be charged
thereby; but this section shall not alter the 'effect of any
payment of principal or interest.
§52.-Co-tenants; when some.barred, and others not.
In actions by tenants in common or joint tenants of per-
sonal property to recover the same, or damages for the
detention of or injury thereto, and any of them shall be
barred of their recovery by limitation of time, the rights ot
the other shall not be affected thereby; but they may
recover according to their right and interest notwith-
standing such bar.
§53.¢-This mle not applicable to bills, &f., of corporations, or ta bank
notes.
This title shall not affect actions to enforce the payment
of bills, notes or other evidences of debt, issued by moneyed
corporatio"nz=, or issued or Hut in circulation as money.
Diginzed by C008 le
CI VIL PR0cEbURE. 21
§54-lor to sctlons against lllrectors, Ju., of loneyod Gorporatlons or
Banking Assoclatlons, Llnistlon In such eases prescribed.
This title shall not affect actions against directors or
stockholders of any moneyed corporation, or banking asso-
ciation which shall hereafter be incorporated by or under
the laws of this State,to recover a penalty or forfeiture
imposed, or to enforce a liability created by law; but such
actions mustbe brought within three years after the dis-
covery by the aggrieved party, of the facts upon which the
penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability was created.
TITLE V.
PARTIES To CIVIL ACTIONS.
§55.-Aetlonto he by party in interest. Action by grantee of land hem
adversely.-Assignment of thing in action.
Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section
fifty-seven; but this section shall not be deemed to
authorize the assignmentof a thing in action not aris-
ing out of contract. But an action may be maintained
by a grantee of land in the name of a grantor, or
his or her heirs or legal representatives, when the grant or
grants are void by reason of the actual possession of a
person claiming under a title adverse to that of the grantor
at the time of the delivery of the grant, and the plaintiff
shall be allowed to prove the facts to bring the case within
this provision.
In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the
action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any
setolf or other .defence existing at the time og or before
notice of, the assignment; but this section shall not apply
to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, trans-
ferred in good faith, and upon good consideration, before due.
Diginzed by C008 le
22. THE CODE OF
950-Action by, and against, | Married Woman.
When a married woman is party, her husband must 'be
joined with her except that,
1. When the action concerns her separate property she
may sue alone;
.2. When the action is between herself and her husband,
she may sue or be sued alone;
And in no case need she prosecute or defend by a guardian
or next friend.
gn.-m1n by Execltor, Trustee, u.
An executor or admininistrator, a trustee of an express
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue,
without joining with him the person for whose benefit the
action is prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust, within
the meaning of this section, shall be construed to include u
person with whom or in whose name a contract is made for.
the beneit of another.
8as.-nr-4 to appear by G-nlln.
When an infant is a party, he must appear, by guardian,
who may be a testamentary or general guardian, appointed
as is provided by law for the appointment of such guardians,
or a guardian for the prosecution or defence of the par-
ticular action, appointed by the courtin which the action is
prosecuted
§59.-Appoi1tme1t of Gurllal In Particular utlon.
A guardian to prosecute or defend a. particular action in
behalf of an infant shall be appointed as follows:
1. When the infant is plaintiff upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years; or if under
that age, upon the application of his general or testamem
tary guardian, if he has any, or of a relative or friend of the
infant: if made by a relative or friend of an infant, notice
thereof must be first given to such guardian, if he has one;
if he has none, then to the person with whom such infant
resides. An infant plaintiff] or his guanclian, must give
security for the costs of the defendant, as is required of
plaintillll.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE* 23.
2. When the infantis defendant, upon the application of
'theinfant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply
within twenty days alter service of the summons. If he be
under #iw age of fourteen, or neglect so to applythen upon
the application of any other party to the action, or of a
relative or friend of the infant, after notice of such appli-
-cation being first given to the general or .testamentary •
,guardian of such infant, it he has one within thi~ State: if
he has none, then to the infant himself, if over fourteen
years of age, and within the State; or if under that age and
within the State, to the person with whom such infant
resides
3. And in actions for the partition of real property, or for
fthe foreclosure of a mortgage or other instrument, when an
infant defendant resides out of the State, or is temporarily
absent therefrom, the plaintiff may apply to the court in
which the action is pending, and .will be entitled to an order .
designating some suitable person to be the guardian for the
infant-defendant for the purpose of the action, unless the
infant-defendant or some one in his behalf, within a number
-of days after the service of a copy of the order, which num»
ber of days shall be in the said order specified, shall pro-
cure to be appointed a guardian for the said infant, and the
court shall give special direction in the order for the man-
ner of the service thereof; which may be upon the infant.
4. Andin case an infant-defendant havingan interest in the
event of the action, shall reside in any State, with which
there shall not be a regular communication by mail, on such
'facts satisfactorily appearing to the Court, the Court may
appoint a guardian ad litem for such absent infant party, lor
the purpose of protecting the right of such infant in said
action, and on such guardian ad litem, process, pleadings
and notices may be served in the like manner as upon a.
party residing in this State.
n. u u nu pubs. .
-All persons having an interest in the subject of the action,
and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as
Plaintiffs; except as otherwiee provided in this title.
Diginzed by C008 le
24 THE CODE OF
591.-mn nv 11 ww-4»
-Any person may be made a defendant who has, or claims,
an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff; or
who is 9. neoessaryparty to a complete determination ol: set-
' tlement of 810 questions involved therein.; and in an aotien
to recover the possession of real estate, the lhhdlord and
• tenant thereof may be joined as defendants; and any person
claiming title or right of possession to real estate, may be-
made parties plaintiff or defendant, as the case may require,
to any such action.
gas.-ru-tm to bo joined, ke.
Of the parties to the action, those who are united ininter-
est must be joined as plaintilfs or defendants; but if the
consent of any one who should have been joined as plaintiff
cannot be obtained he may be made a defendant, the reason
thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the ques-
tion is one of a common or general interest of many persons,
or where the parties may be very numerous, and it may be
impracticable to bring them all before the Court, one or
more may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole.
§68.-Parties to bills and notes, lie.
Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or
instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and
promissory notes, may all or any of them be included in the
same action at the option ofthe plaintiff _
§6-4.-Existing mm. Action when not to aba*e.
1. No action sh all abate by the death, marriage or other di
ability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein,
if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of death
maMage or other disability of a party, the Court on motion
at any time within one year thereafter, or afterwards on a
supplemental complaint, may allow the action to be con-
tinued by, or against, his representative or successor in inter-
est. In case of any other transfer of interest, the action
shall be continued in the name of the original party, or the
Court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made,
to be substituted in the action.
0
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 25
2. Afteraverdict shall be renderedin any action for a wrong,
such action shall not abate by the death of any party, but
the cases shall proceed thereafter in the same manner as in
cases where the cause of action now survives by law.
3. At any time after the death, marriage,or other disability
of the party plaintiff, the Court in which an action is pend-
ing, upon notice to such persons as it may direct, and upon
application of any person aggrieved, may in its discretion,
order that the action be deemed abated, unless the same be
continued by the proper parties, within a time to be fixed
by the Court, not less than six months, nor exceeding one
year from the granting oi the order.
4. The provisions of this section shall apply as well to actions
existing at the ratification of this act, as to those commenced
subsequently thereto.
§655-00u1 imy detenlne controversy and lntferpleader.
The Court either between the terms, or at a regular term,
according to the nature of the controversy, under the regu-
lations contained in this Act, may determine any controversy
before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights
of others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete
determination of the controversy cannot be had without the
presence of other parties, the Court must cause them to be
brought in.
And when in an action for the recovery of real or personai
property, a person not~a party to the action, but having an
interest in the subject thereof, makes application to the Court
to be made a party, it may order him to be brought in by
the proper amendment.
A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a
contract, or for specific real or personal property, may at any
time before answer, upon affidavit, that a person not a party
to the action, and without collusion with him, makes against
him a demand ibr the same' debt or property, upon due
notice to such person and the adverse party, apply to the
Court for an order to substitute such person in his place,
Diginzed by C008 le
26 THE CODE OF
and discharge him .from .liability to either party, on his
depodting in Court the amount of` the debt, or delivering J
the property or its value, to such person as the Court may
direct; and the Court may, in its discretion, make the Order.
TITLE VI.
OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL or CIVIL AGTIONB.
§¢¢.-Actions to be tried when slkleet-:utter situated.
Actions for .the following causes must be tried in the
county in which the subject of the action, or some part
thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the Court to
change the place of trial, in the cases provided in this Code.
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or
interest therein, or for the determination in any form, of
such right or interest, and for injuries to real property;
2. For the partition of real property;
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property;
4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for
any cause.
901|-lcllol lube tried whore alle olutlon arose.
Actions for the following causes must be tried in the
county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject
to the like power of the Court to change the place of trial,
in the cases. provided in this Code;
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture, imposed by
statute; except that, when it is imposed for an oifence com-
mitted on a sound, bay, river or other body of water situated
in two or more counties, the action may be brought in any.
county bordering on such sound, bay, river or other body of
water, and opposite to the place where the offence was com-
mitted;
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 27
2. Against a public oiiioer or person espedally appointed
to execute. his duties, for an act done by him by virtue of
his oiiice; or against a person who by his command or in
his aid, shaH do anything touching the duties of'such.oiHoer.
408.-Action, to be trloi when Defendant radios.
In all other cases the action shall be tried in the County
in which the defendants, or any of them shall reside at the
-commencement of the action; or if none of the defendants
shall reside in the State, then in the County in which the
plaintiifs or any of them shall reside; and if none of the par-
ties shall reside within the State, then the same may be tried
in any county which the plaintiff shalldesignate in his sum-
mens and complaint, subject however, to the power of the
Coutt to change the place of trial, in the cases provided by
statute.
wa.-ch1n5° of place of arm.
If the County designated for that purpose in the summons
and complaint bo not the proper County, the action, may,
notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the defendant,
before the time of answering expires, demand in writing that
the trial be hadin theproper County, and the place of trial
be thereupon changed by consent of parties, or by order of
the Court, as is provided in this section.
The Court may change the place of trial in the following
cases:
1. When the County designated for that purpose is not
the proper County.
2. When the convenience of witnesses and`the ends ot
_justice would be promoted by the change.
When the place of trial is changed, all other proceedings
shall be. had in the County to which the place of triad is
changed, unless otherwise provided by the consent of the
parties in writing duly Eled, or order of Court; and the
papers shall be filed or transferred accordingly.
Diginzed by C008 le
28 THECODEOF
TITLE VII.
OF THE IANNBR OF commucma CIVIL ACTIONS, AND THE SERVICE OF
\
THE smmous.
§70.-Manner of eumlnenctng eivll actions.
Civil actions in the Superior Courts of this State shall be
commenced by the issuing of a summons.
§7l.-By whom Issued, &c.
The summons shall be issued by a Clerk of any Superior
Court at the request of the plaintiff- but belbre issuing it,
the Clerk shall require of the plaintiff, either to give a bond
with suflicient sureties, in the sum of two hundred dollars,
with the condition that the same shall be void if the plaintiff
shall pay the defendant all such costs as the defendant shall
recover of him in the action; or to deposit a like sum with
him as a security to the defendant for such costs, and in case
oi such deposit he shall give to the plaintiff and to the defen-
dant a certificate to that effect; or to lile with him a written
authority from some Judge of a Superior Court authorizing
the plaintiff to sue as a pauper.
§72.-Power to sue as a panper; llow obtained.
Any Judge of the Superior Court may authorize any
person to sue as a pauper when he shall exhibitto the Judge
a certificate from some licensed attorney:
1. That he has examined the case of the plaintiff] and
believes that he has a good and meritorious cause of action
in fact and law; and,
2. That he will prosecute the action of the plaintiff as his
attorney and counsel without any fee or reward Whatever;
and when it shall also appear to the Judge, by the allidavit
of the plaintiff or otherwise, that the plaintiff is unable"to
give the sureties or make the deposit required.
Whenever any person shall be allowed to sue as a pauper,
no oflicer shall require of him any fee, and he shall recover
no costs
Diginzed by C008 le
•
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 29
§78.-Form of the summons.
The summons shall run in the name of the State, be
signed by the Clerk of a Superior Court, under the seal of
his Court, and be directed to the sheriff of the county in
which the defendant resides or may be found, or in case
such sheriff be a party to, or interested in, the action,
it may be directed to the coroner of that county, or
to the sheriff of any adjoining county. It shall com-
mand. the oliicer to summon the defendant to appear at the
oflice of the Clerk of the Superior Court for some certain
county, within a certain number of.duys after the service,
exclusive of the day of service, to answer the complaint of
the plaintiff It shall be dated on the day of its issue.
§74.-What summons to eantaln.
There shall also be inserted in the summons, a notice in
substance as follows: .
1. In an action arising on contract for the recovery of
money only, that the plaintiff will take _judgment for a sum
specified therein, if the defendant shall fail to answer the
complaint within the time speciEed.
I 2. In other actions, that if the defendant shall fail to
answer the complaint within the time specified, the plaintiff
will apply to the Court for the relief demanded in the com-
plaint. The Clerk before whom the defendant shall be sum-
moned to appear, shall be the Clerk of the Superior Court of
the county in which it is provided in Title VI, that the
action shall be tried.
8. The number of days within which the defendant is sum-
moned to appear, shalL in no case, be less than twenty,
exclusive of the day of service, to whichone day shall be
added for every twenty-Eve miles of distance between the
Court-house of the county in which the service is made, and
the Court-house of the county at which the defendant is
required to appear, by the usual route of travel.
§75.-Return af slm|||ons_
The oHicer to whom the summons is addressed shall note
on it the day of its deliveiy to him, and execute it within
Diginzed by C008 le
•
30 THE CODE OF
ten days after its receipt by him. Before proceeding to
P execute it, he shall be entitled to require of the plaintiff his
fee for the service, and iive cents per mile of the distance
from the Couwhouse of his county, to the usual residence
of the defendant or other place in which he may be found
in the county; if required by the plaintiif he shall execute
the Writ immediately, and in that case he shall be entitled
in like manner to require ten cents per mile, measured as
aforesaid When executed he shall immediately return the
writ, with the date and manner of its execution, by mail or
otherwise, to the Clerk of the proper Court.
§7¢.-Service of the complaint.
A copy of the complaint may or may not be served with
the summons. In either case the plainti&` must file a copy
thereo£ with the Clerk of the Court before which the defen-
dant is summoned to appear within ten days from theissu-
ing of the summons; and in case no copy shall have been
issued with the summons, he shall also within the said time
Ele with the Clerk another copy thereof] addressed to, and
for the use 08 the defendant, or if there be several defen-
dants, a copy for each o£ them, provided however, if several
defendants appear by one attorney, one copy only need be
filed for all who so appear.
§77.-Plal1tll falling to llc Celplalnt wltlll tel days.
If the plaintiff shall fail to file his complaint within ten
days after the issuing of his summons, then thu defendant
may at any time before the filing of such complaint, and
within the time limited for his appearance, enter an appear-
ance specifying where within the State, a copy of the com-
plaint may be servedon him, and the plaintiff at his own
expense, shall cause such. copy to be served within sixty
days; and the defendant shall not be required to answer
until the twentieth day after such service.
§78.-Plalntll falling to lie €o|n|\|n|1t within the time for Defeldnts, appear-
ence, may be an-salted.
If the plaintilf shall fail to file his complaint within the
time limited by the summons, for the appearance and answer
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROGEEURI; 31
,of the defendant, or by the next preceding section, the do-
. fendant shall be entitled to demand. judgment of non-suit
as~i11»* the plaintiii
§1|.-'hue of lll1g rbllllu -y be enlarged.
The time for lilingthe complaint or of any pleading what-
ever, may be enlarged by the Court for good cause shown
by allidavit, but it shall not be enlarged by more than twenty
additional days nor more than once, unless the default shall
have been occasioned by accident over which the party
applying had no control, or by the fraud of the opposing
party; and in all cases in which the time shall be enlarged
unless upon the ground of such accident or fraud, the party
making the application _shall pay into Court for the use of
the opposing party live dollars, which shall not in any event
be recovered back. Three days notice must be given of the
motion to enlarge.
§s0.4r|»m|r shall une an atuney, ll the oouty, town M.
At the time of Bling his complaint the plaintiti and at the
time of Bling his answer, the defendant, shall name some
place and person in the county town in which the Court to
which the action is brought is held, where and upon whom,
service of pleadings and notices in the action maybe served;
and if either shall fail to do so, the filing of all such plead-
ings and notices in the oliice of the clerk of the Court shall
be deemed suliicient service on the day of such filing, unless
the party shall in writing on the copy of his complaint, or
answer, or by other written notice, served on the adverse
party, require personal service thereof; at a place named by
him within the county, and shall deposit with the clerk a
sum sufhcient to pay the expense of such personal service;
in` which case, the personal service shall be made at his
expense.
§8l.-Notleo of no personal claim.
In case of a defendant against whom no personal claim is
made, the plaintiff may deliver to such defendant with
Diginzed by C008 le
32 THE CODE OF
the summons, a notice subscribed by the plainbilfor his
attorney, setting forth the general object of the action, a
brief description of the property aifected by it, if it affects
real or personal property, and that no personal claim is made
against such defendant, in which case no copy of the com-
plaint need be served on such defendant, unless withinthe
time for answering, he shall in writing demand the same.
If a defendant on whom such notice is served, unreasonably
defend the action, he shall pay costs. to the plaintiif
§82.-Manner nf service af summons.
The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof
as follows-
1. If a suit be against a corporation, to the President, or
other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer,
a director or managing agent thereof; but such service can
be made in respect to a foreign corporation, only when it has
property within the State, or the cause of action arose therein,
or where the plaintiff resides in the State, or where such
service can be made within this State personally upon the
President, Treasurer or Secretary thereof;
2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years to
such minor personally, and also his father, mother or guar-
dian, or if there be none within the State, then to any per-
. son having the care and control of such minor, or with whom
he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be employed;
3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound
mind, or incapable of conducting. his own affairs in conse-
quence of habitual drunkenness and for whom a committee
or guardian has beenfappointed, to such committee and to the
defendant personally;
4. In all othercases, to the defendant personally.
$88.-Service by publlcatinn; form of Sum mons.
Where the person on whom the service of the summons is
to be made, cannot, after due diligence, be found Within the
State, and that fact appears by aliidavit to the satisfaction
of the Court, or a Judge thereof; and it in like manner
Digimzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 33
appears that acause of action exists against the defendant in
respect to whom the service is to be made, or that he is a pro-
»per party to an action relating to real property in this State,
such Court or Judge may grant an order that the service be
made by the publication of a summons in either of the fol-
lowing cases:
1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has
property within .the State, or the cause of action arose
therein;
2. Where the defendant, being a resident of this State,
has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors,
or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself con-
cealed therein with a like intent;
3. Where he is not 4 resident of this State, but has pro-
perty therein, and the Court has jurisdiction of the subject
of the action.
4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal pro-
perty in this State, and the defendant has or claims alien
or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the relief de-
manded consists wholly or partly, in excluding the defen-
dant fi-om any lien or interest therein.
5. Wliere the action is for divorce, in the cases prescribed
by law.
§84.-Manner and elect of publlutlon.
The order must direct the publication in any one or two
newspapers to be designated as most likely to give notice
to the person to be served, and for such length of time as
may be deemed reasonable, not less than once a week for
six weeks. In case of publication the Court or Judge must
also direct a copy of the summons and complaint to be forth-
with deposited in the post oHice, directed to the person to
be served, at his place of residence, unless it appears that
such residence is neither known to the party making the
application, nor can with reasonable diligence be ascer-
tained by him. When publication is ordered, personal ser~
3 ¢
Diginzed by C008 le
34 THE CODE OF
vice of a copy of the summons and complaint, out of the
State, is equivalent to publication and deposit in the post
oliice.
§85.-Defendant allowed to defend before and aft/er judgment.
The defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his
representatives, on application and suflicient cause shown at
any time before judgment, must be allowed to defend the
action; and, except in an action for divorce, the defendant
against whom publication is ordered, or his representatives,
may in like manner, upon good cause shown, be allowed to
defend after judgment, or at any time within one year after
notice thereof, and Within five years after its rendition, on
such terms as may be just; and if the defence be successful
and the judgment, or any part thereof, have been collected,
or otherwise enforced, such restitution may thereupon be
compelled as the court may direct; but the title to property
sold under such judgment to a purchaser in good faith shall
not be thereby affected. And in all cases Where publication
is made, the complaint must be first filed, and the summons
as published must state the~time and place of such filing.
988.-Actions far foreclosure cf mm'tgages.
In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate,
already instituted, or hereafter to be instituted, if any party
having any interest in or lien upon such mortgaged premises,
is unknown to the plaintiff; and the residence of such party
cannot, with reasonable diligence, be- ascertained by him,
and such fact shall be made to appear by affidavit, to the
court, such court may grant an order that the summons be
served on such unknown party by publishing the same for
six Weeks once in each week successively, in one newspaper
printed in Raleigh, and in a newspaper printed in the county
where the premises lie, if there be any, which publication
shall be equivalent to a personal service on such unknown
party.
\5si.-.nm and several debtors; Partners,
Where the action is against two or more defendants, and
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 35
the summons is served on one or more of them, but not on
all them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows:
l. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted
upon contract, he may proceed against the defendants served,
unless.the court otherwise direct; and if he recover judg-
ment, it may be entered against all the defendants thus
jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced against
the joint property of all, and the separate property of the
defendants served, and if they are; subject to arrest, against
the persons of the defendants served; or
2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he
may proceed against the defendants served, in the same
manner as if they were the only defendants.
3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may
be taken against any or either of them severally, when the
plaintiff would be entitled to judgment against such defen-
dant or defendants if the action had been against themor
any of them alone.
4. If the name of one or more partners, shall, for any
cause have been omitted in any action in which judgment
shall have passed against the'defendants named in the sum-
mons, and such omission shall not have been pleaded in
such action, the plaintiff in case the judgment therein shall
remain unsatisfied, may by action recover of such partner
separately, upon proving his joint liability, notwithstanding
he may not have been na.med in the original action; but the
plaintiff shall have satisfaction of only one judgment ren-
dered for the same cause of action.
988.-When servlee oomplous.
In the cases in which servioe by publication is allowed,
the summons shall be deemed .served at the expiration of
the time prescribed by the order of publication.
Q89.-Proof of service.
Proof of the service of the summons and of the complaint
or notice, if any accompanying the same, must be:
1. By the certificate of the sheriff or other proper officer.
2. In case of publication, the aiHdavit of the printer, or-
Diginzed by C008 le
36 rHE CODE OF
his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same, and an
alhdavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the post
ofHce as required by law, if the same shall have been
deposited; or
3. The written admission of the defendant.
ln case of service otherwise than by publication, the
certiicate or admission must. state the time and place of
service.
990.-Jurisdlctlon-Appearance--Notlee of lls pendens.
~From the time of the service of the summons in a civil
action, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the court
is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control
of all the Subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance
ot a defendant is equivalent to personal service of the sum
mons upon him.
In an action affecting the title to real property, the plain
tifi, at the timo of Bling the complaint, or at any time after
wards, or whenever a warrant of attachment, under chapter
four, of title ten, of this Code, shall be issued or at any
time afterwards, the plaintiff or a defendant when he sets
up an allirmative cause of action in his answer and demands
substantive relief; at the time of Bling his answer, or at any
time afterwards, if the same be intended to a8`ect real estate.
may file with the clerk of each county in which the property
is situated, a notice ot the pendency of the action, contain
ing the names of the parties, the object of the action, and
the description of the property in that county affected there
by; and if the action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage,
such notice must be filed twenty days before judgment, and
must contain the date of the mortgage, the parties thereto,
and the time and place of recording the same. From the
time of filing only shall the pendency of the action be con
structive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the pro
perty affected thereby; and every person whose conveyance
or incumbrance is subsequently executed or subsequently
recorded, shall be deemed a subsequent purchaser or incum
branccr, and shall be bound by all proceedings taken after
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 37
the filing of such notice, to the same extent as if he were
made a party to the action. For the purposes of this section,
an action shall be deemed to be pending from the time of
filing such notice; provided, however, that such notice shall
be of no avail unless it shall be followed by the first publica-
tion of the summons on an order therefor, or by the personal
service thereof on a' defendant within sixty days after such
filing. And the court in which. the said action was com-
menced may, in its discretidh, at any time after the action `
shall besettled, discontinued, or abated, as is provided in
section number sixty-four, on application of any person
aggrieved, and on good cause shown, and on such notice as
shall be directed or approved by the court, order the notice
authorized by this section to be canceled of record by the
clerk ofany county in whose oflice the same may have been
filed or recorded; and such cancellation shall be made by an
indorsement to that effect on the margin of the record, which
shall refer to the order, and for which the clerk shall be
entitled to a fee of twenty-five cents.
TITLE VIII.
OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Chapter l. Complalnt.
cc ll. Demnrrer_
66 lu. Answer.
cc lv. Reply.
cc v_ Duty and power of Clerk af tho Snperlor llonrt lu relation to
the pleadings, and ln collateral matters.
" vl. General Rules of pleading.
cc vu, Mlstakes ln pleading and amendments.
" vm. of the quulilleatlou and general duties of Clerks of the Superior
Courts.
CHAPTER I.
THE COMPLAINT.
491.-Forms of pleadlng.
All the forms of pleading heretofore existing are abolished;
and hereafter, the forms of pleading in civil actions in courts
Diginzed by C008 le
38 THE CODE OF
of record, and the rules by which the sufficiency of the
pleadings is to be determined, are those prescribed by this
Code.
§92.-Complnlnt.
The first pleading on the part of the plaintiif is the com-
plaint.
$93.-Complaint what to contain. •
The complaint shall contain;
1. '[`he title of the cause, specifying the name of the court
in which the action is brought, the name of the county in
which the trial is required to be had, and the names of the
parties to the action plaintiff and defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting
a cause of action, without unnecessary repetition; and each
material allegation shall be distinctly numbered.
3. A demand of the relief to which the plaintilf supposes
himself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded,
the amount thereof must be stated.
CHAPTER II.
THE DEMURRER.
<)94.-Defendant to demur or answer.
The only pleading on the part of the defendant is either
a demurrer or an answer. It must be iiled in the oflioe of
the clerk of the court before which the defendant is sum-
moned to appear, together with a copy thereof for the
plaintiif within ten days after the time limited for the
appearanceof the defendant: a copy thereof must be served
on the attorney of the plaintilf if he shall have named one
in the county town, in lieu of Bling one for him in the
clerk's office or on the plaintiff personally if he shall have
complied with the provisions of section eighty. If the
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 39
plaintilf shall have failed to file his complaint within the
time limited for that purpose, the defendant may. move for
judgment of nonsuit.
-695.-When defendant may demu.
The defendant may demur to the complaint when it shall
-appear upon the face thereof; either;
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant, or the subject of the action; or
2. That the plaintiif has not legal capacity to sue; or
3. That there is another action pending between the same
parties for the same cause; or '
4. That there is a defect of parties plaintiff or defen-
dant; or
5. That several causes of action -have been improperly
-united; or
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
'\§98.-De1mrl'er must specify grounds 01' ebjectlon.
The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of
objection to the complaint Unless it does so, it may be
disregarded; It may be taken to the whole complaint, or to
any of the alleged causes of action stated therein.
$07.-How to proceed lf oolnplalnt be mended.
If the complaint be amended a copy thereof must be
served on the defendant in the manner provided in section
-eighty, for the service of pleadings and notices after appear-
ance, within twenty days after the leave to amend.
()08.-0bjectlon hot appearing on complalnt.
When any of the matters enumerated in section ninefy-
four, do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the
objection may be taken by answer.
§99.-Ghjectlon when deemed waived.
If no such objection be taken either by demurrer or
answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the
Diginzed by C008 le
40 THE CODE OF
same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the
court, and the objection that the complaint does not state
facts suiiicient to constitute a cause of action
CHAPTER III.
THE ANSWER.
$180.-Answer, what to contains
The answer of the defendant must contain:
1. A general or speciE8 denial of each material allegation
of the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any
knowledge or information thereof sufiicient to form a belief;
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defence
or counter-claim, in ordinary and concise language, without
repetition.
§lol,-Counter-claim.
T-he counter-claim mentioned in the last section, must be
one existing in favor of a defendant, and against a plaintiff,
between whom a several judgment might be had in the
action, and arising out of one of the following causes of
action:
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or trans-
action set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the
plaintiff's claim, or connected with the subject of the action ;
2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of
action' arising also on contract, and existing at the com-
mencement of the action. •
$102.-Several Dctenc/es.
The defendant may set forthby answer as many defences
and counter-claims as he may have, whether they be such as
have been heretofore denominated legal, or equitable or both.
They must each be separately stated and numbered, and
reier to the cause of action which they are intended to
answer, in such manner that they may be intelligibly dis-
tlnguished.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 41
5108.-Demlrrer and answer,
The defendant may demur to one or more of several causes
of action stated in the complaint, and answer to the residue.
$104.-Sham and Irrelevant defences. _
Sham and irrelevant answers and defences may be stricken
out on motion, and upon suoh terms as the Court may in its
discretion impose.
CHAPTER IV.
THE REPLY.
\§l05.-Reply, Demlner to answer.
When the answer contains new matter constituting a
counter-claim, the plaintiff may within twenty days, reply to
' such new matter, denying generally or specifically each
allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge or infor-
mation thereofsufncient to form a belief; and he may allege,
in . ordinary and concise language, without repitition, any
new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, constitu-
ting a defence to such new matter in the answer; and the
plaintiif may in all cases demur to an answer containing new
matter, where upon its face it does not constitute a counter-
claim or defence; and the plaintiff may demur to one or
more of such defences or counter-claims and reply to the
residue of the counter-claims, And in other cases, when an
answer contains new matter constituting a defence by way
of avoidance, the Court may, in its discretion, on the defen-
dant's motion, require a reply to such new matter; and im
that case, the reply shall be subject to the same rules as a
reply to a counter-claim.
§I00.-Dlotion for judgment on answer.
Ifthe answer contain a statement of new matter constitu-
ting a counter-claim, and the plaintiff fail to reply or demur _
thereto within twenty days after the filing orservice of such
•
Diginzed by C008 le
42 THE CODE OF
answer, the defendant may move for such judgment as he is
entitled to upon such statement; and if the case require it,
an order for an inquiry of damages by a jury may be made.
()l07.-Demurrer m reply. .
If a reply of the plaintiff to any defence set up by the
:answer of the defendant be insuifloient, the defendant 'may
demur thereto, and shall state the grounds thereof
CHAPTER V. I
DUTIES ANI) POWERS OF THE CLERK OF THE SUPERMR COURT IN
RELATION TO THE PLEADINGS, AND IN COLLATERAL MATTERS.
§l08.-Jurlsdlctlon of Clerk on pleadings, M. .
The Clerk of the Superior Court shall have jurisdiction to
hear and decide on all questions of practice and procedure,
arising in actions brought to this Court, and on all other
matters whereof jurisdiction is hereby given to the Superior
Court, unless the Judge of said Court, or the Conrt at a
regular term thereof be expressly referred to.
§l09.f-Either party may appeal.
Any party may appeal from any decision of the Clerk to
the Judge of the Court, without bond.
§ll0.--Duty of the (Ilerk on appeal prayed.
On such appeal being prayed, the Clerk, Within three
days thereafter, shall prepare a statement of the facts of the
case, of his decision, and of the appeal, and shall sign the
same; he shall, within the time aforesaid, exhibit such state-
ment to the parties or their attorneys on request; if such
statement is Satisfactory, the parties or their attorneys shall
sign the same; if either party object to the statement as
partial or erroneous, he may put his objections in writing,
•
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 43
and the Clerk shall attach such writing to his statement,and
Within two days thereafter he shall .send such statement,
together with the objections, and copies of all necessary
papers, by mail or otherwise if necessary, to the Judge for his
decision.
gm l.-Issues of Law sent to Judge.
When any issue of law shall be joined on the pleadings
before the Clerk, he shall within ten days thereafter, send
by mail, or otherwise, if necesary, to the Judge of the Court,
a copy of the record, for hearing and decision by him.
$112.-Plrty to be hoard before Judge.
The attorney of either party may endorse on the statement
of any appeal, or on the copy of the record of any issue sent
to the Judge, a request 'to be heard before him on such
matter.
§ll3.-Duty of Judge on appeal.
It shall be the.duty of the Judge on receiving a state-
ment of appeal from the clerk, or the copy of the record of
an issue of law, to deéide the questions presented as early
as may be. But if he shall have been informed in writing,
by the attorney of either party, that he desires to be heard
on the questions, the Judge shall fixa time and place for
such hearing, and give the attorneys of both parties reason-
able notice thereof He shall transmit his decision in writ-
ing, endorsed on or attached to the record, to the clerk of
the Court, who shall immediately acknowledge the receipt
thereof, and within three days after such receipt, notify the
attorneys of the parties of the decision, and on request and
the payment of his legal tees, give them a copy thereof;
and the parties receiving such notice, may proceed there-
after according to law.
§lll.-Judge to keep a docket.
The judge shall keep a docket, in which shall be entered
the title of every case brought in any manner before him out
of term, every motion made therein before him, and a copy
Diginzed by C008 le
44 THE CODE OF
of every order and judgment rendered by him; and in case
the original of any order or judgment of such Judge, shall
be lost or destroyed, a copy from such docket, certiied by
the Judge, shall be as evidence of such order or judgment
in place of the original, and with the same effect for all
purposes.
\§ll5.-Judgment on nutterol' (net mul; on matter of law, may be appalled
from.
The said judgment*on issues of fact, shall be final; any
party within ten days after notice of such judgment, may
pray an appeal to the Supreme Court of the State from such
judgment, upon any matter of law or legal inference therein,
under the regulations provided for appeals in other cases.
But execution shall not be suspended until the undertakings
required by the provisions of TITLE XIII of this Code,
entitled " OF APPEALS IN Cxvu. Ac'r1oNs" shall have been given
as required.
CHAPTER VI.
GENERAL RULES OF PLEADING.
5116.-Pleadlngs ta be subscribed and verltlcd
Every pleading in a. court of record, must be subscribed
by the party or his attorney; and when any pleading is veri-
iied, every subsequent pleading, except a demurrer, must be
verified also.
§ll"!.-Pleudlngs how verified.
The veriioation must be to the effect that the sameis true
to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to those
matters stated on information and belief; and as to those
matters he believes it to be true; and must be by aliidavit of
the pa1ty, or if there be several parties united in interest,
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 45
and pleading together, by one at least of such parties
acquainted with the facts, if such party be within the coun-
ty where the attorney resides, andcapable of making the
allidavit. The aliidavit may also be made by the agent or
attorney, if the action or defence be founded upon a. written
instrument tor the payment of money only, and such instru-
ment be in the possession of the agent or attorney, or if all
the material allegations of the pleading be within the per-
sonal knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the plead-
ing is verified by any other person than the party, he shall
set forth in the affidavit his knowledge, 61- the grounds of
his belief on the subject, and the reasons W.hy it is not made
by the party. When a corporation is a party, the verifica-
tion may be made by any oliicer thereof; and when the
State, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is a party, the veri~
lication may be made by any person acquainted with the
facts. The verification may be omitted when an admission
of the truth of the allegation might subject the party to
prosecution for felony. And no pleading can be used in a
criminal prosecution against the party, as proof of a fact
admitted or alleged in such pleading.
9118.-m1§ of account-particulars, tn be furnished when.
lt shall not be necessary for a, party to set forth in a plead-
ing the items of an account therein alleged; but he shall
deliver to the adverse party, within ten days after a demand
thereof in writing, a copy of the account, which if the plead-
ing is verified, must be verihed by his own oath, or that of
his agent or attorney, if within the personal knowledge of
such agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be
true or be precluded from giving evidence thereofl The
court or the Judge thereof, may order a further account
when the one delivered is defective; and the court may in
all cases, order a bill of particulars of the claim of either
party to be furnished.
81 li).-Plcadings how construed.
In the construction of apleading for the purpose of deter~
Diginzed by C008 le
46 THE CODE OF
mining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed,
with a View of substantial justice between theparties.
D §l20.-Irrelevant or rednndanff-Indellnlue or uncertdn.
If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a plead-
ing, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person aggriev-
ed thereby. And when the allegations of a pleading are so
indelinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge
or defence is not apparent, the court may require the plead-
ing to be made de nite and certain by amendment.
$121.-Judgments how tn be pleaded.
In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court
or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or
determination .may be stated to have been duly given or
made. If such allegation be controverted, the party plead-
ing shall be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts oon-
ferring jurisdiction.
§l2!.-Uondjtlons precedent how to be pleaded-lnstrumgnt for payment of
money only.
In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a
contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing
such performance; but it may be stated generally that the
party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be
bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing such per-
formance. In an action or defence founded upon an instm-
ment for the payment of money only, it shall be suliicient
for the party to give a copy of the instrument, and to state
that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse party, a
specl ed sum which he claims. .
§I23.-Private statutes, how to be pleaded.
In pleading a private statute or a right derived therefrom,
it shall be suHicient to refer to such statute, by its title and
the day of its ratification, and the court shall thereupon
take judicial notice thereof
DigiUzed_by C008 le
CIVIL PROCED URE. 47
$124.-Llbel and Slander, lmw stated In compldnt.
41
In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary
to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts, for the purpose
of showing the application to the plaintilii of the defama-
tory matter out of which the cause of action arose: but it
shall be suliicient to state generally that the same was pub-
lished or spoken concerning the plaintiff; and if such alle-
gation be controverted, the plaintiif shall be bound to estab-
lish, on trial, that it was so published cr spoken.
\§l25.-Answer In slch cases.
In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant
may in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter
charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances to
reduce' the amount of damages; 'and whether he prove the
justification or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating
circumstances.
<>m--Wm causes of utlon may be joined ln the samo complaint.
The plaintiff may unite in the same complaint several
causes of action, whether they be such as have been hereto-
fbre denominated legal, or equitable, or both, where they all
arise out Og
1. The same transaction; or transactions connected with
the same subject of action;
2. Contract express or implied; or
3. Injuries with or Without force, to. person and property
or either; or
4. Injuries to character; or
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without dam-
ages for the withholding thereof; and the rents and profits
of the same; or
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without
damages for the withholding thereof; or
. 7. Claims against a tmstee, by virtue of a contract, or by
operation of law.
Diginzed by C008 le
48 THE CODE OF
But the%auses of action so united must all belong to one
of these classes, and except in actions for the foreclosure of
mortgages, must affect all the parties to the action, and not
require dilferent places of trial, and must be separately
stated. In actions to foreclose mortgages, the court shall
have power to adjudge and direct the payment by the mow
gagor of any residue of the mortgage debt that may remain
unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged premises, in cases
in which the mortgagor shall be personally liable for the
debt secured by such mortgage; and if the mortgage debt
be secured by the convenaut or obligation of any person
other than the mortgagor, the plaintiff may make such per-
son a party to the action, and the court may adjudge pay-
ment of the residue of such debt remaining unsatisied after
a sale of the mortgaged premises, against such other person,
and may enforce suclijudgment as in other cases.
$127.-Mlegatlen not denied; when to be deemed true.
Every material allegation of the complaint not controvert-
ed by the answer, as prescribed in section ninety-seven, and
every material allegation of new matter in the answer, con-
stituting a counter claim, not controverted by the reply, as
prescribed in section one hundred and one, shall, for the pur-
poses of the action, be taken as true. But the allegation of
new matter in the answer, not relating to a counter-claim,
or of new matter in reply, is to be deemed controverted by
the adverse party asupon a direct denial or avoidance, as
the case may require.
CHAPTER VII.
msuxns IN rnnwlnas AND AMENDMENTS.
§|28.-mmm vnlanee.
No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the
proof shall be deemed material, unless it have actually
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 49
misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining
his action upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged
that a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved to
the satisfaction of the court, and in what respect he has been
misled; and thereupon the Judge may order the pleading to
be amended upon such terms as shall be just.
9129.-immaterial variance.
Where th8 variance is not material as provided in the last
section, the Judge may direct the fact to be found according
to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment
without costs.
9130.-\ failure of proof, when.
Where, however, the allegation of the cause ot action or
defence to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in
some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope
and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance
within the last sections, but a failure of proof
$181.-Amendments of course after allowance of demumr.
Any pleading may be once amended by the party of
course, without costs and without prejudice to the proceed-
ings already had, at anytime before the period for answer-
ing it expires: or it can be so amended at any time within
twenty days after the service of the answer or demurrer to
such pleading, unless it be made to appear to the court that
it was done for the purpose of delay, and the plaintiff or
defendant will thereby lose the beneit of a term tbr which
the cause is or may be docketed for trial; and if it appear
to the _court or Judge that such amendment was made for
such purpose, the same may be stricken out, and such terms
imposed as to the court or Judge may seem just. In such
case a copy of the amended pleading must be served on the
adverse party. After the decision of a demurrer, the Judge
may, in his discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was
interposed in good faith, allow the party to plead over upon
such terms as may be just. It the demurrer be allowed for
4
Diginzed by C008 le
50 THE CODE OF
the reason that several causes of action have been improperly
united, the Judge may, in his discretion, and upon such terms
as may be just, order the action to be divided into as many
actions as may be necessary to the proper determination of
the causes of action therein mentioned.
§l82.-Amendments by order.
The court may, before, and the Judge may, after judg-
ment, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may
be proper, amend any pleading process or proceeding, by
adding or striking out the name of any party; or by cor-
recting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in
any other respect; or by inserting other allegations material
to the case; or when the amendment does not change sub-
staintially the claim or defence, by conforming the pleading
or proceedingto the facts proved.
<§l38.- -Belle( ln case of a mistake.
The Judge may likewise in his discretion, and upon such
terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be macle,
or other act to be done, after the time limited by this act, or
by an order enlarge such time; and may also in his discre-
tion, and upon such terms asmay be just, at any time within
one year after notice thereof; relieve a party from a judg-
ment order or other proceeding taken against him through
his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect, and
may supply an omission in any proceeding; and .whenever
any proceeding taken by a party tails to conform in any
respect to the provisions of this Code, the Judge, may in
like manner and upon like terms, permit an amendment ol
such proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto.
9134.-Whe1 plum! ignorant of une of defendant.
When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name of a
defendant, such defendant may be designated in any plead-
ing cr proceeding by name; and when his true name shall
be discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended
accordingly.
"| Diginzed by C008 le
O
CI VIL PROCEDURE 51
(\l35.-Errors or defects not substantial to be disregarded.
The Court and the Judge thereof; shall in every stage of
action, disregard any error of defect in the pleadings or
proceedings, which shall not affect the substantial rights of
the adverse party; and no judgment shall be reversed or
alfected by reason of such error or defect.
5180.-Supplemental pleadings.
The plaintiff and defendant respectively may be allowed
on motion to make a supplemental complaint, answer or
reply, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the
former complaint, answer or reply, or of which the party
was ignorant when his former pleading was made, and either
party may, by leave of the Court in any pending or future
action, set up. by a supplemental pleading, the judgment or
decree ofany Court of competent jurisdiction, rendered since
the commencement of such action, determining the matter
in controversy in said action or any part thereof] and if said
judgment be set up by the plaintiff; the same shall be With-
out prejudice to any provisional remedy theretofore issued or
other proceedings had, in said action, on his behalf
CHAPTER VIII.
OF THE QUALIFICATION AND GENERAL DUTIES. OF CLERKS OF THE
SUPERIOR COURTS.
<>m.-Ima ofClerk.
At the Hrst meeting of the County Comrnissionersbf each
county, after the election or appointment of any clerk of a
Superior Court, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to deliver
to such Commissioners, a bond with suflicient sureties, to be
approved by them, in a penalty of ten thousand dollars,
payable to the State of North Carolina, and with a condition
to be void if he shall account for, and_pay over, according to
law, all monies and effects which have come or may come
Diginzed by C008 le
52 THE CODE OF
into his hands, by virtue or color of his oflice, and shall dil-
igently preserve and take care of all books, records, papers
and property which have come or may comeinto his posses-
sion, by virtue or color of his ollice, and shall in all things
faithfully perform the duties of his ollice as theyare, or there-
after shall be prescribed by law. Each surety shall take and
subscribe an oath, before the Register ofDeeds, that he is Worth
a certain sum (which shall not be less than one thousand
dollars) over and above all his debts and liabilities and his
homestead exemption, and the sums thus sworn to, shall not
be less in the aggregate than the penalty of the bond
9 1188.-Bond now approved, M.
The approval of said bond, .by the Commissioners or a
majority of them, shall be recorded by their clerk. Any
Commissioner approving a bond which he knows or believes
to be insulicient, shall be personally liable as if he were a
surety thereto. The said bond shall be acknowledged by
the palties thereto, or proved by a subscribing witness,
before theClerk of said Commissioners, or their presiding
oliicer, registered in the Register's omce in a separate book
to be kept by him for the registration of o8cial bonds; and
the original, with the approval thereof endorsed, deposited
with the Register for safe keeping. The like remediesshall
be had upon said bond, as are, ormay be given by law on
o8cia1 bonds.
M39.-Qualllicatlon of Clerks.
The clerks of the Superior Court before entering on the
duties of their ollice, shall take and subscribe before soine
officer authorized by law to administer an oath, the oaths
prescribed by law, and file such oath with the Register of
Deeds for the county.
5140.-Failure to gve bond, etc.
In case any clerk shall fail' to give bond and qualify as
above directecl, the presiding olHcer of the County Commis-
=siouers of his county, shall immediately inform the Judge of
Diginzed by C008 le
i
CI v1L~ PROCEDURE. 53
I the Judicial District thereof; who shall thereupon declare the
oHice vacant and ill the same, and the appointee shall give
bond and qualify as above directed.
§l4l.-0IIlce, where to be kept-When to be open.
He shall have an office, in the Court house or other place
provided by the County Commissioners, in the county town
of his county. He shall give due attendance, in person or
by deputy at his oliice daily (Sundays and holidays,
excepted) from nine o'clock A. M., to three o'clock P. M.,
and longer when necessary for the despatch of business.
4142.-'r0 receive emclal papers, &¢»
Immediately after he shall have given bond and qualified
as aforesaid, he shall receive from the late Clerks of the
'County and Superior Courts and Clerk and Master of the
Court of Equity, all the records, books, papers, monies and
property of their respective offices, and give receipts for the
same, and if any clerk, or clerk and master, shall refuse, or
fail Within a reasonable time after demand to deliver such
records, books, papers and property, they shall be respec-
tively liable on their ollicial bonds for the value thereof; and
be held guilty of a misdemeanor.
$143.-To keep rewrds, &.c.
`He shall be furnished with the requisite stationery and
furni'ure, for official use by the County Commisslmers,
except as hereinafter provided. He shall keep in b<>uu<l
volumes a complete and faithful record of all his olhcial acts,
and give copies thereof to all persons desiring them, on pay-
ment of the legal fees.
(>l44.--Books to be kept by Clerks.
Each clerk shall keep the following books:
' 1. A docket of all writs, summons or other original pro-
cessesissued by him, or returned to his office; this docket shall
contain a brief note of every proceeding Whatever in each
action, up to the tina] judgment inclusive.
4
Diginzed by C008 le
54 THE CODE OF s
2. A Judgment docket in which the substance of the
judgment shall be recorded, and every proceeding subsequent
thereto, noted.
3. A docket of all issues of fact joined upon the pleadings,
and of all other matters for hearing before the Judge at a
regular term of the court, a copy of which shall be furnished
to the Judge at the commencement of each term.
4. An alphabetical index according to the names of the
plaintiffs, of all final judgments in civil actions rendered in
the court, with the dates and numbers thereof; and also of
all ina] judgments rendered in other courts, and authorized
by law, to be entered on his Judgment Docket.
5. A docket of all criminal actions, containing a note of
every proceeding in each.
§l45_-Banks to be furnished by Secretary af State.
The books specified in the above section, shall be supplied
to the clerks of the several counties by the Secretary of
State, at the expense of the State, and the Secretary shall,
as soon as possible, transmit an account thereof to the pre-
siding oliicer of the County Commissioners, in order that
the price _may be levied in the county taxes; and also to
the Auditor of Public Accounts, who shall add the same to
the taxes of the respective counties and receive and account
for it, as for other taxes. The commissioners of any count]
failing to cause such sum to be levied, with the other county
taxes, shall be guilty ot a misdemeanor:
§l4%i.-Papers ln each action tn be kept separate, and tiled together.
They shall keep the papers in each action, in a separate
roll or bundle, and at its termination, attach them together,
properly label, and file them in the order of the date of the -
final judgment.
§l47.-S0liclt0r m examine records.
At every regular term of the Superior Court, the Solicitor
for the judicial district shall inspect the office of the clerk,
and report to the court in writing. It any clerk, after being
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 55
furnished with the necessary books, shall fail to keep them
up, as required by law, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and the solicitor' shall cause him to be prosecuted for the
same. If any solicitor shall fail or neglect to perform the
duty hereby imposed on him, he shall be liable to a penalty
of five hundred dollars to any person who shall sue for the
same.
/ TITLE. IX.
OF THE PROVISIONAL lmxmnms IN crvu. ACTIONS.
cmrnzn I. Arrest and Ball.
" n. Ulall and delivery of persennl pnperty.
" m. injunction.
" . W. Attachment.
" v. Pravlslanal remedies.
CHAPTER I.
ABREST AND B.uL.
§l48.-No person to be arrested except as proscribed.
No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as
prescribed by this act; but this provision shall not apply to
proceedings for contempt.
§l40.-In what cases.
The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter prescribed,
in the following cases:
1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of
action not arising out of contract, Where the defendant is
not a resident of the State, or is about to remove therefrom,
or where the action is for an injury to person or character, or
for injuring, or for wrongfully taking, detaining or convert-
ing property.
Diginzed by C008 le
56 THE CODE OF
2. In an action for a Hue on penalty, or on a promise to
marry, or for money received, or for property embezzled or
fraudulently misapplied, by a public officer, or by an attor-
ney, solicitor or counsellor, or by an oliicer or agent of a
corporation or banking association, in the course of his
employment as such, or by any factor, agent, broker or other
person in a fiduciary capacity, or for any misconduct or
neglect in oliice, or in a professional employment.
3. In an action to recover the possession of personal pro-
perty unjustly detained, where the property, or any. part
thereof, has been concealed, removed or disposed of, so that
it cannot be found or taken by the sheriii, and with the
intent that .it should not be so found or taken, or with the
intent to deprive the plaintiff of the benefit thereof
\ 4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in con-
tracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the
action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the pro-
party for the taking, detention or conversion of which, the
action is brought, or when the action is brought to recover
damages for fraud or deceit. .
5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his
property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors.
But no female shall be arrested in any action, except for a
wilful injury to person, character or property.
§l50,-0rder for arrest, by whom made.
An order for the arrest of the defendant must be obtained
from the Court in which the action is brought, or from a
Judge thereof
§I6l.-Allldavlt ta obtain order. To what actions this chapter applies.
` The order may be made where it shall appear to the Court,
or Judge thereof; by the aihdavit ofthe plaintiff; or of any other
person, that a suflicient cause of action exists, and that the
case is one of those mentioned in section one hundred and
forty-nine.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 57
The providons bf this chapter shall apply to all actions
included within the provisions of section one hundred and
forty-nine, which shall be commenced ailer the ratification
of this Act.
§l52.- Seumty by plnlntil befan order of arrest. \
Before making the order, the Judge shall require a writ-
ten undertaking on the part of the plaintill; with sureties,
to the elfect that if the defendant recover judgment, the
plaintiff will pay all damages which he may sustain by rea-
son of the arrest, not exceeding the sum speciied in the
undertaking, which shall be at least one hundred dollars.
§l58.-0nler, when made, md Its farm-Time to Answer or to move u vacate.
The order may be made to accompany the summons, or
issue at any time afterwards, before judgment. It shall
require the sheriff of the county where the defendant may
be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a
speci ed sum, and to return the order, at a place and time
therein mentioned, to the clerk of the court in which the
action is brought, and notice of such return shall be served
on the plaintiff or his. attorney as prescribed in section
eighty.
But said order of arrest shall be of no avail, and shall be
vacated or set aside on motion, unless the same is served
upon the defendant, as provided by law, before the docket-
ing of any judgment in the action; and the defendant shall
have twenty days, after the service of the order of arrest, in
which to answer the complaint in the action, and to move
to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of
bail.
•
§|54.-.inmm and order ta be delivered to sherll, and copy to defendant.
The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to the
sheriii, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to
him a copy thereof.
Diginzed by C008 le
58 THE CODE OF
§l55.-Arrest, h0w made.
The sheriif shall execiite the order by arresting the defen-
dant, and keeping him in custody until discharged by law;
and may call the power of the county to his aid in the exe-
cution of the arrest, as in case of process.
15158.-Defendant w be discharged on bail or depasit.
The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be
discharged from thearrest, either upon giving bail, or upon
depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as
provided in this chapter.
§l57.-Ball, hovrglven.
The defendant may give bail, by causing a Written under-
taking to be executed by two or more sufficient bail, stating
their places of residence and occupations, to the effect that
the defendant shall at all times render himself amenable to
the process of the court, during the pendency -of the action,
and to such as may be issued to enforce thejudgment there~
in, or if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third
subdivision of section one hundred and forty-nine, an
undertaking to the same effect as that provided by section .
one hundred and eighty-one.
§l58.-Surrender of defendmt.
At any time beiore Iinaljudgment against them, the bail
may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he may
surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he was
arrested, in the following manner:
1. A certified copy oi the undertaking of the bail shall
be delivered to the sherili who shall detain the defendant
in his custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and
shall, by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the sur-
render; •
2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and
sheriffs certihcate, the Court, or a Judge thereof; may, upon
a notice to the plaintiff of eight days, with a copy of the
certificate, order that the bail be exonerated; and on filing
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 59
the order and the papers used on said application, they shall
be exonerated accordingly. But this section shall not apply
to an arrest for cause mentioned in subdivision three of sec-
'tion one hundred and forty-nine, so as to discharge the bail
from an undertaking given to the effect provided by section
one hundred and eighty-one.
§l59.-S1rrender af defendant.
For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail,
at any time or place, before they are finally charged, may
themselves arrest him, or by a written authority, indorsed
on a certiied copy of the undertaking, may empower any
person of suitable age and discretion to do so.
' Q
§l60.-Ball, how procendod against. c a n 0 4 ¢ c . U » In case oirfailure to comply with the undertaking, the 9 4 4 C D
bail may be procéeded against, by action only. • U •
# Q ¢ 0
# d j I
§l6l.-BMI how o xanent/ed. -a s
The bail may be exonerated, either by the death of the
defendant, or his imprisonment in a State prison, or by his
legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amen-
able to the process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the
county Where he was arrested, in execution thereof; at any
time before final judgment against the' bail.
§l82»-Delivery of undertaklng to plalntlf, and Its acceptance or rejeetmn by
hlm.
Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriif shall
deliver the order of arrest to the clerk of the court in which
the suit is brought, with his return indorsed, and a certified
copy of the undertaking of the bail, and notify the plaintiff
or his attorney thereof The plaintiiil Within ten days there-
after, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not
accept the bail, or he Shall be deemed to have accepted it,
and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability.
Diginzed by C008 le
60 THE CODE OF
§l63.-Notice af jnstltlutlon-New ball.
Un the receipt of such notice, the sheriff or defendant
may, within ten days th eafter, give to the plaintiff, or his
attorney, notice of the justification of the same or other bail .
(specifying the places of residence and occupation of the
latter) before the court, or the Judge thereof; at a specified
time and place; the time to be not less than five nor more
than ten days thereafter. In case other bail be given, there
shall be a new undertaking, in the form prescribed in section
one hundred and fifty-seven.
§l64.-0ualllleatlon of bail.
The qualifications of bail must be as follows:
1. Each of them must be a resident and householder or
fieeholder within the State.
• | I •
• a 2. They must each be worth the amount speeiied in the
• g i l l ! a °¢ I • I I order of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execu-
anti *
• tion; but the Judge, on justification, may allow more than a • 3.
I two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that I • 0 0 0' • • • expressed in the order, if the whole' _justihcation be equiva-
• 0 0 |
I • gl • lent to that of two sullicient bail.
§l65»-Justlitcatlon at ball.
For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall
attend before the court or the Judge, or a Justice of the
Peace, at the time and place mentioned in the notice, and
may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintiii,
touching his suliiciency, in such a manner as the Court, or
Judge in his discretion, may think proper. The examina-
tion shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the
bail, if required by the plaintiff
§l66.-Allowance of ball.
If the Court or Judge find the bail sufficient, he shall
annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his
allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed with the
clerk; and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from
liability.
Diginzed by C008 le
n
CIVI L PROCEDURE. G1
§l67--Deposit with the sherlm
The defendant may, at the time of his arresg instead of
giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned
in the order. The sheriff shall thereupon give the defen-
dant a certificate of the deposit, and the defendant shall be
discharged out of custody.
§I68.-Payment of deposit into wan. _
The sherilf shall, within four days after the deposit, pay
the ~ame into court, and shall take from the ollicer receiving
the same, two certificates of such payment, the one of which
he shall deliver to the plaintiii and the other to the defen-
dant. For any default in making such payment, the same
proceedings may be had on the official bond of the sherili, to
collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.
()l69»-Substltltlng bd! for depaslih
If money be deposited as provided in the last two sec-
tions, bail may be given and justihed upon notice, as pre-
scribed in section one hundred" and sixty, any time before
judgment; and thereupon the Judge shall direct, in the
order of allowance, that the money dep osited be refunded,
by the sheriff to the defendant, and it shall be refunded
accordingly.
§l70.-Deposit, how disposed 6T»
When money shall have been so deposited, if it remain on
deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment
of money to the plaintisq the clerk shall, under the direction
of the Court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and
after satisfying the judgment, shall refund the surplus, if
any,to the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the
defendant, the clerk shall refund to him~ the whole sum
deposited and remaining unapplied.
gm.-sh¢r1fr, when liable as ball.
Ig after being arrested, the defendant escape or .be res-
cued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not
Diginzed by C008 le
62 THE CODE OF
made instead thereof; the sheriff shall himself be liable as
bail. But he may discharge himself from such liability, by
the giving and justification of bail, as provided in sections
one hundred and sixty-three, one hundred and sixty-four one
hundred and sixty-live, and one hundred and sixty-six, at any
time before process against the person of the defendant, to
enforce an order or judgment in the action.
§l72.-Proceedings on judgment against sherltf.
If a judgment be recovered against the sherilii upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsat-
isiied, in whole 0? in part, the same proceedings may be
had on the ollicial bond ofthe sherili to collect the deficiency,
as in other cases of delinquency.
§l78.-Blll liable m sheriif.
The bail taken 'upon the arrest, shall, unless they justify,
or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff by
action, for damages which he may sustain by reason of such
omission. `
§l74.-Vacatlng order of arrest, or reducing ball.
A defendant arrested may at any time before judgment,
apply, on motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce
the amount of bail.
§l75- hildlvlts on mation. .
If the motion be made upon aiiidavits on the part of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiH` may oppose the
same by aiiidavits, or other proofs, in addition to those on
which the order of arrest was made.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 63
CHAPIER II.
OLAIH AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
§l76»-Delivery of personal property.
The plaintim in an action to recover the possession ofper-
sonal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or
at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of
such property, asprovided in this chapter.
§l77--Anldlvlls and Its requlsltes.
\Vhere a delivery is claimed an afiidavit must be made,
before the clerk of the court in which the action is required
to be tried, by sections sixty-six, sixty-seven and sixty-eight,
by the plaintill; orsome one in his behalf, showing:
1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed
(particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the
possession thereof; by virtue of a special property therein,
the facts in respect to which shall be set forth;
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defen-
dant;
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof; according
to his best knowledge, information, and belief;
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment,
or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution
or attachment against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so
seized, that it is, by statute, exempt from such seizure; and
5. The actual value of the properly.
§l78.-Reqdsltlon to sherll to take and deliver the property.
The clerk of the court shall, thereupon, by an indorse-
ment in writing upon the aiiidavit, require the sheriif of the
county where the property claimed may be, to take the same
from the defendant and deliver it to the plaintiff; provided,
the plaintiff. shall give the undertaking prescribed in the
next section.
Diginzed by C008 le
64 THE CODE OF
§l79--Security by plnlntll-
Upon the receipt of the order from the clerk with a writ-
ten undertaking executed bv one or more suiiicient sureties,
approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property, as stated in the aliidavit
for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the pro-
perty to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and
for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause,
be recovered against the plaintiff the sheriff shall forthwith
take the property described in the affidavit, if it be in the
possession of the defendant or his agent, and. retain it in his
custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defen-
dant a copy of the aiiidavit, notice, and undertaking, by _
delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found,
or to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken;
or,~ if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual
place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age
and discretion.
§l80.-Exception to snretles.
The defendant may, within three days after the service of
a copy of the ailidavit and undertaking, give notice to the
sheriff personally, or by leaving a copy at his otiice in the-
county town of the county, or if he have no such oliice, at
the ollice of the clerk of the court that he excepts to the
suliiciency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he shall be
deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the
defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice, in like
manner as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff shall be
responsible for the suliicienoy of the sureties, until the
objection to them is either waived as above provided, or
until they shall justify, or new sureties shall be substituted
and justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he
cannot reclaim the property, as provided in the next section.
§l8l-Defe1dant when entitled to re-le\lvery-
At any time before tha delivery of the property to the
plaintiff; the defendant may, if he do not except to the
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 65
sureties of the plaintiff, require the return thereof; upon
giving to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two
or more sufiicient sureties, to the effect that they are bound
•
in douhle the value of the party, as stated in the afhdavit of
the plaintiff; for the delivery thereof to the plaintill, if such
delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such
sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the defen-
dant. If a return ot the property be not so required, within
three days after the taking and service of notice to the
defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiff, except as pro-
vided in section one hundred and eighty-six.
§l82.-Jnstlllcatlon of defendant's suretles.
The defendants sureties, upon a notice to the plaintiff of
not less than two nor more than six days, shall _justify before
a Judge or Justice of the Peace, in the same manner as
upon bail on arrest; upon such justiication, the sheriff shall
deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be
responsible for the defendant's sureties, until thev justify, or
until justification is completed or expressly waived, and may
retain the property until that time; but if they, or others in
their place, tail to justify at the time and place appointed,
he shall deliver the property to the plaintii
§lS3.-Qualllieatlons and justification of snretles.
The qualifications of sureties, and their justification, shall
be as are prescribed by sections one hundred and sixty four
and one hundred and and sixty-five, in respect to bail upon
an order of arrest.
§l84---Property, how taken when concealedln bulldlng or lnrlosnre.
If the property, or any part thereof., be concealed in a.
building or inclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its
deliverv. If it be not delivered, he shall oause the building
or inclosure to be broken open, and take the property into
his possession; and, if necessary, he may call to his aid the
power of his county.
5
•
Diginzed by C008 le
66 THE CODE OF
§>l85.-Property, how kept.
When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this
chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and.
deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his.
lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keep-
ing the same.
<}l86.-(!lal1 of property by third person, .
If the property taken be claimed by any other person than
the defendant or his agent, and such person shall make aili-
davit of his title thereto, and rightto the possession thereof;
stating the grounds of such right and title, andserve the same
upon the sheriff; the sherilf shall not be bound to keep the
property, or deliver it to the plaintiiii unless the plaintiff] on
demand of him or his agent, shall indemnify the sheriii'
against such claim, by an undertaking executed by two
suliicient sureties, accompanied by their aliidavits, that they
are each worth double the value of the property, as speciied
in the afiidavit of the plaintiff; and freeholders and house-
holders of the county. Andvno claim to such property, by
any other person than the defendantor his agent, shall be
valid against the shcrili, unless made as aforesaid; and not-
withstanding such claim, when so made, he may retain the
property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.
\§I87.-Naticc and mam, when and where to be Med.
The sheriff shall iile the notice and aifxdavit, with his
proceedings thereon, with the clerkof the court in which
the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the
property mentioned therein.
CHAPTER 111.
INJUNCTION.
§l88-I|\iunctlon by order.
The writ of injunction, as a provisiona1~ remedy, is
abolished, and an injunction by order, is substituted there-
¢
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. . 67
for. The order may be made by any Judge of a Superior
Court, in the cases provided in the next section, and, may
be enforced as the order of the court. Upon such order it
shall be issued by the clerk of ihe court, in which the action
is required to be tried.
§l89--injunctions, ln what cases.
[L] When it shall appear by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief,
or any part thereof] consists in restraining the commission,
or continuance, of some act, the commission or continuance
of which, during; the litigation, would produce injuryto the
plaintiff; or [2] when, during the litigation, it shall appear
that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do,
or procuring or suifering some act to be done in violation of
the plaintitl"s rights respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary
injunction may be granted to restrain such act. [3] And
where, during the pendency of an action, it shall appear by
aflidavit that the defendant threatens, or is about to remove
or dispose of his property, with intent to defraud his credi-
tors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such
removal or disposition.
§l90~-At what time lt may be granted- Copy of amdavlt m be served.
The injunction may be granted at the time of commen~
cing the uction, or at anytime afterwards, before judgment,
upon its appearing satisfactorily to the Judge, by the aiiida-
vit of theplaintifh or of any other person, that sufficient
grounds exist therefor. A copy of the aiiidavit must be
served with the injunction.
§l9l.-Ilrdnaetion after answer.
An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant
shall have answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order
to show cause; but in such case the defendant may be
restrained until the decision of the Judge granting or refus-
ing the injunction.
Diginzed by C008 le
08 [`I-IE CODE OF
§l92._Secu;'ity upon injunction. Damages.
Upon granting an order for an injunction, the Judge. shall
require as a. condition precedent to the issuing thereof, that
the clerk shall take from the plaintiifa written undertaking,
with suflicient sureties to be justified before, and approved
by the said clerk or by the Judge, in an amount £0 be fixed
by the Judge, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay to the
party enjoined, such damages, not exceeding an amount to
be specined, as he may sustain by reason of the injunction,
.if the Court shall tinally decide that the plaintiff was not
9
entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a
_reference, or otherwise, as the Judge shall direct.
(>193--0rder to show canse lkesfraint in meantime.
If the Judge deem it proper that the defendant, or anyof
several defendants, should be heard before granting the
injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be
shown, at a specified time and place, why the injunction
should not be granted; and the defendant may, in the
meantime, be restrained.
()I94--Secnrity upon injunction to suspend bnsluess of corporation-
An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary busi- .
ness of a corporation shall not be granted without due notice
of the application therefor, to the proper ofiicers of the cor-
poration, except where the State is a party to the proceed-
ing, unless the plaintiff shall give a written undertaking
executed by two sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
Judge, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay all damages,
not exceeding the sum to be mentioned in the undertaking, .
which such corporation may sustain by reason of the injunc-
tion, if the Court shall 'finally decide that the plaintiff was
not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained hy
" a reference, or otherwise, ns the Court shall direct.
$195.-Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
If thQ injunction be granted by a Judge of the Court,
Without notice, the deféndant, at any time before the trial,
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 69
may apply, upon notice, to a Judge of the Court in which
the action is brought, to vacate or modify the same. The
application may be made upon the complaint and the aili-
davits on which the injunction was granted, or upon the
affidavits on the part of the defendant, with or without the
answer.
M96-Allldzvlts on motion.
If the application be made upon affidavits On the part of
the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose
the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those
on which the injunction was granted.
CHAPTER IV.
ATTACHMENT.
§l97.-Property of foreign corporations, md of non-resident, or abseondlng,
or concealed defendants, may be attached.
In an action arising on contract, for the recovery of money
only, or in an action for the wrongful conversion of per-
sonal property, against a corporation created by, or under,
the laws of any other State, government or countrv, or
against a defendant who is not a resident of this State, or
against al defendant who has absconded or concealed him-
self, or whenever any person or corporation is about to
remove any of his, or its property, from this State, or has
assigned, disposed ot, or secreted, or is about to assign,
dispose ot, or secrete, any of his, or its, property, with intent
to defraud creditors, as hereinafter mentioned, the plaintiff
at the time ofissuingthe summons, or [at] any time afterwards,
may have the property of such defendant or corporation
attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed as a security
for the satisfaction of such judgment as the plaintiff may
recover; and for the purposes of this section, an action shall
Diginzed by C008 le
70 THE CODE OF
be deemed commenced, when the summons is issued; Pro-
'vided however, that personal service of such summons shall
be made, or publication thereof commenced within thirty
days after obtaining a warrant of attachment.
§l98.-Publleatlo1 to be made-
The plaintiif obtaining a warrant of attachment shall
within the time above prescribed, cause publication to be
made, at least once a week for four successive weeks, in
some newspaper published in the county in which the
warrant is returnable; or if there be none such published,
then in one published within the judicial district, in which
such county is, or if there be none such published, then in
any newspaper published in this State. Said publication
shall state the names of the parties, the amount, and in a
brief way, the nature of the demand, the time and place to
which the Warrant is "returnable, and shall require the
defendant to appear then and. there and answer the com-
plaint. It the place of residence of the defendant be known,
the plaintiff shall send to him by mail, a copy of such pub-
lication; and the court in which the suit is pending may,
at any time, order notice to be sent by mail to any place, in
which the defendant may be supposed to reside or be.
§\l99-Warrnnt, by wlmm granted.
If the action be not founded on a contract, or if the sum
demanded exceeds two l1undr<-cl dollars, a warrant of attach-
ment must be obtained from the Judge of the judicial dis-
trict, within some county of which, the cause of action
arose; or, in case the defendant is a. foreign corporation,
Within some county of which, it usually did business, or
within some county of which, the deiendantresided or did
business Within six months next precedingthe issuing of
the summons; or from the Clerk of the Superior Court of
any county Within said district. It shall be made return-
able to the: Superior Court of a county, in which the} cause
of action arose, or in which the defendant resided or did
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 71
business, within six months next preceding the issuing of
the summons, or in which the property of the defendant
sought to be attached, or some part of it, is at the issuing
of the summons, or in case the defendant is a foreign cor-
poration, in which it usually did business.
i200.-whe1 warrant grated by Justin of the Pme.
If the action be founded on contract, and the sum
demanded does not exceed two hundred dollars, the warrant
of attachment must be obtained from, and made returnable
before some Justice of the Peace of a county, to the Superior
Court of which it might have been returnable under the
preceeding section, had the sum demanded, exceeded two
hundred dollars, or had the action not have been founded
ou contract.
(' \
<201.-In what mes mmm lny u mm-Amuvm t|_be ma.
The warrant may be issued whenever it shall appear by
aliidavit, that a cause of action exists against such defen-
dant, specifying the amount of the claim and the grounds
thereoli and that the defendant is either a foreign corpora-
tion, or not a resident of this State, or has departed there-
from with intent to defraud his creditors or to avoid the ser-
vice of a summons, or keepshimself concealed therein with
like intent, or that such corporation or person has removed,
or is about to remove, any of his or its property from this
State, with intent to defraud his or its creditors, or has
assigned, disposed of; or secreted, or is about to assign, dis-
pose Ot or secrete, any of his or it~ property with the like
intent, whether such defendant be a resident of this State
or not It shall be the duty oi the plaintilf procuring such
warrant, within ten days from the issuing thereof, to tile the
affidavits on which the samewas granted in the oliice of the
Clerk of the Superior Court to which, or With the Justice of
the Peace, before whom, the process is made returnable.
Diginzed by C008 le
- -
72 THE CODE OF
$202.-Sec1rity on obtnlnlng warrant.
Before issuing the warrant, the oliicer issuing the same
shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plain-
tiii, with sufficient surety, to the effect, that if the defendant
recover judgment, or the attachment be set asideby the
order of the court, the plaintiif will pay all costs that may
be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he
maysustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least
two hundred and Hfty dollars.
$203.-W1rrant, t4» whom directed, and what to reqilre.
The warrant 'shall be directed to the sheriff of any county
in which the property of such defendant may be,- or in case
it be issued by a Justice of the Peace to such sherili, or to
any constable of such county, provided, such county be that
of the Justice issuing the warrant, and shall require such
sheriff or constable to attach and safely keep, all the property
of such defendant within his county, or so much thereof as
may be suihcient to satisfy the plaintiffs demand, the amount
of which must be stated in conformity with the complaint,
together with costs and expenses; it must also state when
and where it shall be returned. Several Warrants may. be
issued .at the same time to the.sheriH`s of different counties
\§2041-Mode of proceeding lnueeutlng warrant.
The oiiicer to whom such warrant of attachment is directed
and delivered, shall seize and take into his possession the
tangible personal property of the defendant, or so much
thereof, as may be necessary, and he shall be liable for the
care and custody of such property, as if the same had been
seized under execution: he shall levy on the real estate of
the defendant as prescribed for executions, he shall make
and return with the warrant, an inventory of the property
seized or levied on: subject to the direction of the court, he
shall collect and receive into his possession all debts owing
to the defendant, and take such legal proceedings, either in
his own name, or in that of the defendant as may be neces
sary for that purpose
Diginzed by C008 le
• CIVIL PROCED URE. 73
9205.-Proceedings in use of perishable property or vessel.
If any property, so seized, shall be perishable, or of such
character that the expense of keeping it until the determi-
nation of the suit, would be likely to exceed one-Hfth ofits
value, or if any part of it consists of a vessel, or of any share
or interest therein, the sheriff or other o$cer having posses-
sion thereof, shall immediately apply to the court for author-
ity to sell the same, stating the circumstances, and the same
shall be sold, under the order and direction of the court.
$206.-Interest in corporations ar assaelatlons liable u» dttachment.
The rights or shares which such defendant may have, in'
the stock of any association or corporation, together with
the interests and profits thereon, and all other 'property in
» this State of such defendant, shall be liable to be attached
and levied on, and sold to satisfy the judgment and execu-
tion.
9207.-Attachment, haw executed on property incapable of manual delivery.
The execution of the attachment upon any such rights,
shares, or any debts or other property incapable of manual
delivery to the sherill; shall be made, by leaving a certified
copy of the Warrant of the attachment, with the President
or other head of the association or corporation, or the secre-
tary, cashier or managing agent thereof; or with the debtor'
or individual holding such property, with a notice showing
the property levied on.
\§208-Certlliute uf defendanvs lntzrest m be furnished.
Whenever the she1if. or other lawful oliicer with a war-
rant of attachment or execution, shall apply to any oliicer
mentioned in the next preceeding section, oi' to any debtor
or individual, for the purpose of attaching or levying on the
property of the defendant in such wanant, such officer,
debtor or individual shall furnish him with .a certificate
under his hand, designating the number'.9:§2 fights' or shares
of the defendant in such association or any
3 "4fi s14;1' §'-\':1r. »..,jgs:z
4 . ~. wr
4-* . f._"
DiQi1;=;>»$'f;=.@
74, THE CODE OF
dividend or any incumbrance thereon, or the amountand
description of the property held by such association, corpo-
ration, or individual, for the benefit of, or debt owing to the
defendant. If such oiiicer, debtor or individual refuse to do
so, he may be required by the Court or Judge to attend
before him, and be examined on oath concerning the same,
and obedience to such order may be enforced by attachment.
5209--J1dgle1t, how satlsllod.
. In case judgment be entered for the plaintiff in such
action, the sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the property
attached by him, if it shall be suflicient for that purpose.
1. By paying over to such plaintiff the proceeds of all
property sold by him, and of all debts or credits collected
by him, or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy such
judgment.
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall
have .been issued on such judgment, he shall proceed to sell
under such execution, so much of the attached property,
real or personal, except as provided in subdivision four of
this section, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose shall remain in his hands; and in
case of the sale of any rights or shares in the stock of a
corporation or association, the sheriff shall execute to the
.purchaser a certificate of sale thereof, and the purchaser
shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in respect
thereto which were had by such defendant.
3. If any of the attached property belonging to the
defendant, shall have passed out of the hands of the sheriff
without having been so1.d or converted into money, such
sheriff shall repossess himself of the same, and for that
purpose, shall have all the authority which he had to seize
the same under the attachment: and any person who shall
wilfully conceal or withhold such property from the sherili,
shall be liable to double damages at the suit of the party
injured
4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be
paid, the sheriff may proceed to collect the notes and other
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 75
evidences of debt, and the debts that may have been seized
or attached, under the warrant of attachment, and to prose-
cute any bond he may have taken in the course of such
proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the payment
of the judgment.
At the expiration of dx months, from the docketing of
the judgment, the court shall have power upon the petition
of the plaintiff; accompanied by an aflidavit setting forth
fully all the proceedings which have been had by the sherilf,
since the service of the attachment, the property attached,
and the disposition thereof, and also the allidavit of the sheriff
that he has used due diligence, and endeavored to collect
the evidences of debt in his hands so attached and that
there remains uncollected of the same, any part or portion
thereof, to order the sheriff to sell the same, upon such
terms and in such manner as shall be deemed proper. Notice
of suchapplication shall be given to the defendant or his
attorney, if the defendant shall have appeared in the action.
In case the summons has not been personally served on the
defendant, the court shall make such rule or order, as to the
service of notice and the time of service, as shall be deemed
just.
\Vhen the judgment and all costs of the proceedings shall
have been paid, the sherilf, upon reasonable demand .shall
deliver over to the defendant, the residue of the attached
property, or the proceeds thereoil
§2l0.-When action to recover natcs, &c», of dcfcndcnt, may be prosccntcl by
plalntll' In the action in which the attachment Issued-
The actions herein authorized to be brought by the sheriff
may be prosecuted by the plaintififor under his direction,
upon the delivery by him to the sheriff of an undertaking
executed by two suliicient sureties, to the effect, that the
plaintiff will indemnify the sheriff from all damages, costs
and expenses on account thereof, not exceeding two hun-
dred and fifty dollars in any one action. Such sureties shall
in all cases when required by the sheriff; justify by making
an atiiclavit that each is a householder, or free holder and
Diginzed by C008 le
76 THE CODE OF
worth double the amount of the penalty of the bond over
and above all demands and liabilities, and exemptions.
§2ll.-Bend to snerllfnn attachment, how dlspesed of, on judgment for defen-
dant.
If the foreign corporation, or absent, or absconding, or
concealed defendant, recover judgment against the plaintiff
in such action, any bond taken upon the issuing-of the war-
rant of attachment, and any bond taken by the sheriff, except
such as are mentioned in the last section, all the proceeds of
Sales and monies collected by him, and all the property
. attached remaining in his hands, shall be delivered by him
;-f the defendant or his agent on request, and the warrant.
.:- ` shall be discharged and the property released.
8212.-Discharge of attachment, and return of praperty or Its proeeeds, to the
defendant, on his appennnee in netlon.
Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in such
action, he may apply to the Court in which the action is
pending, or to the Judge thereof, for an order to discharge
the same; and if the same be granted, all the proceeds of
sale, and moneys collected in such action gpéff all the prc»
perty attached remaining in the hands 14491)¥ of the
Court, under auyprocess or order jin .s\ii;l;Qaetion,;shall be
delivered or paid to the defendant or hisagent,and released
from the attachment.
And where there is more than one defendant, and several
property of either of the defendants has been seized by vir-
tue of the order of attachment, the defendant whose several
property has been seized, may apply in like manner for
reliefl
- »;'*'~»I. _
wa.-Unaemkmg an put af the defendant. Dls4harge of gm
Upon such application the defendant shall deliiiéitlio. the
Court an undertaking, executed by at least two sureties, who
areresident and freeholders or house-holders in this State,
approved by such Court, to the effect that such sureties,
will on demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount ofjudgment
Diginzed by (2009 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 77
that may be recovered against the defendant in the action,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which
shall be at least double nge amount claimed by the plaintiff
in his complaint. If it shall appear by affidavit, that the
property attached be less than the amount claimed by the
plaintiff; the Coutt or Judge may order the same to be
'appraised and the amount of the undertaking shall then be
double' the amount so appraised. And in all cases, the
defendant may move to discharge the attachment, as in the
case of other provisional remedies.
And where there is more than one defendant, and several
property of either of the defendants, has been seized by vir-
tue of the order of attachment, the defendant whose several
property has been seized, may deliver to the Court an under-
taking, in accordfince with the provision of this section, to
the eHect that he will on demand, pay to the plaintiff the
amount of judgment that may be recovered against such
defendant. And all the provisions oi this section applicable
to such an undertaking shall be applied thereto.
~§2u.-\vn¢n the sllerllf rn retum warrant, with his proceedings thereon.
The sheriff shall return the warrant of attachment with a
statement of his proceedllags thereon, at the time and place
at which it is on its face returnable, and upon, or at any I
time after such return, he may obtain from the Court to
which the same was returnable, a certiiied copy thereof,
which shall be held and deemed for the purpose of giving
him authority, the same as the original, and when the war-
rant shall have been fully executed or discharged, the
sheriff shall return the same, with his proceedings, to the
• said Court.
Diginzed by C008 le
1.
»78 THE CODE OF
pn
CHAPTER V.
av
PROVISIONAL Rmmnms.
\§2l5.-Powers of Court as to re¢elvers, deposit of money, M., in Curt, and
other provlslend remedies. Judglent for sum admitted due.
A receiver may; be appointed,- _
1. Before judgment, on the application of either party,
when he establishes an apparent right to property which
is the subject of the action, and which is in the possession v
of an adverse party, and the property, or its rents and pro-
fits, are in danger of being lost, or materially injured or
impaired; except in cases where judgmenifupon failure to
answer may be had on application to the Court;
2. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect;
3. After judgment, to dispose of the property according
to the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of
an appeal, or when an execution has been returned unsatis-
fied, and the judgment-debtor refuses to apply his property
in satisfaction of the judgment;
4. In the cases provided in this Code and by special
statutes, when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insol-
w. vent or in imminent danger of insolvency, or hasforfeited
its corporate rights; and in like cases, of the property
within this State offoreign corporations. Receivers of the
property within this State of foreign or othercorporations
shall be allowed such commissions as may be Hxed by the
Judge appointing them, not exceeding tive per cent. on the
amount received and disbursed by them.
5. ln such other cases as are now provided by law, or may •
be in accordance with the existing practice, except as other-
wise provided in this act. 4
When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a
party that he has in his possession, or under his control, any
money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the
subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another
party, or which belongs or is due to another party, the
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 79
Judge may order the same to be deposited in court, or
delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to
the further direction of the Judge.
Whenever, in the exercise of his authority a Judge shall
have ordered the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money
or other property, and the order is disobeyed, the`Judge,
besides punishing the. disobedience as for contempt, may
make an order requiring the sherilf to take the money or
property, and deposit, deliver, or convey it, in conformity
with the directionot the Judge.
When the answer of the defendant expressly, or by not
denying, admits part of the plaintiffs claim to be just, the
Judge, on motion, may order such defendant to satisfy that
part of the claim, and may .enibrce the order as it enforces a
judgment or prgvisional remedy.
TITLE X.
OF THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT IN CIVIL AcTIoNs.
Chapter I. Judgment upon failure tn answer, M,
" ll. Issues and the mode of trial.
" lll. Trial by jury.
" lv. Trial by the wart.
" v_ Trlul by referees.
" vl. The manner ef entering judgment.
CHAPTER 1.
JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE To ANSWER( &C.
$216.-Judgment ¢lelh\ed.]
A judgment is the final determination of the rights of
the parties in the action.
Diginzed by C008 le
80 THE CODE OF
$217.-Judgment on failure of defendant to answer, or for excess over eonnter-
clnlm.
Judgment may be had, if the defenclant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows:
1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of
money only, the plaintiff may file with the clerk proof of
personal service of the summons and complaint on one or
more of the defendants, or of the summons according to the
provisions of section seventy-six, and that no answer has
been filed. The clerk shall thereupon enter judgment for
the amount mentioned in the summons, against the defen-
dant or defendants, or against one or more of several defeni
dants, in the cases provided for in section eighty-seven. But
if the complaint be not sworn to, and such action . is on an
instrument for the payment of money only, the clerk, on its
productionto him, shall assess the amount dhe to the plaintiff
thereon; and in other cases shall ascertain the amount which
the plaintiff' is entitled to recover in such action, from his
examination, under oath, or other proof, and enter the judg-
ment for the amount so assessedor ascertained In case the
defendant give notice of .appearance in the action, he shall
be»entitled to tive days' notice of the time and place of such
assessment.
Where the defendant, by his answer in such action, shall
not deny the plaintiffs claim, but shall set up a counter-
claim, amounting to less than the plaintiffs claim, judgment
may be had by the plaintiff for the excess of said claim over
the said counter-claim, in like manner in any such action,
upon the plaintiffs filing with the clerk of the Court a state-
ment admitting such counter claim, which statement shall
be annexed to and be a part of the judgment-roll.
2. In other actions the plaintilf may, upon the like proof,
apply to the Court, after the expiration of the time for
answering, for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the
taking of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary
to enable the Court to give judgment, or to carry the judg-
ment into effect, the Court may take the account or hear the
proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 81
purpose. And Where the action is tor the recovery of money
only, or of specific real or personal property, with damages
for the withholding thereof, the court may order the damages
to be assessed by a jury, or, if the examination of a long
account be involved, by a reference as above provided. If
the defendant give notice of appearance in the action before
the expiration of the time for answering, he shall be entitled
to eight days' notice of the time and place of application to
the Court for the relief demanded by the complaint.
3. In actions where the service of the summons was by
publication, the plaintiff may, in like manner, apply for
judgment, and the court must thereupon require proof to be
made of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and if the
defendant be not a resident ci' the State must require the
plaintiff or his agent to be examined on oath respecting any
payments that have been made to the plaintiff, or to any one
for his use, on account of such demand, and may render
judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover.
Before rendering judgment the court may, in its discretion,
requirethe plaintiff to cause to be *filed satisfactory security,
to abide the order of the court, touching the restitution' of
any estate or effects which may be directed by such judgment
to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution of any money
that may be collected under or by virtue of such judgment,
in case the defendant or his representatives shall apply and
be admitted to defend the action, and shall succeed in such
defence.
§2l8.-Judgment on frlvalans demurrer, answer or reply.
If a demurrer, answer or reply be frivolous, the party pre-
judiced thereby, upon a previous notice of five days may
apply to the court or to the Judge thereof, either in or out of
the court, for judgment thereon, and judgment may be given
accordingly.
6
Diginzed by C008 le
9
82 THE CODE OF
CHAPTER II.
ISSUES, AND THE MODE OF TRIAL.
§2l9.- -The different kinds of issues-
Issues arise upon the pleadings when a thot or conclusion
of law is maintained by the one party and controverted by
the other. They are of two kinds;
1. Of law; and
2. Of fact.
§220--Issue of law.
An issue of law arises,
1. Upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply, or
to some part thereofl
§22l._.-Issue of fact.
An issue of fhct arises,
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint contro-
verted by the answer; or,
2. Upon new matter in~ the answer controverted by the
reply; or,
8. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of law
is joined thereon.
9222.-o1 issues of botn law and fact, the lssneof law to be tried irst.
Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different
parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases
the issues of law must be iirst tried, unless the court other-
wise direct:
§228.-Trial defined.
A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between
the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.
13224.-Issues, lmw tried.
An issue of law must be tried by the Judge of the court,
unless it be referred, as provided in sections two hundred and
ibrty-ibur and two hundred and forty-five. An issue of
Diginzed by (2009 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. \ 83
fact, in an action for the recovery of money only, or of
specific real or personal property, or for a divorce from the
marriage contract on the ground of adultery, must be tried
by a jury, unless a jury trial be waived, as provided in sec-'
tion two hundred and forty, or a reference be ordered, as
provided in sections two hundred and forty-four and two
hundred and forty-five.
§225.-0ther Issues to be tried by the court or Judge.
Every other issue is triable by the court, or the Judge
thereof, who, however, may order thewhole issue, or any
specific question of fact involved therein, to be tried by a
jury, or may refer it, as provided in sections two hundred
and forty-tbur and two hundred and fortyfive.
.§226»- -Issues of fact, when m be tried.
Every issue of fact joined on the pleadings, and inquiry
of damages required to be tried by a jury, shall be tried at
the term of the court next ensuing such .joinderof issue or
order for inquiry; provided such issue shall have been
joined or order for inquiry made, more than thirty days
betbre such term, but if not, they shall be tried at the second
term after sueh _joiuder or order.
§227.-Trlal may be postponed by clerk, when.
Any party to any action may apply to the court in which
it is pending, or to the Judge thereo£ after three days
notice in writing to the adverse party, to have the trial
deferred to a term subsequent to that in which it is regularly
triable; such application must be made thirty days before
the trial term, and must be on affidavit. The court or
Judge may defer the trial as asked tor, on such terms as
shall be just, if satisEed:
1. That the applicant has used due diligence to have his
case ready for trial; and,
2. That by reason of circumstances beyond his control,
which he shall set forth, he cannot have a fair trial at the
regular trial term; if the application is made by reason of
Diginzed by C008 le
84 THE CODE OF
the expected absence of a witness, it shall state the name
and residence of the witness, the facts expected to be proved
by him, and the grounds for the expectation of his non-
attendance, and that the applicant expects to procure his
evidence at or before some named subsequent term.
The applicant shall in all cases pay the costs of the a-ppli~
cation.
$228.-Trial pnstponed by Judge in term, when.
The Judge at any time during the term at which an
action is triable, may postpone the trial on the application
of either party and on such terms as shall be just, if sat-
isfied:
1. That the applicant has used due diligence to be ready .
for trial.
2. That he cannot have a fair trial at that term, by reason
of circumstances stated, and if theground of application
be, the non-attendance of a witness, the atlidavit shall
contain the particulars required by subdivision two of
section two hundred and twenty-seven. Unless the applicant
shall also set forth in his aflidavit, that the facts upon which
his application is grounded occurred, or came to hisknowledge
too late to allow him to apply as prescribed in the last
section, and that his application is made as soon as it
reasonably could be after the knowledge of such facts, the
postponement shall not be granted, except on the terms of
the payment of the costs in the action for the term.
§229.-Crlmlnal calendar Hrst disposed of. 0rder of disposing of issues in
clvll actions-
The criminal calender shall be first disposed og unless by
consent of counsel, or for reasons satisfactory to the Judge,
particular criminal actions may be deferred. The issues
on the civil calendar shall be disposed of in the following
order, unless, for the convenience of parties or the dispatch
of business. the court shall otherwise direct:
Diginzed by (2009 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 85
1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury;
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court;
3. Issues oflaw.
CHAPTER III.
TRIAL BY JURY.
§280.-Separate trials.
A separate trial between a plaintiff and any of the several
defendants may be allowed by the court, whenever, in its
opinion, justiqp will thereby be promoted.
§23l.-J1dge to be furnished with copy pleaqllngs, tc.
The clerk shall furnish the Judge with a copy of the
summons and pleadings, and with the oifer of the defendant
if any shall have been made.
15282.-General and speclhl verdicts dellncd.
A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce
generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of
the plaintilf or defendant. A special verdict is that by
which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to
the court.
§233.-When jury mayreudcr- either general or special verdict, and when
Judge may direct special llndlng.
In an action for the recovery of specific personal property,
if the property have not been delivered to the plaintiff; or
the defendant by his answer claim a return thereof] the jury
shall assess the value of the property, it their verdict be in
favor of the plaintiff; or if they lind in favor of the defen-
dant, and that he is entitled to a return thereof; and may
at the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the
complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sus-
tained by reason of the detention or taking and withhold-
ing such property.
Diginzed by C008 le
86 THE CODE OF
In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific
real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a
general or special verdict. In all other cases, the court may
direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing, upon all
or any of the issues; and in all cases may instruct them if
they render a, general verdict, to find upon particular ques-
tions of facts, to be stated in writing, and may direct a
written finding thereon. The special verdict or finding
shall be filed with the clerk, and entered upon the minutes.
v
§234.-0n special lludlng with general verdict, former to c0ntr0l.
Where a special Ending of facts shall be inconsistent with
the general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and
the court shall give judgment accordingly.
§235.-Jury to assess defendant5s damages in certain cases.
When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in au action for
the recovery of money, or for the defendant when a set-off
for the recovery of money is established beyond the amount
of the plainti{I"s claim as established, the jury must also
assess the amount of the recovery; they may also, under
the direction of the court, assess the amount of the recovery
when the court give judgment for the plaintiff on the
answer. If a set-off established at the trial, exceed the
plainti1i"s demand so established, judgment for the defen-
dant must be given for the excess; or if it appear that the
defendant is entitled to any other aflirmative relief, judg-
ment must be given accordingly.
§238.-Entry of the verdict. Motion for new trial on Judge's minutes-
(1.) Upon receiving a verdict, the clerk shall make an
entry in his minutes, specifying the time and place of the
trial, the names of the jurors and Witnesses, the verdict, and
either the judgment rendered thereon, or an order that the
cause be reserved for argument or further consideration. If
a different direction be not given by the court, the clerk
must enter judgment in conformity with the verdict. (2.)
Diginzed by (2009 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 87
If an exception be taken, it may be reduced to writing at
the time, or entered in the Judge's minutes, and afterwards
settled as provided by the rules of the court, and then stated
in writing in a case, or separately, with so much of the evi
dence as may be material to the questions to be raised, but
a bill of exceptions need not be made. (3.) If the excep
. tions be in the first instance stated in a case, and it be
necessary to separate them, the separation may be made
under the direction of the Judge. (4.) The Judge who
tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain a motion, to
be made on his minutes, to set aside a verdict and grant a
new trial upon exceptions, or for insufficient evidence, or for
excessive damages; but such motion can only he heard at
the same term at which the trial is had. When such motion
• is heard and decided upon the minutes of the Judge, and an
appeal is taken from the decision, a case or exceptions must
be settled in the usual form, upon which the argument of
the appeal must be had.
§287.-Judge to explain law, but to express no opinions on facts.
No Judge, in giving a charge to the petty jury, shall give
an opinion whether a fact is fully or sufiiciently proven
such matter being the true ollice and province of the jury
but he shall state in a plain and correct manner, the evi
dence given :in the case, and declare and explain the law
arising thereon.
§288.-Judge to put his Instructions ln wrltlng»
Every Judge, at the request of any party to an action on
trial, made at or before the close of the evidence, before
instructing the jury on the law, shall put his instructions in
writing, and read them to the jury; he shall then sign and
file them with the Clerk as a part of the record of the action
.§239--Counsel to put their prayers for lnstructlon ln writing.
Counsel praying of the Judge instructions to the jury,
shall put their request in Writing entitled of the cause, and
sign them; otherwise the Judge may disregard them; they
shall be Bled with the clerk as a part of the record.
Diginzed by C008 le
88 THE CODE OF
CHAPTER IV.
TRIAL BY THE COURT.
§240.--Trial by jury, how waived.
Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an
issue of fact, in actions on contract, and with the assent of
the court, in other actions, in the manner following:
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with.
the clerk.
3. By oral consent, entered in the minutes.
941.-0n trial by the court, judgment, how to be given.
Upon the trial of a question of fact by the court, its decis-
ion shall be given in writing, and shall contain a statement
of the facts found, and the conclusions of law, separately;
and upon a trial of an issue at law, the decision shall be
made in the same manner, stating the conclusions of law.
Such decision shall be Bled with the clerk during the court
at which the trial takes place. Judgmentupon the decision
shall be entered accordingly.
§244.-Exceptions, how and when taken.
|_1.] For the purposes of an appeal, either party may
except to a decision on a matter oi law arising upon such
trial within ten days after the judgment, in the same manner
and with the same effect as upon a trial by jury. Provided,.
however, that where the decision does not authorize a Hual
judgment, but directs further proceedings before a referee
or otherwise, either party may except thereto, and make a
case or exception as above provided in case of an appeal.
[2.] And either party desiring a review, upon the evi-
dence appearing on the trial, of the questions of law may,
at any time Within ten days after the judgment, or within
such time as may be prescribed by the rules of the court,
Diginzed by (2009 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 89
make a case or exceptions in like manner as upon a trial by
jury, except that the Judge, in settling the case, must brieily
specify the facts found by him, and his conclusions of law.
9248.-Proceedings upon judgment on issue of law.
• On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an issue of law, the
plaintilf may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first
two subdivisions of section two hundred and seventeen, upon
the failure of the defendant to answer, where the summons
was personally served. If judgment be for the defendant,
upon an issue of law, and if taking of an account or the
proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to com-
plete the judgment, .a reference or assessment by jury may
be ordered, as in that section provided.
CHAPTER V.
TRIAL BY REFEREES.
§$44.-All issues referable by consent.
All, or any, of the issues in the action, whether of fact or
of law, or both, may be referred, upon the Written consent
of the parties.
\3245.-When reference may be eompnlsorlly ordered.
Where the parties do not consent, the court may, upon
the application of either, of its own motion, except where
the investigation will require the decision of difficult ques-
tions of law, direct a reference in the follodfing cases:
1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the
examination of a long account on either side; in which
case the referee may be directed to hear and decide the
Whole issue, or to report upon any speci c question of fact
involved therein; or,
Q
Diginzed by C008 le
90 THE CODE OF
2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for
the information of the court, before judgment, or for carry-
ing a judgment order into eHect; or, •
3. When case involves a complicated question of'boundary,
or one which requires a personal view of the premises.
4. Where a question of fact, otherthan upon the pleadings,
shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the
action.
§246.-Mode of trial-Fn'eet ofrepor1,--Review(
The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same
manner, as a trial by the court. They shall have the same
power to grant adjournments and to allow amendments to
any pleadings and to the summons, as the court upon such
trial, upon the same terms and with like effect. They shall
have the same power to preserve order and punish all viola-
tions thereof upon such trial, and to compel the attendance
of witnesses before them by attachment, and to punish them
as for a contempt for non-attendance or refusal to be sworn
or testify, as is possessed by the court. They must state the
facts found and the conclusions of law separately; and their
decision must be given, and may be excepted to and
reviewed in like manner, and with like effect in all respects
as in cases of appeal under section two hundred and forty-
two; and they may in like manner settle a case or excep-
tions. The report of the referees upon the whole issue
shall stand as the decision of the court, and judgment may
be entered thereon upon application to the Judge, and his
order. When the reference is to report the facts, the report
shall have the eifect of a special verdict.
§247--Referees, how chosen-Who may be referee-Report.
In all cases of reference the parties as to whom issues are
formed in the action (except when the defendant is an infant
or an absentee) may agree in Writing upon a person or
persons, not exceedin hree, and a reference shall be ordered
to him or them, and to no other person, or persons. And
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 91
if such parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or
more referees, not more than three, who shall be tree from
exception. And no person shall be appointed referee to
whom all parties in the action shall object, except in actions
lor divorce And no Judge or Justice of any court shall sit
as referee in any action pending in the court of which he is
Judge or Justice, and not already referred, unless the
0 parties otherwise stipulate. The referee or referees shall
make and deliver a report within sixty days from the time
the action shall be Hnally submitted; and in default thereof,
and before the report is delivered, either party may serve
notice upon the opposite party that he elects to end the
reference; and thereupon the action shall proceed as though
no reference had been ordered, and the referees shall not in
such case be entitled to any tees.
The report of the referee shall be made to the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending: either party after ten
days notice to the adverse party, may move the Judge to
review such report, and set aside, modify, or confirm the
same in whole or in part, and no judgment shall be entered
on any reference except by order of the Judge.
CHAPTER \/ 1.
MANNER OF ENTERIXG JUDGMENT.
§248- Jndgment may be for or against any of the parties; may grant defen-
dant Afllrmatlve relief-Complaint may be dlsmlssed for neglect to prosecute
actlon-Judgment against married woman.
(1.) Judgment may be given for or against one or more
of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several
defendants; and it may determine the ultimate rights of the
parties on each side, as between themselves.
(2) And it may grant to the defendant any aHirmative
relief to which he may be entitled.
Diginzed by C008 le
92 THE CODE OF
(8.) In an action against several deten dants, the court
may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more
of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others,
whenever a several judgment may be proper.
(4.) The court may also dismiss the complaint, with costs=
in favor of one or more defendants, in case of unreasonable
neglect on the part of the plaintiff to serve the summons on
other defendants, or to proceed in the cause against the
defendant or defendants served.
In an action brought by or against a married woman,
0 judgment may be given against her as well for costs as for
damages, or both for such costs and for such damages, in
the same manner as against other persons, to be levied and
collected of her separate estate and not otherwise.
§249.-The relief m be awarded to the pla'ntltL
The relief granted to the pleintifl; if there be no answer,
cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his
complaint; but in any other case the court ma5f grant him
any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint
and embraced within the issue.
§250.-Rates of damages whcre damages are recoverable.
Whenever damages are reco\'erable, the plaintiff may
claim and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any
rate ofdamages which he might have heretofore recovered
for the same cause of action.
§25l.-Judgment In action for recovery of personal property.
In an action to recover thepossession ofpersonal property,
judgment for the plaintiff maybe for the possession, or for
the recovery of possession, or for the value thereof, in case a
delivery cannot be had, and the damages for the detention.
If the property have been delivered to the plaintiff and the
defendant claim a return thereof, judgment fer the defen-
dant may be for a return of the property, orthe value thereof
in case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and
withholding the same.
I
Diginzed by C008 le
uw L PROCEDURE. 93
3952.--Clerk to enter judgments on judgment book, alru judgments rendered
lu other courts, aud index them.
The Clerk of the Superior Court shall enter every judg-
ment of the court, on his _judgment book; it shall specify
clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the
action; he shall also enter on said book all judgments ren-
dered in any other court, and authorized by law to be so
entered, and shall keep an alphabetical index of the whole,
with the dates and numbers thereoi
§258.-Judgment roll.
Unless the party or his attorney shall furnish a judgment-
roll, the clerk, immediately after entering the judgment,
shall attach together, and lile the following papers, which
shall constitute the judgment-roll:
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defen-
dant, the summons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof
ofservice, and that no answer has been received, the report -
if any, and a copy of the judgment. .
2. In allother cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies;
thereof, and a copy of the judgment, with any verdict or
report, the offer of the defendant, exceptions, case, and all
orders and papers in any way involving the merits and
necessarily affecting the judgment.
§254.-Existing salts. Judgments, when and lmw to be doeketed. Secured on
appeal.
Upon tiling a judgment-roll upon a judgment directing in
whole or in part the payment of money, it may be docketed
with the clerk oi the county where the judgment-roll was
iiled, and in any other county upon the filing with the clerk
.thereof a transcript of the original " docket, " and shall be
41 lien on the real property in the county, where the same is
doclieted, of every person against whom any such judgment
shall be rendered, and which he may have at the time of
the docketing thereof in the county in which such real pro-_
,perty is situated, or which he shall acquire at any time there-
after, for ten years from the time of dockcting the same in
0-
Diginzed by C008 le
94 THE CODE OF
the county where the judgment-roll was filed But the
time during which the party recovering or owning such
judgment shall be, or shall have been, restrained from pro-
ceeding thereon by an order of injunctiongor other order,
or by the operation of any appeal, shall not constitute any
• part of the ten years aforesaid, as against the defendant in
such judgment, or the party obtaining sucli orders or making
such appeal, or any other person who is not a purchaser,
creditor or mortgagee in good faith. But whenever an
appeal from any judgment shall be pending, and the under-
taking requisite to stay execution on such judgment shall
have been given, and the appeal perfected as provided in
the Code, the court in which such judgment was recovered
may, on special motion, after notice to the person owning
the judgment, on such terms as they shall see Ht, direct an
entry to be made by the clerk on the docket of such judg-
ment, that the same is " secured on appeal. " and thereupon
it shall cease, during the pendency of said appeal, to be a
lien on the real property of the judgment-debtor, as against
purchasers and mortgagees in good faith.
All executions issuing upon judgments docketed in a
county other than that in which the original judgment was
rendered, shall be returned to the court from which they
issued; the return noted on the Execution Docket; and the
executions transmitted to the clerk of the court in which the
original judgment was taken. The provisions of this section
shall apply to existingjudgments ae well as to all hereafter
rendered.
9
Diginzed by C008 le
U
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 95
T I T L E X I |
OF THE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT IN c1vIL ACTIONS.
(innptu I. The execution. .
" Il. Pnzeaedilgs supplementary to execution.
CHAPTER I.
THE EXECUTION.
()255.--Exee1tlon within three years of course.
\Vrits of execution for the enforcement of judgments as
now used are modiHed in conformity to this title, and the
party in whose favor judgment has been heretofore or shall
hereafter be given, and in case of his death his personal
representatives duly appointed, may at anv time within
three years after the entry of judgment, proceed to enforce r
the same, as prescribed by this title.
The provisions of this title shall apply to existing judg-
ments except in the cases provided for, by the ordinance of
the Convention of this State entitled . "An Ordinance
respecting the Jurisdiction of the Courts of this State,"
ratified 14th ofMarch 1868, which shall be governed by the
exsting law.
§256»-After three years, to be Issued only by leave of court. Leave how
obtained.
After the lapse of three years irofn the entry of judgment,
anexecution can be issued only by leave of the court, upon
motion, with personal notice to the adverse party, unless he
be absent or non-resident, or cannot be found to make such
service, in which case such service may be made by publi-
cation, or in such other manner as the court shall direct.
Such leave shall not be given unless it be established by the
oath of the party, or other'satisfactory proof; that the judg-
ment, or some part thereof; remains unsatisfied and due.
Diginzed by C008 le
96 THE CODE OF
But the leave shall not be necessary when execution has
been issued on the judgment within the threcryears next
preceeding the suing for execution, and returned unsatisfied
in whole or in part.
§257»- -Judgments, how enforced.
\Vhere a judgment requires the payment of money, or the
delivery of real or personal property, the same may be
enforced in those respects by execution, as provided in this
Title. Where it requires the performance of any other act,
a certihed copy of the judgment may be served upon the
party against whom it is given, or the person or officer who
is required thereby or by law to obey the same, and his
obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse, he may be pun-
ished by the court as for contempt.
9958.-The different kinds of execution.
There shall be three kinds of execution; one against the
property of the judgment debtor; another against his per-
son; and the third for the delivery of the possession of real
or personal property, or such delivery with damages for
Withholding the same. They shall be deemed the process
of the court, and shall be subscribed by the clerk, and where
to run out of his county, sealed with tl1e seal of his court.
§259.-To what counties execution niny be Issued. Execution against a mar-
ried woman.
When the execution is against the property of the judg-
ment debtor, it may 56 issued to the sheriff of any county
where the judgment is docketed. \Vhen it requires the
delivery of real or personal property, it must be issued to
the sheriif of the county where the property, or some part
thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued at the same
time to different counties.
Real property adjudged 'to be sold must be sold in the
county where it lies, by the sheriff ot the county, or by a
referee appointed by the court for that purpose; and there-
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 97
upon the sheriff or referee must execute a conveyance to
the purchaser, which conveyance shall be effectual to pass
the rights and interests of the parties adjudged to be sold.
An execution may issue against a married woman, and it
shall direct the levy and collection of the amount of the
judgment against her from her separate property, and not
otherwise.
$260.-Executlon against the person, ln what eases.
If the action be one in which the defendant might have
been arrested, as provided in section one hundred and forty-
nine and section one hundred and forty-one, an execution
against the person of thejudgment debtor may be issued to
any county within the State, after the return of an execution
against his property unsatisfied in whole or in part. But no
execution shall issue against the person of ajudgment debtor,
unless an order of arrest has been served, as in this act pro-
vided, or unless the complaint contains a statement of facts
showing one or more of the causes of arrest required by sec-
.tion one hundred and iortyniue.
6261.-Form of the execution.
The excution must be directed to the sherifl} or coroner
when the sheriff is a party or interested, subscribed by the
clerk of the court, and must intelligibly refer to the judg-
ment, stating the county where the judgment-roll or trans-
r cript is filed, the names of the parties, the amount of the
judgment, ifit be for money, and the amount actually due
thereon, and the time ofdocketing in the county to which
the execution is issued, and shall require the officer substan-
tially as follows:
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the officer to satisfy the judgment out of the
personal property of such debtor; and if sufficient personal
property cannot be found, out of the real proper'y belonging
to him on the day when the judgment was docketed in the
county, or at any time thereafter.
7
Diginzed by C008 le
98 THE CODE OF
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands
of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants
of real property or trustees, it shall require the oilicer to
satisfy the judgment out of such property.
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the ollicer to arrest such debtor, and commit
him to the jail of the county until he shall pay the judg-
ment or be discharged according to law.
4. lf it be for the delivery of the possession of real or
personal property, it shall require the officer to deliver the
possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the
party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require the
oiHcer to satisfy any costs, damages, or rents or profits
recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal prop-
erty of the party against whom it was rendered, and the
value of the property for which the judgment was recovered,
to be specified therein; if a delivery thereof cannot be had,
and if suf`icient personal property cannot be found, then out
of the real property belonging to him on the day when
the judgment was docketed, or at any time thereafter, •
and shall in that respect be deemed an execution against
property.
§26i.-To be returnable ln sixty days.
The execution shall be returnable within sixty days, atler
its receipt by the oliicer, to the clerk with whom the record
0fjuclgment is iiled. \
8263.-Existing laws relating m execution eontlnned, nntll otherwlsc provided .
Until otherwise provided by the Legislature, the existing
provisions of law, not in conflict with this chapter, relating
to executions and their incidents, the property liable to sale
on execution, the sale and redemption thereof, the powers
and rights of officers, their duties thereon, and the proceed-
ings to enforce those duties, and the liability of their sure-
ties, shall apply to the executions prescribed by this chapter.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 99
But the sheriff may sell on due advertisement on the Brat
three days in any mouth, and if one of them be Sunday it
shall not be counted.
CHAPTER II.
4 PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY To THE sxnctmon.
§264.--Exlstlng salts-0rder for dlmvery of wrwy, exsmlnatlon of judg-
ment debtor, M.
(1.) When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or any one of several debtors in the same judgment
issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides or has
a place of business, or if he do not reside in the State, to
the sheriff of the county where a judgment-roll or a tran-
91
script of a Justicesjudgment for twenty-live dollars, or
0 09 IO
upwards, exclusive of costs, is filed, is returned unsatisied, • I ,u
I Cr lll l in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after .0 •
such return made, is entitled to an order from the court to .0
C l o s
which the execution is returned, or from the Judge thereof, I
t o o o •
requiring such debtor to appear and answer concerning his 0 1 1
property, before such court or Judge, at a time and place
specified in the order, within the county to~ which the
execution was issued. (2.) After the issuing of an execu-
tion against property, and upon proof by affidavit, of a
party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a
Judge thereof; that any judgment debtor, residing in the
judicial district where such Judge or oliicer resides, has
property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the
satisfaction of the judgment, such court or Judge may, by
an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a speci-
fied time and place, to answer concerning the same; and
such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application
of the property ot the judgment debtor towards the satis-
faction of the judgment as are provided upon the return ot'
an execution. Q3.) On an examination under this section,
Diginzed by C008 le
100 rHE CODE OF
either party may examine witnesses in his behalf, and the
judgment debtor may be examined in the same manner as
a witness (4.) Instead of the order requiring the attend-
ance of the judgment debtor, the Judge may, upon proof"
by affidavit or otherwise, to his satisfaction, that there is
danger of the debtor's leaving the State, or concealing him-
self, and that there is reason to believe he has property
which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, issue
.a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county where such
debtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before such
Judge. Upon being brought before the Judge, he may be
examined on oath, and, if it then appears that there is
danger of the debtor leaving the State, and that he has
property which he has unjustly refused to apply to such
judgment, ordered to enter into an undertaking, with one
or more sureties, that he will, from time to time, attend
before the Judge as he shall direct, and that he will not,
during the pendency of the proceedings, dispose of any
property not exempt from execution. In default of enter-
ing into such undertaking, he may be committed to prison
by warrant of the Judge,.as for a contempt. (5.) No person
shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter, be excused
L , from answering any question on the ground that his exam-
ination will tend to convict him of the commission of a
fraud; but his answer shall not be used asevidence against
him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution. Nor shall
he be excused from answering any question, on the ground
that he has, before the examination, executed any convey-
ance, assignment or transfer of his property for any pur-
pose, but his answer shall not be used as evidence against
him in any criminal proceeding or prosecu tion.
(pos.-Existing salts-Any debtor lay pay execution against his creditor.
After the issuing of execution against property, any
person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the
sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as shall
be necessary to satisfy the execution; and the sheriii"s
receipt, shall be a sufficient discharge, for the amount so
paid.
Diginzed by (2009 le
.-L..
`us
CIVIL PROCEDURE 101
8206.-Existing suits. Examination of debtors or judgment dohtor, or of
those lnvlng property belonging to hlm. Joint debtor.
After the issuing or return of an execution against pro-
perty of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors
in the same judgment, and upon aiiidavit that any person
»or corporation has property of .such judgment debtor, or is
indebted to him in an amount exceeding ten dollars, the
Judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation,
~or any oiiicer or member thereof, to appear at a speciiied
time andplace, and answer concerning the same. The
Judge may also, in his discretion, require notice of such
proceeding to be given to any party to the action, in such
manner as may seem to him proper.
The proceedings mentioned in this section and in section
two hundred and sixty-four may be taken upon the return
of an execution unsatisfied, issued upon a judgment recov-
-ered in an action against joint debtors, in which some of the
-defendants have not been served with the summons by
which said action was commenced, so far as relates to the
joint property of such debtors; and all actions by creditors
to obtain satisfaction of judgments out of the property of
joint debtors are maintainable in the like manner and to the
like effect. These provisions shall apply to all proceedings
and actions now pending. and not actually terminated by
any final judgment or decree, and not embraced in the
\Ordinance of the Convention of this State, entitled "An
@Ordinance respecting the Jurisdiction of the Courts of this
State, " ratihed fourteenth day of March 1868.
.§267.-Existing suits. Witnesses required to testify.
Witnesses may be required to appear and testify on any
proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as upon
.the trial of an issue.
;§268.-Existing suit. Compelling party or witnesses to amnd.
_ The party or witness may be required to attend before the
Judge, or before a referee appointed by the court or Judge;
if before a referee, the examination shall be taken by the
Diginzed by C008 le
102 THE CODE OF
referee, and certified to the Judge. All examinafions and
' answers before a Judge or referee, under this chapter, shall
be on oath, except that when 'a corporation answers, the
answer shall be on the oath of an alflcer thereof
9250.-lmsung suits. What property may be ordered to. be applied m the
exeeldol.
The Judge may order any property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of '
himself or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor,
to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment;
except that the earnings of the debtor for his personal ser-
vices, at any time within sixty days next preceeding the
order, cannot be so applied when it is made to appear, by the
debtor's aiiidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are neces-
sary for the use of a family supported wholly or partly by
his labor.
\§270,-Existing salts. Judge may appoint receiver and prohlblt transfer,
M-, of property. 0rder, M.
The Judge may also, by order, appoint a receiver of the
property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner, and
with the like authority, as if the appointment was made by
the court, according to section two hundred and Hfteen. But
before the appointment of such receiver, the Judge shall
ascertain, if practicable, by the oath of the party or other-
wise, whether any other supplementary proceedings are
pending against the judgment debtor, and if such proceed»
ings are so pending, the plaintiff therein shall have notice
to appear before him, and shall likewise have notice of all
subsequent proceedings in relation to said receivership. No
more than one receiver of the property of a judgement
debtor shall be appointed. The Judge may also, by order,
forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the
judgment debtor not exempt from execution, and any inter-
ference therewith.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 103
Whenever the Judge shall grant an order for the appoint-
ment of a receiver of the property of the judgment debter,
the same shall be filed in the oliice of the Clerk of the Supe-
rior Court of the county where the 'judgment-roll in the
action or transcript from justice's judgment, upon which the
proceedings are taken, is filed; and the clerk shall record
the order in a book to be kept for that purpose in his oliice,
to be called u Book of orders appointing receivers .oi judg-
ment debtors, " and shall note the time of the Bling of said
order therein. A certified copy of said order shall be deliv-
ered to the receiver named therein, and he shall be vested
with the property and elfects of the judgment debtor from
the time of the filing and recording of the order as aforesaid.
The receiver of the judgment debtor shall be subject to the
direction and control of the court in which the judgment
was obtained upon which the preceedings are founded.
But before he shall be vested with any real property of
such judgment debtor, a certified copy of said order shall
also be Bled and recorded on the execution docket, in the
office of the clerk of the Superior Court of the county in
which any real estate of such judgment debtor sought to be
effected by such order is situated, and also in the oliice of
the clerk of the Superior Court of the county in which such
judgment debtor resides.
9271.-Existing sults-Proceedings upon cial~ of another partyto 1ung.m!\., or
on denial otlndebtedness to judgment debtor.
If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have
property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims
an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the
debt, such interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an
ac'ion against such person or corporation by the receiver;
but the Judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other dis-
position of such property or interest, till a sufHcient oppor-
tunity be given to the receiver to commence the action, and
prosecute the same to _judgment and execution; but such
order may be modified or dissolved by the Judge granting
the same, at any time, on such security as he shall direct.
Diginzed by C008 le
104 THE CODE OF
6272.-Existing suits-Reference by Judge.
The Judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a'
referee agreed upon by the parties, or appointed by him, to
report the evidence or the facts, and may, in his discretion,
appoint such referee in the first order, or at any time.
$278.-Existing suits-Cost af prooeedlng.
The Judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to any
party so examined, whether a party to the action or not,
witnesses' fees and disbursements, and a fixed sum in addi-
tion, not exceeding thirty dollars, as costs.
5274.-Existing suits-Dlsobedlcnoe of order, how pndshed.
If any person, party, or witness, disobey an order of the
Judge or referee, duly served, such person, party, or Witness,
may be punished by the Judge as for a contempt. And
in all cases of commitment under this chapter, the person
committed may, in case of inability to perform the act
required, or to endure the imprisonment, be discharged
from imprisonment by the court or Judge committing him,
or the court in which the judgment was rendered, on such
terms as may be just.
The sections of this chapter, from section two hundred
and sixty-four, to section two hundred and seventy-fucr l;oth
inclusive, shall be applicable to all judgments which shall
be recovered after the ratiEcation of this Act, except judg-'
ments upon causes of action embraced in the provisions of
an Ordinance passed by the Convention of this State, entitled
" An Ordinance respecting the Jurisdiction of the Courts of
this State," ratified on the fourteenth of March, 1868, which
shall be governed by the existing laws.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 105
T I T L E X I I •
OF THE COSTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
§275.--Fee sm of attorneys abollshed.
All statutes establishing or regulating the costs or fees of
attorneys, solicitors, and counsel in civil actions, and all
. existing rules and provisions of law restricing or controlling
the right of a party to agree with an attorney, solicitor, or
counsel, for his compensation are repealed; and hereafter
the measure oT such compensation shall be left to the agree-
ment, express or implied, of the parties. But there may be
allowed to the prevailing party, upon the judgment, certain
sums by Way of indemnity for his expenses in the action,
which allowances are in this act termed costs.
§i76.-When allowed of course m the plaintiff.--Several actions on one Instru-
nent.
Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintilf, upon a
recovery, in the following cases:
1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when
a claim of title to real property arises on the pleadings, or
is certified by the court to have come in question at the
trial;
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property;
3. In the actions of which a court of Justice of the Peace
has no jurisdiction;
4. . In an action for the recovery of money, where the
plaintiff shall recover Iifty dollars; but in an action for
assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious
prosecution, criminal conversation, or seduction, if the plain-
tiff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he shall recover
no more cost than damages. And in an action to recover
the possesion of personal property, if the plaintilf recover
less _than Hfty dollars damages, he shall recover no more
costs than damages, unless he recovers also property, the
Diginzed by C008 le
106 THE CODE OF
value of which, with the damages, amounts to Hfty dollars,
or the possession of property be adjudged to him, the value
of which, with the damages, amounts to fifty dollars; such
value must be determined by the jury, court, or referee by
whom the action is tried. When several actions shall be
brought on one bond, recognizance, promissory note, bill of
exchange, or other instrument in writing, or in any other
case, for the same cause of action, against several parties
who might have been joined as defendants in the same
action, no costs other than disbursements shall be allowed
to the plaintiff in more than one of such actions; which
shall be at his election, provided that the party or parties
proceeded against in such other action or actions shall at the
time of the commencement of the previous action or actions
have been within the State, and not secr ed
9277.-When allowed to defendant.
1» Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant, in the
actions mentioned in the last section, unless the plaintiff be
entitled to costs therein.
9278.-wh0n allowed to either pany, ln the discretion of the court.
In other actions, costs may be allowed or not, in the dis-
cretion of the court.
In all actions where there are several defendants not
united in interest, and making separate defences by separate
answers, and the plaintiff tails to recover _judgment against
all, the court may award costs to such of the defendants as
have judgment in their favor, or any of them.
In the following cases the costs of an appeal to any court
shall be in the discretion of the court:
1. When a new trial shall be ordered;
2. When a judgment shall be affirmed in part, and
reversed in part.
§279.-Anwunt of costs allowed.
When allowed costs shall be as follows:
1. To either party for whom judgment shall be given, his
actual disbursements for fees to the oflicers entitled to receive
fees; and in addition thereto,
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 107
2. To the plaintiff when, in any action or proceeding,
judgment shall be rendered ibr him by confession; oi' for
want of an answer, or for other plea of the defendant, ten
dollars.
3. To the defendant when judgment shall be rendered
for him against the plaintiff by confession, or for want of a '
complaint or pleading of any sort, ten dollars.
4. To either party in whose favor judgment shall be ren-
dered by the Judge, on an appeal from any order or decision
of the Clerk ot the Superior'Court, ive dollars.
5. To either party in whose favor judgment shall be given
by a Judge, on an issue of law joined on the pleadings, if
argued by counsel before the Judge, ten dollars; if not so
argued, live dollars. I
7. To either party recovering judgment upon a trial by
Jury, Htteen dollars; and if the trial shall necessarily occupy
more than one day, iive dollars for every additional day.
8. On every order for the postponement of the trial 10
another term made before a term at-which it is triable, three
dollars, to be paid or not, by the party making the applica~
tion, in the discretion of the court.
9. On every order lor the postponement of the trial to
another term, made during a term at which the case is
triable, Eve dollars, besides the actual disbursements of the
adverse party in procuring the attendance and payment of
his witnesses, to be paid by the party making the appli-
cation, unless the Judge in his discretion shall order
otherwise.
10. In addition to the above, to either party where a new
trial shall be had, for all proceedings alter the granting of
such new trial, including the trial, Hfteen dollars; for attend-
ing upon and taking the deposition of a Witness condition-
ally, or attending to perpetuate his testimony, ive dollars;
for drawing interrogatories to annex to a commission lor the
taking of testimony, three dollars; for attending the exam-
ination of a party before trial, three dollars; for making and
serving a case, or case containing exceptions, Eve dollars,
except that where the case shall necessarily contain more
Diginzed by C008 le
108 THE CODE QF
than Efty folios, there shall be allowed 'live dollars in addi-
tion thereto; and for making and serving amendments
thereto, ive dollars; Provided that the costs for making
and serving a case, or case with exceptions, shall only be
allowed where the case was hot excepted to by the adverse
party, or, when being excepted to, it was approved by the
Judge; and costs for amendments proposed thereto by the
adverse party, shall only be allowed when the amendments
shall be material and accepted by the adverse party, or not
being accepted shall be approved by the Judge. If the case
and amendments proposed be each partly allowed and partly
disallowed by theJudge, no costs shall be allowed to either
party. To the plaintiff for procuring the appointment of
a guardian of an infant defendant, two dollars; and no
more shall be allowed for the appointment of guardians in
any one action. To the plaintilf for procuring an order of
injunction, ten dollars. Q
ll. To either party .on appeal to the Supreme Court,
thirty dollars; andwhen a judgment is amrmed, the court
may, in its discretion, also award damages for the delay,
not exceeding ten per cent. on the amouht of the judgment.
The same costs shall be allowed to the plaintiff in proceed-
ings under chapter two, title XIV, sections three hundred
and eighteen to three hundred and twenty-four, both inclu-
-sive, as upon the commencement of an action.
$280.-Addltlunal allowance.
In addition to these allowances, there shall be allowed to
the plaintili upon the recovery of judgment by him, in
any action for the partition of real property, or for the fore-
closure of a mortgage, or in any action in which a warrant
of attachment has been issued or for an adjudication upon
a will or other instrument in writing, and in proceedings
to compel the determination of claims to real property, the
sum ot ive per cent. on the recovery, as in the next section
prescribed, for any amount not exceeding two hundred
dollars; and additional sum of three per cent. for any addi-
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 109
tional amount not exceeding four hundred dollaré; and an
additional sum of two per cent. for any additional amount
not exceeding onethousand dollars.
And in the actions above named, if the same shall be
settled before judgment therein, like allowances upon the
amount paid or secured upon such settlement, at one-half
the rates above speciied.
$281--Allowance, how computed-Dlllclut nd extno1llnu-1 cases,
These rates shall be estimated upon the value of the
property claimed or attached, or affected by the adjudica
tion upon the will or other instrument, or sought to be
partitioned, or the amount found due or unpaid upon the
mortgage in an action for foreclosure. And whenever it
shall be necessary to apply to the court for an order enforc-
ing the payment of an installment falling due, after judg-
ment, in an action for foreclosure, the plaintilf shall be
entitled to the rate ofallowance in the last section prescribed
but to no more in the aggregate than if the whole amount
of the mortgage had been due when judgment was entered.
Such amount of value must be determined by the court or
by the commissioners, in case of actual partitions. In
diliicult and extraordinary cases, where a defence has been
interposed, or in such cases where a trial has been had, and
in actions or proceedings for the partition of real estate, the
court may also, in its discretion, make a further allowance
to any party, not exceeding ive per cent. upon the amount
of the recovery or claim, or subjectfmatter involved.
§282---Report, when dhrwed.
\Vhen .the judgment is for the recovery of money, interest,
from the time of the verdict or report until judgment be
finally entered, shall be computed by the clerk, and added
to the costs of the party entitled thereto.
<,2sa.-wus. how to he Inserted .ln judgment. Adjustment ef lnterlccatory
c0sts.
The Clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment, on the
application of the prevailing party, upon five days notice to
he other, the sum of the allowances for costs, as provided
Diginzed by C008 le
110 THE copE OF
by this Code, the necessary disbursements, including the
fees of ollicers allowed' by law, the fees of witnesses, the rea-
sonable compensation ofcommissioners in taking depositions,
the fees ofreferees, and the expense of printing the papers
for any hearing when required by a rule of the court. The
disbursements shall be stated in detail and verified by alli-
davit. A copy of the items of the costs-and disbursements
shall be served, with a notice of adjustment.
Whenever it shall be necessary to' adjust costs in any
interlocutory proceeding in an action, or in any special pro-
ceedings, the same shall be adjusted by the Judge before
whom the same may be heard, or the court before which the
same may be decided or pending, or in such other manner
as the Judge or court may direct.
$284.-Fees of clerks, sherllfs, te.
The fees of the clerk, sheriffand other oiiicers of the court,
shall be as prescribed by law.
$285.-Rcferces' fee.
The fees of referees shall be three dollars to each, for every
day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties
may agree in writ-ing upon any other rate of compensatoin.
(;286.--Costs agdnst lnlant pl-umm
When costs .are adjudged against an infant plaintifil the
guardian by whom he appeared in the action shall be
responsible therefor, and payment thereof may be forced by
attachment.
§287»-(Josts In aethm by or against an executor 0r administrator, trustees of
an express trust, or n person expressly authorized by statute to sue.
(L) In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor,
administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person
expressly authorized by statute, costs shall be recovered, as
in an action by and against a person prosecuting or defend-
ing in his own right; but such costs shall be chargeable only
Diginzed by C008 le
\9
CIVIL PROCEDURE 111
upon or collected of the estate, fund, or party represented,
unless the court shall direct the same to be paid by the
plaintiff or defendant personally, for mismanagement or bad
iaith in such action or defence. But this section shall not be
construed to allow costs against executors or administra-
tors where they are now exempted therefrom hy law. (2.)
And whenever any claim against a deceased person shall be -
referred, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover the
fees ol referees and witnesses, and other necessary disburse-
ments, to be taxed according to law.
15288.-fasts in dvll actions by the Sure.
In all civil actions prosecuted in the name of the State, by
an oliicer duly authorized for that purpose, the State shall be
liable for costs in the same cases and to the same extent as
private parties. If a private person be joined with the State
as plaintiff; he shall be liable in the first instance for the
defendant's costs, which shall not be recovered of the State
till after execution issued therefor against such private party
and returned unsatisfied.
§289.-Gosts In action by the sum for a private person.
In an action prosecuted in the name of the State for the
recovery of money or property, or to establish a right or
claim for the benefit of any county, city, town, village, cor-
poration or person, costs awarded against the plaintiff shall
be a charge against the party for whose benelit the action
was prosecuted, and not against the State.
$290.-Costs against asslgnee after action bnmght, of causc of action.
In actions in which the cause of action shall by assign-
ment after thecommencement of the action, or in any other
manner, become the property of a person not a . party to the
action, such person shall be liable for the costs, in the same
manner as if he were a. party, and payment thereof may be
enforced by attachment.
Diginzed by C008 le
112 THE CODE OF
$291.-Costs on a settlement.
Upon the settlement, before judgment of any action men-
tioned in section two hundred and seventy-six, no greater
sum shall be demanded from the defendant as costs than at
the rates prescribed by that section.
4292.-mu on appeals.
On an appeal from a Justice of the Peace, to a Superior
Court, or &om a Superior Court or a Judge thereof, to the
Supreme Court, if the appellant shall recover judgment in
the appellate court, he shall recover the costs of the appel-
late court, and those he ought to have recovered below, had
the judgment of that court been correct, and also restitution
of any costs of the court appealed from, which he shall have
paid under the erroneous judgment of such court.
If in any court of appeal there shall be judgment for a
new trial, or for a new jury, or if the judgment appealed
from, be not wholly reversed, but partly affirmed and partly
disaflirmed the costs shall be in the discretion of the appel-
late court.
9298.-(lasts ln existing actions.
Costs in actions brought before the ratiEcatiou' of this
Act, shall be according to existing laws.
9294.-Costs In special proceedings.
The costs in special proceedings shall be as herein allowed
in civil actions, unless where otherwise specially provided.
$295.-0n appeals fren Justices of the Peace.
After an appeal from the judgment of a 'Justice of the
Peace shall be Bled with a Clerk of a Superior Court, the
costs in all subsequent stages shall be, as herein provided
for actions originally brought to the Superior Court.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 113
T I T L E X I I I •
OF APPEAL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
CHAPTER 1.
§20sQ_W|-ic§ of error abolished, and appeals substituted.
Write of error in civil actions, as they have heretofore
existed, are abolished; and the only mode of reviewing a
judgment, or order, in a civil action, shall be that prescribed
by this title.
The provisions of this title shall apply to all actions tried
after the Fall Terms of the Superior Courts, held next after
the ratiication of this Act. The existing laws shall govern
trials and appeals in said Courts at said Fall Terms.
$297.-0rders made alt of Gout, how vacated or modliled.
An order, made out of court, without notice to the adverse
party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the
Judge who made it, or may be vacated or rhodified on notice,
in the manner in which other motions are made.
$298--Existing salts-who may appeal.
Any party aggrievedmay appeal in the cases prescribed in
this title; this section shall apply to existing ~nits.
9209--Appeal-ln what cases It may be taken.
An appeal may be taken from every judiciel order or
determination of a Judge oi' a Superior Court, upon or
involving a matter of law or legal inference, whether made
in or out of term, which affects a substantial- right claimed in
any action or proceeding; or wl1ie_h_in effect determines the
action, and prevents a judgment from which an appeal
might be taken; or discontinues the action, or grants or
refuses a new trial,
8
Diginzed by C008 le
114 THE CODE OF
§800--Wlw1 taken-execntloi lot suspended, when.
The appeal must be taken from a judgment rendered out
oi term, within ten days after notice thereof, and from a
judgment rendered in term, within ten days after its rendi-
tion, but execution shall not be suspended until the giving
by the appellant of the undertakings hereinafter required by
sections 'three hundred and three, to three hundred and
twelve, both inclusive of this Code.
9801,-Appeal to be entered by derk on judgment docket. Case how stated and
. settled;
Within the time prescribed in the preceding section, the
appellant shall cause his appeal to be entered by the clerk on
thejudgment docket, and notice thereof to be given to the
adverse party. He shall cause to be prepared a concise
statement of the case, embodying the instructions of the
Judge as signed by him, if there be any exception thereto,
and the requests of the counsel of the parties for instructions
if there be any exception on account of the granting or withf
holding thereof, and stating separately in articles numbered,
the errors alleged. A copy of this statement shall be
served on the respondent as provided in section eighty,
within five days from the entry of the appeal taken; within
three days after such service, the respondent shall return
the copy with his approval or specific amendments endorsed'
or attached; if the case be approved by the respondent, it
shall be Bled with the clerk as a part of the record; if not
returned with objections within the time prescribed, it shall
be deemed approved; if returned with objections as pre-
scribed, the appellant shall immediately request the Judge
to fix a time and place for settling the case beibre him; and
the Judge shall forthwith notify the attorneys of the parties
to appear before him for that purpose at a certain time and
place, within the. judicial district, which time shall not be
more than twenty days from the receipt of such request;
and at the time and place stated, the Judge shall settle and
sign the case, and deliver a copy to the attorney ol each
party, or if they be not present, file a copy in the oliice of
Diginzed by C008 le
» __
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 115
the .clerk of the court. In settling the case, the written
instructions signed by the Judge, and the written requests
for instructions signed by the counsel, and filed as prescribed
in sections two hundred and thirty-eight and two hundred
and thirty-nine, shall be taken as conclusive as to what
such instructions and requests Were. If a copy of the case
settled, was delivered to the appellant, he shall within Eve
days thereafter, Elo the same with the clerk, and in case he
fail to do so, the respondent may file his copy.
9802.-Clerk w make copy of judgment roll nd send to lilerk or Supremo
\001r¥»
The clerk on receiving a copy of the case settled, as
required in the preceding section, shall make a copy of the
judgment roll and of the case, and within twenty days,
transmit the same, duly certified, to the clerk of the Supreme
Court.
9203.-on appeal, security must be given or depaslt made, unless waived.
. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written
undertaking must be executed on the part of the appellant
by at least two sureties, to the eflbct that the appellant will
pay all costs and damages which may be awarded against
him on the appeal, not exceeding five hundred dollars, or
that sum must be deposited with the clerk with whom the
judgment or order was entered, to abide the event of the
appeal. Such undertaking or deposit may be waived by a
written consent on the part of the respondent.
9204.-End|ng snlts--0n judgment for money, security to stay exeentlen-
New undertaking, on snretles ln Ilrst becoming insolvent.
If the appealbe from a judgment directing the payment
of money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgment,
unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the
appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that, if the
judgment appealed fiom, or any part thereof, be aiiirmed, or
the appeal be dissrnissed, the appellant will pay the amount
directed to be paid by the judgment, or the part of such
Diginzed by C008 le
116 THE CODE OF
amount as to which the judgment shall be aliirmed, if it be
allirmcd only in part, and all damages which shall be
awarded against the appellant upon the appeal. Whenever
it shall be made satisfactorily to appear to the courtthat since
the execution of the undertaking the sureties have become
insolvent, the court may, by rule or order, require the appel-
lant to execute, tile and serve a new undertaking as above;
and in case of neglect to execute such undertaking within
twenty days after the service of a copy of the rule or order
requiring such new undertaking, the appeal may, on motion
to the court, be dismissed with costs. Whenever it shall be
necessary for a party to any action or proceeding to give a
bond or an undertaking, with surety or sureties, he may, in
lieu thereof, deposit with the ollicer or into court, as the
case may require, money to the amount for which such bond
or undertaking is to be given. The court in which such
action or proceeding is pending may direct what disposition
shall be made.of such money, pending the action or pro-
ceeding. In any case where, by this section, the money is
to be deposited with an oflicer, a judge of the court, at
special term, or at chambers, upon the application of either
party, may. before such deposit is made, order it to be
deposited in court instead of with such ofHcer; anda deposit
made, pursuant to such order, shall be of the same effect as
if made with such oliicer.
15805.-Existing suits-lf judgment be to dellver document or personal pros-
perty, It must be deposited, or security be given.
If the jpdgment appealed from direct the assignment or
delivery df documents or personal property, the execution
of the _judgment shall not be stayed by appeal, unless the
things required to be assigned or delivered be brought into
court, or placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as
the court shall appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered
into on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties,
and in such amount as the court, or a Judge thereof,
shall direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the
order ot the appellate court upon the appeal.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 117
§t0¢-Existing slits-lf to execute conveyance, lt must be executed and
de|»os\ted.
If the judgment appealed from direct the execution of a
conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judg-
ment shall not be stayed by the appeal until the instrument
shall have been executed and deposited with the clerk with
whom the judgment is entered, to abide the judgment of the
appellate court.
907.-Existing suits-Security where judgment is to deliver real flvrwerty
or for a sale of mortgaged premises-
If the judgment appealed from direct the sale or delivery
of possession of real property, the execution of the same shall
not be stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on
the part of the appellant, with two sureties, to the effect that,
during the possession of such property by the appellant, he
will not commit, or suffer to be comitted, any waste thereon,
and that if the judgment be affirmed, he will pay the value
of the use and occupation of the property, from the time ot
the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant
to the judgment, not exceeding a sum to be 'fixed by a. Judge
of the court by which judgmet was rendered, and which
shall be speci ed in the undertaking. When the judgment
is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a
deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall also
provide for the payment of such deficiency.
$308.-Existing suits-Stay of proceedings upon security being given.
Whenever an appeal is perfected as provided by sections
three hundred and four, three hundred and five, three hundred
and six, and three hundred and seven, it stays all further
proceedings in the court below upon the judgment appealed
from, or upon the matter embraced therein; but the court
. below may proceed upon any other matter included in the
action and not affected by thejudgment appealed from. And
the court below may, in its discretion, dispense with or limit
the security required by sections three hundred and four
three hundred and Eve, andthree hundred and seven, when the
Diginzed by C008 le
118 THE CODE OF
appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other
person acting in auother's right; and may also limit such
security to an amount not more than fifty thousand dollars, in
the cases mentioned in sections three hundred and five,
three hundred and six, three hundred and seven, where it _
would otherwise, according to those sections, exceed that
sum.
§30!}¢-Exlstlug suits-fndertaklngs may be in one Instrument or several-
The undertakings prescribed by sections three hundred
and four. three hundred and five, three hundred and six, and
three hundred and seven, may be in one instrument or several,
at the option of the appellant; and a copy, including, the
names and residence of the sureties, must be served on the
adverse party, with the notice of appeal, unless a deposit is
made as provided in section three hundred and four, and
notice thereof given.
<,3l0.-Existing suits-Security to be approved and to justify.
An unde1'taking upon an appeal shall be of no effect,
unless it be accompanied by the allidavit of the sureties
that they are each worth double the amount specified
therein. The respondent may, however, except to the sufli-
ciency of the sureties, within ten days after the notice of
the appeal; and unless they or other sureties justify before
the Judge or court below, or as prescribed hy sections one
hundred and sixty-five and one hundred and sixty-six, within
ten days thereafter, the appeal shall be regarded as if no
undertaking had been given. Thejustilication shall be upon
a notice of not less than five dzi\'S.
§\3ll.-Existing snlts--Porlsllable property may be sold notwithstanding appeal'
In the cases not provided for in sections three hundred, and
five, three lrundred and six, three hundred and seven, and .
three hundred and eight, the perfecting of an appeal, by
giving the undertaking mentioned in section three hundred
and tbur, shall stay proceedings in the court below upon
the judgment appealed from, except that whereit directs
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 119
'the sale ot perishable property, the court below may order
fthe ' property to be sold, and the proceeds thereof; to be
deposited or invested, to abide the judgment of the appellate
'0Ol1I'l7;
;§3l2.-Existjlg sldts-Iindonaklng lust be lled.
The undertaking must be tiled with the clerk with whom
the judgment or order appealed from was entered. The
provisions of this chapter as to the security to be given
upon appeals, and as to the stay of proceedings, shall apply
to all appeals taken to the Supreme Court.
-wa.-Exmlng salts-Intermediate orders :Keating the judgment may be
reviewed on the gppenl.
Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review
.any intermediate order. involving the merits and necessarily
affecting the judgment.
814.-Existing suits-Judgment on appeal-Restitution.
Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate
court may reverse, aliirm or modify the judgment or order
appealed from, in`the respect mentioned in the notice of
appeal, and.as to any or all of the parties, and may, if
necesssary or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment
is reversed or modified, the appellate court may make com-
plete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erro-
neous judgment.
The foregoing sections, from section three hundred and
four, to section three hundred and fourten, both inclusive
:shall apply to existing suits.
Diginzed by C008 le
120 THECODEOF
TITLE XIV.
OF THE HISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS, AND GENERAL
PROWSIONS.
_
CHAPTER I.
smmrrncu A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION.
§ ,2l5.-Controversy, how minima without utloh.
Parties to a question in difference, which might be the
subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a
case containing the facts upon which the controversy
depends, and present a submission of the same to any court
which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought.
But it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real,
and the proceeding in good faith, to determine the rights
of the parties. The Judge shall thereupon hear and deter-
mine the case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action
were depending.
§Sl6»-Jldglleni
Judgment shall be entered in the Judgment Docket, as in
other cases, but Without costs for any proceeding prior to
trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the judg-
ment shall constitute the judgment-roll. The costs of the
trial shall be Eve dollars.
8317.-Judgment, how enforced or appwed from,
The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if
it had been rendered in an action, and shall be subject to
appeal in like manner.
Diginzed by C008 le
c1ViL PROCEDURE 121
CHAPTER II.
PROCEEDINGS Acnnsr Jomr nmnrons, HEIRS, mzvlsmzs, LEGATEES,
AND TENANTS HOLDING UNDER A JUDGMENT DEBTOR.
$818.-Parties ut sllloled ll utlol ol jolnt unmet, may be summonei
after judgment.
\Vhen a judgment shall be recovered against one or more
of several persons jointly indebted upon a contract, by pro~
ceeding as provided in section eighty-seven, those who were
not originally summoned to answer the complaint may be
summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by
the judgment, in the same manner as if they had been origi-
nally summoned.
§s1s.-If judgment debtnr die, his rcprueltatlves may be summoned,
In case of the death of the judgment debtor after judg-
ment, the heirs, devisees, or legatees of the judgment debtor,
or the tenants of realproperty owned by him and affected
by the judgment, may, after the expiration of three years,
from the time of granting letters testamentary or of admin-
istration upon the estate of the testator or intestate, be
summoned to show cause why the judgment should not be
enforced against the estate of the judgment debtor in their
hands respectively; and the personal representatives of a
deceased judgment debtor may be so summoned at any time
Within one year after their appointment. The personal
representative of a deceased judgment debtor, if there be
any, shall always be parties to any summons against his
heirs, devisees, legatees or tenants, to enforce the judgment.
§320.-Form of summons.
The summons provided in the last section shall be signed
by the clerk of any court in which the judgment was dock-
eted before the death of the debtor, and in which he had
propertv affected thereby, but shall be made returnable to
the court in which the judgment was recovered; it shall
Diginzed by C008 le
122 THE CODE OF
describe the judgment, and require the person summoned to
show cause within twenty days after the service of the sum-
mons; and shall be served in like manner as the original 4
summons.
§82l.-To be accompanied by allldavlt of mont due.
The summons shall be accompanied by an alliclavit of the
person causing it to issue, that the judgment has not been
satisfied, to his knowledge or information and belief, and
shall specify the amount due thereon.
§s22.-Pmy summoned may answer and defend.
Upon such summons any party summoned may answer
within the time specified therein, denying the judgment; or
setting up any defence thereto which may have arisen sub-
sequently to such judgment; and in addition thereto, if the
party be proceeded against according to section three hun-
dred and eighteen, he maymake any defence which he might
have made to the action if the summons had been .served on
him at the time when the same was originally commenced
and such defence had been then interposed to such action.
§323.-Subsequent pleadings and proceedings same as In action.
The party issuing the summons may demur or reply to
the answer, and the party summoned may demur to the
reply; and the issues may be tried and judgment may be
given in the same manner as'in an action, and enl0rced by
execution, or the application of the property charged to the
payment of the judgment may be compelled by attachment,
if necessary.
§324.-Answer and reply to be venom as in an action.
The answer and reply shall be verified in the like cases
and manner, and be subject to the same rules, as the answer
and reply in an action.
Diginzed by C008 le
rum !
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 123
l
CHAPTER III.
OONFESSION OF JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.
§S25.-J1dgment may be confessed for debt due or contingent lnumy.
A judgment by confession may be entered, without action,
either in or out of term, either for money due or to become
due, or to secure any person against contingent liability on
behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed
by this chapter.
\§326.-Stawment ln writing and form thereof-
A statement in writing must be made, signed by the
defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect:
1. It must state the amount for which judgment may be
entered, and authorize the entry ofjudgment therefor. .
2. It it be for money due, or to become due, it must state
concisely the facts out ot which it arose, and must show
that the sum confessed therefor, is justly due, or to become
due.
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against
a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts con-
stituting the liability, and must show that the sum confessed
therefor does not exceed the same.
§327.-Judgment and executlcn.
The statement may be filed with the clerk of the Superior
Court of the county in. which the defendant resides, or if
he does not reside in the State, of some county in which he
has property. The clerk shall endorse upon it, and enter
on his judgment docket, a judgment of the court, for the
amount confessed, with three dollars costs, togcjheifwith
disbursements. The statement and aiiidavit, with thejudg-
ment endorsed, shall thenceforth become the judgment-roll. •
Executions may be issued and enforced thereon, in .the same
manner as upon judgments in other cases in such courts.
\Vhen the debt for which the judgment is recovered, is not
Diginzed by C008 le
124 THE CODE OF
all due, or is payable in installments, and the installments
are not all due, the execution may issue upon such judg-
ment for the collection of such installments as have become
due, and shall be in the usual form, but shall have endorsed
thereon, by the attorney or person issuing the same, a direc-
tion to the sheriil' to collect the amount due on such judg~
ment, with interest and costs, which amount shall be stated,
with interest thereon, and the costs of said judgment. Not»
withstanding the issue and collection of s11ch execution,
the judgment shall remain as security for the installments
thereafter to become due; and whenever any further install-
ments become due execution may, in like manner, be issued
for the collection and enforcement of the same.
CHAPTER IV.
OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT TO compuomsm THE wnoI.E OR A PART or
THE ACTION.
§328.-0I'er of compromise.
The defendant may, at any time before the trial or verdict,
serve upon the plaiiitiff an offer in writing to allow judg-
ment to be taken against him for the sum or property, or to
the effect therein specified, with costs. If' the plaintiff
accept the offer, and give notice thereof in writing within
ten days, he may file the summons, complaint, and offer,
with an afndavit of notice of acceptance, and the clerk must
thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the notice of
acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed With-
drawn, and cannot be given in evidence; and if the plaintiff
fail to obtain a more favorable judgment he cannot recover
costs, but must pay the defcndant's costs from the time of
the offer; and in case the defendant shall set up a counter-
claim in his answer to an amount greater than the plaintiH"s
claim, or suficient to reduce the plaintiH's recovery below
fifty dollars, then the plaintiff may serve upon the defendant.
Diginzed by (2009 le -u
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 125
an offer in writing, to allowjudgment to be taken against him.
tor the amount specified, or to allow said counter-claim to
the amount specified with costa lf the defendant accept
the olfer, and give notice thereof in writing within ten days,
he may enter judgment as above for the amount specified, if
the offer entitle him to judgment, or the amount specified
in said olfer shall be allowed him in the trial of the action.
If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be
deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence; and
if the defendant fail to recover a more favorable judgment,
or to establish his counter-claim for a greater amount than
is specihed in said offer, he cannot recover costs, but must
pay the plaintiffs costs from the time of the offer.
5329.-Defendant may Mer to liquidate damages eonditlolnlly.
In an action arising on contract, the defendant may, with
his answer, serve upon the plaintitf an offer in Writing, that
if he ihil in his defence, the damages be assessed at a speci-
fied sum; and if the plaintili signify his acceptance thereof
in writing, twenty days before the trial, and on the trial have
a verdict, the damages shall be assessed accordingly.
5330.-Ellect of acceptance or refusal of oifer.
If the plaintilf do not accept the offer, he shall prove his
damages, as if it had not been made, and shall not be per-
mitted to give it in evidence. And if the damages assessed
in his favor shall not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer,
the defendant shall recover his expenses incurred in conse-
quence of any necessary preparation or defence in respect
to the question of damages. Such expense shall be ascer-
tained at the trial.
Diginzed by C008 le
126 THE CODE OF
CHAPTER V.
ADIISSION OB INSPECTION OF WRITIXAES.
§88l.-Exlstlng snlts. Inspection and copy of books, papers, and doenlents,
low abtallel.
Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his attorney
at any time before the trial, any paper material to the action,
and request an admission in writing of its genuineness. If
the adverse party, or his attorney, fail to give the admission,
within four days after the request, and if the party exhibit-
ing the paper be afterwards put to expense in order to prove
its genuineness, and the same be finally proved or admitted
on the trial, such expense to be ascertained ut the trial,
shall be paid by the party refusing the admission, unless it
appear to the satisfaction of the court that there were good
reasons for the refusal. The court before which an action
is pending, or a Judge thereof, may, in their discretion, and
upon due notice, order either party to give to the other,
within a specified time, an inspection and copy,or permis-
sion to take a copy, of any books, papers, and documents,
in his possession or under his control, containing evidence
relating to the merits of the action or the defence therein.
If compliance with the order be refused, the court, on motion,
may exclude the paper from being given in evidence, or
punish the party refusing, or both. This section shall apply
to existing suits.
CHAPTER VI.
EXAMINATION OF PARTIES.
§t32°-Actlon far dlswvery aballshed.
No action to obtain discovery under oath, in aid of the
prosecution or defenceof another action, shall be allowed,
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 127
nor shall any exomination of a party be had, on behalf of
the adverse party, except in the manner* prescribed by this
ehapter.
§888.-Exlstlhg MA A pany may examine his adversary as a witness-
A party to an action may be examined as a witness, at the
instance of the adverse party, or ofany one ofseveral adverse
parties, and for that purpose may be compelled, in the same
manner, and subject to the same rules of examination, as any
other witness, to testify, either at the trial, or conditionally,
or upon commission.
§m.-nxmng salts-S1ch enmlntlol :ln allowed befare trlal-~Pm¢eed~
lm therefor.
The examination, instead of being had at the trial, as
provided in the last section, may be had at any time before
the trial, at the option of the party claiming it, before a
Judge or clerk of the court, on a previous notice to the
party to be examined, and any other adverse party, of at
least five days, unless, for good cause shown, the Judge order
otherwise. But the party to be examined shall not be com-
pelled to attend in another county than that of his residence,
or where he may be served with a summons for his
attendance.
§885.-Existing salts-Party, MW compelled to attend.
The party to be examined, as in the last section provided,
may be compelled to attend in the same manner as a witness
who is to be examined conditionally; and the examination
shall be taken and Bled by the Judge or clerk in like manner,
and may be read by either party on the trial.
§S86.-Existing salts-Testimony of party lay be rebltted.
The examination of the party thus taken, may be rebutted
by adverse téstimony.
Diginzed by C008 le
129 THE CODE OF
5:37.-ExIm1; slits-Elect of refusal to testify.
If a party refuse to attend and testify, as in the last four
sections provided, he may be punished as for a contempt, and
his complaint, answer, or reply may be stricken out.
§838.-Existing suits-Testimony by a pmy not responsive to the lnqnlrles,
may be rebutted by the oath of the party calling him.
A party examined by an adverse party, as in this chapter
provided, may be examined on his own behalf, subject to the
same rules of examination as other witnesses. But if he
testify to any new matter, not responsive to the inquiries
put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to explain or
qualify his answers thereto, or discharge when his answers
would charge himself, such adverse party may olfer himself
as a witness on his own behalf in respect to such new matter,
subject to the same rules of examination as other witnesses,
and shall be so received.
§839.-Existing salts-Persons for whom aetlen ls brought or defended may
be examined.
A person for whose immediate benefit the action is pros-
ecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may
be examined as a witness, in the same manner, and subject
to the same rules of examination, as if he were named as a
party.
6340.-Ex1stlng salts-Examination of e0-plalntllf or eo-dofendnt.
A party may be examined on behalf of his co-plaintiif or
of a co-defendant as to any matter in which he is not jointly
interested Or liable with such co-plaintiif or co-defendant,
and as to which a separate and not joint verdict or judgment
can be rendered. And he may be compelled to attend in
the same manner as at the instance of an adverse party;
but the examination thus taken shall not be used in the
behalf of the party examined. And whenever, in the case
mentioned in sections three hundred and ninety and three
hundred and ninety-one, one of several plaintiifs or defen-
dants who are joint contractors; or are united in interest, is
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 129
examined by the adverse party, the other of such plaintiffs
or defendants may offer himself asa Witness to the same
cause of action or defence, and shall be so received.
§84l--Husband and wife, witnesses.
In any trial or inquiry in any suit, action or proceeding in
any court, or before any person having, by law or consent
of parties, authority to examine witnesses or hear evidence,
the husband or Wife of any party thereto, or of any person
in whose behalf any such suit, action or' proceeding is
brought, prosecuted, opposed or defended, shall, except as
hereinafter stated, be competent and compellable to give
evidence, the same as any other Witness, on behalf of any
party to such suit, action or proceeding. Nothing herein
contained shall render any husband or wife competent or
compellable to give evidence for or against the other, in any
criminal action or proceeding (except to prove the fact of
marriage in case of bigamy,) or in any action or proceeding
in consequence of adultery, or in any action or proceeding
for divorce on account of adultery (except to prove the fact
of marriage,) or in any action or proceeding for or on account
of criminal conversation. No husband or wife shall be com-
pellable to disclose any conidential communication made by
one to the other during their marriage. The several sections. \
of this chapter shall apply to existing suits.
CH APTER VII.
EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES.
9342.-Existing suits-Interest not to exclude a wltness.
No person°offered as a witness shall be excluded by reason
of his interest in the event of the action.
§343.-Existing suits-Parties to actions and special proceedings may be ex-
amined as witnesses on mm own behalf, except ln certain cases.
A party to an action or special proceeding in any and all
courts and before any and all officers and persons acting
9
Diginzed by C008 le
130 THE CODE OF
judicially, may be examined as a witness on his own behal£
or in behalf of any other party, conditionally, on commission
and upon the trial or hearing in the case, in the same
manner and subject to the same rules of examination as any
other witness; provided, however, that no party to the action
or proceeding, nor any person who has a legal or equitable
interest which may be allected by the event of the action or
proceeding, nor any person who, previous to such examina-
tion, has had such an interest, however the same may have
been transferred to or come to the party to the action or
proceeding, nor any assiguor of anything in controversy in
the action, shall be examined in regard to any transaction
or communication between such witness and aperson at the
time of such examination deceased, insane or lunatic, as a.
witness against a party then prosecuting or defending the
action as executor, administrator, heir-at-law, next-oflkin
assignee, legatee, devisee, or survivor of such deceased
person, or as assignee or committee of such insane person or
lunatic, when such examination or any judgment or deter-
mination in such action or proceeding, can in any manner
affect the interest of such witness or the interest previously
owned or represented by him. But when such executor,
administrator, heir-at~law, next-oflkin, assignee, legatee,
devisee, survivor or committee, shall be examined on his own
behalf in regard to such transaction or communication or
the testimony of such deceased or insane person or lun.atic
in regard to such transaction or communication (however
the same may have been perpetuated or made competent,)
shall be given in evidence on the trial or hearing on behalf
of such executor, administrator, heir-at-law, next-ot-kin,
assignee, legatee, devisee, survivor or committee, then all
other persons not otherwise rendered incomptent shall be
made competent witnesses in relation to such transaction or
communication on said trial or hearing. The sections of
this chapter shall apply to existing suifs.
L
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 131
CHAPTER VIII.
MOTIONS AND ORDERS.
§844._-Dellnltlon of an order.
Every direction of a court. or Judge, made or entered in
writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an
order.
§3l5.-Dehnltlon of \ motion. Motions how nd When made. Stay af pro-
ceedings. C01p0dn8 parties to testify. Declslnn on notion-
1. An application for an order is a motion.
2. Motions may be made to the Clerk of a Superior Court,
or to a Judge out of court, except for a new trial on the
merits.
3. Motions must be made within the district in which the
action is triable.
4. A motion to vacate or modify a provisional remedy,
and an appeal from an order allowing a provisional remedy,
shall have preference over all other motions.
5. No order to stay proceedings for a longer time than
twenty days shall be granted by a Judge out of court, except
upon previous notice to the adverse party.
6. When any party intends to make or oppose a motion
in any court of record, and it shall be necessary for him to
have the aiiidavit of any person who shall have refused to
make the same, such court may, by order, appoint a referee
to take the afiidavit or deposition of such person. Such
person may .be subpoenaed and compelled to attend and
make an afhdavit before such referee, the same as before a
referee to whom it is referred to try an issue. And the fees
of such referee for such service shall be three dollars per
day.
7. Whenever a motion shall be made in any cause or pro-
ceeding in any of the courts of this State, to obtain an
injunction order, order of arrest, or Warrant of attachment,
granted in any such case or proceeding_,_it shall be the duty
Diginzed by C008 le
132 I`HE CODE OF
of the Judge before whom such action motion is made,'to
render and make known his decision on such motion within
ten days after the day upon which such motion shall or may
be submitted to him for decision.
§346.-Notice on motion.
When a notice of a motiorris necessary, it must be served
eight days beibre the time appointed ibr the hearing; but
the court or Judge may, by an order to sh.ow cause, prescribe
a shorter time.
CHA PTER IX.
ENTITLING AFF1nA\f11's.
43847.-Existing suits. Aflldavlts defeetlvely entitled, valid.
It shall not be necessary, to entitle an aliidavit in the
action, but an aliidavit made without a title, or with a defec-
tive title, shall be as valid and effectual, for every. purpose,
as if it were duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to the action
or proceeding in which it is made.
CHAPTER X.
COMPUTATION OF TIME.
9848.-Time, how computed.
The time within which an act is to be done, as herein~
provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day, and
including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall be
excluded.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 133
CHAPTER XI.
NOTICES AND FILING AND SERVICE, OF PAPERS.
§349»-Exlstlng suits-Notices, tc., how served¥Subpaenas for witnesses.
Notices shall be in writing; notices and other papers may
be served on the party or his attorney personally, or in the
manner prescribed in section eighty, where not otherwise
provided in this act.
1. If upon an attorney, service may be made during his
absence from his oiiice, by leaving the paper with his clerk
therein, or with a person having charge thereof; or, when
there is no person inthe oihce, byleaving it, between the
hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a
conspicuous place in the olflce; or, if it be not open so as to
admit ofsuch service, then by leaving it at the attorney's
residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper
at his residence, between the hours of six in the morning
and nine in the evening, with some person of suitable age
and discretion.
3. Service of a subpoena for witnesses may be made by a
sherill, coroner or constable, and proved by the return of
such oliicer; or the service may be made by any person not
a party to the action, and proved by his oath.
A subpoena for witnesses need not be signed by the clerk
of the court, it shall be suliicient if subscribed by the party
or his attorney.
§850.-Existing suits-Service by mall.
Service by mail may be made where the person making
the service and the person on whom it is to be made reside
in different places, between which there is regular com-
munication by mail. But service by mail shall not be good
on any party living more than one mile from the post office
to which it is addressed.
Diginzed by C008 le
c
14 THE CODE OF
§ssI.-1ama18 suits-Service iy lull.
In case of service by mail, the paper must be deposited in
the post office, addressed to the person on whom it is to be
served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid.
$852.-Existing salts-Double time when served by lall-
Where the service is by mail, it shall be double the time
required fora letter to reach the party to whom it is addressed
by the ordinary usage of the mail.
§858.-Existing nits--When. this chapter me not apply.
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
service of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to
bring a party into contempt. The several sections of this
chapter shall apply to existing suits.
CHAPTER XII.
DUTIES OF snsnlrrs AND CORONERS.
954-D1ty of sherll and coroner In serving or executing- process, and how
enforced-lay return process by lull-
Whenever, pursuant to this act, the sheriff may be required
to serve or execute any summons, order or judgment, or to
do any other act, he shall be bound to do so in like manner
as upon process issued to him, and shall be equally liable in
all respects for neglect of duty; and if the sheriff be a party,
the coroner shall be bound to perform the service, as he is
now bound to execute process Where the sheriff is e party;
and all the provisions of this act relating to sheriifs shall
apply to coroners when the sheriff' is a party. Sheriffs and
coroners may return process by mail. Their liabilities in
respect tothe execution of process shall be as now prescribed
by law.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 135
CHAPTER XIII.
ACCOUNTABILITY OF GUARDIANS.
§355-- Guardian not to receive property untll security given.
No guardian appointed for an infant shall be permitted
to receive property of the infant, until he shall have given
sufficient security, approved by a Judge, or the court to
account for and apply the same under the direction of the
court.
CHAPTER XIV.
POWERS OF nnrnlmns.
§856.-Powers of refenes.
Every referee appointed pursuant to this act shall have
power to administer oaths in any proceeding before him,
and shall have generally the powers now vested in a, referee
by law.
CHAPTER XV.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
§357.-Papers lost or withheld, how supplied.
If an original pleading or paper be lost or wlthheld by
any person, the court may authorizea copy thereof to be
filed and used instead of the original.
§858.--Where undertakings to be tiled.
The various undertakings required to be given by this
Act must be filed with the clerk of the court, unless the
Diginzed by C008 le
136 THE C0DB OF
court expressly provides for a dilferent disposition thereof;
except that the undertakings provided tor by the chapter
on the claim and delivery of personal property, shall, after
the justiication of the sureties, be delivered by the sheriff
to the parties respectively, for whose bene5t they are taken.
§$59»-'l'l||e far publication of ntlees, how computed.
The time for publication of legal notices shall be compu-
puted so as to exclude the 'first day of publication and include
the day on which the act or event, of which notice is given,
is to happen, or which completes the full period required for
publication.
§880,-Laws afether States and governments, how proved.
Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code, or other writ-
ten law, enacted by any other State or territory, or foreign
government, purporting or proved to have been published
by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admit-
ted as evidence of the existing law in the courts and iudi-
cial tribunals of such State, Territory, or government, shall
be admitted by the courts and officers of this State, on all
occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. The
unwritten or common law of any State or Territory, or for-
eign government, may be proved as facts by parol evidence;
and the books of reports ot cases adjudged in their courts,
may;also be ad mitted as presumptive evidence of such law.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PRUCEDURE. 137
TIT.LE XV •
ACTIONS IN' PARTICULAR CASES.
(Jhapter I. Actions against foreign corporations.
" II. Actions In place of sclre faclas, quo warnnto, and of Inform moms
In the nntnre ol' a quo warranto.
" III. Actions for the partition of real property;
" lv. Actions to determine elalms, for waste amd nnlsnnee.
" v- (leneral provisions relating to actions concerning real property.
CHAPTER I.
ACTIONS FOR FQREIGN conronnloss.
$381.-Where and by whom brought.
An action against a corporation created by, or under the
laws Of any other State, government, or country, may be
brought in the Superior Court of any county in which the
cause of action arose, or in which it usually did business, or
inwhich it has property, in the following cases:
1. By a .resident of this State, for anycause of action:
2. By a plaintiii, not a resident of this State, when the
cause of action shall have risen, or the subject of the action
shall be situated, within this State.
CHAPTER II.
ACTIONS is PLACE OF SCIRE FACIAS, QUO WARRANTO, AND OF INFOR-
MATIONS IN THE NATURE OF QUO WARRANTO.
$862.-Selre faclas and quo warranto abolished, and thls chapter substituted.
The writ of scire faeias, the Writ of quo warranto, and
proceedings by information in the nature of quo warranlo,
are abolishedyand the remedies heretofore obtainable in
Diginzed by C008 le
138 THE CODE OF
those forms may be obtained by civil actions under the pro-
visions of this chapter. 'But any proceedings heretofore
commenced, or judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall
not be aifected by such abolition.
§363--Action maybe brought by' Altalley-(Zcunl to vacate a ehaner, by
dlmtlon of the Legislature.
Au action may be brought by the Attorney-General, in the
name of the State, whenever the Legislature shall so direct,
against a corporation, for the purpose of vacating or annull-
ing the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its corporate
existence, on the ground that such act or renewal was pro-
cured upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a
material fact, by the person incorporated, or by some of
them, or with their knowledge and consent.
$364.-Artlon to annul a corporation, when and how bronght ig Attorney-
General, by leave of Qnprelne Court.
An action may be brought by the Attorney-General, in the
name of the State, on leave granted by the Supreme Court
or a Judge thereo£ for the purpose of vacating the charter
or annulling the existence oi a corporation, other than muni-
cipal, whenever such corporation shall-
1. Oflend against any of the provisions of the act or acts
creating, altering, or renewing such corporation; or,
2. Violate the provisions of any law by which such cor-
\ poration shall have forfeited its'charter by abuse of its pow-
ers; or,
3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or fran-
chises by failure to exercise its powers; or,
4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act which
amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges and
franchises; or,
5. \Vhenever it shall exercise a franchise or privilege not
conferred upon it by law.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 139
And it shall be the duty of the Attorney-General, when-
ever he shd1 have reason to believe that any of these acts
or omissions can be established by proof; to apply for leave,
and upon leave granted to bring the action, in every case
of public interest, and also in every other case in which sat-
isfactory security shall be given to indemnify the State
against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby.
$865.-Leave how obtained.
Leave to bring the action may be granted upon the appli~
cation of the Attorney-General; and the court or Judge
may at discretion, direct notice of such application to.be
given to the corporationor its oflicers, previous to granting-
such leave, and may lfear the corporation in opposition
thereto.
§208.-Attion upon Information or mmplalnt, of course.
An action may be brought by the Attorney-General in the
name of thepeople of this State, upon his own information,
or upon the complaint of any private party, against the
parties offending in the following cases:
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlaw-
fully hold or exercise any public office, civil or military, or
any franchise within this State, of any oliice in a corporation
created by the authority of this State, or,
. 2. When any public oliicer, civil or military, shall have
done or suffered an act which, by the provisions of law,
shall make a forfeiture of his office; or
3. When any association or number of persons shall act
within this State as a corporation, without being duly incorl
porated.
$367.-Action when and how brought to vame leturs patent.
An action may be brought by the Attorney-General, in
the name of the State, for the purpose of vacating or aunull-
ing letters patent granted by the State, in the following
cases:
Diginzed by C008 le
140 THE CODE OF
1. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters
patent were obtained by means of some fraudulent sugges-
tion or concealment of a material fact, made by the person
to whom the same were issued or made, or with his consent
'or knowledge; or .
2. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters
patent were issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a
material fact; or
3. When he shall have reason to believe that the patentee,
or those claiming under him, have done or omitted an act,
in violation of the terms and conditions on which the letters
patent were granted, or have by any other means forfeited
the interest acquired under the same.
§868.-Relator, when to be jolned as plalntlm
When an action shall be brought by the Attorney-General,
by virtue of this chapter, on the relation or information of a
person having an interest in the question, the name of such
person shall be joined with the State as plaintiff and in
every such case the Attorney-General may require as a con-
dition for bringing such action, that satisfactory security
shall be given to indemnify the State against the costs and
.expenses to be incurred thereby; and in every case where
#such security is given, the measure of the compensation to
be paid by such person or persons to the Attorney-General,
shall . be left to the agreement of the .partles express or
implied.
$309--Complalnt, and arrest nf defendant, In aetlon for nsurplng an olllee.
Whenever such action shall be brought against a person
for usurping an office, the Attorney-General, in addition to
the statement of the cause of action, may also set forth in
the complaint the name of the person rightfully entitled to
the crllice, with a statement of his right thereto; and in such
case, upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has received
fees or emoluments belonging to the office, andby means of
his usurpation thereof; an order may be granted by a Judge
of the Supreme Court for the an°est of such defendant, and
Diginzed by C008 le
-'Il -_. 4
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 141
holding him to bail; and thereupon he shall be arrested and
held to bail, in the manner, and with the same elfect, and
subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in other civil
actions where the defendant is subject to arrest.
§370.-Judgment In such actions.
In every such case, judgment shall be rendered upon the
right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party .
so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defen-
dant, as justice shall require.
§$7|.-Assumption of omce, he., by relatar, when judgment ls In hls favor.
If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person
so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such
person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of ofHce,
and executing such official bond, as may be required by law,
to take upon himself the execution of the oflice; and it shall
be his duty, immediately thereafter to demand of the defen-
dant in the action all the books and papers in his custody,
or within his power, belonging to the oflice fiom which he
shall have been excluded.
9372.-Pmceedlngs against defendant, on refusal to deliver books or papers.
If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver over
such books dr papers, pursuant to the demand, he shall be
deemed guilty of an misdemeanor, and the same proceedings
shall be had, and with the same effect, to compel delivery
of such books and papers, as are prescribed by law.
9 1873.-Damages, how reoovered.
Ifjudgment be rendered, upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, in ihvor of such person, he' may
recover, by action, the damages which he shall have sus-
tained by reason of the usurpation by the defendant of the
office from which such defendant has been excluded.
Diginzed by C008 le
142 THE CODE OF
9374.-0ne action against several persons claiming ollleo ur franchise.
Where several persons claim to be entitled to the same
oliice or franchise, one action may be brought against all
such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such
ofHce or franchise.
4375.-Penalty for l5urplng omce or franchise, how awarded.
When a defendant, whethe1° a natural person or a corpo-
ration, against whom such action shall have been brought,
shall be judged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or
unlawfully holding or exercising any office, franchise, or
privilege, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant
be excluded from such office, franchise, or privilege, and
also that the plaintiff recover costs against such defendant.
'l`he court fnay also, in its discretion, Hue such defendant a
sum.not exceeding two thousand dollars, which fine, when
collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the State.
976.-Judgment of forfolture against a nrpontlon.
It it shall be adjudged that a. corporation against which
an action shall have been brought pursuant to this chapter,
has, by neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate
rights, privileges, and franchises, judment shall be ren-
dered that the corporation be excluded irom such corporate
rights, privileges, and franchises, and that the corporation
be dissolved.
§871.-Costs against corporatlon, or persons claiming to be such, how collected. •
Ifjudgment be rendered in such action against a corpo-
ration, or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the
court may cause the costs therein to be collected by execu-
tion against the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by
attachmrmt or process against the directors or other oflicers
of such corporation.
9378.--llestnlnlng eorparatlon, and appointment of reeelver.
When such judgment shall be rendered against a corpo-
rati0n, the ~court shall have the power to restrain the cor-
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 143
poration, to appoint a receiver of its property, and to take
an account, and make a distribution thereof among its cred-
itors; and it shall be the duty of the Attorney-General,
immediately after the rendition of suéh judgment, to insti-
tute proceedings for that purpose.
5379.-Gopy ofjudgmént-rull agnlmst corporation, where tu be Bled.
Upon the rendition of such judgment against a corpora-
tion, or for the vacating or annulliug of letters patent, it
shall be the duty of the Attorney General to cause a copy of
theiudgment-roll to be forthwith Bled in the oflice of the
Secretary of State.
$380.-Entry ofjndgment relating to letters patent.
Such secretary shall thereupon, if the ~record relates to
letters patent, make'an entry in the records of the commis-
sioners of the land 0mce, of the substance and eEect of such
judgment, and of the time when the record thereof was
docketed; and the real property granted by such letters
patent may thereafter be disposed of by such commissionem
in the same manner as it such letters patent had never been
Q issued.
9881.-4Aetlous for farfelture of property to the State.
Whenever, by the provisions oflaw, any property, real or
personal, shall be forfeited to the State, or to any officer for
their use, an action for the recovery of such property, 1
' alleging the grounds of the forfeiture, may be brought by
the proper officer, in any Superior Court of the State.
CHAPTER III.
ACTION FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY, &C.
§38E.-ProvBilms of the Revised (Mule applicable to actions of partition.
The provisions of the Revised Code relating to the parti-
tion of lands, tenements, and hereditaments, held or pos-
sessed, by joint tenants or tenants in common, for the recov-
Diginzed by C008 le
144 THE CODE OF
ery of widow's year provisions, of dower, for the recovery of
the possession of real property, of habeas corpus and manda-
mus, shall apply to actions for such purposes brought under
this act, so ihr as the same can be so applied to the sub-
stance and subject-matter of' the action, without regard to
its form.
CHAPTER IV.
ACTIONS FOR WASTE AND NUISANCE.
§383.-Actions of waste aibnllshed_ Waste how remedlable.
Theaction of waste is abolished; but any proceeding
heretofore commenced, or judgment rendered, or right
acquired, shall not be affected thereby. \Vrongs heretofore
remecliable by action of waste, are subjects of action as other
wrongs, in which action there may be judgment fcrdam-
ages, tbr feiture of theestate, of the party offending, and evic-
.tion from the premises.
6384.-Pr0\'|sl0ns of Revised Code applicable to action for waste under this act.
• The provisions of the Revised Code relating to the action
ofwaste shall apply to an action for waste brought under _
this act, without regard to the form of the action, so far as
the same can be so applied.
§385.-When judgment of forfeiture and evlctlon to be given.
Judgment of torteiture and eviction shall only be given
in favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the
tenant in possession, when the injury to the estate in rever-
sion shall be adjudged in the action to be equal to the. value
of the tenant's estate or unexpired term, or to have been
done in malice.
Diginzed by le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 145
9386.-Wrlt of nllsanco abollshed.
The writ of nuisance is abolished; but any proceeding
heretofore commenced, or any judgment rendered, or right
acquired, shall not be affected thereby.
§387.-Re1edy for Injuries heretofore reledlable by, writ of nulsmee.
Injuries heretofore remediable by writ of nuisance are sub-
_jects of action, as other injuries; and in such action there
may be judgment for damages, or for the removal of the
nuisance, or both.
TITLE XVI.
GENQRAL PROVISIONS.
§388.-Deilultlan of " real property,"
The words " real property," as used in this act, are co-ex-
tensive with lands, tenements and hereditaments.
\338s.--mamma of " personal p1»¢901»¢1,w
The words "personal property," as used in this act, I
include money, goods, chattels, things in action, and evi-
dences of debt.
9890.-De|l1ltlon of " prapony-"
The word "property," as need in thig act, includes pro-
perty real and personal.
em.-nu of construction-
The rule of common law, that statutes in derogation of
that law are to bo striotly construed, has no application to
this act.
J o
Diginzed by C008 le
146 THE CODE OF
9892.-Statutory provisions inconsistent with this act repealed.
All statutory provisions inconsistent with this act_ are
repealed; but this repeal shall not revive a statute or law
which mayhave been repealed or abolished by the provisions
hereby repealed. And all rights of action given or secured
byexisting laws may be prosecuted in the manner provided '
by this act. If a case shall rise in which an action for the
enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or pre-
vention of a wrong, cannot be had under this act, the prac-
tice heretofbre in use may be adopted so far as may be
necessary to prevent a failure of justice.
tm.-Ru1¢5 and practice Inconsistent with this act abrogated.
The present rules and practice of the courts in civil actions,
inconsistent with this act, are abrogated: except where
otherwise expressly provided, but where consistent with
this act, they shall continue in force, subject to the power of
the respective courts to relax, modify, or alter the same.
$394.-Judges of Supreme Court shall make rules of practlre.
' The Judges of the Supreme Courtof the State, shall make
fiom time to time, rules for the practice of that Court, and
also rules for the practice and procedure of the Superior.
Courts, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.
§395.-Judges of the Superior Court to suggest rules.
Every Judge of a Superior Court, at least once in two
years, shall send to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court,
any suggestions which he may think fit, respecting the
practice and procedure of the Courts, and respecting any
other changes in the law which may seem likely to be
useful.
<3s91._If Judge of a Superlor Court not present, Court to be adjourned, when.
It the Judge of a Superior Court shall not be present to
hold any term of a court, at the time fixed therefor; it shall
be the duty of the sheriff; to .adjourn the court from day to
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 147
day, until the fourth day of the term inclusive, unless he
shall be sooner informed that the Judge, trorn any cause,
cannot hold the term; if by sunset on the fourth day the
Judge shall not appear to hold the term, or if the sheriff
shall be sooner advised that the Judge cannot hold the term,
it shall then be the duty ot the sheriff to adjourn the court
until the next term.
§$97.-lf trial far felony lu progress at expiration of 1 url, term to be pro-
longed.
In case the term of a. court shall expire' while a trial for
felony, or for any offence punishable by imprisonment in a
penitentiary, or by any greater punishment, shall be in pro-
gress, and before judgment shall be given therein, the Judge
shall continue the term as_long as in his opinion it shall be
necessary for the purposes of the case.
$398.-Pleadlngs, lic.,-H0w written.
Every process, pleading, report, order, judgment and other
proceeding required to be in writing, and all copies of
records, shallbe written ou paper of the width of foolscap or
of legal cap; a. margin of from three-fburths of an inch to an
inch wide, shall be left on the left-hand side of each page;
if the sheet be written on both sides, it shall be so written,
that when several sheets ure attached at their tops, they
may be read consecutively, without reversing the manu-
script.
$309.-Judges of Superior Canrts to Issue wrlts of habeas corpus.
Judges of the Superior Courts shall have all the powers
and be subject to all the duties ill respect to issuing, hearing,
and adjudicatiug ou, writs of habews ccrpus, as wele given
or imposed by law, on the Judges of the late Superior
Courts of law of this State.
Diginzed by C008 le
148 THE CODE OF
TITLE XVII.
REGULATIONS RESPECTING Exlsrma SUITS.
§400--Clerk of Superior Court to transfer exlstlng slits, in which no Ilnsl
judgment.
The Clerks of the Superior Courts, at the request of a
party thereto, within six months from the ratification of this
act, and on the payment of a fee of one dollar, shall enter
on a separate docket, all suits which, at 'the ratification
aforesaid, shall have been commenced and in which final
judgment has not been rendered in the late County Courts,
Superior Courts of Law, and Courts of Equity of their respec-
tive counties.
9401.-sum not transferred m abate.
And every suit not so transferred within the time afore-
said shall be abated, and the Clerk of the Superior Court
shall tax the costs against the parties liable, and oollect the
same by the proper process.
§402._Ir transferred, how proceeded wlth.
The said suits shall be proceeded in and tried, under the
existing laws and rules applicable thereto. Alter Enal judg-
ment shall be rendered therein, the clerk shall enter such
judgment on the execution docket required to he kept by
him, and the subsequent proceedings shall be as provided
for actions hereafter to be commenced.
§403.--Existing judgments not dormant may be transferred.
Existing judgments and decrees not dormant, may in like
manner be entered on the execution docket, and the subse-
quent proceedings shall be as is prescribed for actions here- _
after to be commenced, as lin* as shall be compatible with
the previous proceedings; and no lien acquired before the
ratification aforesaid shall be lost by any change of process,
occasioned by this act.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL I3RocEDURm 149
§40|.-Donut judgments, haw revived.
Judgments or decrees which are dormant at the ratiiicaf
tion aforesaid, may be revived or enforced in the manner
herein provided.
$405.-Actions ta recover debts embneed ln Stay-Law.
In all actions, hereafter commenced, founded on such con-
tracts as are provided for in an Ordinance of the Convention
of this State, entitled, ."An Ordinance respecting the juris-
diction of the Courts of the State," ratiiied on the fourteenth
day of March, 1868, the summons shall be made returnable
to the term of the Superior Court therein designated, and
the subsequent proceedings shall be in accordance with the
provisions of said act.
§406.-Executlons levled on personal property.
The late sheriff of any country having in his hands any
scire _facias execution, which has been levied on personal
property of the defendants, which is unsold, shall proceed
to sell the same, as now required by law; he shall pay over
the proceeds, after deducting his fees, and shall also make
return of the writ, to the Clerk of the Superior Court of the
county, to any court of which the writ is returnable, the
proceeds to be .paid by the clerk to the parties entitled
thereto.
§407.-Executlons satisfied.
The said sheriff shall in like manner return all executions
in their hands which are satished, whether by a sale of
property or otherwise, and shall pay over any proceeds
thereofl
Diginzed by C008 le
150 THE CODE OF
§408.-Executlons nat levied at all, or levled on real property.
As soon as the successors of the said late sheriff shall
have qualified and given bonds as required by law, the said
late sheriff shall deliver to said successors, all wrils of
execution in their hands, which have not been satisfied, and
have not been levied on at all, or which have been levied on
property which has been sold and a residue remains unsatis-
fied, or have been levied onreal property which in whole or
in part remains unsold, with a return stating any receipt of
money by them, and their action under the writ. The new
sheriifs shall proceed to act under such writ as if the same
had been addressed and issued to them, and shall make return
thereof to the next term of the Superior Court of the county
to any court of which the writ was returnable. Any new
sheriff failing to make due return of such writs delivered
to him shall forfeit and pay one hundred dollars to any
person grieved thereby, to be recovered on motion to the
court before which the writ is required to be returned.
All proceeds of executions in part only satisfied while in
the hands of any late sherili, shall be paid by him to the
Clerk of the Superior Court of the county to any court of
which the writ was returnable for the use of the parties
entitled thereto under the penalties now provided by law in
case of failure.
\§409.-Execution to be docketed.
The clerk of any Superior Court to which any execution
shall be returned as is above pn-scribed, shall at the request
of any person interested therein, and on the payment of one
dollar, enter such execution on his judgment docket, and
the like process may be thereafter had thereon, as is provided
in similar cases on judgments recovered after the ratiiication
of this act.
Diginzed by C008 le
I-
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 151
25410.-Pemlty on SherM for falling to ntun.
Any late sheriff or other ollicer having executions in his
hands and failing to make due return thereof; and to pay
the proceeds as herein prescribed, shall in each case forfeit
and pay to any person grieved, one hundred dollars, to be
recovered on motion to the Court.
9411.--Judgments not dormant; when,
No judgment shall be held to have become dormant by
reason of any stay of execution thereon, in obedience toany
general or special order, issued by the General lately com-
manding the Military District of which the State of North
Carolina formed a part, and the time during which execu-
tion was so stayed, shall not be counted in determining any
question respecting a judgment being dormant.
$112.-0rdlmnce ot mn March, 1868, not alected.
Nothing in this Act contained shall affect or impair any
right given by an ordinance of the Convention of this State
entitled "An ordinance respecting the jurisdiction of the
Courts of _thin State, ' ratified on the fourteenth day of
March, 1868, in the cases to which it is applicable.
TITLE XVIII.
SUPREME COURT.
94.13.-Jurlsdlctlon ofSnprene Court.
The Supreme Court shall have jurisdiction to review upon
appeal, any decision of the courts below, upon any matter of
law or legal inference; but no issue of fact shall be tried
'before this court; and the court shall have power to issue
Diginzed by C008 le
152 THE CODE OF
any remedial writs necessary to give it a general supervision
and control of the inferior couM. [Constitution, Article IV,
Section 1o.]
§tl4.-Qhses how tnken to the Supremo Colrt.
Cases shall be taken to the Supreme Court by appeal as
provided in Chapter I, of Title XIV of this Code of Civil
Procedure.
9415.-Glalns against the sum.
The Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction to
hear claims against the State, but its decision shall be merely
recommendatory; no process in the" nature of execution
shall issue thereon: they shall be reported to the next
session of the General Assembly for its action. [Constitution,
Article IV, Section 11.]
§4l6.-Hauer ol' Prosecuting claims against Sim.
Any person having any claim against the State may file
his complaint in the oliice of the clerk of the Supreme
Court, setting forth the nature and grounds ofhis claim; he
shall cause a copy of his complaint to be served on the
Governor, and therein request him to appear on behalf of the
State and answer his claim; the copy shall be served at
least twenty days before application for relief shall be made
to the court. In case of an appearance for the State by the
Governor, or any other authorized oHicer, the pleadings and
trial shall be conducted in such manner as the court shall
direct. If an issue of fact shall be joined on the pleadings,
the court shall transfer it to the Superior Court of some
convenient county for trial by a jury, as other issues of fact
are directed to be tried; and the Judge of the court before
whom the trial is had shall certify to the Supreme Court,
at its next term, the verdict, and the case, if any, made up
and settled, as prescribed in section three hundred and one
of the Code of Civil Procedure.
If the State shall not appear in the action by any author-
ized officer, the court may make up issues and send them for
trial as aforesaid. The Supreme Court shall in all cases
.Diginzed by C008 le
-
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 153
report the facts found, and their recommendation thereon,
with the reasons thereof] to the General Assembly at its
next term.
TITLE XIX.
PROBATE COURTS.
Chapter 1. .Iurlsdletlon and powers.
N 11. Probate of deeds.
cc ln. Jurlsdletlon over estates of deceased persons-
(6 lv. Probate of wills.
" v. Letters testanentary.
cc vl. Letters of admlulstratlon with the will annexed.
(4 vu. Letters of admlnlstratlou.
cc vm. Letters of eolleetlon.
cc IX- General provlslons respecting exeeltors, te.
cc x. Guardlau and ward.
H Xl. Aecountlugs by executors, administrators, eolleeto rs and guar-
dlans ; and audltlngs by the Judge of Probate.
cc xn. Masters and appreutlees.
cc xm. Transfer and appeal
64 xlv. What laws repealed and uurepealed_
CHAPTER 1.
JURISDICTION AND POWERS.
MIT.-Judges af Probate.
The Clerks of the Superior Courts are declared Judges of
Probate in their respective counties.
§4l8»-Jurisdiction.
They have jurisdiction:
1. To take proof of deeds, bills of sale, ofHcial bonds,
letters of`attorney, or other instruments permitted or
required by law to be registered;
Diginzed by C008 le
154 THE CODE OF
2. To take proof of wills and grant letters testamentary and
of administration;
3. To revoke letters testamentary and of administration;
4. To appoint and remove guardians of intants, idiots and
lunatics;
5. To bind out apprentices and to. cancel the indentures
in such cases; .
6. To auditthe accounts of executors, administrators. and
guardians; .
7. To exercise jurisdiction conferred on them in every
other case prescribed by law.
\§4l9.-Disqnallllcatlon to act.
No Judge of Probate can act as such in relation to any
estate or proceeding:
1. If he has, or claims to have, an interest by distribution,
by Will, or as creditor, or otherwise;
2. If he is so related to any person, having or claiming
such interest, that he would, by reason of such relationship,
be disqualihed as a juror; but the disqualification on this
ground ceases, unless the objection is made at the first hear-
ing of the matter before him.
3. If he or his wife is a party or a subscribing witness to
any deed of conveyance, testamentary paper or nuncupative
will; but this disquall cation ceases when such deed, testa-
mentary paper, or will has been finally admitted to or
refused probate in another probate court, or before the Judge
of the Superior Court.
4. If he or his wife is named as executor or trustee in
any testamentary or other paper; but this disqualihcation
ceases when the will or other paper is finally (admitted to,
or) refused probate in another probate court, or before the
Judge of the Superior Court;
§420.-Waiver of dlsqlallheatlol.
The parties may waive the disqualification specified in
subdivisions 1, 2 and 5 of the preceeding section, and upon
filing in the oflioesuch waiver in writing, the Judge of
Probate shall act as in other cases.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 155
'()42l.-Removal ni Proceedings.
When any of the disqualiiications specified in section
three exists, and there is no waiver thereof; or cannot be
such Waiver, any party in interest may apply to the Judge
of the district for an order to remove the proceedings to
.the Probate Judge of an adjoining county in the same
district.
§422.--Enumentloa of powers.
Every Judge of Probate has power:
1. To issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of any
witness residing, or being in the State, or the production of
any paper, material to any inquiry pending in his court;
2. To administer oaths and take acknowledgements, when~
ever necessary, in the exercise of the powers and duties of
his oflice;
3. To issue commissions to take the testimony of any wit-
ness without this State;
4. To issue citations and orders to show cause to . parties
in all matters cognizable in his court, and to compel the
appearance of such parties;
5. To enforce all lawful orders and decrees by execution
or otherwise, against those who fail to comply therewith or
to execute lawful process. Process may be issued by the
Probate Judge, to be executed in any county of the State,
and to be returned before him;
6. To exemplify, under the seal of his court, all transcripts
of deeds, papers or proceedings therein, which shall be
received in evidence in all the courts of the State;
7. To preserve order in his court and to punish eontempts;
8. To adjourn any proceeding pending before him from
time to time;
9. To open, vacate, modify, set aside, or enter as of a
former time, decrees or orders of his court, in the same man-
ner as courts of general jurisdiction;
10. To award costs and disbursements as prescribed by law,
to be paid personally, or out of the estate or fund, in any
proceeding before him.
Diginzed by C008 le
156 THE CODE OF
5423.-n0w party may appear.
A party may appearin proceedings in which he is con-
cerned in the Probate Court, eithef in person or by attorney.
9424.-.ma5e of Probane not to ut as atuprney.
A Judge of.Probate cannot act as attorney or counsel in
a civil action, for or against an executor, administrator or
guardian, over whom or whose accounts he might by law
have jurisdiction, whether such action relates to business of
the estate or not. He cannot act as attorney or counsel in
any cause originating in his court; nor shall any partner or
person connected in law business with him act as counsel or
attorney in any proceeding before such Judge of Probate,
or originating in his court.
\§425.-Sea|s-
The seal, to be used by the Judges of Probate must be the
same as used by them iu their capacity as clerks of the Supe-
rior Courts; but all orders, decrees, exempliiications or other
papers relating to the Probate Court, or proceedings therein,
must be signed by them as Judges of Probate, and not as
clerks of the Superior Court.
$426.-Files.
Every Judge of Probate must filo and preserve all papers
in proceedings before him, or belonging to the court; and
all such papers and the books kept by him belong to and
appertain to his oflice, and mustlbe delivered to his suc-
cessor.
9427--Reeords .
The following books must be kept by each Judge of Pro~
bate:
1. A Records of wills, in which must be recorded all wills,
with the certificates of probate thereof;
2. A Record of appointments ofexecutors, administrators,
guardians, collectors, and masters of apprentices, with revo-
cations of all such appointments.
Diginzed by C008 le
CI VIL PROCEDURE. 157
3. A Record of all orders and decrees passed in his ofiice,
which he is required to make in writing, and not required
to be recorded in some other book;
4. A Record of accounts, in which must be recorded the
quarterly and annual accounts of executors, administra-
tors, collectors and guardians, as audited by him from time
to time; .
5. A Record of settlements, in which must be entered
the Iinal settlements of executors, administrators, collectors
and guardians.
6. A Fee-book, in which must be entercdthe items of all
fees for services of the Probate Judge in each particular
proceeding or estate, and when and by whom paid. And
he must annually, during the first week in September, at
own expense, report to the Secretary of State a verified state-
ment ot all his fees received or charged during the year
preceeding the first day of September.
$428,-Books to be furnished by Secretary of State, and to be Indexed.
The books required to be kept by the last section must be
furnished to the Judge of Probate by the Secretary ofS€ate;
and fo each of such books there must be attached an alpha-
betical index securely bound in the volume, reierring to
the entries therein by the page of the book. These books
must, at all proper times, bc open fo the inspection of any
person.
CHAPTER 11.
PROBATE OF DEEDS.
§429.-How made.
All deeds conveying lands in this State, or letters ot
attorney, or other instruments concerning the same, except
leases not having more than three years to run, must be
Diginzed by C008 le
158 THE CODE OF
offered for probate, or a certified probate thereof must be
exhibited before the Judge of Probate of the county, in
which the real estate is situated, in the manner following;
1. Where the grantor or maker, or the subscribing wit-
ness, reside in the State, the deed or other instrument must
be acknowledged by such grantor or maker, or proved on
the oath of such subscribing witness;
2. Where the grantor or maker and the subscribing wit-
ness are dead, satisfactory proof of the handwriting, bo th of
the grantor or maker and of the subscribing witness, must
be made; unless it appear bv affidavit or otherwise that,
after due diligence, such proof is impossible; when proof of
the handwriting of the grantor or maker, or of the subscrib-
ing witness shall be suilicient.
3. Where the grantor or maker and the subscribing wit-
ness, reside beyond the limits of the State, but within the
United States, the Probate Judge, having_jurisdiction, shall
issue under the seal of his court, a commission to a commis-
sioner at the place of residence ot' such grantor, maker or
witness, authorizing the commissioner to take the acknowl-
edgment of the parties to the deed, or the examination on
oath of the witness thereto, touching the execution thereotl
The proceedings of the Commissioner, so authorized, being
returned to the Probate Judge who issued the same, he may
proceed to adjudge, that such deed or other instrument is
duly acknowled or proved. .
4. \Vhere the acknowledgment or proof of any deed or
other instrument is taken or made, in the manner directed
by the laws of this <Sfate,before any commissioner of afii-
davits for the State of North Carolina, appointed by the
Governor thereof, in any of the States or territories of the
United States or in the District of Columbia; and where such
acknowledgment or proof is certified by such commissioner,
the Judge ofProbate, having jurisdiction, upon the same
being exhibited to him, shall adjudge such deed or other
instrument to be duly acknowledged or proved in the same
manner as if made or taken before him.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 159
5. Where the grantor or makef and the subscribing wit-
ness, reside beyond the limits of the United States, the deed
or other instrument may be personally acknowledged by
such grantor or maker, or proved on the oath of such sub-
scribing Witness, before the chief magistrate of any city in the
country where the grantor or Witness is resident; or before
any ambassador, minister, consul or commercial agent of
the United States; and where such proofor acknowledgment
is certified under the corporate seal of such chief magistrate,
or under the official seal of such ambassador, minister, con-
sul or commercial agent; and where such certihcate is aliixed
to the deed or other instrument, and the same is exhibited
before the Probate Judge, having jurisdiction, he shall
adjudge that such deed, or other instrument, is duly proved,
or acknowledged.
6. Every conveyance, power of attorney or other instru-
ment .affecting the estate, right or title of any married
woman in lands, tenements or hereditaments, must be jointly
executed,by such married woman with her husband; and
due proof or acknowledgment thereof must be made as to
the husband, before the Judge of Probate having jurisdic-
tlon, who shall take the acknowledgment of the wife, and
privily examine her, apart from her husband, touching her
voluntary assent thereto. He shall also endorse thereon a
certihoate of such assent.
When such proof or acknowledgment is made as to the
husband, and it appears, that the wife is a resident of some
other State, or being a resident of this State, is so aged or
infirm, that she cannot travel to the Judge of Probate to
make such acknowledgment in person: in that case, the
Judge of Probate shall issue a. commission to a commis-
sioner, for receiving such acknowledgment and for taking
the private examination of the wife, apart from her hus-
band, touching her assent; which commission, with a cer-
tificate of the acknowledgment and private examination,
being returned to the Probate Judge, he shall adjudge that
such conveyance, power of attorney or other instrument is
duly acknowledged, and that such examination is in due
form.
Diginzed by C008 le
160 THE CODE OF
When the proof or acknowledgment of a conveyance,
power of attorney or other instrument' concerning the
interest of a married woman in lands, is taken beforea com-
missioner of affidavits, as directed in sub-division four, or in
foreign parts, as directed in sub-division five, of this Article;
no Judge of Probate shall adjudge such conveyance or other
instrument to be duly proved or acknowledged, unless the
private examination of such married woman is taken accord-
ing to the laws of this State, and a certificate thereof is
attached to the deed or other instrument.
M30.-Who1 Ind lies ll two or more countles-
Where real estate is situated in two or more counties, pro-
bate of the deed or other instrument, conveying or concern-
ing the same, made in the probate court of any of said coun-
ties, is sufficient.
<,4:1.-ommI Mads.
The o cial bonds of all county officers including consta-
bles, must be acknowledged by the obligors, or proven on
the oath of the subscribing witness, thereto, before the
Judges of Probate of the respective counties: Provided, that
the oliicial bonds of tlxe Clerk of the Superior Court may be
present or acknowledged as herein directed before the Reg-
ister of Deeds of the proper county.
$132|-When 048° of Probate dlsqulllled to ut.
Any Judge of the Superior Court, or the ProbateJudge of
an adjoining county, is authorized to act inmatters embraopd
within this article, only when the Judge of Probate of
the county, where the real estate is situated, is disqualified
under sub-division three, section three, chapter I, of this
title.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 161
CHAPTER III.
JvR1sn1c'r1oN OVER THE ESTATES OF DECEASED PERSONS.
ws.-when Probate Judge has jurisdiction of the estate.
The Judge of Probate of each county has jurisdiction,
within his county, to take proof of wills and to grant letters
testamentary, letters of administration with the will annexed
and in cases oi intestacy, in the following cases:
1. Where the decedent at, or immediately previous to his
death, was domiciled in the county of such Probate Judge,
in whatever place such death may have happened
2. Where the decedent at his death, had Exed places of
domicil in more than one county, the Judge of Probate of
any such counties has jurisdiction.
3. Where the decedent, not being domiciled in this State,
died out of the State, leaving assets in the county of such
Judge of Probate, or assets of such decedent thereafter come
into the county of such Probate Judge
4. Where the decedent, not being domiciled in this State,
died in the county of such Judge of Probate, leaving assets
in the State, or assets of such decedent thereafter come into
the State.
9484.-Probate Judge tlrst acquiring jlrlsdlctlol m have exclusive jurisdiction.
The Judge of Probate, who first gains and exercises juris-
diction under sub-division two and three, of the preceeding
section, thereby acquires sole and exclusive jurisdiction over
the decedent's estate.
CHAPTER IV.
Pnon ATE OF w1L1.s.
§435.-Bow wills admitted to probate.
\Vills andtestaments must be admitted to probate only in
the following manner:
11
Diginzed by C008 le
162 THE CODE OF
1. In case a of written will, with witnesses, on the oath of,
at least, t\vo of the subscribing witnesses, if living; but when
any one or more of the subscribing witnesses to such will,
are dead, or reside out of the State, or are insane or other-
wise incompetent to testify, then such proof may be taken
of the handwriting, both of the testator and ot' the witness
or witnesses so dead, absent, insane or incompetent, andalso
of such other circumstances, as will satisfy the Judge of
Probate of the genuineness and the due execution of such
will.
2. In case oi a holograph will, on the oath oi, at least,
three credible witnesses, who state, that they verily believe
such will and every part thereof, is in the handwriting of
the person whose will it purports to be, and whose name
must be subscribed thereto, or inserted in some part thereotl
It must further appear on the oath of some one of said Wit-
nesses, or of some other credible person, that such- will was
found among the valuable papers and effects of the decedent,
or was lodged in the hands of some person for safe keeping.
3. In case of a nuncupative will, where the estate exceeds
two hundred dollars; on the oath Oil at least two credible
witnesses present at the making thereof, who state that they
were specially required to bear witness thereto by the tes-
tator himseltf
It must also be proved that such nuncupative will was
made in the testator's last sickness, in his own habitation,
or where he had been previously resident, for, at least, ten
days, unless he died on a journey or from home.
No nuncupative will shall be proved by the witnesses
after six months from the making thereof, unless it was put
in writing within ten days from such making; nor shall it
be proved till a citation has been first issued or publication
been made for six weeke in some newspaper printed in the
State, to call in the widow and next of kin to contest such
will if they think proper.
4438.-Execltor not incompetent as a wltnoss;
No person, on account of being an executor of a will, is
incompetent as a witness to prove the execution thereof.
u
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 163
§487¢-Proofs and examinations In writing.
Every Judge of Probate shall take in writing the proofs
and examinations of the witnesses touching the execution
of a Will; and he shall embody the substance of such proofs
and examinations, in case the will is admitted to probate, in
his certificate of the probate thereof, which certincate must *
be recorded with the will. The proofs and examinations as
taken must be Hled in the ofiice.
9488.-Probate how far conclusive.
Such record and probate is conclusive in evidence of the
validity of the will, until it is vacated on appeal or declared
void by a competent tribunal.
§439.-Who may apply for prolate.
Any eziecutor named in a will may, at any time after the
death of the testator, apply to the Judge of Probate, having
jurisdiction, to have the same admitted to probate.
9440._wh0 my apply when executor does not.
If no executor apply to have the will proved within sixty
days after the death of the testator, any devisee or legatee
named in the will, or any other person interested in the
estate, may make such application, upon ten days' notice
thereof to the executor.
§44l.-What to be shown on application.
On application to the Judge of Probate, he must ascertain
by afiidavit of the applicant:
1. That such applicant is the executor, devisee or legatee
named in the will, oris some other person interested in the
estate, and how so interested.
2. The value andnature of the testator's property, as near
as can be ascertained.
3. The names and residence of all parties entitled to the
testator's property, it known, or that the same on diligent
inquiry cannot be discovered; which of said parties in
Diginzed by C008 le
164 rHE CODE OF
interest are minors, and whether with or without guardians,
and the names and residence of such guardians, if known.
Such afiidavit shall be.recorded with the will and the
certificate of probate thereof; if the same is admitted to
probate.
§442_-Pmullctld1 of will compelled by pneess-
Every Judge of Probate havingjurisdiction, on application
by aflidavit setting forth the facts, shall, by summons, com-
| pel any person in the State, having in possession the last
will of any decendent, to exhibit the same in his court for
probate; and whoever being duly summoned, refuses in con-
tempt of the court, to produce such will, or (the same having
been parted with by him) refuses to inform the cpurt on oath
where such will is, or in what manner he has disposed of it,
shall, by order of the Probate Judge, be committed to the
prison of the county; there to remain without bail till such
will be produced or accounted for, and due submission made
for the contempt.
gm.-wm made without the State; how proved.
Whenever it is suggested to the probate court, by aiii-
davit or otherwise, that a will has been made without the
State, disposing of or charging land or other property within
the State, the Judge of Probate of the county, where the
property is situated may issue a commission to such person
as he may select, authorizing the commissioner to take the
examination of such witnesses as may be produced, touch~
ing the execution thereof, and upon return of such commis-
sion, with the examination, he may adjudge the said will to
be duly proved or otherwise, as in cases on the oral examina-
tion ofwitnesses before him, and it duly proved, such will
shall be recorded.
§|4'.-Wlll of eltlzan or subject of nothcr country ; how allowed and record-
ed ll this Suu.
Whenever any will, made by a citizen or subject of any
other State or country, is duly proved and allowel in such
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 165
State or country, according to the laws thereof, a copy or
exempliiication of such will, duly certified and authenticated,
when produced or exhibited before the Judge of Probate of
any county, wherein any property of the testator may be,
shall be allowed, filed and recorded in the same manner as
ifthe original, and not the copy, had been produced, proved
and allowed before such Probate Judge. But when any such
will contains any devise or disposition of real estate in this
State, such devise or disposition shall not have any validity
.or operation, unless the will is executed according to the
laws of this State; and that fact must appear affirmatively
in the certified probate or exemplitication of the Will; and if
it do not so appear, the Judge of Probate before whom the
copy is exhibited, shall have power to issue a commission
for taking proofs, touching the execution of the Will, as pre-
scribed in the preceding section; and the same may be
adjudged, duly proved and shall be recorded as therein pro-
vided.
5445.-Will of eltlzen of this State proved elsewhere; how proved and reeorded _
here.
When a will, made by a citizen oi this State is proved and
allowed in some other State or country, and the original will
cannot be removed from its place of legal depositin such
other State or country, for probate in this State; the Probate
Judge of the county, where the testator had his last usual
- residence or has any property, upon a duly certified copy or
exempliiication of such will being exhibited to him tbl' pro-
bate, shall take every order and proceeding for proving,
allowing and recording said copy as by law might be taken
upon the production of the original.
§446.-Gaveat.
At the time of application for the probate of any will, or
at any time thereafter, as prescribed by law, any person
entitled under such will or interested in the estate, may
appear in person` or by attorney before the probate court,
and enter a caveat to the probate of such will.
Diginzed by C008 le
166 THE CODE OF
§447.-Transferred u Superior Court; when.
Upon any caveator giving bond, with suihcient surety to
be approved by the Probate Judge, in the sum of two
hundred dollars, payable to the propounder of the will, con-
ditioned to pay all costs which may be adjudged against
such caveator in the Superior Court, by reason of his failure
to prosecute his suit with effect; the Probate Judge shall '
transfer the cause to the Superior Court for trial; and he
shall also forthwith issue a citation to all devisees, legatees
or other parties in interest within the State, and cause pub-
lication to be made, for six weeks in some newspaper printed
in the State, for non-residents, to appear at the term of the
Superior Court, to which the proceeding is transferred, and
to make themselves proper parties to the said proceeding,
if they choose.
§448,-01-der to suspend proceedings.
Where a caveat is entered and bond_ given, as directed in
the last two sections, the Judge of Probate shall forthwith
I issue an order to any personal representative, having the
estate in charge, to suspend all further proceedings in rela-
tion to the estate, except the preservation of the property
and the collection of debts, until a decision of the issue is
had.
CHAPTER V.
LETTERS TESTAHENTARY.
§449--Who is llsqlalllled to serve as executor.
The.Judge of Probate shall not issue letters testamentary
to any person who, at the time of applying to qualify, is
1. Under the age of twenty-one years;
2. A person convicted of an infamous crime;
1 Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 167
3. Who, on proof; is adjudged by the probate court, in-
competent to execute the duties of such trust by reason of
drunkenness, improvidence, or Want of understanding;
4. Who fails to take the oath or to give bond in cases
where executors are required by law to give bond;
5. Who has renounced his executorship.
§450~-Executor may renaunce.
Any person appointed as executor may renounce the oflice
by a writing signed by hin;{,and on the same being acknowl-
edged or proved to the satisfaction of the Probate Judge, it
shall be filed.
§45l---When executor deemed m have renounced.
If any person appointed an executor does not qualify or
renounce within sixty days after the will is admitted to pro-
bate, the Judge~oi Probate, on the application of any other
executor named in the same will, or any party interested,
shall issue a citation to such person to show cause why he
should not be deemed to have renounced. If, upon service
of the citation, he does not qualify or renounce within such
time, not exceeding thirty days, as is allowed in the citation,
an order must be entered by the Judge of Probate decree~
ing that such persons has renounced his appointment as
executor.
§452°-Exeeutor under dlsqnallllcatlon of age or absenoe.
Where any executor named in the will is under the dis-
qualification of non-age, specified in section four hundred
and forty-nine, or is temporarily absent from the State,
such executor is entitled to six months, after coming of age
l •
\
Diginzed by C008 le
168 THE CODE OF
or after his return to the State, in which to make application
to qualify and take letters testamentary.
-_-
'CHAPTER VI.
LETTERS OF AnlnrlsmxrIox WITH WILL ANNEXED.
• §453.-To be granted; when nd to whom.
If there is no executor appointed in the will, or ig at any
time, by reason of death, incornpetency, adjudged by the
Probate Court, renunciation, actual or decreed, or removal
by order of the court, or on any other account,- there is no exe-
cutor quahhed to act the Judge of Probate may issue letters
of administration, with the will annexed, to some suitable
person or persons, in the order prescribed in section four
hundred and idy-si; Chapter VII. '
» $454._q1almmm§. kc.
Administrators (in cases prescribed in the preceeding
section) shall have the same qualifications and give the same
bond as other administrators.
4455.-wu1 of testator to be olssorvod.
In all cases, where letters of administration with the will
annexed, are granted, _the will of the testator must be
observed and performed by the administrator with the will
annexed, both in respect to real and personal property, and
an administrator with the will annexed, has all the. rights
and powers, and is subject to the same duties as if he had
been named executor in the will.
•
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 169
CHAPTER VII.
Lx-rrrmns Ol* .4Du1NxsTnA'r1oN.
ws.-T0 whom granted,
Letters of administration, in case oi intestacy, shall be
granted to the persons entitled thereto, and applying for
the same, in the following order:
1. To the husband or widow;
2. To the next of kin in the order of their degree, where
they are ofdiH`erent degrees-if of equal degree, to one or
more of them, at the discretion of the probate court;
3. To the most competent creditor, who resides within the
State, and proves his debt on oath, before the probate court;
4. To any other person legally competent.
f§457.-Dlsqlqlillcltlons.
The Probate Judge shall not issue letters of administra-
tion to any person, who, at the time of appearing to qualify, is
1. Under the age of twenty-one years; '
2. Au alien, who is a non-resident of this State;
3. A person who has been convicted of an infamous crime;
4. Who, on proof, is adjudged by the Probate Court
incompetent to execute the duties of such trust, by reason
of drunkenness, improvidence or want of understanding;
5. Who fails to take the oath or give the bond required
by law.
gm.-J oinlng persons not entltled.
\Vith the consent of the person or persons who are enti-
tled, letters of administration may be granted to one or more
competent persons who are not entitled, jointly with those
' who are entitled. Such consent must be in writing, and
the Probate Jude shall Hle the same.
Diginzed by C008 le
170 THE 'CODE OF
§459.-Renunelntlon of persons having prior right.
When any person applies for administration, and any other
person has prior right thereto, a written renunciation of the
person or persons, having such prior right, must be pro-
duced and filed with the Probate Judge.
9619--Persans having prlor rlght dlsqualliled or absent.
When any person having such prior right to administra-
tion, is under the disqualification of age specified in section
four hundred and fiftv-six, or is temporarily absent from the
State, such person is entitled to six months, after the disa.
bility of age is removed or his return to the State, in which '
to renounce his right or apply for letter of administration.
§46l._What must be shown on application.
Ou application for letters of administration, the Judge of
'Probate must ascertain by afiidavit of the applicant or
otherwise;
1. The death of the decedent and his intestacy.
2. That the applicant is the proper person entitled to
administration, or that he applies after the renunciation of
the person°or persons so entitled.
3. The value and nature of the intestator's property, the
names and residence of all parties entitled as heirs or dis-
tributees of the estate, if known, or that the same cannot
on diligent enquiry be procured; which of said parties are
minors, and whether with or without guardians, and the
names and evidence of such guardians, if known.
Such affidavit or other proof must be recorded and filed
by the Probate Judge.
§~l62.-Contested administration.
Any person interested in the estate may, on complaint
Bled and notice to the applicant, contest the right of such
applicant for letters ot administration, and on any issue of
fact joined, or matter of law arising, on the pleadings, the
Diginzed by C008 le
1
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 171
' cause maybe transferred to the Superior Court for trial, or
an appeal be -taken, as in other cases provided in this Act,
Chapter XI II.
CHAPTER VIII.
LETTERS OF COLLECTION.
§468. When to issue and to whom.
Whenever for any reason, a delay is necessarily produced
in the admission of a will to probate, or in granting letters
testamentary, letters of administration or letters of adminis-
tration with the will annexed, the Judge of Probate may
issue to some discreet person or persons at his option, letters
of collection, authorizing the collection and preservation of
the property of the decedent.
§464.--Quallicallons, te.
Every collector shall have the qualifications, and give the
bond prescribed by law for an administrator:
M65.-Authority, tc.
•
Every collector has authority to collect the personal pro-
perty, take possession and receive the rents and profits of
the real property, preserve and secure the estate, and collect
the debts and credits of the decedent. .And for these pur-
'poses, he may commence and maintain or defend suits, and
he may sell, under the direction and order of the Probate
Judge, any personal property for the preservation and benefit
oil the estate. He may besued for debts, due by the dece-
dent; and he may pay funeral expenses and other debts.
$166-Antliorlty when to cease, te.
When letters testamentary, letters of administration, or
letters of administration with the will annexed, are granted,
the powers of such collector shall cease, but any suit brought
Diginzed by C008 le
4
172 THE CODE OF
W the collector may be continued by his successor, the '
executor or the administrator, in his own name. 'Such col-'
lector must, on demand, deliver to the executor or adminis-
trator all the property, rights and credits of the decedent
under his control, and render an account, on oath, to the
Probate Judge of all his proceedings. Such delivery and
account may be enforced by citation, order or attachment.
CHAPTER IX.
GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING EXECUTORS, &C.
9467.-0aths, &¢.
Before letters testamentarv, letters of administration with
the will annexed, letters of administrationor letters of col-
lection, are issued to any person, he must take and subscribe
an oath or affirmation, before the Judge of Probate, that he
will faithfully and honestly discharge the duties of his trust,
which oath must be filed in the ofice of the Probate Judge.
• gms.-B01u, ae.
Every executor from whom a bond is now required by law,
and every administrator and collector, before letters are
issued, must give a bond payable to the State, with two or
more sufhcient sureties, to be approved by the Probate Judge,
and to bejointly.and severally bound. The penalty in such
bond must be double, at least, the value of all property, real
and personal, of the decedent; which value is to be ascer-
tained, by the Probate Judge, by the examination on oath
of the applicant and of any other person. The bond must be
"conditioned, that such executor, administrator or collector
shall faithfully execute the trust reposed in him as such, and
obey all lawful orders of the probate or other court, touching
the administration of the estate committed to him.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 173
§489»-Revoutlon oflemrs on proof of wlll, lc.
If letters of administration are issued, a will is subse~
'quently proved and letters testamentary are issued thereon ; *"-_
or, if after letters testamentary are issued, a revocation of
the Will, or a subsequent testamentary paper revoking the
appointment of executors, is proved and letters are issued
thereon, the Judge of Probate must thereupon revoko the
letters first issued, by an order in writing to be served on
the person to whom such first letters were issued; and, until
service thereof, the acts of such person, done in good faith
are valid. ".
$470.-Bevontlon on ground of dlsqulllntlon or default.
Ig after any letters have been issued, it appears to the Pro-
bate Judge, or if complaint is made to him on allidavit, that
any person to whom they were issued, is legally incompetent
to have such letters, or that such person has been guilty of
default or misconduct in .the due execution of his office, or
that the issue of such letters was obtained by false repre-
sentations made by such person, the Judge of Probate shall
issue an order requiring such person to show cause why the
letters should not be revoked. On the return of such order.
duly executed, if the objections are found valid, the letters
issued to such person must be revoked and superseded, and
his authority shall thereupon cease.
(Wil.-Letters, how issued and tesud.
All letters must be issued in the name of the State, and
tested in the name of the Judge of Probate, signed by him,
and sealed with his seal of ofiice.
CHAPTER X.
GUARDIAN AND WARD.
§472.-Powdr over orphans' estnus and m nppolnt guudlans. a.
Each Judge of Probate in his county has full power and
authority to take cognizance of all matters concerning-
Diginzed by C008 le
174 THE CODE OF
orphans and their estates and to appoint guardians, where
it may be deemed necessary, in the manner heretofore exer-
cised by the late County and Superier Courts.
§478.-Inquisition of llnaey.
Any person in behalf of one who is deemed an idiot, ine-
briate or lunatic, or incompetent from want of understand-
ing to manage his own aifairs, by reason of the excessive
useof intoxicating drinks or other cause, may file a petition
before the Judge oi Probate of the county where such sup-
posed idiot, inebriate or lunatic resides, setting forth the
facts, duly veritied by the oath of the petitioner. Where-
upon such Judge of Probate shall issue an order, upon
notice to the supposed idiot, inebriate or lunatic, to the
sheriff of the county commanding him to summon a jury of
twelve men to inquire into the state of mind of such sup-
posed idiot, inebriate or lunatic. The jury shall make return
of their proceedings under their hands to the Judge of Pro-
bate, who shall file and record the.same; and he shall pro-
ceed to appoint a gaurdian ot any person so found to be an
idiot, inebriate or lunatic, by iuquisition of a jury, as in cases
oforphans.
$474.-Proceedings on application for guardianship.
On application to any Judge of Probate for the custody
and guardianship of any infant, idiot, inebriate or lunatic, it
is the duty of such Judge of Probate to inform himself of
the circumstances of the case on the oath of the applicant
or of any other person; and if none of the relatives of the
infant, idiot, inebriate or lunatic are present at such applica-
tion, the Probate Judge must assign, or, fbrany other good
cause, he may assign a day for the hearing; and he shall
thereupon direct notice thereof to be given to such of the
relatives and to siich other persons, if any, as he deem it
_proper to notify. On~the hearing, he shall ascertain, on
oath, the amount of the property, real and personal, of the
infant, idiot, inebriate or lunatic, and the value of the rents
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCED URE. 175
and profits of the real estate; and he may grant or refuse
the application, or commit the guardianship to some other
person, as he may think best for the interest of the infant,
idiot, inebriate or lunatic.
.§ 175.-Letters of appolntment.
The Judge ot Probate must issue to every guardian
appointed by him a letter of appointment, which shall be
signed by him and sealed with the seal with the of his oiiice.
§l16.-Reference to sectlnns 456, 487, 469.
The provisions of sections fourhundred and Hfty-six, four
hundred andsixty-seven, and four hundred and seventy, of
this Act, in reference to qualification; in reference to the
execution of a bond; and in reference to a revocation of
appointment on the ground of misconduct or disqualifica-
tion, shall apply to the case oi guardians appointed by a
Judge of Probate.
CHAPTER XI.
.ACCOUNTINGS BY EXECUTOR8, ADMINISTRATORS, COLLECTORS AND
GUARDIANS; AND AUDITINGS BY THE JUDGE QF PROBATE.
117.-Make return on oath; when.
Every executor, administrator, collector and guardian
shall, Within three months after his qualification or appoint-
ment, make return on oath to the Judge of Probate, of all
the estate in his hands or received by himup to that time;
but such time may be extended bythe Probate Judge, on.
good cause shown, not exceediugfsix months.
.§478.-Annual accounts.
Every executor, administrator, collector and guardian,
shall, within twelve months from the date of his qualiHca-
#sion orappoiutrnenf, and annually, so long as any of the
Diginzed by C008 le
176 THE CODE OF
estate remains in his control, file, in the oliice of the Judge
of Probate, an inventory and account, under oath, of the
amount of property received by him, or invested by him
and the manner and nature of such investment, and his
receipts and disbursements for the past year in the form of
debit and credit. He must produce vouchers, which must
be tiled with the Judge of Probate, for all payments. The
Judge of Probate may examine on oath, such accounting
party, or any other person, concerning the receipts, dis-
bursements or any other matter relating to the estate; and,
having carefully revised and audited such account, if he
- approve the same, he must endorse his approval thereon,
which shall be deemed primafaciea evidence of correctness.
Each Judge of Probate must annex or attach a copy of this
section to all letters issued by him.
§n9.-num to account.
If any executor, administrator, collector or guardian omits
to account, as directed in the preceding section, or renders
an insufficient and unsatisfactory account, the Probate Judge
shall forthwith order such executor, administrator, collector'
or guardian to render a full and satisfactory account, as
required by law, within twenty days after service of the
order. Upon return of the order, duly served, if such
executor, administrator, collector, or guardian, fail to appear
or refuse to exhibit such account, the Judge of Probate may
issue an attachment against him for a contempt and commit
him till he exl1ibit'such account, and may likewise remove
him from ofiice.
§l80.-Vouchers-
Vouchers are -presumptive evidence of disbursement,
without other proofl unless impeached. If lost, the account-
ing party must, if required. make oath to that tact, setting
forth the manner of loss, and state the contents and purport
of the voucher.
Diginzed by C008 le
CI VIL PMGEDUREQ 177
<>481.-1-im accounts.
An executor, or administrator, may be required to file his
final account for settlement in the court of probate by a
citation directed to him, at any time after two years from
his qualiication, at the instance of any person interested in
the estate; and a guardian may be required to file such
account at any time after six months from the ward's coming
of full age, or the cessation of the guardianship: but such
account may be filed voluntarily at any time; and, whether
the accounting be voluntary or compulsory, it shall be
audited and recorded by the Judge of Probate.
\
CHAPTER XII.
IASTERS AND APPRENTICES.
§48i.-Blndlng to be by lndenture.
The binding of apprentices shall be by indenture, made
in the name of the Judge of Probate of the county of the
onepart, and of the master or mistress of the other part;
which indenture shall be recorded and Bled in the office of
the probate court.
§488.-Re1edy thereon.
The apprentice may bring an action on such indenture in
the name of the Judge of [Probate and his successors, and
recover any damages sustained by reason of the breach of
the covenant~ contained in said indenture.
\
9484.-Who lay be apprenticed.
The Judges of Probate in their respective counties shall
bind out as apprentices:
1. All orphans whose estates are of so small value, that
no person will educate and maintain them for the profits
thereof;
12
Diginzed by C008 le
178 THE CODE OF
2. All infants whose fathers have deserted their families
and been absent for one year, leaving them without suffi-
'Oi8Dt support;
3. All infants (not living with the father) whose mother
`has secured to her such property as the infants may there-
.after acquire, provided the Probate Judge deems it improper
to permit such infants to remain with the mother;
4. All infants who make application to the Board of Com-
missioners of the county for relief out of the funds for the
poor, and such fact is certified by the Board to the Judge of
Probate;
5. All infants, whose parents do not habitually employ
'their time in some honest, industrious occupation.
. .§485.-For what time bonnd.
Every apprentice shall be bound to some discret person
=approved by the Judge of Probate, till the age of twenty-
one.
g4se.-Dunes of masters(
The master shall provide for the apprentice:
1. Diet, clothes, lodgings and accommodation it and
mecessary;
2. Education in reading, writing and arithmetic;
3. Six dollars in cash, a new suit`of clothes and a new
?Bible, at the end of the apprenticeship;
4. Such other education, sum of money, or articles of
furniture or implements `of trade, as may be agreed on
,between the court and the master, and inserted in the
*indenture
.§487,-Duty af Probate Judge.
On application ot any person to have an apprentice bound
'to him, it is the duty of the Judge ot Probate to inform
Lhimself of the circumstances of the case; and, for this pur-
pose, he may cite before him the relatives of the orphan or
zinfant, for examination on oath; and he may also examine
:Such other persons as he deems proper. In the selection ot
Diginzed by (2009 le
CWIL PROCEDURE 179
a master, he shall prefér, so far as may be consistent in other
respects with the comfort and interest of the apprentice,
some tradesman of a useful art or mystery.
<§488»-Apprentices, how compelledmi serve.
If an apprentice refuses to serve as required by the inden-
ture or by law, the Judge of Probate may, on application of
the master, compel him, by citation or otherwise, to appear
for inquiry into the facts; and if the complaint is Well-
founded, and the apprentice persists in such refusal, the
Judge of Probate may commit him by warrant to the House
of Correction or the common jail of the county, until he
consents.
$480.-llllseonduet of masters.
Upon complaint of any apprentice that the master is
guilty of cruelty, ill-usage, refusal of necessary provisions
or clothing, or any other violation of the indenture, or of.
the law towards such apprentice, the Judge of Probate may,
by order, compel the appearance of the master before him,
'when he shall examine and determine the complaint; and
if the same is well-founded, he shall cancel the indenture.
and discharge such apprentice from his obligation of service,
and may proceed to appoint anothermaster.
CHAPTER XIII.
TRANSFER uw Arxvau.
9490.-Issues of fact and matters of law.
All issues of fact joined before the Judge of Probate shall
be transferred to the Superior Court of the county for trial;
and appeals shall lie to the Judge of the Superior Court of
the district, either in term-time or vacation, from the judg-
ments of the probate court in all matters of law.
Diginzed by C008 le
180 THE CODE OF
9491:--No bond required.
In case of transfer or appeal, as provided in the preceding
section, neither party is required to give a bond*for costs
except as in this Title otherwise expressly directed; and the
Judge of Probate shall transmit, on such transfer or appeal,
to the Superior Court or the Judge thereof; the pleadings on
other papers, on which the issue of fact or of law arises.
$492-Avrells. whoa taken and by whom.
An appeal must be ,taken Within twenty days after the
entry of the order or judgment of the probate court; but an
appeal can only be taken by a party aggrieved, who appeared
and moved for or opposed the order or judgment appealed
from, or, who being ent1tled§to be heard thereon, had no
notice or opportunity to be heard; which fact may be shown
by aiiidavit or other proofl
CHAPTER XIV.
WHAT LAWS REPEALED AND UNREPEALED.
I
M98.-What laws repealed and urepnled_
A11 laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions
of this Title, arerepealed But chapters five, thirty-seven,
forty-six, fifty-four, fifty-seven and one hundred and nineteen
of the Revised Code, concerning " Apprentices," concerning
" Deeds and Conveyances," concerning " Executors and
Administrators," concerning " Guardian and Ward, ' concern-
ing "Idiots and Lunatics," and ,concerning " Wills and
Testaments," so far as said chapters;or_,any part thereof, are
not inconsistent with the provisions oi this Title, remain in
force.
Diginzed by C008 l<°
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 181
T I T L E X X •
THE COURTS OF JUSTICE8 OF THE PEACE.
45494.-Laws repoaled»
Sections 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18 1
19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 36, Chapter 62,
~oi the Revised Code are repealed, and the provisions of this
Title are substituted in their stead; and all other laws in
conflict with the provisions of this Title are repealed; pro-
vided that nothing herein contained shall be held to abrogate
in any manner an ordinance of the Convention, ratified
March 14th, A. D. 1868, entitled "An Ordinance respecting
the jurisdiction of the Courts of this State."
CHAPTER I.
MANNER OF commscrxc cmI. ACTIONS IN JUsTIcEs' COURTS.
'5495.-Summons.
Civil actions in these courts shall be commenced by the
issuing of a. summons.
\§496»-Summons by whom Issued.
The summons shall be issued by the Justice and signed by
him. ` It shall run in the name of theState, and be directed
to any Constable or other lawful ollicer, commanding him
to summon the defendant to appear and answer the com-
plaint of the plaintiff at a place, Within the county, to be
therein speciied, and at a time, to be therein named, not
exceeding twenty days from the date of the summons. It
shall also contain the amount of the sum demanded by the
plaintiflf
§497.-Service and return of summons.
The officer to whom the summons is delivered shall exe-
cute the same Within five days after its receipt by him, or
Diginzed by C008 le
182 THE CODE OF
immediately, if required te do so by the plaintiff Before
proceeding to execute it, he is entitled to require of the
plaintilf his fee for the service, and five cents per mile
traveled by him out of his township on such service. When
executed he shall immediately return the summons, with
the date and manner of the service and the' distahce traveled
by him out of his township, to the Justice, who issued the
same.
CHAPTER II.
.nmis1>1c'r1oN AND MANNER OF PROCEEDING.
498.-Jurisdiction.
Justices of the Peace shall have exclusive original juris--
diction of all civil`actions founded on contract, except:
1. Wherein the sum demanded exceeeds two hundred
dollars:
2. Wherein the title to real estate is in controversy.
M994-Where sum demanded exceeds two hundred dollars.
Where it appears, in any action brought before a Justice,
that the sum demanded exceeds two hundred dollars, the
Justiceshall dismiss the action and render judgment against
the plaintiff for the costs.
$500-Answer to tltle.
In every action brought in a court of a Justice of the
Peace, where the title to real estate comes in controversy,
the defendant may, either with or without other matter of
defence, set forth, in his answer, any matter showing that
such title will come in question. Such answer shall be in
writing, signed by the defendant or his attorney, and deliv"
ered to the Justice.
I
Diginzed by C008 le
= l
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 183
§50l.-Acdon to be dismissed, when.
If it appears on the trial, that the title to the real estate is
in controversy, the Justice shall dismiss the action and ren-
der judgment against the plaintiff for the cost.
5502--Another action may bo brought.
When a suit before a Justice, is dismissed upon answer,
and proof by the defendant, that the title to real estate, is
in controversy in the case, the plaintiif may prosecute an
action for the same cause in the Superior Court, and the
defendant shall not be admitted in that court, to deny the
jurisdiction by an answer contradicting this answer in the
Justice's court.
$503.-Docketlng Justices' judgment.
A Tustice of the Peace, on the demand of a party in whose
favor he has rendered a judgment, shall give a transcript
thereof, which may be filed and docketed in the oflice of the
Superior Court Clerk of the county, where the judgment was
rendered. The time of the receipt of the transcript by the
clerk, shall be noted thereon and entered in the docket; and
from that time, the judgment shall be a judgment of the
Superior Court in all respects. The execution thereon shall
be issued by the Clerk of the Superior Court to the sheriff of
the county, and shall have the same effect, and be executed
in the same manner as other executions of the Superior
Court. A certified transcript. of such judgment may be
iled and docketed in the Superior Court Clerk's oilice of any
other countv, and with the like effect, in every respect, as in
.the county Where the judgment was rendered, except that it
shall be a lien only from the time of filing and docketing
such transcript. But no Justices' judgment for a less sum
than twenty-Eve dollars, exclusive of costs, shall be so filed
and docketed in the oflice of the Clerk of the Superior
Court.
Diginzed by C008 le
184 THE CODE OF
9504.-Rules of proceeding ln Jlstlees' court.
RULE 1.
The pleadings in these Courté are:
1. The complaint of the plaintiiil
2. The answer by the defendant.
RULE 11.
The pleadings may be either oral or written; if oral, the
substance must be entered by the Justice on his docket; if
written, they must be filed by the Justice, and a reference
to them be made in his docket.
RULE II I.
The complaint must state, in a plain and direct manner,
the fhcts constituting the cause of action.
RULE IV.
The answer may contain a denial of the complaint, or of
any part thereof; and also a notice, in a plain and direct
manner, of any facts constituting a defence or counter-claim.
RULE v.
Pleadings are not required to be in any particular ibrm,
but must be such as to enable a person of common under-
standing to know what is meant.
RULE vl.
[Where a defendant does not appear and answer, the plaintif
must still prove his case before he can recover]
RULE VII.
In an action or defence, founded on an account or an
instrument for the payment of money only, it is suflicient
for a party to deliver the account or instrument to the Jus-
tice and state that there is due to him thereon from the
adverse party a specified sum, wl1ich he claims to recover
or set-oH1
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 185
RULE vm.
A variance between the evidence on the trial and the
allegations in a. pleading, shall be disregarded as immate-
rial, unless the court is .satisfied that the adverse party has
been misled to his prejudice thereby.
RULE lx.
The pleadings may be amended, at any time, before the
trial, or during the trial, or upon appeal, when, by such
amendment, substantial justice will be promoted. If the
amendment be made after the joining of the issue, and it
appears to the satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an
adjournment is necessary to the adverse party, in conse-
quence ofsuch amendment, an adjournment shall be granted.
The court may also, in its discretion, require as a condition
of an amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party.
RULE x.
The Justice may, at the joining of issue, require either
party, at the request of the other, at that or some other spe-
cihed time, to exhibit his account or demand, or state the
nature thereof as far forth as may be in his power; and in
case of his default, the Justice shall preclude him from
giving evidence of such parts thereof as have not been so
exhibited or stated.
RULE XI.
Either party may demur to a pleading of his adversary, or
to any part thereof; when it is not sufliciently explicit to
enable him to understand it, or it contains no cause of action
or defence, although it be taken as true.
RULE XII.
If the Justice deem the objection well-ibunded, he shall
order the pleading to be amended on such terms as he may
think just; and if the party refuse to amend, the defective
pleading shall be disregarded.
Diginzed by C008 le
186 THE CODE OF
RULE xln.
The Justice shall enter all his proceedings in a cause tried
before him in his docket. No part of such proceedings must
be entered on the summons, on the pleadings or on any
other paper in the cause.
RULE XIV.
Execution may be issued on a judgment, rendered in a.
Justices' court, at any time Within one year after the rendi-
tion thereof; and shall be returnable sixty days from the
date of the same.
RULE XV.
The provisions of tiie Code of Civil Procedure, respecting
forms of actions, parties to actions, the times of commencing
actions, and the service of process upon corporations, shall
'apply to Justices' courts.
RULE xvl.
The defendant may, on the return of process and before
answering, make an oifer in Writing to allow judgment to
be taken against him for an amount, to be stated in such
offer, with costs. The plaintiff shall thereupon, and before
any other proceeding bc had in the action, determine
whether he will accept or reject such offer. If he accept
the offer, and give notice thereof in writing, the Justice shall
Hle the offer and the acceptance thereof; and render judg-
ment accordingly. If notice of acceptance be not given,
and if the plaintiff fail to obtain judgment for a greater
amount, exclusive of costs, than has been speciied in the
l offer, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay to the defen-
dant his costs accruing subsequent to the offer.
RULE xvu.
Any Justice before whom an action is brought, may, on
suiicient excuse therefor shown on the affidavit of either
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 187
party or any person for him, continue such action from time
to time for trial. But such continuance shall not exceed
thirty days.
$505.-Execution-on what and Mm what time a lien.
Executions issued by a Justice, which must be directed
to any constable of the county, shall be a lien on the goods
and chattels of the defendant named therein, from the levy
thereof only; but shall not be levied on or enforced in any
manner against real estate, but when such shall be made a.
'judgment of the Superior Court as is provided by section five
hundred and three, it shall be capable of being levied, and
collected out oi any property of the defendant, in execution,
and it shall be a lien on the real estate of said defendant, from
the time when it becomes a judgment of the Superior Court.
506.-Stay of execution-Security.
The party praying for stay of execution shall within ten
days after the trial, give suliicient security, approved by the
Justice, for payment of the judgment, with interest thereon
till paid, and cost; and the acknowledgment of the surety,
entered by the Justice in his docket and signed by the
surety, shall be suflicient to bind such surety. If the judg-
ment be not discharged at`the time to which execution has
been stayed, the Justice who awarded the judgment shall
issue execution against the principal, or surety, or both.
§507.-Former judgment.
On the trial of an action fbunded on a. former judgment,
the judgment itself shall be evidence of the debt, subject to
such payments as have been made.
§508»-Application for re-hearing.
When a judgment has been rendered by a Justice, in the
absence of either party, and when such absence was caused
by the sickness, excusable mistake or neglect of the party,
such absent party, his agent or attorney may, Within ten
days after the date of such judgment, apply for reliefto the
Diginzed by C008 le
188 THE CODE OF
Justice, who awarded the same, by ailidavit, setting forth
the facts, which ailidavit must be 'filed by the Justice; where-
upon the Justice, if he deem the affidavit sufiicient, shall
open the case for re-consideration ; and to this end, he shall
issue a summons, directed to a constable, to cause the adverse
party, together with the witnesses on both sides, to appear
before him at a place and at a time, not exceeding twenty
days, to be specified in the summons; when the complaint .
shall be reheard, and the same proceedings had as if the
case had never been acted on. If execution has been issued °
on the judgment, the Justice shall direct an order to the
oilicer, having such execution in his hands, commanding
him to torbear all further proceedings thereon, and to return
the same to the Justice forthwith.
9509.-Justlces judgment removed to another county, how.
. Any person, who may desire to have a Justice's judgment
in his favor removed to another county to be enforced
against the goods and chattels of the defendant, must obtain
from the Justice who rendered the judgment a transcript
thereof, under his hand; and must further procure a certi-
ficate from the Clerk of the Superior Court .of the county
where the judgment was rendered, under the seal of his
court, that the Justice who gave the judgment was, at the
rendition thereof, a Justice of said county. On such trans-
cript of the judgment, thus certified, any Justice in any
other county, may award execution for the sum therein
expressed.
§5l0.-Witnesses, penalties, tc.
The Justice, on application of either party, shall, by a
subpoena or by au order in writing on the process, direct
the constable or other oflicer to summon witnesses to appear
and give testimony, at the time and place appointed for the
trial. Each witness, failing to appear, shall forfeit and pay
eight dollars to the party at whose instance he was sum-
_moned, and shall be, further, liable to such party for all
damage , sustained by non-attendance. The fine herein
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 189
imposed, may be recovered on motion before the Justice,
who tried the action, unless the witness, on a notice of ive
days, by affidavit or other proof show suiiicient excuse for
his failure to attend.
cHAPrER III.
ARREST AND BAIL.
4
§5il.-Provlslons of 0ode of Clvll Procedure npplleable.
The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, Title X,
Chapter I, are applicable, except as herein otherwise directed,
to proceedings in Justice's Courts concerning "Arrest and
Bail," substituting the words " Constable" for the word
uShew " and the words "Justice Q/` the Peace" for the
words "Judge, Court or Clerk," whenever they occur in said
chapter.
\S5l2.-Arrest, In what eases.
The defendant may be arrested in the following cases:
1. \Vhen the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in con-
tracting the debt or obligation for which the action is
brought.
2. _When the defendant is not a resident of the State, or
is about to remove therefrom. .
3. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his
property, or is about to do so, with intent to defrand his
creditors.
§5l3-0rder for arrest, by whol lade.
An order for the arrest of the defendant must be obtained
from the Justice of the Pence before whom the action is
brought.
§5l4.-AMdlYlt to obtain orler.
The order may be made where it appears to the Justice
of the Peace, by aiiidavit of the plaintiff or of any other
Diginzed by C008 le
__. 1- .QZII
190 THE CODE OF
person, that a sufiicient cause of action exists, and that the
case is one of those mentioned in section ive hundred and
twelve, Chapter III, of this Title.
$515.-To what actions this chapter applies.
~The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all actions
included within the provisions ofsection Eve hundred and
twelve, Chapter III, which shall be commenced after the
ratification of this Title.
s .
CHAPTER IV.
ATTACHMENT.
9516.-Provisions of (kde of Civil Procedure applicable.
The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, Title X.
Chapter IV., are applicable to proceedings by Attachment
before Justices of the Peace, inall cases founded on contract
wherein the sum demanded does not exceed two hundred
dollaré, and where the title io real estate is not in controversy.
CHAPTER V_
JURY 'rams m caums OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE. •
9517»-Jury list furnished ta mu Justice.
The Clerk of the Board Uf Commissioners shall furnish,
on demand, to each Justice M the Peace in the county, a
list of the jurors for the township for which such Justice is
elected or appointed.
4518.-Jun" to keep _lm-y béx.
Each Justice ahall keep a jury box, having two divisions
marked No. 1 and 2, and having two locks, the key of one
to be kept by the Justice and the other by the clerk of the
township Board of Trustees.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 191
§5l9.-Names of jurors to he deposited In jury box.
Each Justice shall cause the names on his jury list to be
written on`smal1 scrolls of paper of equal size, and to be
placed in the jury box, in division marked No. 1, until
drawn out for the trial of an issue as required by law.
§520.-When trial by jury demanded or waived. .
A trial by _jury must be demanded at the time of joining
the issue of fact; and if neither party demand at such time,
a jury, they shall be deemed to have waived a trial by jury.
§'52l.-Jury drawn and trlad postpohcd.
\Vhen a trial by jury is demanded, the Justice shall
immediately, in the presence of the parties, proceed to draw
the names of twelve jurors from division marked No. 1, of
the jury box; and the the trial of the cause shall thereupon
be postponedto a time and place to be fixed by the Justice.
§522.-Summonlng ot the jury.
A list of the jurors so drawn shall be immediately deliv-
ered by the Justice to any constable, with an order endorsed
thereon, directing him to summon the persons named in the
list, to appear as jurors, at the time and place fixed for the
trial; and it is the duty of the constable to proceed forthwith
to summons such jurors, or so`many of them as can be found,
according to the order; and he shall make return thereof; at
the time and place appointed, stating in his return the
names of the jurors summoned by him.
9523.-The jury fbr the mul of the cause. .
At the time and place appointed, and on return of the
order, if the trial be not further adjourned, and if adjourned,
then' at the time and place to which the trial shall be
adjourned, the Justice shall proceed, in the presence of the
parties, to draw from the jurors summoned the names of six
persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue.
4524.-0hallong'e.
Each party shall be entitled to challenge, peremptorily,
two of the persons drawn as jurors.
Diginzed by C008 le
192 THE CODE OF
§525-What names to be returned .to the jury box or destroyed.
The scrolls containing the names ofjurorsnot summoned,
if any, and of those summoned, but not drawn, and of those
drawn, but challenged and set aside, must be returned by
the Justice to his jury box, in division marked No. 1; pro-
vided that the scrolls containing the names of such as are not
legally liable, or legally qualified to serve as jurors, shall he .
destroyed
§526.-Tales jurors may be summoned.
If a competent and indifferent jury is not obtained from
the twelve jurors drawn as specified in section ive hundred
and twenty-two, the Justice may direct others to be sum-
moned, from the bystanders, suiBcient to complete the jury.
$527.--J1ry sworn and elpennelled-verdict, kc.
The jury shall be sworn and empannelled by the Justice,
who shall record their verdict' in his docket and enter a.
judgment in the case according to such verdict.
9528.-mw trlal-appeal.
A new trial is not allowed in a Justice's Court in any case
whatever; but either party dissatisfied with the judgment
in such court may appeal therefrom to the Superior Court,
as prescribed in chapter VI. of this Act.
§529.-Less than six my be a jury-wnen.
Six jurors shall constitute a jury in a Justices' court, but,
by consent of both parties, a less number may constitute it.
§580.-Not nnpellcd to serve out of township.
No person is compelled to serve _as a juror, in a Justice's
court, out of his own township, except as a talesrnan.
§58l-Juors nnllg on mu, kc. _
The scrolls, containing the names of the jurors who serve
on the trial of an issue, must be placed in the jury box in
division marked No. 2, until all the scrolls in division marked
Diginzed by C008 le
CWIL PROCEDURE 193
No. 1, have been drawn out. As often as that may happen,
the whole number of scrolls shall be returned to division
marked No. 1, to be drawn out as in the Hrst instance.
§58l-Deposit of jury fO0|o
Before a party is entitled to a jury, he shall deposit with
the Justice the sum of three dollars for jury fees; and the
Justice shall pay to all persons who attend, pursuant to the
summons, as well to those who do not actually serve as to
those who do serve, twenty-live cents each, to be included
in the judgment as part of the costs, in case the party
demanding the jury recover judgment, but not otherwise.
The Justice shall refund to the party the fees of all jurors
who do not attend
§588»--Adjournment after return of the jury.
No adjournment shall be granted after the return of the
jury, unless the party asking the same shall, in addition to
the other conditions imposed on him by law or by the Jus-
tice, deposit with the Justice, to be immediately paid to the
jurors attending, the sum of twenty-Eve cents each, such
amount to be in no case included in the judgment, as part
of the costs. On such adjournment, the jurors shall attend
at the time and place appointed without further summons
or notice; and the fees tbr the jury, deposited with the Jus- \
tice according to the preceding section, shall remain in his
hands, until the jury are ernpanneled on the trial, and shall
be then immediately paid to the jurors or to the party enti-
tled thereto.
CHAPTER VI
APPEAL.
5584.-Appeal-Execution.
The party against whom judgment is rendered, in any
civil action in a Justice's Court, may hppeal to the Superior
13
Diginzed by C008 le
194 THE CODE OF
Court from the same; but no appeal shall prevent the
.issuing of an execution on such judgment or work a stay
thereof, except as herein afterwards provided.
$585.-Appeal, when to be taken.
The appellant shall, within ten days after judgment, serve
a. notice of appeal, stating the grounds upon which the appeal
is founded If the judgment is rendered upon process not
personally served, or the defendant did not appear and
answer, he shall have fifteen days, after personal notice of
the rendition of the judgment, to serve the notice of appeal
herein provided for.
$530.--Notice of Appeal, ol when served.
The notice of appeal must, within the time stated in the
last section, be served on the Justice who rendered the
judgment, if living and within the county, and on the res-
pondent or his agent or attorney, who appeared for him on
the trial.
5581-4let\n to the »»fd~
The Justice shall, thereupon, within ten days after the
service of the notice of appeal on him, make a return to the
appellate court and file with the clerk thereof; the papers,
proceedings and judgment in the case, with the notice of
appeal served on him. He may be compelled to make such
return by attachment. But no Justice shall be bound to
make such return until the fees, prescribed by law for this
service, be paid him. The fee, so Paid, shall be included in
the costs, in case the judgment appealed from is reversed.
§538.-Defective return.
If the return be defective, the Judge or Clerk of the
appellate Court may direct a further or amended return, as
.often as may be necessary, and may compel a compliance
with the order by attachment.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 195
SIN;-0|`|-etiih to um aiiui, wht to ithita
When the return is made, the Clerk of thenppellaté qoiut,
if thejudgxneiit exee¢a'¢wency.&v<s dollnrs, exelusive af ma,
-~hall doeket the me oh his` trial docket, for anew trial of
the whole matter at the ensuing term of seid oohrt.. If the
judgment be for twenty-live dollars or less, exclusive of qosts,
he shall forthwith tran~mit the papers, .proceedings and
.judgment to the Judge of the District. who shall hear and
determine only the matters of.lew therein, and send his
decision thereon to the clerk of the appellate court.
§540--Appeal, ol wht loud.
The appeal shall, in all cases, be heard on the original
papers, and no copy thereof need be furnished for the use of
the appellate court.
§5ll.-Executio1 of the judgment, low myad.
If the appellant desire a stay of execution of the judg-
ment, he may apply, at any time, to the clerk of the appel-
late court for leave to give the undertaking, as provided in
the next section; who shall, upon the undertaking being
given, make an order that all proceedings on the judgment
be sta§'ed
4542.-Same, undertaking u be given.
The undertaking shall be in writing, executed by one or
more suliicient sureties, to be approved by the clerk of the
appellate court making the order, to the effect that if judg-
ment be rendered against the appellant, and execution
thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the sure-
ties will pay the amount unsatisfied together with all costs
awarded against the appellant.
85|8.-Sane, delivery nl serviee of order, en when.
A delivery of a certified copy of the order mentioned in
section five hundred and forty~one to the Justice of the Peace,
shall stay the issuing of the execution on the judgment; if
Diginzed by C008 le
196 I`HE CODE OF
it have been issued, the service of a certified copy ef such
order on the oflicer holding the execution, shall stay further
proceedings thereon. A certified copy of such order shall
also be served on the respondent, or his agent or attorney,
within ten days after the making thereof
§5-44.-lesdtltiol.
If the judgment appealed from, or any part thereof, be
paid or collected, and the judgment be afterwards reversed,
the appellate court shall order the amount paid or collected
to be restored, with interest from the time of such payment
or collection. The jorder may be obtained on proof of the
facts made at or after the hearing of the appeal, on a previk
ous notice of six days. If the order be obtained' before the
judgment of reversal is entered, the amount may be included
in the judgment.
5545.-Dosts, how awarded.
If the judgment be affirmed, costs shall be awarded. to the
respondent; if reversed, costs shall be awarded to the appeli'
lant; if aiiirmed inpart, the costs may be awarded to either
party in' the discretion of the court.
i
CHAPTER VII. i
GENERAL PROVISIONS Rzsrscmna JUs'rIcEs OF THE PEACE.
»
cus.-within what time to qualify.
Every person elected or appointed a Justice of the Peace,
shall, within ten days after. such election or appointment,
take and subscribe the prescribed oath of otlice before the
Clerk of the Superior Court; which oath shall be filed by
the Clerk of said Court. And any person presuming to exe-
cute the oiHce of a Justice of the Peace without qualifying
as herein directed, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 197
15547.-lemovd out of township slx months u forfeit omoo.
When any Justice of the Peace removes out of his town-
ship and does not return therein for the space of six months,
he shall fori`eit.and lose his oiiice; and any such Justice of
the Peace presuming to act thereafter, contrary to the pro-
.yisions of this section, unless re-elected or reappointed, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
\§548.-Resignation.
Justices of the Peace wishing to resign, must deliver their
letters of resignation to the Clerk of the Superior Court, who
shall file the same.
4349.-my issue process md try causes, where.
A Justice of the Peace may issue a summmons or other
process anywhere in his county, but he shall not be com-
pelled to try a cause out of the township for which he was
elected or appointed.
§550.-(Moe under the United Staus
Any Justice of the Peace may accept a civil o8ce or
appointment of trust or profit, under the authority of the '
United States, the duties of which confine him to the county .
where he is resident
*3551.-Punish1ent on aonvletlon of lnfaloll crimes, ta.
Upon the conviction of any Justice of the Peace, of an
infamous crime, of con'uption and malpractice in oliice, he
shall be removed from oilice, and he shall be disqualified
from holding or enjoying any oliice of honor, trust or profit
under this State.
§m.-mlm; mms vm cum.
Each Justice of the Peace, as often as he has filled his
docket, shall file the same with the clerk of the Superior
Court for his county.
§558.-Dellvery of ulllled docketto successor.
When a vacancy exists, from any cause, in the office of a
-Justice of the Peace, whose docket is not filled, or when such
Diginzed by C008 le
188 THE CODE OF
Justice 8°°¢ fmt af bar Qzlirllfiqn pf his Wm, mb
iogmgr Justicp, living, 9441 if - d, his 99489441 :enrolm-
¢4£iv9».§l14ll deliwr mwh sl<vQk°¢ .and all olflqia1 Papené to
sgccgbpog, who id authorizod to hear and dgtormipe any
uniihished oause pr causég on sgid docket, in the same mail-
dpi- os if .sgoh cause or cpuaes had been originally brought
before such succebsor.
§554»-Fllllg all delivery-how enforced.
The QW 34999941 on the Ju=4i¢°» or hi# Persdnd repre-
sgntetiwve .W the- lest two pmweedipg sections may he-
enforced, on ten days' ndtice in writing to such Justice or
hi~ Representative, by attachment.
TITLE XXI.
mm
Clnpm- I. Geuergl Provisions.
" ll. Fees of soumm.
" Ill. Fees of Clerks of8|pe|-ur Courts.
1. Il Clvll Actions.
2. 14 Gxllllll Actions.
" lv. Foes of Registers of Deeds.
°' v. Foes of Sherllb.
" u. Fees Q! hupm.
" m. Fm of Jlstlees of the Pace.
" vm. Fees of 00nstables.
" IX. Fees of Jmrors.
" x, Fees and salaries of Clerks of tho Slprene Gam.
cHA1*rER I.
GENERAL Pnovrsxons.
§555.--Fees of oflleers by whom nd how payable.
The several oiiicers hereinafter named, shall receive the-
fees hereinafter prescribed for them respectively, from the
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 199
persons for whom, or at whose instance, the service shall be
performed, exceptjpersons suing as paupers; and no oilicer
snall be compelled to perform any ~ervice, unless his fees be
paid or tendered. The said billcers shall receive no extra
allowance or other;con1pensatioi1 whafewier, unless the same
shall be . expressly required by some statute In case the
service shall be ordered by any proper bfllcer of the State,
or of a. countyffor the heneEt of the State or county, the
fees need 'not be paid in advance; but if for the State, shall
be paid by the State, as other claims against it are, if for. a
county, by the County Commissioners, out of the county
funds.
5556.-Copy shoot lo hed.
A copy sheet shall consist of one hundred words.
§557-Foes on rgtlns to §eeretu-y af State.
All officers required by law to make returns to the Secre-
tary of State, shall receive for such returns five cents per
copy sheet, to be audited on the certificate of the Secretary
of State, and paid as other claims against the State are
required to be.
\
§558.-Mlleers tn lake return of fees.
Every oilicer authorized to receive fees, shall, during the
first week in September in every year, report to the Secre-
tary of State, according to a form to be prepared and fur-
nished by him, a sworn statement of all fees received, 0r
which might have been received by him, during the year
next preceeding the Hrst day of September exclusive. For
this report no fee shall be allowed.
§§59.-Clerks to furnish blank wrlts.
Clerks of Courts shall furnish to parties printed copies of
the formal parts of all writs required to be issued by 111181111
withconvenient blank spaces for the insertion of written
matter; and also the blank forms of such bonds as are
required to be taken by them.
Diginzed by C008 le
200 THE CODE OF
§560.-Who to pay costs ln uimlul actions.
If a defendant be acquitted, or judgment against him
arrested, the costs, including the fees of all witnesses sum-
moned and actually examined for the accused, whom the
Judge before whom the trial took place, shall certify to have
been necessary or proper for his defence, shall be paid by
the prosecutor, if any be marked on the bill, unless the
Judge shall certify that there was reasonable ground for the
prosecution, andthat it was required by the public interest.
If there be no prosecutor, or if the Judge shallcertify as afore
said the costs shall be paid by the county in which the bill
was found.
W1 .-Half foes if convict insolvent.
The costs in criminal actions shall in all cases be paid by
the person convicted, if he be able; but if he be not able,
the county where the bill was tbund shall pay the costs of
the prosecution only; and in°that case the public ollicers
shall receive only half the fees otherwise allowed.
§562»-How fees of omeers received.
If any officer to whom fees are payable by any person,
shall fail to receive them at the time the service is performed
he may have judgment therefor on motion to the court in
which the action is or was pending`,. upon twenty days
notice to the person to be charged, at any time within one
year after the determination of the action in which the same
wa~ performed if the motion for judgment be in behalf of
the Clerk of the Superior Court, it shall be made to the
Judge of the Court in or out of terms.
CHAPTER II.
mms OF SOLICITORS.
§508.-Who1 t¢ receive ms-salary.
The Solicitor shall receive no fees, except in case of judg-
ment rendered against the accused; unless in cases where,
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PRQCEDURE 201
upon conviction, the punishment might have been capital or
conhnement in the penitentiary at hard labor for six months
or upwards, and the Judge before whom the action was
tried, shall certify, immediately after the trial, that there was
probable ground for the prosecution, and] that the case has
been conducted fairly and with due diligenoe._ In such case
he shall receive one-half of his fees from 'the county in
which the bill was found and he shall receive forty dollars
additional for every attendance on the session of his Court.
§564.-4olicitor"s fe f0r wht.
The Solicitors shall receive the following fees:
1. On every conviction for murder, twenty dollars.
2. On every conviction where, by law the punishment
may be hard labor in a Penitentiary for one year or over,
ten dollars. .
3. On conviction on any other indictment, four dollars.
4. On Hua] judgment against a defaulting witness or juror
where no issue is joined, two dollars.
5. On such a judgment when contested, four dollars;
6. Judgment on undertaking of bail, or recognizance, if
uncontested, two dollars.
7. On the same if c tested, four dollars.
8. On application o renew bond to keep the peace, if
granted one dollar. .
9. On an issue in bastardy-found against the putative
father, four dollars.
CHAPTER III.
THE FEES OF cnmnxs OF 'mm SUPERIOR COURTS.
$565.-What hes all for what.
The Clerks of the Superior Courl shall be entitled to the
following fees:
Diginzed by C008 le
m Tmz: CGDE OF'
L-ll elm. cum.
1. Furnishing blank writ of summons or other writ or
process required to beissued byhim andtakinga bond kom
thepleiutiff as security fb: costs or receiving a deposit from '
plaintif md giving a certiioate to him andthe defendant,
fifty cents.
2. Dooketingeummons, ivecents.
3. Recording a. return of a sheriff or other ministerial oiii-
cer, ten cents. .
4. Receiving, filing, and`noting on the docket, any plead-
ing or demurrer, and delivering copies filed, to the parties to
whom addressed, ten cents.
5. Order °x11°rei113» or refusing to enlarge, time for plead-
ing, or for any other act where authorized, my cents.
6. Making' order of publication where allowed, fifteen
cents
7. Entering judgment against either party in default of a
plea, one dollar.
8. Judgment on any question authorized to be decided by
him, if there be no appeal to the Judge, or if the judgment
of the clerk be confirmed on the appeal, one dollar.
9. Preparing statement of case on a peal from his decis-
ion to the Judge if the decision s ll be confirmed, one
dollar.
10. Transcript of record for Judge on issue of law joined-
on the pleadings, per copy sheet, ten cents.
11. Acknowledging receipt of decision of Judge, and
notifying each attorney thereof; ten cents.
12. Taking an aliidavit except to a witness or juror's ticket
of attendance, fifteen cents.
13. Taking a$davit to witness or juror's ticket, ten cents.
14. Transcript of case and record for Supreme Court, per
copy sheet, ten cents.
15. Mailing transcript, post paid, fifteen cents.
16. Docketing anyjudgment on Execution docket, twenty-
five cents.
17. Aliixing seal of court when necessary, twenty-ive
oenta
•
Diginzed by (2009 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE 203
1& Entering _nn. :ecard hay older or judgment of ~&e~
Judge, on 4 matter- whioh he imniudsdictien. t0 decide ant
ofinm. if nat mono then one twenty-ive-cents.
lfmone.than one oepysheetg fonevevy mpyshoet ova-du
imp, 4911 cents.
19. Fmlwvivc on1the»de°ket.s-bniefof my eompleint, plan,
demunar or motion, tivo cents. '
20. Entering general verdict, five cents.
21. Entering speoiad va'dict~1by oopy sheet, ten mme
22. Entering appeal taken, 'live cents.
23. Issuing subpoena for witnesses; each name, ten cents.
24. Swearing a witness, ive oents. "'
25. Copy of any record or writing in his office, per copy
, sheet, ten cents.
26. Probate or acknowledgment ot a deed or writing of
any sort authorized to be proved, (except where the private
examination of a married woman is taken, for each grantor
therein, 'iffy cents.
27. Probate or acknowledgment of deed or other writing;
and taking private examinatm of married women, with
certificate thereof; one dollar.
28. Probate of a will in common form, with certificate and
issuing, letters testamentary, one dollar.
29. Recording will, return or report of executor, adminis-
trator, guardian or other trustee required to be recorded ;.
per copy sheet, ten cents.
30. Grant of letters of administration of any sort, and
taking bond of administration, one dollar.
31. Every notice required tobe issued by Clerk, ten cents.
32. Grant of guardianship, including taking of bond; for
each minor, 'fifty cents.
33. Apprenticing infant, including indenture, fifty cents.
34. Entering caveat on contestedwill, twenty cents.
35. Recording articles of agreement of proposed corpora
tion, including all services, two dollars.
36. Issuing commission of any sort, iifty cents.
37. Entering return to commission and order for registra-
tion of deed ten cents.
I
Diginzed by C008 le
204 THE CODE OF
38. Auditing account of executor, administrator, guar-
dian, or other trustee, required to return accounts, one per
cent. on the nett amount returned, if not over three hundred
dollars; three fourths of one per cent. if over three hundred
and not over one thousand dollars; one~half of one per
cent. if over one thousand and not over twenty thousand
dollars; one sixth of one per cent. it over twenty thousand
dollars.
39. Justificatiorrof sureties, fifty cents.
40. Issuing marriage license and making the record re-
quired thereof, 'fifty cents.
41. Entry of birth or death when required to be made,
Eve cents.
I1.-IN clmunu. wrloms-
42. Issuing capias-for each person to be arrested, fifty
cents. 2 .
43. Docketing action, and entering return tencents.
44. Taking a recognizancQten cents.
45. Issuing subpoena-for each witness, ten cents.
46. Entering judgment against a defaulting juror or wit-
ness or on a hail bond or recognizance, fifty cents.
47. Entering verdict and judgment, one dollar.
48. Issuing execution, twenty-five cents. _
49. Justiication of bail or sureties to an appeal, fifty
cents
50. Alidavit except to witness or juror's ticket twenty-
cents.
51. Aiiidavit to witness or juror's ticket, ten cents.
52. Aiiixing seal when necessary, twenty-ive cents.
53. Transcript on appeal-as in civil casea
54. Mailing transcript as in civil cases.
•
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 205
CHAPTER 'IV.
FEES OF nnalsrnns OF' DEEDS.
$588.-SpedluIIo1f
The Register of Deeds shall be entitled to the following
prescribed fees:
1. Registering any deed or other writing authorized to
be registered or recorded by him, with certificate of probate
or acknowledgment and private examination of a married
woman if any, if not more than one copy sheet, one dollar.
2. For every copy sheet more than one, three cents.
3. For a copy of any record or paper in his office; per
copy sheet, three cents.
4. For issuing each notice or order required by the county
Comrnisdoners, including subpoenas for witnesses; for each
name, Bfteen cents.
5. Recording each 'order of Commissioners if not over
one copy sheet, twenty cents.
6. If over one copy sheet, for every one ove1§hree cents.
7. Making out tax list, for each name on each copy
required to be made, three cents.
CHA PTER V.
FEES or SHERIFFS.
§n7.4-sp¢0mm10n.
The Sheriiis shall be entitled to the following fees for the
acts herein specified:
1. Executing summons, or any other writ or notice, simply
by delivering a copy to the party or his attorney, sixty
C8I1tB..
Diginzed by C008 le
205 THE. CODE OF
2. Per mile, travelling &om Court House of his county to
place of service, if out of theeounty town, and where imme-
diate service is not required, five cents.
3. As above, where immediate service is required, ten
-cents.
4. Arrest of a defendant in a civil action and taking bail,
including attendanceto justify, and all services connected
therewith, two dollars.
5. Arrest of person indicted, including all serviceeon-
neoted with the taking and justification of~ bail, one dollar.
8. Impaisonmen#»o£any psrsoninwoirvil oruriminal action,
Jifty cents; and.release from prison, thcirtyfoentst .
7. Executing subpoenwon a wilmess. without mileage,
twenty46ve cents.
8. Cenveyirlgm .prisoner to jail, if onemile or less, fifty
cents.
9. If over one mile, then per mile beyond the first, for .
prisoner, sheeiif and.guard, if any neoessany, and approved
by County Commissioners-per mile for each, ten cents.
10. Expense of guard and all other expenses of convey-
ing prisoner to jail, or from one jail to another for any pur-
pose, or tc%ny place of punishment-»-whatever may be
allowed by the Commissioners of the county in which the
indictment was issued. .
11. Feeding prisoners in the county jail per day-to be
fixed by the Commissioners of the county.
12. Providing prisoners in county jail with suitable beds,
bed clothing, other clothing and fuel, and keeping the prison
and grounds cleanly-whatever shall be allowed by the Com-
missioners of the county. . `
13. Collecting fine and costs from convict, two and a half
per cent. on the amount collected
14. Collecting executions for money in civil actions-two
and a half per cent. on the amount collected
15. Advertising a sale of property under execution, at each
public place required fifteen cents. .
16. Seizing pecific property under order of a court, or
Judge, or executing any other order of a court or Judge not
speciallyprovided for; to be allowed by the Judge.
Diginzed by Google
-1
07
own. PROCED URE 207
17. Taxing any official bond, including furnishing the
blank, HRy cents.
18. The actual expense of keeping dl property seized
under process or order of court; to be allowed by the court.
19. A capital execution, including the burial of the body,
twenty-five dollars.
20. .Summoning a grand or petit jury for each man sum-
moned, thirty cents.
21. Serving any writ or other process, with the aid of the
county, or arresting. any criminal, three dollars, and all
necessary expenses incurred thereby.
22. All just tees paid fn any printer for any advertisement '
required to be printed by the slgeriif
23. Bringing up a prisoner upon almbeas corpus to testify
or answer to any court or. before a.Judge, one dollar, and all
necessary expenses
CHAPTER VI.
FEES OF CORONEBS.
§568.-Speellm1on.
Coroners shall be entitled to fees as follows:
1. Coroners shall receive the same feesas are or shall be
allowed sherillis in similar cases.
2. For holding an inquest over a dead body, including the
summoning the jixry and returning the verdict-if finished
in one day, ten dollars. .
3. For every additional day occupied in the investigation
ofthe case, Hve dollars.
41 For summoning. each witness on inquest, lifteen cents,
5. For burying a pauper over Whom an inquest has been
held, to be paid by the county.
6. The fees in cases numbered one, two, and three shall
be paid by the county if the deceased be a pauper, otherwise
by his personal representatives.
•
Diginzed by C008 le
208 THE CODE OF
CHAPTER vu;
FEES OF :Usuczs OF 'run rmcn.
§589.--Spoellation.
Justices of the Peace shall be entitled to receive the fol-
lowing fees: _
For attachment or transcript of a judgment, twenty-five
_ cents.
For summons, fifteen cents.
For adjournment or continuance, ten cents.
For subpoena or order for Witnesses including all the
names inserted therein, twenty-live cent~. \
For tiling every paperlnecessary to be Bled, five cents.
For trial of anissue, fifty cents.
For entering judgment, twenty-.five cents
For taking affidavit, bondjor undertaking, Eve cents.
For drawing or taking aflldavit, bond or undertaking, pez;
copy sheet, ten cents. .
For receiving and entering verdict of jury, twenty-ive
cents.
For execution, twenty-ive cents.
For renewal of execution, ten cents.
For making a return to an appeal, one dollar.
For order of an arrest in a civil action, twenty-ive cents.
For warrant for apprehension of any person charged with
crime, or with being the father of a bastard, ifty cents.
For entering judgment for a contempt, fifty-cents.
For execution of such judgment, twenty-five cents.
For warrant of commitment for any cause, twenty-five
cents
For order for a commission to take testimony, fifty cents.
For taking deposisions on an order or commission issued
by some court, per copy sheet, ten cents.
For making necessary return and certificate thereto, fifty
cents.
Diginzed by C008 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 209
In civil actions where jhe sum recovered before the Justice
exceeds one hundred dollars, the above fees shall be increased
Hfty per cent.
CHAPTER VIII.
FEES OF CONSTABLES.
§570.-Like those of sheriff.
The fees of constables shall be the same as those lbr
sheriii for the like services.
CHAPTER IX.
FEES OF JURORS.
J J JJH
§57l.-Pay and mileage.
4 4 4 4 1. Jurors ro the Superior Courts, per day, what shall be
.v ul a i allowed by the County Commissioners of the County, not
exceeding two dollars and fifty cents.
2. Per mile of travel coming to, and returning from court,
five cents.
3. The same pay and mileage shall be allowed to special
jurors and the same pay, without mileage, to talesjurors.
CHAPTER X.
FEES AND SALARIES OF CLERKS OF THE surnmu-1 COURT.
$572.-To remain as heretofore.
The salary and fees of the Clerk of the Supreme Court
shall be as provided by section twenty-Eve, chapter one
hundred and two, of the Revised Code of this State.
14
Diginzed by C008 le
'210 THE CODE OF
T I T LE X X I I.
OF THE PRINTING OF THE CODE OF c1v1L PROCEDURE.
§573.-Code as prlnted under supervlslon of (lommlssloners, evldence of the law.
The Comrnississioners appointed, "to prepare a Code of
Practice and Procedure in the different courts of this
State," shall cause to be printed under their supervision, four
thousand copies of this, act, entitled "The Code of Civil
Procedure," including the Act concerning the jurisdiction ot
Justices of the Peace; the Act concerning the powers and
duties of Clerks of the Superior Courts as Judges of Pro-
bate, and and the Act fixing the fees of the clerk, sheriff
and other public officers, which are parts ot said Code, and
the copies thus printed, shall be received as evidence of the
law before all tribunals, and in all places, in the same
manner, and with the same effect as the original in the office
\» \. L of the Secretary of State.
§5*7|.-Copies, how distributed.
The said copies shall be distributed by the Secretary of
State, as follows: '
1. To the library of the Congress of the United States;
Hve copies.
2. To each of the several State and territories; three.
3. To the library of the University of North Carolina;
three.
4. To the Governor and the members of his council, for
the use of their respective offices; each two copies.
5. To each member of the General Assembly, to each
Justice of the Supreme Court, to each Judge of the Superior
Court, to each Clerk of the Superior Court; one copy.
G. To each Commissioner of the Code; five copies.
7. To each Justice of the Peace; one copy. _
8. Three hundred shall be exposed for sale, at a price not
exceeding cost, to be fixed by the Secretary of State, for the
benefit of the State..
Digitwzed by C008 le
/
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 211
9. The residue, and the copies which shall remain unsold
at the end of two years, sl1al1'be deposited in the library of
t he State.
TITLE XXIII.
RATIFICATION OF STATUTEB COMPOSING THIS CODE.
9545._Date of Ratlllutlon.
The various Statutes of which the Code of Civil Procedure
is composed, take effect from the date of ratification, as
follows:
I.-The Hrst part of the Code of Civil Procedure embrac-
ing Titles I, III, IV, V, VI, VII, and the greater part of
Title VIII, of this Code, was ratified on the eighteenthday
of August, A. D., 1868
II.-An Act entitled, " An Act concerning the powers and
duties of Clerks of the Superior Court," constituting Title II,
and Chapter V, of Title VIII, of the Code of Civil Procedure,
was ratified on the fourteenth day of August, A. D., 1868.
III.-The second part of the Code of Civil Procedure
embracing Titles IX to XVIII inclusive and Title XXII,was
ratified on the twenty-fourth day of August, A. D., 1868.
IV.-An Act entitled, "An Act concerning the powers
and duties of Clerks of the Superior Courts, as Judges ot
Probate," constituting Title XIX, of the Code of Civil Pro-
cedure, was ratified on the nineteenth day of August, A. D.,
1868.
V.-An Act in relation to the courts of Justices of the
Peace, being Title XX, of the Code of Civil Procedure, was
ratified on the twenty-fourth day of August, A. D., 1868.
VI.-An Act in relation to the tees of certain otiicers,
being Title XXI, of the Code of Civil Procedure, was ratified
on the twenty-fourth day of August, A. D., 1868.
Diginzed by C008 le
