mm nncmnr.. ses
PART II.
OF CIVIL ACTIONS.
TITLE I. 01 their form.
u. 01 the time of commencing them.
m. 01 the parties.
rv. 01 the place ol trial.
v. of the manner el commencing them.
vl. 01 the pleadings.
vn. 01 the provisional remedies.
vin. of the mu and judgment.
lx. 01 the execution ol the judgment.
x. 01 the costs.
xl. 01 actions ln particular cases.
xn. 01 appeals. \
xnI. 01 the miscellaneous proceedings and gene-l
provlslons.
xrv. Provisions respecting snlts lleretolore com-
menced.
mLE I.
OF THE FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.
8|¢'nos 564. Distinction between actions u law and suits in equity, end forms of
meh actions md suits, molinned.
565. Putin to m action, how designated.
sw. Feigned issues, nboliahed and order for trial tubltituted.
§554. The distinction between actions at law and
suits in equity, and the forms of all such actions and
suits, heretofore existing, are abolished ; and, there shall
be in this state, hereafter, but one form of action, for
lcxvn. oon:.] 15
Digitized by GOO8 le
226 'mu oonn or
the enforcement or protection of private rights and the
redress or prevention of private wrongs, which shall be
denominated a civil action.
See .dmended Code, §69. The references do not always
indicate thnt the provision referred to and that reported are
precisely the same,though we have intended to note the sub-
stantial differences.
§ 555. In such action, the party complaining is
known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the
defendant.
.dmended Code, §'70.
§ 556 There can be no feigned action or issue, but a
question of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, may
be tried by a jury, upon an order for the trial, stating,
distinctly and plainly, the question of fact to be tried,
and such order is the only authority necessary for a
trial.
.Hmended Code, § 72.
TITLE 11.
OF THE TIME OF commucma CIVIL ACTIONS.
Orunn I. Actions in general.
II. Action: for the recovery ot real property.
III. Actions, other thm for the recovery of rw property.
IV. General provisions.
CHAPTER I.
ran TIME OF oomnancmc Amicus IN Gamma..
§ 557. Civil actions can oniy be commenced within
the periods prescribed in this title, after the cause of
action shall have accrued, except where in special cases
adid`erent limitation is prescribed by statute.
./1m¢»»a¢a cm, 4 74.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. rnocmualz. 227
CHAPTER II.
THE TIME OF comnzscuw Acrxoxs ron THE nmcovsnm' OF REAL
PROPERTY.
Sxcnon 568. When the people will not me.
659. When action cs.nnot be brought by grantee from the state.
560. When actions by the people or their grantees to be brought within
twenty yearn-
661. Selsin within twenty years, when necessary in action for red
property.
562. Belsin within twenty years, when necessary in action or defence
founded on title to or rents of real property.
563. Action must be commenced within one year after entry, or within
twenty years after right of entry.
564. Possession when resumed. Occupation deemed under legal title,
unless adverse.
sen. Ocespstlon under written instrument or judgment, when deemed
adverse.
sea. What constitutes adverse possession, under written instrument or
judgment.
567. Premises actually occupied, under claim of title, deemed to be held
adversely.
568. What constitutes adverse possession under claim of title not written-
.569. Relation of landlord and tenant, as sfecting adverse possession.
570. Right of possession not adected by descent cut.
671 Certain dllabi1itle|.exc.\nded (mm time to commence actions.
§ 558. The people of this state will not sue any per#
son for or in respect to any real property, or the issues
or profits thereof; by reason of the right or title of the
people to the same, unless,
1. Such-right or title shall have accrued within forty
years before any action, or other proceeding, for the
same is commenced ; or unless,
2. The people, or those from whom they claim, shall
have received the rents and profits of such real proper-
ty, or ot some part thereof; within the space of forty
years.
./Imended code, § 75.
Digitized by GOO8 le "
228 THE CODE OF
§ 559. No action can be brought for, or in respect to
real property, by any person claiming under letters
patent, or grants from the people of this state, unless
the same might have been commenced by the people,
as herein specified, in case such patent had not been
issued or grant made.
Jlmended Code, § 76.
§'560. When letters patent, or grants of real proper-
ty, issued or made by the people of this state, are de-
clared void by the determination of a competent court,
rendered upon an allegation of a fraudulent suggestion,
concealment, forfeiture, or mistake, or ignorance of a
material fact, or wrongful detaining, or defective title,
in such case, an action for the recovery of the property,
so conveyed, may be brought either by the people of
this state, or by any subsequent patentee or grantee of
the same property, his heirs or assigns, within twenty
years afier such determination; but not after that pe-
riod.
.Hmended Code, § 77.
§ 561. No action for the recovery of real property, or
for the recovery of the possession thereof, can be main-
tained, unless it appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor,
predecessor, or grantor, was seised or possessed of the
property in question, within twenty years before the
commencement of the action.
Amended Code, § 78.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. rnoclnunr.. 229
§ 562. No cause of action or defence to an action ari-
sing out of the title to real property, or to rents or ser-
vices out of the same, can be effectual, unless it appear
that the person prosecuting the action, or making the
defence, or under whose title the action is prosecuted
or the defence is made, or the ancestor, predecessor or
grantor ofsuch person, was seised or possessed of' the
property in question, within twenty years before the
commission of the act in respect to which such action
is prosecuted or defence made.
.8mended Code, § 79.
§ 568. No entry upon real estate is deemed suiiicient
or valid as a claim, unless an action be commenced
thereupon within one year after the making of the en-
try, and within twenty years from the time when the
right to make it descended or accrued. '
./Qmended Code, § 80.
§564. In every action for the recovery of real pro-
perty, or the possession thereof; the person establishing
a legal title to the property is presumed to have been
possessed thereofwithin the time required by law ; and
the occupation of the property by any other person, is
deemed to have been under and in subordination to the
legal title, unless it appear that the property has been
held and possessed adversely to such legal title, for
twenty years before the commencement of the action
.dmended Code, § 81.
Digitized by GOO8 le
280 'mm con: or
§ 565. When it appears that the occupant, or those
under whom he claims, entered into the possession of
land under claim of title, exclusive of other right, mak~
ing such claim upon a written instrument, as being
a conveyance of' the land in question, or upon the
judgment of a competent court; and that there has
been a continued occupation and possession of the land
included in such instrument, or judgment, or of
some part of the land, under such claim, for twenty
years, the land so included is deemed to have been held
adversely, except that when it consists ofa tract divided
into lots, the possession of one lot is not deemed a pos-
session of any other lot of the same tract.
Amended Code, § 82.
§566. For the purpose of constituting an adverse
_ possession, by any person claiminga title founded upon
a written instrument or a judgment, land is deemed to
have been possessed and occupied in the following
cases:
1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved:
2. Where it has been protected by asubstantial in-
closure:
3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used
for the supply of fuel or of fencing timber, for the pur-
poses of husbandry, or the ordinary use of the occu~
pant:
4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been
partly improved, the portion of such farm or lot that
Digitized by GOO8 le
c!vxn esnclanvtz ear
may have been lefi not cleared, or wt inclosed accord-
ing to the custom of the adjoining colmtry, is deemed
to have been occupied for the same length of time as
the part improved.
.8mend¢d Code, § 83.
§ 567. Where it appears that there has been an actu-
al continued occupation of land, under a claim of title,
exclusive of any other right, but not founded upon a
written instrument, or judgment, the land so actually
occupied and no other, is deemed to have been held
adversely.
Jimmded Code, §84.
§ 668. For the purpose of constituting an adverse
possession, by a person claiming title not founded upon
a written instrument, or a judgment, land is deemed to
have been possessed and occupied in the following
cases only, viz:
1. Where it has been protected by a permanent en-
closure:
2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improyed
Amended Code, § 85.
§ 569. When the relation of landlord and tenant
has existed between any person, the possession of
the tenant is deemed the possession of the landlord,
until the expiration of twenty years from the terminag
tion of the tenancy ; or where there has been no writ-
ten lease, until the expiration of twenty years from the
Digitized by GOO8 le
232 rnmnnor
time of the last payment of rent; notwithstanding that
such tenant may have acquired another title, or may
have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord. But
such presumption can not be made alter the periods
herein limited.
Ammdai Code, § 86.
§ 570. The right of a person to the possession of read
property, is not impaired or affected by a descent cast,
in consequence of the death of a person in possession
of such property.
Amended Cade, §8'7.
§ 571. If a person entitled to commence an action for
the recovery of real property, or to make an entry or
defence founded on the title to real property, or to rents
or services out of the same, be at the time such title
first descends or accrues, either,
1. Within the age of twenty-one years, or
2. Insane, or
, 3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge; or in execution
upon conviction of a criminal offence, for a term less
than for life, or
4. A married woman;
The time, during which such disability continues, is.
not deemed any portion of the time in this chapter lim-
ited for the commencement of such action, or the ma-
king of such entry or defence; except that the disabili-
Digitized by GOO8 le
cnm nommu 233
ities cannot extend the period of limitation, so as to al-
low such°action to be commenced, or entry or defence
made, more than thirty years after the right accrued.
.dmended Code, § 88.
The qualification at the end of this section is new. There
seems no reason at the present day, for extending the limita-
tion further than is here proposed. Actions can be brought
by persons under disability, and the rights of persons in pos-
session require that they should be brought or abandoned. It
will be remembered, that the operation of this provision is
prospective, and affects no rights already accrued.
CHAPTER III.
mn nm: OF ooumzncmc ACTIONS OTHER THAN FOB 'rum uoovmnr OF
REAL PROPERTY
Blrnox 572. Periods of limitation prescribed.
573. Within twenty years.
574. Within six yeln.
575. Within three yearn.
576. Within two years.
m. Wxthln one year.
578. When cause of action accrued, In an sction upon a current account.
679_ Action: for penmltlel, hc., by any person who will sue, when to be
brought.
uso. Actions for relief, not before provided for.
58] Actions by the people, subject to the same limitstlon.
§ 572. The periods prescribed in section 557, for the'
commencement of actions other than for the recovery
of real property, are as follows:
./Qmendcd Code, §89.
Digitized by GOO8 le
234 -ml coax m
§ 573. Within twenty years:
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of a court
of the United States, or of any state or territory within
the United States:
2. An action upon a sealed instrument.
Amended Code, § 90.
§ 574. Within six years:
1. An action upon a contract, or other obligation,
express or implied ; excepting thosc mentioned in the
last section:
2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other
than a penalty or forfeiture:
3. An action for trespass upon real property:
4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring per-
sonal property, inciuding actions for the specific re-
cbvery thereof:
5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any
other injury to the person or rights of another, not aris-
ing on obligation, and not hereinafter enumerated:
6. An actiou for relief; on the ground of fraud ; the
cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have
accrued, until the discovery by the aggrieved party, of
• the facts constituting the fraud.
./Imended Code, § 91.
§ 575. Within three years:
Digitized by GOO8 le
crvu. nocmns. ess
1. An action against a sheriff; coroner or constable
upon a liability incurred by the doing of an act in his
oflicial capacity, and in virtue of his o$ce, or by the
omission of an ofhcial duty; including the failure to
pay money collected upon an execution; but this sec-
tion does not apply to an action for an escape:
2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfei-
ture, where the action is given to thc party aggrieved,
or to such party and the people of this state, except
where the statute imposing it prescribes a different
limitation.
Amended Code, §92.
§ 576. Within two years:
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or
false imprisonment:
2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penal~
ty to the people of this state.
Amended Code, §93.
§ 577. Within one year:
1. An action against a sheriif or other ofHcer, for the
escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on eivil
process.
' ./Imended Code, § 94.
§ 978. In an action brought to recover a balance due
upon a mutual, open and current account, where there
have been reciprocal demands between the parties, the
Digitized by GOO8 le r
sas mxoonm or
cause of action is deemed to have accrued, fiom the
time of the last item proved in the account, claimed, or
proved to be chargeable, on the adverse side.
.Hmended Code, § 95, modified as it seems to us it ought
to be.
§ 579. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or for~
feiture, given in whole or in part to the person who
prosecutes for the same, must be commenced within
one year after the commission of the offence ; and if
the action be not commenced within the year by a pri-
vate party, it may be commenced within two years
thereafter, in Behalf of the people of this state, by the
attorney-general or the district attorney of the county
where the offence was committed.
.Hmended Code, § 96.
§ 580. An action for relief; not hereinbefore provided
for, must be commenced within ten years after the
cause of action shall have accrued.
.dmended Code, § 97.
§ 581. The limitations prescribed in this chapter ap-
ply to actions brought in the name of the people of this
state, or for their benefit, in the same manner as to ac-
tions by private parties.
Amended Code, § 98.
Digitized by GOO816
cxvu. rnocmunz. 237
CHAPTER IV
GENERAL PROVIIIONS AS TO THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS.
Szcnox sae. When action deemed to have been commenced.
sea. Issuing summons in certain cues to be deemed e com msneement.
584. Exception, where defendant is out of the s'ate.
585. Exception, u to persons under disabilities.
585. Provision where person entitled, dies before the limitation expires.
587. In suits by aliens, time of war to be deducted.
usa. Provlslon, where judgment has been reversed.
sas. Time of stay of action by injunction or statutory prohibition to be
deducted.
sau. Disability mnst exist when right of action accrued.
591. Where two or more disabilities, limitation does not attach, till all
removed.
asa. This title not applicable to bills tc., of corporations, or to bank
notes.
ass. Nor to notions against directors or stockholders of monied corpora-
tions or banking' associations. Limitations in such cues pre-
scribed.
594. Acknowledgment, or new promise must be in writing.
ws. Exlstlng causes of action not sieoted.
§ 582. An action is commenced as to each defendant
when the summons is served on him, or on a co-def`end-
ant, who is a joint contractor, or otherwise united in
interest, with him.
./Hmmded Code,§ 99. This section and the next are chan-
ged in phraseology, so as to avoid the incongmity of the for-
mer provision, which allowed two modes of commencing an
action incondstent with each other.
§ 583. An attempt to commence an action, is deemed
equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the
meaning of this title, when the summons is delivered,
with the intent that it shall be actually served, to the
sheriffor other otlicer of the county, in which the de-
fendants, or one of them, usually or last resided ; or if
Digitized by GOO8 le
I me THE cons OF
a corporation be defendant, to the sheriff; or other oil
iicer, of the county, in which such corporation was es-
tablished by law, or where its general business was
transacted, or where it kept an ofiice for the transaction
of business. But such an attempt must be followed by
the first publication of the summons, or the service
thereof within sixty days.
§ 584. lg when the cause of action accrue against a
person, he be out of the state, the action may be corn-
menced within the term herein limited, after his return
to the state; and ig after the cause of action accrues,
he depart from the state, the time of his absence is not
part of the time limited for the commencement of the
action.
aww Code, §100.
§ 585. If a person, entitled to bring an action men-
tioned in the last chapter, except for a penalty or for-
feiwe, or against a sheriffor other ofiicer for an escape,
be at the time the cause of action accrued, either:
1. Within the age of twenty-one years: or
2. Insane; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution
under the sentence of a criminal court, for a term less'
than his natural life ; or
4. A married woman:
The time of such disability is not a part of the time
limited for the commencement of the action, except
Digitized by GOO8 le
CIVIL snocnnvam. 239
that the period within which the action must be brought,
cannot be extended more than five years, by any such
disability, except infancy, nor can it be so extended in
any case longer than one year after the disability ceases.
./Ymendcd Code, §]01. Modiied, so as to limit the time,
according to the views expressed in the note to section 571.
§ 586. If a person, entitled'to bring an action, die be-
fore the expiration of the time limited for the com-
mencement thereof; and the cause of action survive, an
action may be commenced by his representatives, after
the expiration of that time, and within one year from
his death. If a person, against whom an action may
be brought, die before the expiration of the time limi-
ted for the commencement thereof; and the cause of
action survive, an action may be commenced against
his representatives after the expiration of that time,
and within one year after the issuing of letters testa-
mentary, or of administration.
.dmmded Cade, §102.
§ 587. \Vhen a person is an alien subject, or citizen
of a country at war with the United States, the time of
the continuance of the war is not part of the period
limited for the commencement of the action.
Amended Code, §10a.
§588. If an action be commenced within the time
prescribed therefor, and a judgment therein for the plain-
Digitized by GOO8 le
240 'ram con: or
tiff be reversed on appeal, the plaintiif, or if he die,
and the cause of action survive, his representatives
may commence a new action, within one year afizer
the reversal.
Jimended Code, § 104.
§589. When the commencement of an action is
stayed by injunction, or statutory prohibition, the time
of the continuance of the injunction or prohibition, is
not part of the time limited for the commencement of
the action.
./imended Code, § 105.
§ 590. No person can avail himself of a disabilifY»
unlesss it existed when his right of action accrued.
Amended Code, §106.
§ 591. When two or more disabilities co-exist, at the
time the right of action accrues, the limitation does
not attach, until they are all removed.
Jimended Code, §10'7.
§ 592. This title does not affect actions to enforce the
payment of bills, notes, or other evidences of debt, is-
sued by monied corporations, or issued or put in circu-
lation as money.
Amended Code, § 108.
§ 593. Actions against directors or stockholders of a
monied corporation, or to recover a penalty or forfeiture
imposed, or to enforce a liability created by law, must
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. Pxocnnunr.. 241
be brought within six years after the discovery, by the
aggrieved party, of the facts upon which the penalty or
fdrfeiture attached, or the liability was created,
Amended Code, §109.
§594. No acknowledgment or promise is sufficient
evidence of a new or continuing contract, by which to
take the case ont of the operation of this title, unless
the same is contained in some writing signed by the
party to be charged thereby; but this section does not
alter the effect of any payment of principal or interest.
./Imended Code, §110.
§595. This title does not extend to actions already
commenced, nor does any part of it, except section
583, extend to cases where the right of action has al-
ready accrued: but the statutes now in force are appli-
cable to such cases, according to the subject of the
action, and without regard to the form.
.Hmended Code, §'73.
[cxvm mum] 16
Digitized by GOO8 le
242 THE cons or
TITLE 111.
OF THE PARTIES To CIVIL Afrrlous.
Bzc-non 596. Who may be parties.
597. Action to be in the name of the real party in interest.
598. Assignment of a thing in action not to prejudice a defence.
599. Executor or trustee may sue without the persons benedcially inter-
ested.
wo. When married woman is a party, her husband to be joined, except.
001 Wife may defend if husband refuses.
soz. Infant to appear by guardian.
ew. Guardian how appointed.
604. Unmarried female may sue for her own seduction.
wo. Father may sue for seduction of daughter.
sos. Father may sue for death of child.
sm. Wife may sue or defend if deserted.
eos. Who may be joined as plaintiffs.
609. Who may be made defendants.
610. Parties united in interest, when to be joined. When one or more
may sue or defend for the whole.
sn. Plaintiff may sue in one action the different parties to commercial
paper.
612. Action when not to abate by death, marriage, or other dl-bility.
Proceedings in such case.
613. Court when to decide controversy, or to order other parties to be
brought in.
614. Another person nay be substituted for defendsnt.
615. Associates may be sued by name of association.
§596. The pe0ple of this state, in their political or
corporate capacity, the United States of America, every
sister state of the United States, every organized terri-
tory of the United States, every foreign state or sove-
reign prince in amity with the United States, all other
corporations, foreign or domestic, and all natural per-
sons, not alien enemies, or adjudged civilly dead, may
be parties, plaintiffs, in the courts of this state; every
state, sovereign, and body politic mentioned in this sec-
tion, and every other corporation and natural person
may be a party, defendant.
New, for the purpose of defining who may be parties to
actions in our courts.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. rnocx-znvnr.. 243
§ 597. Every action must be prosecutcd in the name
of the real party in interest, except as otherwise pro-
vided in section 599.
.Hmended Code, § 111.
§598. In the case of an assignment of a thing in
action, the action by the assignee is without prejudice
to any set-oH` or other defence existing at the time 012 or
before notice of; the sssignment; but this section does
not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of ex-
change transférred in good faith and upon good con-
siderations, before due.
#mended Code, ig 112.
§ 599. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an
express trust, or a person expressly authorised by statute,
may sue without joining with him the persons for
whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A person with
whom, or in whose name, a contract is made, for the
beneit of another, is a trustee of an express trust, with-
in the meaning of this section.
Amended Code, § 113. The last sentence is added to re-
move a doubt which has been expressed. »
§ 600. When a married woman is a party, her hus-
band must be joined with her, except that,
1. When the action concerns her separate property,
she may sue alone:
Digitized by GOO8 le
244 THE CODE or
2. When hw action is between herself and her hus-
band, she may sue or be sued' alone.
.Hmended Code,§ 114.
§ 601. If a husband and wife be sued together, the
wife may defend for her own right, and if the husband
neglect to defend, she may defend for his right also.
See 2 R. S., 340, sections 4 & 5. There is no reason why
the provision should not be extended to all actions as well as
those concerning real property.
§ 602. When an infant is a party, he must appear by
guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which
the action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof
Amended Code, E; 115.
§ 603. The guardian must be appointed as ibllowsz
1. When the infant is plaintiif upon the application
of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, or if
under that age, upon the application of some other party
to the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant:
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application
of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and
apply within twenty days after the service of the sum-
mons. If he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect
so to apply, then upon the application of any other
party to the action, or of a relative or friend ~of the in-
fant.
.Hmendad Code, § 116.
Digitized by GOO816
avu. Pnocznumz. 245
§ 604. An unmarried female may prosecute, asplain-
fig; an action for her own seduction, and may recover
therein such damages as shall be assessed in her fa-
The purpose of this section and the next is to wipe away
from our law a reproach, to which it has long been subject,
that of giving no adequate remedy for one of the greatest
offences against society, which a man can commit, that of se-
duction. At present the law gives only an action to the
parent, or to one who stands in his relation, founded upon
the notion, that he has suH'ered a pecuniary injury by the
loss of service of the person seduced. Now the seduction of
awoman, by which is meant inducing her, by persuasion,
threats, or fraud, to consent to the sacrifice of her virtue, isan
injury to herself and to her relations, of the gravest charac-
ter. For this injury the law should provide a remedy, not
by means of a iiction, but open and direct, in favor of the
person injured.
The objection, that will be made to an action by the woman,
is that she has consented to the act. That however does not
seem to us an answer,for two reasons. First, there are many
other cases, where the law does now give an action for an
injury to a party consenting; as for example, in the case of
property obtained by false representation or other fraud,
money lost upon stocks, at play, or borrowed upon usury.
Secondly,the woman and her seducer do not stand upon
equal grounds; she is the weaker party, and the victim of
his arts.
With this short statement of our own views,and the follow-
ing passage from Paley, we submit these sections to the
judgment of the legislature.
"The seducer practices. the same stratagems to draw a
woman's person into his power, that a swindler does to get
possession of your goods or money; yet the law of honor,
which abhors deceit, applauds the address of a successful in-
trigue s so much is this capricious rule guided by names, and
Digitized by GOO8 le
246 THE cons OF
with such facility does it accommodate itself to the pleasures
and conveniency of higher life.
Seduction is seldom accomplished without fraud; and. the
fraud is by so much more criminal than other frauds, as the
injury effected by it is greater, continues longer, and less ad-
mits reparation.
This injury is threefold; to the woman; to her family ;
and to the public.
1. The injury to the woman is made up of the pain she
sutfers from shame, or the loss she sustains in her reputation
and prospects of marriage, and of thc depravation of her
moral principle.
' This pain must be extreme, if we may judge of it from
those barbarous endeavors to conceal their disgrace, to which
women, under such circumstances, sometimes have recourse ;
comparing also their barbarity with their passionate fondness
for their oB`spring in other cases. Nothing but an agony of
mlnd the most insupportable can induce a woman to forget her
nature, and the pity which even a stranger would show to a
helpless and imploring infant. It is tme, that all are not
urged to this extremity ; but if any are, it aifords an indica-
tion of how much all suH`er from the same cause. What shall
we say to the authors of such mischief 'Q
* The loss which a woman sustains by the ruin of her
reputation,almost exceeds computation. Every person's hap-
piness depends in part upon the respect and reception which
they meet with in the world ; and it is no inconsiderable mor-
titication, even to the firmest temper, to be rejected from the
society of their equals, or received by them with neglect and
disdain. But this is not all, nor the worst. By a nile of
life, which it is not easy to blame, and which it is impossible
to alter, a woman loses with her chastity the chance of mar-
rying at all, or in any manner equal to the hopes she had been
accustomed to entertain. Now marriage, whatever it be to
a man, is that from which every woman expects her chief '
happiness. And thisis still more true in low life, of which
condition the women are, who are most exposed to solicitations
of this sort. Add to this, that when a woman's maintenance
depends upon her character, (as it does in a great measure,
with those who are to support themselves by service,) little
Digitized by GOO8 le
crvu. nocmnvu. 24?
sometimes is left to the forsaken sufferer, but to starve for
want of emplt>yment, or to have recourse to prostitution for
food and miment.
3. As a woman collects her virtue into this point, the loss
of her chastity is generally the destruction of her moral prin-
ciples; and this consequence is to be apprehended, whether
the criminal intercourse be discontinued or not.
II. The injury to the family may be understood, by the
application of that infallible rule, " of doing fo others, what
we would that others should do unto us." Let a father or
brother say, for what consideration they would suffer this in-
jury to a daughter or sister ; and whether any, even a total
loss of fortune, could create equal atlliction or distress. And
when they reflect upon this, let them distinguish, if they can,
between a robbery, committed upon their property by fraud
or forgery, and the ruin of their happiness by the treachery of
a seducer.
III. The public at large lose the benefit of the woman's
service in her proper place and destination, as a wife and
parent. This to the whole community may be little ; but it
is otten more than all the good,which the seducer does to the
community, can recompense. Moreover prostitution is sup-
plied by seduction; and in proportion to the danger there is
of the woman betaking herself, after her first sacrihce, to a
life of public lewdness, the seducer is answerable for the
multiplied evils to which his crime gives birth.
Upon the whole, if we pursue the eH`ects of seduction
through the complicated misery which it occasions, and if it
be right to estimate crimes by thc mischief they knowingly
produce, it will appear something more than mere invective
to assert, that not one half of the crimes, for which men suH`er
death, by the laws of England, are so flagitious as this.
Yet the law has provided no punishment for this offence,
beyond a pecuniary satisfaction to the injured family ; and
this can only be come at, by one of the quaintest fictions in
the world; by the father's bringing his action against the se
ducer, for the loss of his daughter's service, during her preg-
nancy and nurturing." Paley's Moral Philosophy, p. 199.
§ 605. A father, or in case of his death or desertion
of his family, the mother, may prosecute as plaintilf
Mgitized by (google
248 TBI con: or
for the seduction of the daughter, and the guardian for
the seduction of the ward, though the daughter or
ward be not living with, or in the service 012 the plain-
tilil at the time of the seduction or afterwards, and
there be no loss of service.
§ 606. A father, or in case of his death or desertion
of his family, the mother, may maintain an action for
the injury or death of a child, and a guardian for the
injury or death of his ward.
To settle a question of some doubt.
§ 607. When a husband and father has deserted his
family, the wife and mother may prosecute or defend,
in his name, any action which he might have prose-
cufed or defended, and shall have the same powers and
rights therein as he might have had.
To provide for cases of great hardship, that sometimes
happen.
§ 608. All persons having an interest in the subject
of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded,
may be joined as plaintiiih, except when otherwise pro-
vided in this title.
.dmended Code, § 117.
§609. Any person may be made a defendant, who
has or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to
the plaintifil or who is a necessary party to a complete
determination or settlement of the question involved
therein.
Jlmmdcd Cod¢,§ 118.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. raocsmmx. 249
§610. Of the parties to the action, those who are
united in interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defend-
ants ; but if the consent of any one, who should have
been joined as plaintifil cannot be obtained, he may be
made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in
the complaint: and when the question is one of a
common or general interest of many persons, or when
the parties are numerous and it is impracticable to
bring them all before the court, one or more may sue
or defend for the benefit of all.
.rlmended Code, §119.
§611. Persons severally liable upon the same obliga-
tion or instrument, including the parties to bills of ex-
change and promissory notes, and sureties on the same
or separate instruments, may, all or any of them, be
included in the same action, at the option of the plain-
fmt
./Immded Code, § 120, amazded.
§612. An action does not abate by the death, mar-
riage or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of
any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or
continue. In case of the death, marriage, or other dis-
abilityol' a party, the court on motion, may allow the
action to be continued by or against his representative
or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer
of interest, the action may be continued in the name
of the original party; or the court may allow the per-
Digitized by GOO8 le
250 \ THB mol OF
son to whom the transfer is made to be substituted in
the action.
.rimended Code, § 121.
§ 618. The court may determine any controversy be-
tween parties before it, whenit can be done without
prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their
rights; but when a complete determination of the con-
troversy cannot be had without the presence of other
parties, the court must order them to be brought in.
And when, in an action for the recovery of real or per-
sonal property. a person, not a party to the action, but
having an interest in the subject thereof, makes appli-
cation to the court to be made a party, it may order
him to be brought in by the proper amendment.
- .Hmcnded Code, §122.
§ 614. A defendant, against whom an action is pend-
ing, upon a contract, or for speciic, real, or personal
property, may, at any time before answer, upon adi-
davit, that a person, not a party to the action, and with-
out collusion with him, makes against him a demand
for the same debt or property, apply to the court for an
order to substitute such person in his place, and dis-
charge him from liability to either party, on his deposit-
ing in court the amount of the debt, or delivering the
property or its value to such person as the court may
direct. And the court, after notice to the plaintiff and
such person, may, in its discretion, make the order;
Digitized by GOO8 le
avu. Pnocznvu. 251
and thereupon the substituted defendant shall stand in
the place of the original defendant, and the latter be
discharged from liability to either party.
The object of this section is to save the necessity, in most
cases, of an action to compel two parties, claiming the same
thing, to settle the controversy between them by interplead-
ing. The interpleader act in England was passed for the same
purpose.
§ 615. When two or more persons, associated in any
business, transact such business under a common name,
whether it comprise the names of such persons or not,
the associates may be sued by such common name, the
summons in such case being served on one or more of
the associates; and the judgment in the action shall
bind the joint property of all the associates in the same
manner as if all had been named defendants, and had
been sued upon their joint liability. Any one of the
associates may also be sued for the obligation of all.
See Laws Qf 1836, chap. 385.
TITLE IV.
or THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.
Buenos 616. Certain actions to be triw where the subject or some pert thereof ll
situated.
617. Other notions, where the cause or some part thereof arose.
618. Other actions, according to the residence of the parties.
519. Action may be tried in my county unlesb defendant demand trial ln
proper county.
M. Place of trial may be changed in curtain cues.
6 616. Actions for the following causes, must be tried
inthe county in which the subject of the action, or
some pan thereof is situated, subject tothe power of
Digitized by GOO8 le
» 252 THE oonn or
the court to change the place of trial, as provided in
section 620:
1. For the recovery of real property or of an estate
or interest therein, or for the determination, in any
form, of such right or interest, and for injuries to real
property:
2. For the partition ofreal property:
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property:
4. For the recovery of personal property, distrained
for any cause.
./Imcnded Code, § 123.
§ 617. Actions for the following causes, must be tried
in the county where the cause, or some part thereof
arose, subject fo the like power of the court, to change
the place of trial, as,
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed
by statute; except, that when it is imposed for an ofl
fence committed on a lake, river, or other stream of
water, situated in two or more counties, the action may
be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river
or stream, and opposite to the place where the offence
was committed :
2. Against a public officer or person specially ap-
pointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him
in virtue of his ofiice, or against a person, who by his
command or in his aid, does any thing touching the
duties of such oflicer.
.dniendcd Cod¢,§ 124.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. rnocnnunz. 263
§ 618. In all other cases, the action must be tried in
the county in which the parties or some of them reside
at the commencement of the action ; or if none of the
parties reside in the state, the same may be tried in any
county which the plaintiff may designate in his com-
plaint; subject, however to the power of the court to
change the place of trial, as provided in section 620.
./immded Code, K; 125.
§619. If the county designated for that purpose in
the complaint, be not the proper county, the action
may, notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the de-
fendant before the time for answering expire, demand
in writing that the trial be had in fhe proper county,
and the place of trial be thereupon changed by consent
of parties, or by the order of the court, as provided in
the next section.
Jimended Code, § 126.
§ 620. The court may change the place of' trial on the
application of all the defendants, who answer in the
following cases:
1. When the county designated for that purpose in
the complaint is not the proper county:
2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial
trial cannot be had therein:
3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends
of justice would be promoted by the change.
New, for the purpose of declaring the cases in which the
place of trial may be changed by order of the court.
Digitized by GOO8 le
264 THE cons or
TITLE V.
OF THB BANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS-
Bxcnon 621. Actions, how commenced.
622- Bummons, requlsites of.
623. Notice to be inserted in certain actions.
624. Complaint need not bc served with summons in certain cues.
825. Defendant unreasonably defending, when to pay costs.
626. Notice of pendency of nctlon affecting title to real property.
627. Bummons, by whom served.
M. Bnmmons, how served and returned.
629. Publication when defendant cannot be found.
630. Manner of publication.
631. Defendant may be afterwards let ln to defend.
82. Proceedings when there are several defendants,and put only served.
833. Service of summons, how proved.
634. When jurisdiction of setion acquired.
§621. Civil actions in the courts of this state must
be commenced by the service of a summons.
./Imended Cade, § 127.
§ 622. The summons must be subscribed by the
plaintifi, or his attorney, and directed to the defendant,
requiring him to answer the complaint, and serve a
copy of his answer on the person whose name is sub-
scribed to the summons, at a place within the state,
therein specified, in which there is a post oilice, within
twenty days after the service of the summons, exclu-
sive of the day of service.
./Imended ow, 4 128.
§ 623. The plaintiff must also insert in the summons
a notice, in substance as follows:
1. In an action, arising on obligation for the recov-
ery of money only, that he will take judgment for a
Digitized by GOO8 le
cnvu. rnocmnun. 255
sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to answer
the complaint:
2. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to an-
swer the complaint, the plaintiff will apply to the court
for the relief demanded therein.
./Imended Code, § 129.
§ 624. A copy of the complaint must be served with
the summons, unless the complaint itself be already on
the files of the court. In the latter case, the service of'
a copy with the summons may be omitted, but then the
summons must state where the complaint is Hled; and
if the defendant, within ten days thereafter, in person
or by attorney, demand in writing, a copy of the com-
plaint, specifying a place within the state where it may .
be served, a copy thereof must be served accordingly,
and after such service the defendant has twenty days to
answer ; but only one copy need be served on the same
attorney.
.fimended Code, § 130.
It will be seen, that this section differs from the code as
amended in this important respect, that while the latter per-
mits a plaintii to commence an action without filing or ser-
ving his complaint, the former requires it to be either filed or
served.
The reason for the change is this. If a defendant be
served with a summons, requiring him merely to answer a
complaint, which will be filed, he must, almost as a matter of
necessity, employ a lawyer, to see that no advantage is taken
of him. But if the summons inform the defendant that the
complaint against him is on Ble, and where he may find it,
Digitized by GOO8 le
256 THE com: OF
or, what is better, if it be accompanied by a copy, he can de-
termine for himself in most cases, whether there be any occasion
for him to make a defence. If it be desirable to relieve defend-
ants, as far aa possible, from the necessity of employing a
lawyer, then the section, as we have it, ought to stand.
If it be objected, that there are cases of great urgency, not
admitting of the delay incident to the preparation of a com-
plaint, it is to be answered, that such cases are very rare,
that an arrest or other provisional remedy cannot in any case
be had, without an affidavit, which requires as much time as
a complaint, and that formerly no serious embarrassment re-
sulted from requiring a bill to be filed before an injunction
was issued.
§ 625. In the case of a defendant against whom no
personal claim is made, the plaintiff may deliver to him
with the summons, a notice subscribed by the plaintiff
or his attorney, setting forth the general object of the
action, a brief description of the property, affected by
it, if it effect specific real or personal property, and that
no personal claim is made against such defendant, flf a
defendant, on whom such notice is served, unreasona-
bly defend the action he must pay costs to the plaintiff.
.Hmended Code,§ 130. Changed, so aa to embrace every
action instead of confining it, as before, to actions for partition
of real property or foreclosure of mortgages.
§ 626. In an action affecting the title to real property,
the plaintiff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at
any time afterwards, may file with the clerk of each
county' in which the property is situated, a notice of the
pendency of such action, containing the names of the
parties, the object of the action, and a description of
the property in that county affected thereby, If the
Digitized by GOO8 le
cmb nocrmnm. an
action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage, such rr6>
tice must be filed twenty days before jndgmem, amd
must contain the date of the mortgage, the names of the
parties thereto, and the time and place of recording the
same. From the time of filing, and for two years 'there-
after only, the pendency of the action is constructive
notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property
affected thereby, but the notice may be rehled from
time to time with the same elfect.
.Hmazded Code, § 132.
§ 627. The summons may be served by the sherid' of
the county where the defendant is found, or by any
other person, not a pany to the action, The service
must be made, and the summons returned, with proof
of the service, to the person whose name is subscribed
thereto, with all reasonable diligence. The person sub,
scribing the summons, may, at his option, by an en-
dorsement on the summons, 'dx a time for the serViG¢
thereof; and the service must then be made accordingly,
#mended Code, § 133.
§ 628. The summons must be served by delivering a
copy thereof; as follows:
1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the presi-
cient or other head of the corporation, secretary, cash-
ier, or managing iagent thereof:
2. If against a minor under the age of' fourteen years,
tu such minor personally, and also to his father, mother,
IcIvu. conn] 17
Digitized by GOO8 le
ass 'rn mn: or
or guardian, or if there be none within the state, then
to any person having the care and control of such mi-
nor, or with whom he resides or in whose service he is
employed:
3. If against a person judicially declared to be of
unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own afl
fairs in consequence of habitual drunkenness, and for
whom a committee has been appointed, to such com~
mittee, and to the defendant personally:
4. In all other cases to the defendant personally.
.dmmded wh, §1a4.
§ 629. Where the person on whom the service of the
summons is to be made, cannot, after due diligence, be
found within the state, and that fact appears by aili-
davit to the satisfaction of the court or a judge there-
08 and it in like manner appears that a cause of
action exists against the defendant, in respect to
whom the service is to be made, or that he is a ne-
cessary or proper party to an action, relating to real
property in this state, such court or judge may grant
an order that the service be made, by the publication
of a summons, in either of the following cases:
I. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation:
. 2. Where the defendant being a resident of this state,
has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his. cne-
ditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps
himself concealed therein, with the like intent.
Digitized by GOO8 le
ann rnocmnun. 269
8. Where he is not a resident of this state, but hu
property therein, and the action arises on obligation, and
the court hasjurisdiction oi the subject of the action :
4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal
property in this state, and the defendant has, or claims,
a lien or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the
relief demanded consists, wholly or partly, in excluding
the defendant from any interest therein:
5. Where the action arises upon a modgage on pro-
perty in this state, and the defendant is personally
chargeable with the debt for which the mortgage is
security:
6. Where the action is for divorce, in the cases pre-
scribed by law.
Jimmded Code, § 135. \
§630. The order must direct the publication to be
made in two newspapers to be designated, as most like-
ly to give notice to the person to be served, and for \
such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, not
less than once a week, for six weeks. In case of pub-
lication, the court or judge must also direct a copy of
the summons and complaint, to be forthwith deposited
in the post oflice, directed to the person to be served,
at his place of residence, unless it appear that suoh
residence is neither known to the party making the ap-
plication, nor can with reasonable diligence be ascer-
tadned by him. When publication is ordered, personal
service of a copy of the summons and complaint, out
Digitized by GOO8 le
'260 fnmoonsor
of the state, is equivalent to publication, and depo~
site in the post office. In either ease the service of the
summons is 10 be deemed complete, at the expiration
of the iimeprescribed by the order for publication.
.flmmded Code,§ 185.
§ 681. If the summons be not personally served 0| a
defendant, nor received by him through the post oflice,
in the cases provided for in the last two sections, he or
his representatives, on application and suflicient cause
shown, at any time before judgment, must be allowed
to defend the action; and, except in an action for divorce,
the defendant or his representatives, may in like man-
ner, be allowed to defend after judgment, or at any time
within one year after notice thereof; and within seven
years after its rendition, on such terms as may be just;
and if the defence be successful, and the judgment, or
any part thereof, have been collected or otherwise
enforced, such restitution may thereupon he compelled
/ as the court directs.
Amended Code, § 135.
§ 632. \Vhere the action is against two or more de-
fendants, and the summons is served on one or more»
but not on all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as
follows:
1. If the action be against the defendants jointly in~
debted upon an obligation, he may proceed against the
ddéndants served, unless the court otherwise direct,
Digitized by GOO8 le
CIVIL rnwmuxs. sox-
and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against
all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as
that it may be enforced againstthe joint property of all
and the sepamte property of' the defendants served a111f
if they are subject to arrest, against their persons: or,
2. If the action be against defendants severally lia-
ble, he may proceed against the defendants served, in
the same manner as if they were the only defendants.
Jimended Codt, § 136. Modified so as.to explain the mode
of proceeding without reference to the former law.
§ 633. Proof of the service of the summons, and of
the complaint or notice, if any, accompanying the same
must be as follows :
1. If served by the sheriff; his certificate thereof; or
2. If by any other person, his' aftidavit thereof; or
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer,
or his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same;
and an allidavit of a' deposit of a oopy of the summons
in the post-oflice, if the same shall have been deposit-
(EdI or
4. The written admission of the defendant:
In case of service, otherwise than by publication,
the certificate, aiiidavit or admission must state the time
and place of the service.
.H/nended Code, § 138.
§ 634- From the time of the service of the summons* 4
in a civil action, or the allowance of a provisional re-
Digitized by GOO8 le 4
262 *ml oonn or
medy, the court is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction,
and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings.
A voluntary appearance of a defendant is equivalent to
personal service of the summons upon him.
.dmmdcd Code, § 139. Enlarged, so as to include a volun-
tary appearance without service of process.
TITLE Vl.
OF TI-IE ruzwmcs IN crvu. Ac'r1oNs.
Cxnnn I. The pleadings in general.
ll. The complaint.
III. The demun-er.
IV. The answer.
V. The reply.
VI. Generd rules of pleading.
VII. Mistakes ln pleading and emendmenh.
CHAPTER I.
'rss nmnxuas IN Gunn..
Blcrxon 835. Dednltion of pleadings.
836. Former system of Plwiins abolished.
637. What pleadings ue sllowod.
§ 635. The pleadings are the formal allegations by
the parties of their respective claims and defences, for
the judgment of' the court.
§ 636. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing,
are abolished; and hereafter, the forms of pleading in
civil actions, and the rules by which the sufiiciency oi'
the pleadings is to be determined, are those prescribed
in this code.
Original Code, § 118.
Digitized by GOO816
aaa
exvm nwmou.
§637. The only pleadings allowed on the part of the
plaintiff are
1. The complaint,
2. The reply ; and on the part of the defendant,
1. The demurrer, or
2. The anwer.
I .dmended Code, § 141-143 and 156.
CHAPTER 11.
'rut oom>r.uN'r.
Buenos 638» First pleading to be complaint.
89. Compldnt, what to contxin.
§ 638. The iirst pleading on the part of the plaintilll
is the complaint.
Amended Code,§ 141.
§ 639. The complaint must contain:
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the
court in which the action is brought, the name of the
county in which the plaintiff desires the trial to be
had, and the names of the parties to the action, plain-
tiff and defendant:
2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise language, without
repetition, and in such a manner as to enable a person
of common understanding to know what is intended:
Digitized by GOO8 le
l
znamnon
8. A demand-of the relief; to which the plaintiff sup-
poses himself entitled. If the recovery of money bef
demanded, the amount thereof must be stated.
#mended Code, § 142.
CHAPTER III.
THE nmvnnnn.
lzerxon 640. When the defendant may demnr.
641 Demurrer must specify grounds of objection to conzpiaint.
642. How to proceed if complaint be amended.
043. Objection not appearing on complamt may be taken by anuven
644- Objection, when deemed wnived.
§ 640. The defendant may demur to the complaint,
within twenty days afier the service of a copy thereof;
when it appears upon the face thereo£ either,
1. That the court has no jurisdiction af the persorwf
the defendant, or the subject of the action: or,
2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue:
or,
8. Thatthere is another action pending between the
shmc parties, for the same cause: or.
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or de-
fendant : or,
5. That several causes of action have been improper-
fy united: or,
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufiicient
to constitute a cause of action.
.Hmmded C'od¢, § 144.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. noomun. nam
In the Code, as originally reported, a demurrer was only
allowed to a complai »t. Demurrers to answers and replies
are allowed by an amendment made at the last session. The
Commissioners adhere to their former system, and recommend
that there should not be a demurrer to an answer or reply.
The question is important as a question of time. Demurrers
are considerable hindrances to the progress of a cause. Let
the defendant put in his. answer at his peril; the risk of
mischance is small. If he havea defence, it is scarcely pos-,
sible he should lose it. But.if demurrers be allowed,they
will become fruitful sources of expense and delay. A demur-
rer to an answer was not allowed in chancery, and no ham
ever came from its exclusion. Il the restoration we propose
be not made, not only will demurrers often be interposed to
answers, as a means of harrassing defendants and subjecting
them to wxpense, but demurrers to replies will be resorted to
by defendants who desire delay.
§ 641. The demurrer must distinctly specify the
grounds upon which any of the objections to the com-
plaint are taken. Unless it do so, it may be disregard-
ed. It may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action alleged therein.
.8msndell Cade § 145.
§642. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof
must be served on the defendant, who must answer it'
within twenty days, or the plaintiff; upon filing with
the nlerk proof of the service, and of the defendant's
omission may proceed to obtain judgment, as in othen
casmof failure to answer, but where an application ta
thecaurt for judgment is necessary, eight days' notice
thereof must be given to the defendant.
.Hmended Code, § 146.
Digitized by GOO816
ass THE con: or
§ 643. When any of the matters enumerated in sec-
tion 640 do not appear upon the face of the complaint,
the objection may be taken by answer.
Jimended Code, § 147.
§ 644. If no such objection be taken, either by demur-
rer or answer, the defendant must be deemed to have
waived the same, excepting only the objection to the
jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the
complaint does not state facts sutiicient to constitutea
cause of action. /
.Hmended Code, § 148.
CHAPTER IV.
rm: ANSWER.
Bxcrxon 645. Answer, what to contain.
ass. When counterclaim may be let up.
647. Counterclaim precludes mother action for the lame cause.
648. Counterclalm notbarrcd by death or assignment.
649. Answer may contain several ground! of defence.
ew. Amendment allowed after trial, on complaint and answer.
§ 645. The answer of the defendant must contain:
1. A denial of each allegation of the complaint con-
troverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or in-
formation thereof; suilicient to form a belief:
2. A statement of any new matter, constituting a
defence or counterclaim, in ordinary and concise lan-
guage, without repetition, and in such a manner as to
enable a person of common understanding to know
what is intended.
./Imended Code, § 149.
Digitized byGoo3le
crvu. nocnuun. 267
§ 846. The counterclaim mentioned in the last sec-
tion, must be one existing in favor of a defendant, and
against plaintiff, between whom a several judgment
might be had in the action, and arising out of one of
the following causes of action:
1. A cause of action, arising out of the contract or
transaction set forth in the complaint, as the founda-
tion of the plaintifl"s claim, or connected with the sub-
ject of the action:
2. In an action arising on obligation, any other cause
of action arising also on obligation, and existing at the
commencement of the action.
In what cases a cross-demand should be litigated in the
same action with the original claim, is a question of some im-
portance. On one :ide it is said, that there is great incon-
venience in having several distinct controversies thrown to-
gether into one trial ; while on the other it is answered, that
there is a greater inconvenience in having several law-suits,
where one would answer the purpose.
The statute of set-off was the first innovation upon the com-
mon law. That, however, was quite limited in its operation.
Of late years, the courts have let in a new set of cross-demands,
under the name of recoupement. We propose in this section
to open the door still wider, and to admit many cross-demands,
now excluded. Further experience may show, that the door
should be opened wider still.
The first subdivision of this section is intended to remove
a doubt which has been sometimes expressed, whether affir-
mative relief' can be given, upon an answer setting up a de~
fence which heretofore would have been accounted equitable
only. For example, in the case of an action to dispossess an
occupant of land; the defendant claims to occupy under a
contract to purchase, and asks on his part for a judgment
that the plaintiff give him a conveyance. It is the intention
of the code, that the whole controversy between the partia
Digitized by GOO8 le
268 nm mpg or
should be settled in one action, amd that either plaintiff or de
fendant should have such relief, as the nature of the case re-
quircs. It is as easy to do this, as it is to decide upon what
was considered a mere equitable defence to a legal demand,
and there is no difficulty in either.
Suppose an action upon a written agreement to recover
damages for not performing it. The defendant answers that'
the writing does not express the intention of the parties, and
that he did perform it according to the real agreement be'
tween them. Is such a defence admissible under the code?
That question involves another, which is this ; is the ag'ree~
ment by the law of the land binding upon the defendant as-it'
stands, or is it not 'I
Now ifit be not binding upon him, that is, if before the
code he could by any form of action get rid of it, he can do'
so now in the action prosecuted under the code. The etfect
of the code is to open the door to remedies without disturb-
ing rights. It has not changed the rights of the parties. It
has simplified and shortened their remedies.
It should be borne in mind that the rulcs of courts of equity
are already in numbcrless instances administered by courts of
law, even in those states where courts of equity exist, and uni-
uersally in those states where there are no courts of equity,
so lar as the strict forms of common law courts will allow.
Take the case of Pennsylvania. The common law courts
have from time immemorial administered equity law. The
only embarrassment that has attended it, has arisen from the
imperfect machinery of the courts of law. lf they had en-
larged their forms, as our code has enlarged them, their sys-
tem would have been excellent. Their courts of' law have al-
ways held that the defendant may set up an equitable defence ¢
In the case of Jordan & Cooper 3, S. & R. 578, Chief Justice
Tighlman said, "That equity is a pant of the law of Penn-
sylvania, has never been disputed, and that a defendant
may put in a plea founded upon equityonly, is equally clear."
A jurist nf Pennsylvania, in an edition of an English work
on Equity, uses the following remarkable language:
" The rules of equity being consolidated with those of law,
it is evident that our only deficiency is in the special mac/Linuy
of chaucery, where that machinery is better adapted than the
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. rnocrmnuz. 269
forms of law to the due attainment of justice. Whether it is
not more consistent with judicial perfection, that then shouid
be a single rule of action for every subject matter, serving all
courts alike, and whether the butter mode of improving the
jurisprudence of the state, would not be to foster the growth
of a mixed system, that may in time combine the advantages
of law and equity with amendments of their known imperfec-
tions, are great problems that have occupied the most diath-
guished jurists of all ages, and are not likely soon to receive
an acknowledged solution." (1 Fonblanque's Equity, 4th
Am. edition, p. 20.)
Indeed it may now be considered an inevitable tendency of
the times, to obliterate the distinction between legal and equi-
table forms, and to administer law and equity, in one tri-
bunal and one action. Even in England, the country where
the resistance to innovation is strongest, there appear to be
indications of a movement in that direction. In a late num-
ber of the Law Magazine, a journal of authority in that coun-
try, there is an article on English and Scottish judicature, in
which the following language is used--"The system," that
is, the administration of law and equity separately, "is not
one, that can, in any absolute and conclusive sense, try, hear,
and determine the merits of any cause. It does not begin at
the beginning and go on to the end. It moves here and it
moves there, with ever and anon some by-battle on extrinsic
questions, by such etlifying enlightners of the merils qf a
cause (!) as demurrers on the ground of duplicity, demurrers
for want of equity, clemurrers to the jurisdiction and the like,
for which of course the litigants have to pay-but it does not
bv its direct and immediate operation ascertain the truth of
the controversy. It does not profess to do so. The several
courts minister to but do not administerjustice. They may
exhaust all their judicial powers, but something will be left
behind. The law courts will not deal with 'the equities,'
the courts of equity will not interfere where law has jurisdic-
tion, and thus the suitor is tossed about from court to court-
it is a sort of battledore and shuttlecock litigation-and the
unfortunate litigant has to incur the costs of both courts, and
Mt, be it observed, for one single remedy, demandable with
reference to one particular state of facts !"
Digitized by GOO8 le
270 THE mum or
And again p. 67, " In this country however, equity decides
equity, and law decides law. But is there, we ask, for it
comes to this, is there in all England a single tribunal which
.mmrslsrizas Jvsrrcs? Would it be presumptuous in us,
would it be untrue to say there is Nm T"
§6J.'7. If' the defendant omit to set up a counter-
claim in the cases mentioned in the Iirst sub-division
of the last section, he cannot afterwards maintain an
action against the plaintiff therefor.
§6»t8. When cross demands have existed between
persons, under such circumstances, that if one had
brought an action against the other, a counter-claim
could have been set up, neither can be deprived of the
benefit thereof; by the assignment or death of the other,
but the two demands must be deemed compensated, so
far as they equal each o'her.
§649. The defendant may set forth, by answer, as
many defences and counter-claims as he may have.
They must each be separately stated, and the several.
defences must refer to the causes of action which they
are intended to answer, in a manner by which they
may be intelligibly distinguished. The defendant may
also answer one or more of the several causes of action
alleged in the complaint and demur to the residue.
.Hmended Code, §150.
§650. If the answer set up new matter, which is not
replied to as provided in the next section, and the
issue be tried on complaint and answer alone, and judg-
ment be given thereon for the plaintifil the court may
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. nocmmu: 271
permit the defendant to withdraw or amend the answer,
upon such terms as may be just.
See § 130 of original code.
CHAPTER V.
THE REPLY.
Bacuox 651. When the answer contains a counter-claim, a reply my be put in.
md what in my contain.
§ 651. When the answer contains new matter con-
stituting a counter-claim, the plaintiff may within
twenty days, reply to such new matter, denying each
allegation eontroverted by him, or any knowledge or
information thereof suiiicient to form a belief; and he
may allege, in ordinary and concise language, without
repetition, and in such a manner as to enable a person
of common understanding to know what is intended,
any new matter, not inconsistent with the complaint,
constituting a defence to the counter-claim.
.dmmded Code, § 153.
In respect to the reply, we propose this modification ; that
it shall only be required, when the answer sets up a counter-
claim. VVhen the answer is drawn by a very wary or a very
unskilful hand, the sentences become sometimes so involved,
and the admissions or denials so clogged with qualifications,
that it is not easy to separate the new matter from that which
is strictly responsive to the complaint. If the pleader would
confine himself to facts pertinent to the case, and would state
these in distinct allegations separately numbered, there would
be no difliculty, When this is not done, and the answer is
loosely dmwn, the reply under the existing rule may occasion
some embarrassment. To obviate this, we propose, that the
reply be confined to the case of a counter-claim; in which
case it seems indispensable, for the cross demand is of the
nature of a new action by the defendant against the plaintiff,
to which the latter ought to make answer.
Digitized by GOO8 le
m 'rn CODE or
CHAPTER VI.
GENERAL Bums OF Pnmnmd.
8l:c-non 652. Verincation of pleadings.
653. How to state an account in pleading.
654. Pleadingl to be liberally construed.
655. Irrelevant or redundant matter to be stricken out.
656. Description of real properly in a pleading.
657. Judgments how to be pleaded.
658. Conditions precedent, how to be pleaded.
669. Private statutes how to be pleaded.
660. Libel and slander, how stated in complaint.
661. Answer ln such cues.
662. In actions to recover property diltrained for damage, answer need
not set forth title.
ses. Whd cum ofnetion may be joined in the rape notion.
664. Allegatidns not denied; when to be deemed true.
665. A mnterld sllegntlon dedned.
-§ 652. Every pleading must be subscribed by fhe
party, or his attorney, and the complaint, answer and
reply, must be verified by the party, his agent or 'attor-
ney, to the elfect that he believes it to be true. The
verification must be made, by the aflidavit of the party,
or, if there be several parties united in interest and
pleading together, by one at least of such parties,
if such party be within the state and capable of making
the allidavit; otherwise the ailidavit may be made by
the agent or attorney of the party. The affidavit may
also be made by the agent or attorney, if the action or
defence be founded upon a written instrument for the
payment of money only, and such instrument be in the
possession of the agent or attorney, or if all the mate-
rial allegations of the pleading be within the personal
knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the adida-
Digitized by GOO8 le
crm. rnocl-tmiu.
vit is made by the agent or attorney, it must set forth
the reason of his making it.
The verification may be omitted, when an adxhission
of the truth of the complaint might subject the 'party
to prosecution for felony. And no pleading, verified as
herein required, can be used in a criminal prosecution
against the party, as proof of a fact admitted or elleged
in such pleading.
.dmendal Code,§ 157.
This section, it will be perceived, is changed from the form
which it bears, in the amended code, to that substantially
which the Commisdoners recommended in their second report.
The original code required the pleadings to be verified in all
cases, except when theparty would be privileged from testi-
fying as a witness to the same matters; the amended code
requires it only in those cases wherethe previous pleading
has been veritied. So that the plaintitf may in all cases veri-
fy his complaint or not, as he pleases; if, however, he do
verify it, then the answer must be verified, otherwise it need
not. Still the defendant may, if he choose, verify his
answer,and in that case the reply must be verified. The
diderence between the two schemes is this, that the one
does not permit a pany to malce an allegation, when he is
not willing to make oath of his belief in it ; the other per-
mits him to make what allegations he pleases, whether he
believes them or not. .
Ought these solemn allegations of the parties, which are
called pleadings, and which set forth the cause of action and
defence, to be verilied or not? The solution ot this ques-
'tion depends upon two others: first, whether a party should
he allowed to aver what he does not believe; and.second,
whether there he any better test of his belief, than his own
afiidavit. Both questions admit of easy answers.
There are several reasons whv a party should not be per-
mitted to aver, in a court of justice, what he does not believe:
Imvu. comm] 18
Digitized by GOO8 le
'rn oonl: or #14
First. The courts are, or should be, schools of moraTs. It
becomes them to set virtuous examples. Of all the institu-
tions of society, they should be most sacred to truth. When-
ever, therefore, they sanction, connive at,.or open the door to
untruths, they falsify their own professions, and becc me the
corrupters, rather than the teachers of mankind.
Second. Men should be protected, as far as possible,against
false charges. It is signally unjust, that any person should
vex another with a claim, founded upon statements which he
does not believe. Nay more, it is the highest duty of society,
to protect every member of it in the enjoyment of his rights.
What sort of pro'ection does it afford, if it allows these rights
to be asmiled by every adventurer, even though he furnishes,
not only no security against his misconduct, and no proofs of
his charge, but no test of his sincerity, not so much even as
his affidavit of belief in it.
Third. Lawsuits are a disadvantage to society at large-
They require a large array of public oflicers. They require
the attendance of citizens, either as jurors or as witnesses,
to the detriment of their own affairs. It seems consequently
most fit, that a check, at least as great as this, should be in-
terposed to the prosecution of frivolous or fictitious lawsuits.
fburth. If the party be not confined in his pleading to
what he believes, no adequate reform in pleading can ever be
etfected. Should the rule adopted by the last legislature be
retained, plaintiffs may put in the old t`orm'of declarations as
complaints under the code ; defendants then must answer every
allegation speciiically, or it will be taken as true. Will this
be tolerated any considerable length of time't It will not ;
and then either the oath will be required, or this rule of
pleading will be abrogated, and the general issue, as formerly
brought into use.
If then it be clear, that no party should be allowed to
aver in a coun of justice what he does not believe, the re-
maining inquiry is, whether there be any better test of one's~
belief than his afliclavit. Here there seems no room for
question. The oath is the universal test applied to the con-
sciences of witnesses. If it be good for the witnesses, it is
equally good for the litigants.
What reasonis there, that the aiidavit should not be re-
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. PBOCILDURE. m
quired? The multiplication of oath, says one. Then abol-
ish oaths altogether. Let witnesses be no more sworn. But
so long as you administer the oath to the witness, require it
also of the party. Requiring it of him, so far from multiply-
ing oaths, diminishes them. For every oath required ofa party
more than two witnesses are dispensed with. Who that is
at all conversant with the courts, but knows, that every day
in court sees numerous witnesses brought, at great inconven-
ience to themselves, to swear to facts, which the parties
would not dare deny, if they were put to their oaths. Can
there be a doubt which is better, to harrass the witnesses, or to
purge the consciences of the parties 'l
§ 653. It is not necessary for`a party to set forth in a
pleading the items of an account therein alleged, where
they exceed twenty in number, but he must deliver to
the adverse party, within ten days, after a demand
thereof in writing, a copy of the account verified by his
own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, to the effect
that he believes it to be true, or be precluded from giv-
ing evidence thereof The court, or a judge thereof;
or a county judge, may order a further account, when
the one delivered is defective.
.Hmmded Code, § 158.
§ 654. In the construction of a pleading, for the pur-
pose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.
.Hmended Code § 159-
§ 655. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted
in a pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of any
Digitized by GOO8 le
_p-
.O :
ms 'nm com: or
person aggrieved thereby. And when the allegations'
of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain, that the pre-
cise nature of the charge or defence is not apparent, the
court may require the pleading to be made deiinite and
certain, by amendment.
.Hmended Cade, § 160.
§ 666. In an action for the recovery of real property,
it must be described in the complaint with such con-
venient certainty, as to enable an ofiicer upon execution
to identify it.
2 R. S.,304,s. s.
-§ 657. In pleading a judgment, or other determina~
tion, of a court or oflicer of special jui-isdiction, it is
not necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction,
but such judgment or determination may be stated to
have been duly given or made. If such allegation be
confroverted, the party pleading must establish on the
trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.
.Qmendcd Code, § 161.
§ 658, In pleading the performance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it is not necessary to state the
facts, showing such performance; but it may be stated
generally, that the party duly performed all the condi-
tions on his part ; and ifsuch allegation be controverted,
the party pleading must establish on the trial the facts
lhowing such performance.
Amended Code, § 162.
Digitized by GOO816
'Hs
4.**
cxvu. rnocmnunz. ' 277
§ 659. In pleading a private statute, or a right do-
lived therefiom, it is su.6cient to= refer to-such statute,
by its title and the day of its passage, and the court
must thereupbn take judicial notice thereofl
.dmended Code, § 163.
§ 660. In an action for libel or slander, it is not ne-
cessary to state in the complaint, any extrinsic facts,
#br the purpose ofsliowing the application fo the pldn-
tiill of the defamatory matter out of which the cause
ofaction arose; but it is su8cienf to state generally,
same waspublished. or qmoken cdweming the
if such= allegation! be' controvertal; thm
plaintilf must establish, on thctrial, that it W8S.80r pub-
lished or spoken.
.Hmended Code, § 164.
§.661. In the actions- mentioned in the lastsection,
the defendant may in. his answer, allege both the truth
of the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitiga-
ting circumstances, to reduce the amount ofdamages '
and whether he prove the justification or not,.he may"
give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.
./imended Code, § 165¢
§ 662. In an action to recover the possession of pro-
for doing dgmagé; .anfauswéf tlidf the
orparson by wliosgwoummandihe acted, wir*
lulrfilliy p9ssessed'.of.thereal 'pmperty'up6nwhich~ths%
distress was made, and that the property distrained
a
Digitized by (3008 le
m 'ran cont or
was at the time doing damage thereon, is suiiicient
without setting forth the title to such real property.
.Hmended Code, § 666.
§ 668. The plaintitf may unite several causes of ac-
tion in the same complaint, where they all arise out of
1. Confract, express or implied: or,
2. Claims to recover speciEc real property, with or
without damages, for the withholding thereof; and the
rents and profits of the same: or,
a. Claims to recover specific personal property, with
or without damages, for the withholding thereof: or,
4. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract,
or by operation of law: or,
5. Injuries to character: or,
6. Other injuries to person and property, or either:
But the causes of action, so united, must all belong
to one only of these classes, and must affect all the
parties to the action, and not require different places of
trial, and must be separately stated.
.dmended Code, § 167, allered,so as to allow ~ome causes
of action to be united, which can not be united nnder that
section. \
§ 664. Every material allegation of the coinplaint not
speciically controverted by the answer, as prescribed
in section 645 ; and every material allegation of new
Digitized by GOO8 le
crm. raocnnunr. 279
matter in the answer constituting a counter claim, not
qnecifically controvertcd by the reply, as prescribed in
section 651, must for the purposes of the action, be ta-
ken as true. But the allegation of new matter in the
answer not relating to a counter claim, or of new mat-
ter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the ad-
verse party, as upon a direct denial, or avoidance as
the case may require.
.Hmmded Code, § 168.
§665. A material allegation in a pleading, is one
essential to the claim or defence, and which could not
be stricken from the pleading, without leaving it in-
sufficient.
New.
I
CHAPTER VI.
MISTAKBS m PLEADING, AND AMENDMENTS.
llc-non 666. Material variances, how provided for.
.667. Immatex-Fai variances, how provided for.
ess. What tobe deemed a variance.
669. Amendments of course, and alter demurrer.
670. Amendments by the court.
67 l Buing a party by a fictitious name, when allowed.
sn. No error or defect to be regarded, nnlell lt amuot substantial rights.
673. Supplemental complaint, answer and reply.
§ 666. No variance between the allegation in a plead-
ing and the proof; is to be deemed material, unless it
have actually misled the adverse party, to his prejudice
in maintaining his action or defence, upon the merits.
Whenever it is alleged, that a party has been so misled
that fact must be proved to the satisfaction of the court
Digitized by GOO8 le 4
m 'ml con: or
and it must be shqwn. in vrbpt reppect he h.as.be¢n, mir
lgzd; and thereupon the court may order the pleag1ing_
tq be. amended. upon such. terms as may be jpq.
£m¢nd.¢d, Code, 4, 169.
a
§ 667. 'Where the variance is not material, as provid-
ed in the last section, the court may direct the fact to
be found according to the evidence, or may order an
immediate amendment, without costs.
.dmmded Code, § 170.
§.668. Where, however, the allegation of the claim
ox defepce towhich, the proof is directed- is. unproveds
nat ip some paxticular. or particulags only, but in. img
general scope and meaning, it is not to be deeme<l~a>
case of variance, within the last two sections, but a
failure of proof
.Hmemled Code, § 171.
§669. Any pleading may be once amended by the
party of course, without costs and withqut; prejudice
to the proceedings already had, at any time before the
period for answering it expires, or, if it do not delay the
trials, it can be so amended at any time within twenty
days after service of the answer to such pleading. In
such ease a copy of the amended pleading must be
servedon the adverse party. Aiier the decision of a
dernurrer, either at a general or special term, the court
may, in its discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was
interposed in good faith, allow the defendant to answer,
Digitized by GOO8 le
CIVIL nocmnnz. ass.
upon suchterms as to trial by the cow or referees, or
as to costs, or otherwise, asmay be just.
.dmended Cude,§ 172.
§ 670. The court may, at any time, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend
any pleading or proceeding, by adding or striking out
the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in
the name of a party or a mistake in any other respect,
or by inserting other allegations material to the case,
or, when the amendment does not change substantially
the claim or defence, by conforming the pleading or
proceeding to the facts proved. The court may like-
wise, in its discretion, allow an answer or reply to be
made, after the time limited by this act, or by an order
enlarging such time, and may also, at any time within
one year after notice thereo£ relieve a party from~a
judgment, order, or other proceeding, taken against him
through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusa-
ble neglect; and may supply an omission, in any pro-
ceeding. And whenever any proceeding taken by a
party fails to conform in any respect to the provisions
of this code, the court may permit an amendment of
such proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto.
Amended Code, §173, modi6ed in the latter part of the first
sentence.
§ 671. When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of
a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any
pleading or proceeding, by any name; and when his
Digitized by GOO8 le
282 THE cons or
true name is discoverqd, the pleading or proceeding
may be amended accordingly.
Amended Code, § 176.
§672. The court must, in every stage of an action,
disregard any error or defect, in the pleadings or pro-
ceedings, which does not affect the substantial rights
of the adverse party; .and no judgment can be reversed
or aifected by reason of such error or defect.
Amended Code, § 176.
§ 673. The plaintiff and defendant respectively, may
be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental com-
plaint, answer or reply, alleging facts material to the
case, occurring after the former complaint, answer or
reply.
Jimended Code, § 177, omitting an addition made at the last
session, which relates rather to an amendment of a pleading,
than to a supplemental pleading.
Digitized by GOO8l€
cxvn. Paocznvnn. 283
TITLE vu. I
' or THE PROVISIONAL mszusnuzs IN clvu. Acrloxs.
CsAr-rn I. Arrest and ball.
Il. Claim and delivery of pononal property.
ln. Injunclion.
lv. Attachment.
v. Receiven.
VI. Deposit in court.
CHAPTER I.
Aluuzar AND RAIL.
llcnox 674. No person tb be an-es'ed, except u prescribed by this ¢0dOs
675. Cana in which defendant may be arrested.
676. Order for arrest, by whom made.
877. Adldavit to obtain order.
678. Security by plaintitl; before order for arrest.
679. Order, when made and its form.
680. Adldavit and order to be delivered to sheriR§ and copy to defendant..
ss I Arrest, how mule.
sas. Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.
683. Ball, how given.
6841 689. Surrender of defendant.
ess. Bail, how proceeded against.
681. Bail, how exonerated.
ass. Delivery of undertaking to plaintim end its acceptance or rejeoo
tion by him.
ms. Notice of justldcation. New undertaking, lf other ball.
suv. Quallncatlons of bail.
691, 692. Justitlcatlon and allowance of ball.
693. Deposit of money with sheritli
694. Payment of money into court by sherif.
695. Substituting bail for deposit.
696. Money deposited, how applied, or disposed of.
697. Sheri8} when liable as bail; and his discharge from liability.
698. Proceedings on judgment against sheriff.
699. Bail liable to sherilll
100. Motion to vacate order of arrest or reduce ball.
701. Aidavits on motion.
§ 674. No person can be arrested in a civil action, ex-
cept as prescribed by this chapter; but this provision
does not apply to proceedings for contempt.
)
Digitized byGoo3le
284 THE conm or
./Imended Code, § 178. It has been sometimes doubted
whether this section abolishes the writ of ne exeat. Why it
should be doubted we cannot understand. The language ap-
pears to us as explicit as it can be made. Nothing certainly
was farther from onr intention than to leave any mode of ar-
rest not provided for in this chapter, except upon proceed-
ings for contempt, and under the act to abolish imprisonment
for debt. As it is now proposed to repeal the latter, this sec-
tion is intended to embrace every caseof arrest in a civil ac-
tion, except for contempt.
§ 675. The defendant may bearrested, as hereinafter
prescribed, in the following cases:
1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a
cause of action arising on an obligation, where the de-
fendant is not a resident of the state, or is about to re~
move therefrom, or where the action. is for a wilful in-
jury to person, or to property knowing the property to
belong to another:
2. In an action for a fine, or penalty, or ona promise
to marry, or for money or property embezzled, or fraud-
ulently missapplied, or converted to hisown use, by a
public officer, or an oHicer of a corporation., or- an at-
torney, factor, broker, agent or clerk, in the course of
his employment as such, or by any other person in a
fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or 'neglect in ofl
tice or in a professional employment:
3. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property unjustly detained, where the property or any
part thereof has been concealed, removed or disposed
UR so that it cannot be found or taken by the sheriifz
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxm. rnocmvnn. ass
4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fiaud, in
contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation, for
which the action is brought, or in concealing or dispo-
sing of the property, 'for the taking, detention, or con-
version of which the action is brought:
5. \Vhen the defendant has removed, concealed or
disposed of, his property, or is about to do so, with in-
tent to defraud his creditors:
s. When the arrest of the defendant is expressly au-
thorized by special statutes, in an action for a fine or
penalty, or for a wilful violation of duty. But no female
can be arrested, in any action, except fora wilful injury
to person, character or property: »
./Jmended Code, § 179. Varied in expression and enlarged,
so as to include the cases mentioned in subdivision 6.
§ 676. An order for the arrest of the defendant, must
be obtained from a judge of the court in which the ac-
tion is brought, or if the action be in the supreme court
from a county judge.
.Hmendcd Code, § 180.
§ 677. The order may be made, whenever it appears
to the judge by the afEdavit of the plaintiii; or of any
other person, that a suiiivient cause of action exists,
and that the case is one of' those mentioned in section
675.
.fimended Code, § 181.
§67S. Before making the order, the judge must re-
quire a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifil
f
Digitized by GOO8 le
6 'mn cons: or
with or without sureties, to the effect, that if the defend-
ant recover judgment, the plaintiEwill pay all costsand
charges that may be awarded to the defendant, and all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking,
which must be at least one hundred dollars. If the un-
dertaking be executed by the plaintiff; without sureties,
he must annex thereto an aliidavit, that he is a resident
and householder or freeholder within the state, and
worth double the sum specified in the undertaking,
'over all his debts and liabilities.
./lmende~ Code, § 182.
§679. The order may be made, to accompany the
summons, or at any time afterwards, before judgment.
It must require the sheriff of the county, where the de-
fendnnt may be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold
him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order
at a time and place therein mentioned, to the plaintiff
or attorney by whom it is subscribed or endorsed.
./Imended Code, § 183.
§ 680. The aflidavit and order of arrest must be de-
livered to the sheriff; Who, upon arresting the defendant,
must deliver to him a copy thereofl
.Hmmded Code, § 184.
§ 681. The sherilf must execute the order, by arrest-
ing the defendant and keeping him in custody, until
discharged by law.
./imended Code, § 185.
Digitized by GOO8 le
CIVIL rnocmnunm. 287
§ 68 2. The defendant, at any time before execution,
may be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving
bail, or upon depositing the amount mentioned in the
order of arrest, as provided in this chapter.
.dmended Code, § 186.
§683. The defendant may give bail, by causing a
written undertaking to be executed by two or more sufl
ficient bail, stating their places of residence and occu-
pations, to the effect, that the defendant shall at all
times render himself' amenable to the process of the
court, during the pendency of the action, and to such as
may be issued to enforce the judgment therein, or ifhe
be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third subdi-
vision ofsection 675, an undertaking to the same effect
as that provided by section 707.
Amended Code, § 187.
§ 684. ~At any time before a failure to comply with
their undertaking, the bail may surrender the defendant
in their exoneration, or he may surrender himself to
the sheriffof the county where he was arrested, in the
following manner:
1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail
must be delivered to the sheriff; who shall detain the
defendant in his custody thereon, as upon an order of
arrest, and by a certificate in writing acknowledge the
surrender:
Digitized by GOO8 le
8 THE cons or
2. Upon the production of a copy ofthe undertaking
and sherilf's certiticate, a judge of the court or, if the
action be in the supreme court, a county judge may,
upon a notice to the plaintiif of eight days with a copy
of the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated :
and on filing the order and the papers used on such ap-
plication, they shall be exonerated accordingiy.
But this sectidn does not apply io an arrest for the
cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section
675. l
.dmendcd Code, § 188.
§ 686. For the purpose of surrendering the defendaht,
the bafl; at any time dr place, before they are finaliy
charged, may themselves arrest him, or 'by a written
authority, endorsed on a certified copy of the uh&ertak=~
ing, may empower any person of suitable age and dis-
cretion to do so.
./Imended Code, § 189.
§ 686. In case of failure to comply with the 'under~
taking, the bail can be .proceeded against by aetitill
only. \
.Hmcnded Cade, § 190.
§687. The bail may be exonerated, either by the
death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state
prison, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to
render himself amenable to the process, or by his sur-
Digitized by GOO8 le
clvu. nocmuu. 289
render to the'sheriH` of the county where he wasarrest -
ed, in execution thereof; within twenty days after the~
commencement of the action against the bail, or within
such further time as may be granted by the court.
.dmmded Code, §191.
§688. Within the time limited for that purpose, the
sheriff must deliver the order of arrest to the plaintid`
or attorney by whom it is subscribed, with his return
endorsed, and the undertaking of the bail or a copy
thereofl The plaintid, within ten days thereof, may
serve upon the sheriil, a notice that he does not accept
the bail, or he must be deemed to have accepted it, and
the sheriH` shall be exonerated from liability.
dmmded Code, § 192.
8689. On the receipt of the undertaking or copy
and notice, the sheriff or defendant may, within ten.
days thereafter, give to the plaintiff or attorney by
whom the order of_arnest is subscribed, notice of the
justification of the same or other bail, (specifyirrs the
places of residence and occupations of the latter,) be-
fore a judge of the court, or county judge, or justice of
the peace, at a specified time and place; the time tebe
not less than ive, non more than ten days thereafter. '
In case other bail be given, there must be a newunder
falling. in the Ihrm prescribed in section 683.
Ammad Code, § 193.
§690. The qualifications of bail must be as follows:
lcxvu. comm] 19
Digitized by GOO8 le
I
290 -rn con: or
1. Each of them must be a` resident, and householder
or freeholder, within the state:
2. They must each be worth the amount specified in
the order of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from
execution, but the judge, or a justice of the peace, on
justification, may allow more than two bail to justify
severally in amounts less than that expressed in the
order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of
two suflicient bail.
.Hmended Code,§ 194.
§691. For the purpose of justification, each of the
bail must attend beforethe judge, or a justice of the
peace, at the time and place mentioned in the notice,
and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plain-
tilil touching his sufiiciency, in such manner as the
judge or justice of the peace, in his discretion, may
think proper. The examination must be reduced to
writing and subscribed by the bauil, if required by the
plaintitil
.8mmda1'Code, § 195.
-§692. If the judge or justice find the bail suflicient,
he must annex the examination to the undertaking,
endorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be
filed with the clerk; and the sheriff shall thereupon be
exonerated from liability.
#mended (kde, §196.
Digitized by GOO8 le
mm I-locmunx. 291
§ 693. The defendant may, at time time of his arrest,
instead of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the
amount mentioned in the order. The sheriff must
thereupon give the defendant a certificate of the de-
posit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of cus-
tody.
Jlmended Code, § 197.
§694. The sheriff must, within four days after the
deposit, pay the same into court; and take from the
officer receiving the same, two certificates of such pay-
ment, the one of which he must deliver to the plaintiH`
and the other to the defendant. For any default in
mdiing such payment, the same proceedings may be
had on the ofhcial bond of the sheriff to collect the
sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.
.Hmmded Code, § 198.
§ 695. If money be deposited, as provided in the last
two sections, bail may be given and justified upon no-
tice, as prescribed in section 689, at any time before'
judgment; and thereupon the judge before whom the-
justification is had, must direct, in the order of allow-
ance, that the money deposited be refunded by the
sheriff to the defendant, and it must be refimnded ac-
cordingly.
.dmmded cw, 4 199.
§ 696. Where money shall have been so deposited, if
it remain on deposit at the time of an order or judg-
ment for the payment of money to the plaintiff; the
Digitized by GOO8 le
292 'nm oonlor
clerk must, under the direction of the court, apply the
same in satisfaction thereof] and after satisfyingthe
judgment, refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant.
If the judgment be in fhvor of the defendant, the clerk
must refund to him the whole sum deposited, and re~
maining unapplied.
./Qmended Code, § 200.
Q 697. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape
or be rescued, or bail be not given or justilied; or a de-
posite be not made instead thereof; the sheriff slmdl him-»
self be liable as bail. But he may discharge himself?
fiom arch liability, by the giving and justification of
bail as provided in sections 689, 690, 691, and 692, at
any time before process against the person of the de-
fendant, to enforce an order or judgment in the action.
Amended Cade, § 201.
Q698; If a judgment be meovered agdnst the Slwriiil
upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon bo
rdlltned unsatkiied, in wholeor in pan, the camp pm-
coedings may be had an the o$nial bond' of the sheriff;
to~ collect the deficiency, as in other cases of delin»
qluncy.
Jlmended Code, 43202.
§699. The bail taken upon the arrest, shall, unless
they justify, or other bail be given or justified, be liable
to the sheriff] by action, for the damages which he may
sustain by reason of such omission.
.dmacded 004 §203.
Digitized by GOO8 le
czvn. Pnomnum-:. 293
§ 700. A defendant arrested may at any time before
the justification of bail, apply, on motion to vacate the
order of arrest, or to reduce theamount of bail.
.dmended Code, § 204.
§ 701. If the motion be made upon aiiidavits on the
pert of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff
may oppose the same by aflidavits or other proofs, in
addition to those on which the order of arrest was
made. |
.Hmended Code, §205.
CHAPTER II.
GLALM AND .nnmvgmr QF PBRWNAL Pnomurv.
.§n'n!m7'l02. Delivery nfnemnal property, when iknunyzbe elmimell.
703. Aidavit and its requilitel.
704. Requisition to sherill} to take gndhliyemtho PNPONI- » »i
7W. Security on the part of the plaintitg and justincatlon. _
706- Exception/to lunetiep md pmyeettiqgstherqqn 9|-,on hllureto ox-
cept.
767. Defendant when entitled to re-delivery.
7¢B. Justitlcation of defcndanvl lureties.
709. Qualllication and juatllkcation of matics.
710. Property how taken when concealed in buildtng or enclosure.
711. »Prep\srty, how kept.
712. Claim of property by third perlon.
ns. Notice and aldavlt, when and where to be Med.
§ 702. The plaintifll in an action to recover the pos-
session of personal property, may at the time of issu-
ing the summons, or at any time before answer, claim
the immediate delivery of such property as provided in
um chapter.
§ 703. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must
be made by the plaintiff; or by some one in his behalf;
showing,
Digitized by GOO8 le
294 nnoom: or
1.' That the plaintiif is the owrier of the property
claimed, (particularly describing it,) or is lawfully en-
titled to the possessiou thereof; by virtue of a special
property therein, the facts in respect to which must be
set forth:
2. That the propeity is wrongfully detained by the
defendant:
3. The alleged cause of the detention themo£ accor-
ding to his best knowledge, information and belieii
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax as-
sessment or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under
an execution or attachment against the property of the
plaintiif; or if so seized, that it is, by statute exempt
from such seizure; and,
6. The actual value of the property.
Jlmended Code,§ 207.
§ 704. The plaintiff may, thereupon, by an endorse-
ment in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff
'of the county where the property is claimed may be, to
take the same from the defendant, and deliver it to the
plaintifil
.dmaldai Code, §208.
§705. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice,
with a written undertaking, executed by one or more
suliicient sureties, approved by the sheriff to the effect
that they are bound, in double the value of the proper-
ty as stated in the aiiidavit, for the prosecution of the ac-
Digitized by GOO8 le
olvu. nocmunl. 296
tion, for the return of the property to the defendant, if
return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him
of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against
the plaintili; the sheriff must forthwith take the pmo-
perty described in the ali-idavit, if it be in the posses-
sion of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his
custody. He must also, without delay, serve on the de-
fendant a copy of the atiidavit, notice and undertaking,
by dedivering the same to him personally, if he can ,be
found, or to his agent, from whose possession the pro-
perty is taken; or if neither can be found, by leaving
them at the usual place of abode of either, with some
person of suitable age and discretion. .
.dmmdcd Code, (1209,
§706. The defendant may within three days after the
service of a copy of the afhdavit and undertaking,
give notice to the sheriff that he excepts t»o the suflici-
ency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he must be
deemed to have waived all objection to them. When
the defendant excepts, the sureties must justify on no-
tice in like manner, as upon bail on arrest. And the
sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the
sureties until the objection to them is either waived an
above provided, or until they justify. If the defendant
except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property,
as provided in the ucxt section.
Amended Coc'|, §210.
Digitized by GOO816
296 'nm con: cr
§707. At any time before the delivery of the proper-
ty to the plaintifil the defendant may, if he do not ex-
oept to the sureties of the plaintifi require the return
thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a written undertak-
ing, executed by two or more suflicient sureties, to the
effect that they are bound, in double the value of the
property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintiifl for
'the delivery thereof to the plaintM if such delivery be
*'hdj'udgod, *and for the payment to him of such sum as
may, for anycause, be recovered against the defend-
mnt. If a return of the property be not so required
'within three days utter the taking, and service of notice
to the defendant, it must be delivered to the pldntilll
except as provided in section 712.
#mended Code, §2ll.
§'708. The def`endant's snreties, upon notice to the
plaintiff of not less than two nor morethansix days,
must justify before a judge or justice of the peace, in
the same manner as upon bail on arrest; and upon
auch justification, the sheriff must deliver the property
to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible for
the defendant's sureties, until they justify, or until the
justification is completed or expressly waived, and may
retain the property until that time, but if theyor oth-
ers in their place, fail to justify, at the time and place
appointed, he must deliver the property to the plaintilll
Amended Code, §2l2.
Digitized by GOO816
mvm nocmuxm 297
§ vos. The qualification of sureties and their justifi-
cation, must be such as nre prescribed by sections 890
and 691, in respect to bail upon an order of arrest.
Amended Ccde, § 213.
§ 710. If the property or any part thereof be conceal-
ed in a buildiog or enclosure, the sheriff must publicly
demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he mgpt
cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and
take the property into his possession, and if necessary,
be may call to his aid the poxror oflhis county.
Q/Qmtmleil Code, §214.
§711. When the sherilf shall have taken pxfopexiy,
as in this chapter provided, he must keep it in a secure
place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon
receiving his lawful fees ibr taking, and his necessary
expenses for keeping, the same.
.Hmended Code, § 215.
§ 712. If the property taken be claimed by any oth-
er personthan the defendant or his agent, and such
personniake aflidavit of his title thereto or right to
the possession thereo£ stating the grounds of such title
or right and serve the same upon the sheriff] the she-
/ riff shall not be bound to keep the property, or deliver
it to the plaintifl] unless the plaintiff, on demand of him
or his agent, indemnify the sheriff against such claim,
by an undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties,
accompanied by their affidavits, that they are each
Digitized by GOO8 le
298 THE mum or
worth double the value of the property as specified in
the affidavit of the plaintiff; and freeholders and house-
holders of the county. And no claim to such property
by any other person than the defendant or his agent,
shall be valid against the sheriff unless so made and
notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may
retain the property a reasonable time to demand such
indemnity.
.dmended Code, § 216.
§ 713. The sheriff mupt file the notice and aflidavit
with his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, within twenty
days afier taking the property mentioned therein.
.dmended Code, §217.
CHAPTER IH.
INJUNCTION.
Slcrlon 714. Injunction by writ or order.
715. In what cases granted by order. '
716. At what time lt may be granted.
717. Notice, when required. Temporary lnjunctlon.
7|s. Security upon injunction. Damages, how ascertained.
719. Order to show cause why injunction should not be granted.
7W~ Security, upon injunction to mepend bualnen of corporation.
121. Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
722. Athdavits, on motion.
§714. An injunction is a Writ or order, requiring a
person to refrain from a particular act. When granted
as a provisional remedy, it is by order. The order may
be made by the court in which the action is brought,
or by a judge thereof, in the cases prescribed in the
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. PROCEDURE. 299
next section; and when made by a judge, may be en-
forced as theorder of the court.
#mended Code §218.
§715. Where it appears by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such
relie£ or any part thereof, consists in restraining the
commission or continuance of some act, the commis-
sion or continuance of which, during the litigation,
would produce great or irreparable injury to the plain-
till, or when during the litigation, it appears that the
defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is
procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation
of the plaintiff's rights, respecting the subject of the
action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual,
a temporary injunction may be granted, to restrain such
act. And where, during the pendency of an action,
the defendant threatens, or is about to remove, or dis-
.pose 0fl his property, with intent to defraud his credi-
tors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain
such removal or disposition.
\
./Imended Code, §219. Inserting before "injury," the words
"great or irreparable," which were omitted at the last session.
§ 716. The injunction may be granted at the time of
issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, before
judgment, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the court
r judge, by the afiidavit of the plaintilii or of any other
Digitized by GOO8 le
wo THE con: or
person, that sufEcient grounds exist therefor. A copy
of the aiiidavit must be served with the injunction.
.Hmended Code, §220.
§717. An injunction cannot be allowed, after the
defendant has answered, unless upon notice, or upon
an order to show cause; but in such case, the defend-
ant may be restrained, until the decision of the court
or judge, granting or refusing the iniunctiop. 4
.8nwnded.Code, §8%.
§ 718. Where np provision is made by 314<=<=i=1 statute,
as to security upon an injunction, the court or judge
must require a written undertaking, on the .part of the
plaintifll with or without sureties, to the effect that the
plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined, such damages,
not exceeding an amount to be specified, as he may
sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court,iinally
decide that the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The
damages may be ascertained by a reference, or other-
wise, as the court may direct.
./Hmmded Code, § 222.
§ 719. If the court or judge deem it proper that the
defendant, or any of several defendants, should be
heard before granting the injunction, an order may be
made requiring cause to be shown, at a specified time
and place, why the injunction should not be granted;
and the defendant may irr the mean time be restrained.
.dmawded Code §223.
Digitized by GOO816
cxvn. noclnun. 301
§ 720. An iqjunction to suspend the general and or-
dinary business of a corporation must not be granted
except by the cow. Nor must it be granted, with-
out due notice of the application therefor, to the pro-
per officers of the corporation, except where the peo-
ple of this State are a party to the proceeding, and
except in proceedings to enforce the liability of stock-
holders in corporations and association for bank-
ing purposes, after the first day of January, one thou-
sand eight hundred and fifty, as such proceedings are or
shall be provided by law, unless the plaintiff give a
written undertaking, executed by two sullicient sure-
ties, to be approved by the court, to the effect that
the plaintiff will pay all damages not exceeding the
sum to be mentioned in the undertaking, which
such corporation may sustain, by reason of the injunc-
tion, if the court finally decide that the plaintiff was
notenti'tled thereto. The damages may be ascertained
by a reference, or otherwise, as the court directs.
.dmmded Code, § 224.
§ 721. If the injunction be granted by a judge with
out notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial,
may apply, upon notice, to any judge of the court in
which the action is brought, to vacate or modify the
sinus. The application may be made uponthe com-
pllliht and the aiiidavits on which the injuction was
granted, or upon affidavits on the part of the defend-
ant, with or without the answer.
Amended Code, § 225.
Digitized by GOO8 le
302 rn con: or
§ 722. If the application be made upon afiidavits
on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the
plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits or other
evidence, in addition to those on which the injunction
was granted.
.Hmended Code, § 226.
CHAPTER Iv.
ATTA CHMENT
Burton m. Property of foreign corporations and of non-resident or abscond-
ing or concealed defendants may be attached.
724. Order for attachment by whom granted.
725. In what caees order may be granted.
726. Security in obtaining order.
727. Order, to whom directed, and what to require.
12s. Interest in corporations or associations, liable to attachment.
m. Mode of proceeding in executing order.
no. Certincate of defendant'e interest to be furnllhed by corporation.
731 Proceeding in cue of perishable property.
7m. Property claimed by e third person to be delivered upon security.
vas. Defence in action on the security.
734. Bherll' may summon jury to try claim.
735- Defendant or claimant may be required to give information.
736. Disposition of property after judgment
737. Action to recover debts attached may be prosecuted by plain!!!
738. Securities to be delivered to defendant in case of recovery by him.
no. Property may be released upon security.
740. What security sumcient.
141. Attachment may be vacated on motion.
va Ahdavits to be used on motion.
743. Bherif to make return.
§ 723. Inan action for the recovery of money against
a corporation, created by or under the laws of any other
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. nocsnunl. 303
state government oi' country, or against a defendant '
who is not a resident of this state, or against a defend-
ant who has absconded or concealed himself as herein-
after mentioned, the plaintiff; at the time of issuing
the summons, or at any time afterwards, may have the
property of such defendant attached, in the manner
hereinafter prescribed, as a security for the satisfaction
of such judgment as the plaintiff may recover.
.Hmended Code, § 227.
§ 724. An order for the attachment must be obtained
fiom a judge of the court in which the action is brought,
or if the action be in the supreme court, from a county
judge.
.Hmended Code, §228, substituting an order for a warrant
of attachment, as more in conformity with the three previ-
ous chapters.
§ 725. The order may be made whenever it appears
by afiidavit, that a cause of action exists against such
defendant, specifying the amount of the claim, and the
grounds thereo£ and that the defendant is either a for-
eign corporation, or not a resident of this state, or has
departed therefiom with intent to defraud his cre-
ditors or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps
himself conceded therein with the like intent.
./Imended Code, § 229.
§ 726. Before making the order, the judge must re-
quire a written undertaking on the part of the plaintilll
with suflicient surety, to the effect, that if the defend-
ant recover judgment, the plaintilf will pay all costs
Digitized by GOO8 [Q
304° 11-m oonm or
and charges that may be awarded to the defendant,
and all damages which he may sustain, by reason of
the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified inthe
undertaking, which must be at least two hundred and
fifty dollars.
./imended Code, § 230.
§727. The order must be directed to the sheriff of
any county in which property of such defendant may
be, and require him to attach and safely keep all the
property of such defendant within his county and not
exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be
sullicient to satisfy the plaintiif's demand, the amount
of which must be stated, in conformity with the com-
plaint. Several orders may be issued at the same time,
to the sheriffs of different counties.
./Ymended Code, § 231.
§ 728. The rights or shares which the defendant may
have in the stock of any corporation, together with
the interest and profits thereon, and all other property
in this state of such defendant, may be attached' and
sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.
#mended Cdde, §234.
I; 729. The sheriff; to whom the order isdirected and
delivered, must execute the same without delay, as fol-
lows:
Digitized by GOO8 le
clvu. Paocnnvnn. 305
1. Real property must be attached, by leaving with
the occupant thereof] or if there be no occupant, in a
conspicuous place thereon, a copy of the order certified
by the sheriff :'
2. Personal property, capablé of manual delivery to
the sheriff must be attached by taking it into his cus-
tody:
3. Other personal property must be attached by leav-
ing a certi'ded ccpy of the order, and a notice specify-
ing the property attached, with a person holding the
same, or as to a debt with the debtor, or as to stock or
interest in stock of a corporation, with the president or
other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier, or x
managing agent thereofl The sheriff must make a full
inventory of the property attached, and return the same
with the order of attachment.
.dmended Code, §232 and 235, altered, so as to prescribe
the sheriff's mode of proceeding without referring to existing
statutes.
§ 730. Whenever the sheriff; with an order of attach-
ment, or with an execution against the defendant, ap-
plies to any person mentioned in the third subdivision
of the last section, for the purpose of attaching or levy-
ing upon the property mentioned therein, such person
must furnish him with a certificate, designating the
number of rights or shares of the defendant in the stock
of the corporation, with any dividend or incum-
[c1vu.. oonl-:.] 20
Digitized by GOO8 le
306 -nn: mn: or
brance thereon, or the amount and description of the
property held by such corporation or person, for the be-
nefit of the defendant, or the debt owing to the defen-
dant. If such person refuse to do so, he may be requir-
ed by the court or judge to attend before him, and be
examined on oath concerning the same, and disobedi-
ence to the order may be punished as a contempt.
Amended Code, § 235.
§ 781. If any of the property attached be perishable,
the sheriff must sell the same in the manner in which
property is sold on execution, and immediately deposit
the proceeds with the clerk of the court. He must also
collect, and if necessary, in his name of ofHce, sue for
the debts and credits attached, and deposit the amount
collected with the clerk. Other property attached by
him, must be retained by him to answer any judgment
hat may be recovered in the action, unless sooner sub-
jected to execution upon another judgment.
./1mmded Code, § 233, altered, so as to dispense with a re-
ference to existing statutes.
§732. The sheriff may deliver any of the property
attached to the defendant, or to any other person claim-
ing it, upon his giving a written undertaking there-
for, executed by one or more suMcient sumties,
engaging to re-deliver it or pay the value there-
of to the $eri& to whom execution, upon' a judg-
Digitized by GOO8 le
clvn. Pnoctnun. 807
ment obtained by the plaintilf in that action, may be
issued.
See 2 R. S., 5, §§ la, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20,21 and
231. §§ as and 34.
§733. If an action be brought upon such undertak-
ing against the principal or his sureties, it shall be a
defence, that the property for which the undertaking
was given, did not, at the execution of the order of at-
tachment, belong to the defendant against whom it was
issued.
Sec 2 R. S., 5, §l'7 and 231. §36.
§ 784. If the property atta<,hed, be claimed by a
third person as his property, the sheriff may summon
a jury to try the validity of such claim and such pro-
ceedings must be had thereon, with the like effect, an
in case of seizure upon execution.
See 2 R. S., 4, §§ 10 and 11.
§ 735. The defendant or claimant maybe required to
attend before the court or judge, for the purpose of giv-
ing any necessary information respecting the property
attached, and may be thereupon examined on oath
concerning the same.
.Hmendeai Code, §236.
§ 736. If judgment be recovered by the plaimiir
in such action, the sheriff must satisfy the same out of
the property attached by him, if it be sudicient for that
purpose ;
Digitized by GOO8 le
808 THE CODE or
1. By paying to the. plaintiff the proceeds of all sales
of perishable property, and of any vessel, or share or
interest therein, sold by him, or of' any debts or credits
collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary to
satisfy the judgment:
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall
have been issued on the judgment, he must sell under
the execution So much of the attached property, real oi'
personal, except as provided insubdivision four of this
section, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose remain in his hands; and in
case of the sale of any rights or shares in the stock of
a corporation, the sheriff must execute to the pur-
chaser a certificate of the sale, and the purchas-
'er shall thereupon have allthe rights and privileges in
respect thereto which were had by the defendant.
8. If any of the attached property belonging to the
defendant, shall have passed out of the hands of the
sherifli without having been sold or converted into mo-
aey, the sheriff must re-possess himself ofthe same,
and for that purpose .shall have all the authority, which
he had to seize the same under the attachment, and
any person who shall wilfully conceal or withhold such
property from the sheriff] shall be liable to double dam-
ages at the suit of the party injured.
4. Until the.judgment against the defendant be paid,
Qhe shqiff may cqllqct the notes, other evidences of
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn.. moczizinim. 309
debt, and debts that mayhave been attached, and may
prosecute any bond he may have taken in the course of
such proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the
payment of the judgment; or, upon the order of the
court, he may sell such notes, evidences anddebts, and
apply the proceeds in like manner.
When the judgment and costs shall have been paid,
the sheriff upon reasonable demand, must deliver over
to the defendant the residue of the attached property
or the proceeds thereofl
.Hmended Code, § 237.
§ 737. The actions authorised by sections 781 and 736,
to be brought by the sheriff] may be prosecuted by the
Plainfifll or under his direction, upon the delivery by
him to the sheriff of an undertaking executed by two
suflicient sureties, to the effect, that the plaintiff will in-
demnify the sheriff from all damages, costs and charges
on account thereof; not exceeding two hundred and
any dollars in anyone action. Such sureties shall ln
all cases, when required by the sheri5§ justify,.by ma-
king an aflidavit that each is a householder, and worth
double the 'amount of the.penaltyo0 the bond, over and
above all debtsand liabilities.
./immded Code, <> 238;
§ 738. Ifthe foreign corporation, or absent, or abscond-
ing or concealed defendant, recover judgment against
the plaintiff, in such action, any undertaking received
by the sheriff; except such as is mentioned in the last
Digitized by GOO8 le
310 'rm con: OF
section, all the proceeds of sades and money collected
by him, and all the property attached remaining in his
hands, must be delivered by him to the defendant or
his agent on request; the order of attachment must he
discharged, and the property released therefrom.
.Hmmded Code, §239~
§ 739. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared
in the action, he may apply to the judge who issued the
attachment, or to the court, for an order to discharge the
same, upon the execution of the undertaking mention-
/ ed in the next section ; and ifthe application be granted,
all the proceeds of sales and moneys collected by the
sherili§ and all the property attached remaining in his
hands, must be released from the attachment and de-
livered to the defendant.
.Hmmded Code, 9 240.
§740. Upon such application, the defendant must
deliver to the court or judge an undertaking executed
by at least two sureties, resident and freeholders in this
state, approved by such court or judge, to the effect,
that the sureties will on demand pay to the plaintifll
the amount of the judgment that may be recovered
against the defendant in the action, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking, which must be at
least double the amount claimed by the plaintiff in his
complaint.
.aMa¢a vw, 41241.
Digitized byGoo3le
crvn. nocmvu. an
§ 741. The defendant may also, any time before the
time for answering expires, apply on motion to vacate
the order of attachment.
Conformable to the provision, in similar cases made in pre-
vious chapter.
§ 742. If the motion be made upon aliidavits on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff
may oppose the same by aliidavits or other evidence, in
addition to those on which the onder of attachment
was made.
Conformable to the provision, in dmilar cases in previous
chapters.
§ 743. When the order of attachment is fully execu-
ted or discharged, the sheriff must return the same
with his proceedings thereon, to the court in which
the action was brought.
.aM»a¢a cw, 4 242.
CHAPTER V.
nlscnvms.
infront 744. Boooivn of property in litigation, my be appolnzod.
m. Powers of a rocaivor.
§ 744. In the cases mentioned in the irst subdivision
of section 546, the court may provisionally appoint a
receiver of property; and may protect and. support him
in the proper discharge of his duties.
Digitized by GOO8 le
312 THE cons OF
This chapter and the next, with sections 545, 546, and 547.
are designed to till up the space left in our first report, and
there indicated by section 200. The chapters explain them
selves, and will be found, we think, to answer the purposes
designed.
§ 745. A receiver, subject always to the control of
the court, has power to bring and defend actions
to take and keep possession of property; collect debts
receive the rents and profits of real property; and
generdly to do such acts in respect to the property
committed to him, as the court may authorize.
CHAPTER VI.
DEPOSIT IN count.
Blcnon 746. When court may order a payment or deposit of the subject of litiga
6 tion.
747. Manner of enforcing the order.
I § 746. When it is admitted by the pleading, or exam
ination, ofa party, that he has in his possession, or under
his control, any money or other thing, capable of de
livery, which, being the subject of the litigation, is held
by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs
or is due, to another party, the court may order the same
to be deposited in court, or delivered to such party
with or without security, subject to the further direction
of the court. .
§ 747. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a
eouit shall have ordered the deposit, or delivery, of
money or other thing, and the order 'is disobeyed, the
court, besides punishing the disobedience, may make an
order requiring the sheriff to take the money or thing
Digitized by GOO8 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 313
and deposit or deliver it, in conformity with the direc-
tion of the court.
TITLE VIII.
OF THE 'rn1.u. AND JUDGMENT IN cxvxl. ACTIONS.
CEAPTER I. Judgment in general.
II. Judgment upon failure to answer,
III. Issues and the mode of trial.
IV- Trial by jury.
v. Triad by the court.
.v1. Trial by referees.
vu. Provisions relating to trials in general.
vm. The manner of giving and entering judgment.
CHAPTER I.
.xuncmnnrs IN GENERAL.
Szc-rxon 748. A judgment dehned.
749. When several defendants, judgment may be, for or sgfsinn ny.
750. Judgment may be given as to some, and action continued ss to
others.
751 Judgment except upon failure to answer not limited to the relief
asked in complsint.
152. Judgment dismissing actions when given.
153, All other judgments are on.the merits.
754. Judgments when several.
§ 748. A judgment is the final determination of the
rights of the parties in the action,
Amended Code, § 245.
`§ 749. Jlidgnient may be given, 'for or against One or
more of several plaihtiifs, and for or 'against one or
more of several defendants, and it may, when the jus-
tice of the case requires it, determinefhe ultimate rightg
of the parties on each side, as between themselves.
./Imended Code, §2'74.
Digitized by GOO8 le -
314 'nnoon or
§'750. In an action against several defendants, the
court may, in its discretion, render judgment against
one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed
against the others, whenever a several judgment is
proper.
./lmmded Code, § 274.
§ 751. The relief granted to the plaintifl] if there be
no answer, cannot exceed that which he shall have de-
manded in his complaint; but in any other case, the
court may grant him any relief consistent with the
case made by the complaint, and embraced within the
issue.
.Hmended Code, § 275.
§ 752. The action may be dismissed without a iinal
determination of its merits, in the following cases:
1. By the plaintiff himself at any time before triad,
if a provisional remedy has not been allowed, or coun-
ter claim made:
2. By either party, with the written consent of the
other:
3. By the court, when, upon the trial and before the
final submission of the case the plaintiff abandons it:
4. By the court, when the plaintiff fails to appear on
the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the
dismissal:
Digitized by GOO8 le
cmx. nocmnvnr.. 315
5. By the court, on the application of some of the
defendants, when there are others whom the plaintiE
fails to prosecute with diligence. All other modes of
dismissing an action by non-suit, or otherwise, are
abolished.
The dismissal mentioned in the iirst two subdivisions
is made by an entry in the clerk's register, and a notice
served on the adverse party. Judgment may thereupon
be entered accordingly.
§75s. In every case, other than those mentioned in
s the last section, the judgment must be rendered on the
merits.
The three last sections are new, and designed as a aubsti»
tute for a portion of the old practice, not supplanted by the
existing code.
§754. Though all the defendants have been served
with the summons, judgment may be taken against
any of them severally, when the plaintiff would be en-
titled to judgment against such defendants, if the
action had been against them alone.
.am¢»d¢d vw, 4 las, wb. a.
CHAPTER 11.
wnmmur UPON rmwnl: 'ro mswna.
§755. Judgment may be had, if the _defendant fail
to answer the complaint, as follbwsz
1. In an action arising on obligation, for the recov-
ery of money only, the plaintiff may file with the clerk,
proof of personal service of the summons, and that no
Digitized by GOO8 le
316 'mn Eoniz or
answer has been received. The clerk must thereupon
enter judgment for the amount mentioned in the sum-
mons, against the defendant, or against one or more of
several defendants, in the cases provided for in section
682;
2. In other actions, the plaintiff may, upon the like
proof, apply to the court, after the expiration of the
time for answering, for the relief demanded in the com-
plaint. If the taking of an account or the proof of any
fact be necessary to enable the court to give judgment,
or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may
0
take the account or hear the proof; or may, in its
\ discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And
where the action is for the recovery of money only, or
of specific, real or personal property, with damages for
the withholding thereof; the court may order the dam-
ages to be assessed by a jury, or if the examination of
a long account be involved, by a reference as above
provided;
3. In actions, where the service of the summons was
by publication, the plaintiff may in like manner apply
for judgment, and the court must thereupon require
proof_to be made of the demand mentioned in the
complaint, and if the defendant be not a resident of
the state, must requirethe plaintiff or his agent' to be
examined on oath, respecting any payments that have
been made to the plaintiff or to any one for his use, on
account .of such demand, and may render judgment for
the amount which he is entitled to recover. .Before
Digitized by GOO8 le
CI VIL PROCEDURE- 317
judgment the plaintiff must give satisfactory security,
to abide the order of the court, touching the restitution
of any property collected or received under the judg-
ment, in case the defendant or his representatives are
admitted to defend the action, and succeed in the de-
fence.
Amended Code, §246, changed in some respects
CHAPTER 111.
rssvns, AND THE Mont OF TRIAL.
Sscnon 756. Issues dellned.
757. Issues of law.
758. Issues of fact. Both on same pleadings.
759. 'nm manga;
vw, Iuuel of law to be tried by court or referred.
761. Certain Issues of fact to be tried by jury, or referred.
762. Other luuel tried by court or referred.
763. Issues triable by court to be before one judge.
764. Either party may give notice of trial, and place case on calendar.
766. Order in which luues must be tried.
vos. Either party may bring on trial.
767. When several defendantl, separate trials allowed.
768. addaviz to put over trial.
769. Plaintiff to furnish copies of summon: and pleadings.
§ 756. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a.£a§:t
or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party
and controverted by the other. They are of two kinds:
1. Of law; and,
2. Of fact.
.Hmended Codq, § 248.
§ 757. An issue of law arises,
1. Upon a . demWg; the complaint, ,or to some
part thereofl
./Imended Code, §249!
Digitized by GOO8 le
318 -nm mn: or
§ 758. An issue of fact arises,
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, con-
troverted by the answer: or,
2. Upon new matter in the answer constituting a
counter-claim, controverted by the reply; or, upon other
new matter in the answer: or,
3. Upon new matter in the reply: Issues both of law
and of fact may arise upon diiferent parts of the plead-
ings in the same action.
.dmended Code, §250, 251.
§ 769. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues
between the parties, whether they be issues of law or of
fact.
.dmcnded Code, § 252.
§ 760. An issue of law must be tried by the court,
unless it be referred, as provided in sections 335 and
336.
./Yended Code, § 253 and 254.
§ 761. An issue of fact, in an action for the recovery
of money only, or of specific real or personal property,
or for a divorce from the marriage contract on the
ground of adultery, must be tried by a jury, unless a
jury trial be waived, as provided in section 796, or a
reference be ordered, as provided in sections 335 and
336.
.dmended Code, § 253.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. rnocmuu. 319
§ 762. Every other issue of fact must be tried by the
court, subject, however, to the right of the parties to
consent, or of the court to order, that the whole issue,
or any specific question oi fact involved therein, be
tried by a jury, or be referred, as provided in sections
335 and 336.
Jlmended Code, §254.
§ 763. All issues, whether of law or fact, triable by
a jury or by the court, must be tried before a single
judge. Issues of fact in the supreme court, must be
tried at the circuits, issues of law in the first instance
at a circuit, or special term, or before a single judge, as
provided in section 49.
.ammaa cw, 4255.
The providon allowing an issue of law to be tried before
a single judge, at any time, is designed to prevent the delay
which now sometimes arises from a demurrer, put in for that
purpose alone.
§ 764. At any time after iaue, and at least ten days
before the court, either party may give notice of trial.
The party giving the notice must furnish the clerk, at
least four days before the court, with a note of the issue,
containing the title of the action, the names of the at~
torneys, and the time when the last pleading was
served; and the clerk must thereupon enter the cause
upon the calendar, according to the date of the issue.
The issues, once placed upon the calendar of a circuit
or special term, if not tried at the circuit or term for
Digitized by GOO8 le
320 THE CODE OF
which .the notice was given, need not be noticed for a
subsequent circuit or term, but must remain upon the
calendar, from court to court, until iinally disposed ofl
But when an issue of law is to be tried before a judge
out of court, no calendar need be made or note_ of is-
sue furnished.
Amended Code, § 256.
An important change is proposed by the alteration of this
section. It is to save the necessity of repeated notica of
trial. If a cause be not tried, as it ought to be, at the iirs
term, it must remain upon the calendar at subsequent terms,
until reached. A similar practice exists in many of the
states, where no incovenience results from it.
§ 765. The issues on the calendar must be disposed
of in the following order; unless, for the convenience
of parties, or the despatch of business, the court other-
wise direct;
1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury:
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court:
3. Issues of law.
.Hmended Code, § 257.
§ 766. Either party, after the notice of trial, whether
given by himself; or by the adverse party, may bring
the issue to trial, and in the absence of the adverse
party, unless the court, for good cause, otherwise di-
rect, may proceed Qwith his case, and take a dismissal
of the action, or a verdict; or judgment, as the case
may require.
#mended Code, § 258.
Digitized by GOO8 le
CIVIL PloCEDUB.l» 321
§ 767. A separate trial, between the plaintiff and any
of several defendants, may be allowed by the court,
whenever, in its opinion, justice will be thereby pro-
moted.
New. It may sometimes be high1y just to parties, between
whom an issue is joined, and who are ready for trial, to have
their controversy deteiminerl, without waiting for the move-
ments of other parties, over whom they have no control.
§ 768. A motion to postpone a trial for the absence
of evidence, can only he made upon aflidavit, showing
the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained,
and that due dilligence has been used to procure it,
The court may also require the moving party to state
the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the
adverse party thereupon admit, that such evidence
would be given, and that it be considered as actually
given on the trial, or offered and everruled as improper,
the trial must not be postponed.
New; to prevent parties from obtaining delay by the un-
founded pretence of absent witnesses.
§ 769. The plaintiff must furnish the court before the
trial begins with a copy of the summons and plead-
ings, and the offer of the defendant, if any shall have
been made.
Amended coa,§ 259.
lava. oonn] 21
Digitized by GOO8 le
an 'mn com: or
CHAPTER W.
TRIAL BY JURY.
Arncu: I. Formation of the jury,
Il. Conduct of the trial.
III. The verdict.
I
ARTICLE 1.
FORMATION OF THE war.
Bmcnou T70. Clerks to draw jury ballots.
Til. Whan byatmdorsmay be summoned.
772. Ballots to be returned to box.
TB. Challnngn to jurocrhovn mls mdiriad.
§ 770. When thc' action is called for trial by jury, the
clerk must draw from the trial jury box of the court,
theballots containig the names of jurors, until the jury
is completed or the ballots are exhausted. If the bad-
lots become exhausted before the jury is complete, the
sheriff, under the direction of' the court, must summon
fiom the bystanders or the body of the county, so many
qualified persons as to complete the jury.
The provisions of this chapter, for the most part, explain
themselves. Those relaling to challenges depend upon the
same principles as in criminal actions. ' In the Code of Crim-
inal Procedure, we have given all the eirplanatiohs rhichap-
pear to be necessary.
§ 771. As soon as the drawing of the jury is com-
pleted, an oath must be administered to each juror, that
he will well and truly try the matter in issue between
the plaintiff and the defendant, and a
true verdict give, according to the evidence.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. nocmnuna. an
§772. When the jury is completed and sworn, the
ballots containing the names of the jurors sworn must
be laid aside, till the jury so sworn is discharged, and
then they must be returned to the box ; and every bal-
lot drawn containing the name of a juror not so sworn
must be returned to the box as soon as the jury is com-
pleted.
§ 773. Either party may challengs the jurors, but
when there are several parties on either side, they must
join in a challenge before it can be made. The chal-
lenges are to the panel and to individual jurors, as in
criminal actions, except that there can be but two PBT?
emptory challenges on each side. And the provisions
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the subject 9;
challenges, and the disposition thereof; omitting sction
415, are to apply, so far as in their nature applicable
and consistent with the provisions of this code, to chal-
lenges in civil actions and the disposition thereof; subl-
stitntiog "Plaintiff" for " p¢0p1e" and for " pers0n al-
leged to be injured by the qifence charged, or pn whqlg
complaint the prosecution was instituted."
Digitized by GOO8 le
324 'mm con: or
ARTICLE II.
CONDUCT OF THE TRIAL.
Bncnon 774. Order of proceeding: on trial.
775. When a. view mey be ordered.
776. Manner of keeping jury.
777. If juror be taken lick, jury discharged.
778. The chnrge ¢0 thejury.
779. Manner of keeping jury while dellberating.
787. Court may order food and lodging for juron, when dellberating.
781. Whnt paperejury may take.
' 782. After retiring jurors may return for information.
783» lf jury cannot agree, my be discharged.
. If jury is dlecharged, a. new trial to be had.
78. Court to be open until verdict or dieeharge.
786. If any jury il absent on return, the jury must be discharged.
787. Manner of announcing verdiet.
788. Jury may be polled, or insumeient verdict corrected.
789. Verdict to be entered, and reed to jury.
§ 774. When the jury has been completed and sworn,
the trial must proceed in the following order, unless the
court, for special reasons, otherwise directs:
1. The plaintilf aiier stating the issue, must open the
case and produce the evidence on his part:
2. The defendant may then open his defence and
offer his evidence in support thereof:
a. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting
evidence only, unless the court for good reason, in fur-
therance of justice, permit them to offer eddence upon
their original case:
4. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case
is submitted to the jury on either side, or on both sides,
without argument, the defendant must commence, and
the plaintid` conclude the argument to the jury:
Digitized by GOO8 le
mln. rnoomnun. ass
5. If several defendants, having separate defences,
appear by different counsel, the court must determine
their relative order in the evidence and argument:
6. The court may then charge the jury.
The length to which trials are now protracted is a matter
of great and just complaint. The remedy lies chiedy MW
the courts. If they would adhere indexibly to the rule, that
a question once decided shall not be debated anew ; and would
stop the examination of a witness when he has been already
sudiciently examined, a vast deal of time might be saved.
It is a rule in the English courts, and in the courts of some of
our states, that a counsel shall stand while he is examining a
witness. The same rule would be useful here. As trials an
now sometimes conducted, the counsel sits leisurely in his
seat, writing down at length all the questions and answers,
and the court meeting at ten and adjouming at three, a single
witness remains under examination from day to day, and the
trial lasts for weeks, when it should be ended in as many
days.
By a provision in another place, we propose that counsel
shall be limited in their arguments to a fixed time. With
resolution on the part of the courts, and a few rules, such
as they should adopt, we are persuaded that more than half
the time now spent in trials might be saved.
§ 775. Vlfhenever, in the opinion of the court, it in
.proper that the jury should have a view of real pro-
petty which is the subject of the litigation, or of the
place in which any material fact occurred, it may order
the jury to be conducted in a body; in the custody of
proper oilicers, to the place, which will be shown to
them by the judge, or by a person appointed by the
court for that purpose While the jury are thus absent,
no person, other than the judge or person so appointed,
Digitized by GOO8 le
me 'ml mum or
must speak to them on any subject ccsnnected with the
trial.
§ 776. The jurors may be kept together in charge df
proper oflicers, or may, in the discretion of the court,
at any time before the submission of the cause to the
§ury, be *permitted to separate. In either case, they
may be admonished by the court, that it is their duty
not to converse with any other person or among them-
halves, on any subject connected with the trial, or to
form or express any opinion thereon, until the cause is
'finally submitted to them.
§777. IC after the impaneling of the jury, and be-
fine verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to
'iierforrn his duty, the court may order him to be dis-
charged. In that case a new juror may be sworn, and
the trial begin anew, or the jury may be discharged,
and a new jury then or afterwards impanelled.
§ 778. In charging the jhry, the court must state to
them all matters of law which it thinks necessary for
ihiéir iimformation 'in giving their verdict: and if it
i-ésent the facts of the case, it must also inform
jiiry that they are the exclusive judges' of all questiorls
5ff§6t_
§ 779. After hearing the charge, the jury may either
decide in court, or retire for deliberation. If they rc-
tire, they must be kept togelher in a room provided for
them, or some other convenient place, under the charge
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. rmocnnunx. w
of one or more officers, until they agree upon their ver-
dict, or are discharged by the court. The oflicer must,
to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury thus togeth-
er, separate from other persons, without drink except
water, and without food, except ordered bythe court;
he must not suffer any communication to be made to
them, nor make any himself; unless by order of the
court, except to ask them if they have agreed upon
their verdict, and he must not, before the verdict is
rendered, communicate to any person the state of' their
deliberations or the verdict agreed on.
§780. If; while the iury are kept together, either
during the progress of the trial or after their retin-
ment M deliberation, the ceurtorder thenrto be pro-
vided with suitable and sulliolent food and lodging,
they must be so provided by thesherif£ at the expense
of the county, or if the trial be in a city ceu1t, at the
expense of the city.
§781. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may
take with them all papers, (except depositions,) which
have been received as evidence in the cause' or copies
of such parts of public records or private documents,
given in. evidence, as ought not, in the opinion of the
court, to be taken from the person having them inpos-
session ; and they -may also takewith them notes of the
testimony orother proceedings on the trial, taken hy
.themselves 'or any .of them, .but none taken by any
other ,peum
Digitized by GOO8 le
328 mn com: or '
§ 782. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if
there be a disagreement between them as to any part
of the testimony, or if' they desire to be informed of
any point of law arising in the cause, they may require
the odicer to conduct them into court. Upon their
being brought into court, the information required must
be given, in the presence of, or after notice to the par-
ties or counsel.
§783. Except as provided in sections 777 and 786,
or in case of some accident or calamity, requiring their
discharge, the jury cannot be discharged after the cause
is submitted to them, until they have agreed upon their
verdict, and rendered it in open court, unless by the
consent of both parties entered upon the minutes, or
unless at the expiration of such time as the court deem
proper, it satisfactorily appear, that there is no proba-
bility of an agreement.
§ 784. In all cases where a jury are discharged, or pre-
vented from giving a verdict, by reason of accident or
other cause, during the progress of the trial, or after the
cause is submitted to them, the action may be again tried,
immediately, or at a future time, as the court directs.
§ 785. While the jury are absent, the court may ad-
journ from time to time, in respect to other business;
but it is nevertheless to be deemed open, for every pur-
pose connected with the cause submitted to the jury,
until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. A
final adjournmentof the court discharges the jury.
Digitized by GOO8 le
mm nocnnvnr.. m
§ 786. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict,
they must be conducted into court by the oflicer having
them in charge. Their names must then be called;
and if all do not appear, the rest must be discharged
without giving a verdict.
§ 787. If the jury appear, they must be asked by the
court or the clerk, whether they have agreed upon their
verdict; and if the foreman answer `1n the aliirmative,
they must, on being required, declare the same.
§ 788. When a verdict is rendered, and before it is re
corded, the jury may be polled on the request of
either party; for which purpose each juror must be
asked whether it be his verdict; if any one answer in
the negative, the jury must be sent out for further de-
liberation. If the verdict be informal or insufficient, it
may be corrected by the jury under the advice of the
court, or the jury may be again sent out.
§ 789. When the verdict is given, and is such as the
court :Hliy receive, the clerk must immediately record
it in full in the minutes, and must read it to the jury
and inquire of them whether it be their verdict. If any
juror disagree, the fact must be entered in the minutes,
and the jury again sent out; but if no disagreementbe
expressed, the verdict is complete, and the jury mustbe
discharged from the case.
Digitized by GOO8 le
839 Tl-IE 'MDE 'Ol'
ARTICLE III.
THE vmanrcr.
Sscnon 790. Delinition of verdict, general and special.
791. Discretion of jury to give general or special VBl'di8¢s
792. Special verdict controls general.
793. Jury must assess damages.
794. Must assess value of property in certain cases.
795. Minute: trial and verdict to be made.
§ 790. The verdict of a jury is either genera1 or spe-
cial. A general verdict, is that by which they pro-
nounce generally upon all or any of the issues either
in favor of the plaintiffor defendant. A special verdict
is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the
judgment to the court. It must present the conclu-
'sions of fact as established by the evidence, and not the
evidence to prove them, and those conclusions of fact
mfustbe so presented, as that nothing remains to the
court but to draw from them conclusionsof law.
Jlmended Code, § 260. Changed so as to be more conform-
able to the' original code.
§ 791. In every action' for the recovery of money
only, or specific real property, the jury in their discre-
tion, may render a general or special verdict. In all
other cases, the court may direct the jury to find a spe-
cial verdict in writing, upon all or any of' the issues;
and in all cases may instruct them if' they rendera gen-
eral verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to
be stated in writing, and may direct a written finding
thereon. The special verdict or finding must be Bled
with the clerk and entered upon the minutes.
Jlmmded Code, § 261.
Digitized by GOO816
cxvm nocmmn: aaa
§ 792. Where a special Ending of facts is incon-
sistent with the general verdict, the former controls the
latter, and the court must give judgment accordingly.
.Hmended Code, § 262. 4
§ 793. When a verdict is 'found for the plaintifi] in an
action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant,
when a counter claim for the recovery of money is ea-
tablished, beyond the amount of the plaintiH"s claim
as established, the jury must also assess the amount of
the T€COV€l'y»
Amended Code, §Q63.
§ 794. In an action for the recovery of specific per-
sonal property, if the property have not been delivered
to the plaintiff; or the defendant by his answer claim
a return thereof; the jury must, if their verdict be in
favor of the plaintill] or if being in favor of the de-
fendant, they also find that he is entitled to a return
thereof; must assess the value of the property, and may
at the same time assess the damages, if any are
claimed in the complaint or answer, which the pre-
vailingparty has sustained by reason of the taking or
detention of such property.
./Imended Code, §2G4.
§795. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry must be
made, in the minutes of the court, specifying the time
and place of the trial, the names of the jurors and wit-
nesses, the verdict, and either the judgment to be ren-
dered thereon, or when the court is in doubt what judg-
Digitized by GOO8 le
332 rm: con: or
ment ought to be given, . it may order that the case be
reserved for argument or further consideration.
./imended Code, § 267.
CHAPTER V.
TRIAL BY THE oovnr.
Sxsnon 796. Jury trial may be waived.
797. On trial by court, decision on questions of fact and of hw to be lo-
pnnte.
795. Proceedings after determination of issue of law.
§ 796. The trial by jury may be waived by the several
parties, to an issue of fact, in actions arising on obliga-
tions, and with the assent of the court, in other actions,
in the manner following:
l. By failing to appear at the trial :
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed
with the clerk:
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the
minutes.
Jfmended Code, § 266.
§797. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the
court, its decision must be given in writing, and filed
with the clerk, with twenty days after the circuit or
term at which the trial took place. In giving the de-
cision, the facts found, and thc conclusions of law,
must be separately stated. Judgment upon the dc-
cision must be entered accordingly.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. nocmunm. 333
Amended Code, § 267. Changed so as to be more conform-
able to the original code.
§ 798. On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an issue
of law, the plaintiff may proceed in the manner pre-
scribed by the first two sub-divisions of section 755,
upon the failure of the defendant to answer, where the
summons was personally served. If judgment be for
the defendant, upon an issue of law, and the taking of
an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to en-
able the court to complete the judgment, a reference
may be ordered, as in that section provided.
Amended Code, § 269.
CHAPTER VI.
TRIAL BY REFEREES.
Bxcnox 799. Trial by referees.
810. Judgment to be entered on report of referees.
§ 799. A triad by referees is conducted in the same
manner as a trial by the court.
The sections referred to are conformable to the existing
code.
§ 800. The report of the referees upon the whole issue
stands as the decision of the court, and judgment may
be entered thereon in the same manner, as if the action
had been tried by the court; and their decision may be
excepted to and reviewed in like manner. When
Digitized by GOO8 le
zu TBI con an
the reference is to report the facts, the report has the
eH`ect of a special verdict.
./invaded Cade, <> 272.
CHAPTER VII.
g rnansrous. RELATING To nuns m ammu- »
Armen I. Exceptions.
II. New trials.
'III. General provisions.
AHTIQLE I.
EXGEPTION8.
Sxcnou 801. Exceptions dennml.
802. Manner of taking and settling exceptions.
803. What exception contains.
§ 801. An exception is an okgection taken at the trial
to a decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial
be by the jury, court, or referees, and whether the de-
cision be made during the formation of a jury, the
production of evidence, the charge to a jury, or at any
other time from the calling of the action for Md to the
rendering of the verdict or decision. But no exception
is to be regarded on a motion for a new trial, or on an
appeal, unless the exception be material, and affect
substantial rights of the party.
This chapter and the next are new, and fill np a space left
in the former code. The provisions explain themselves.
§ 802. The point of the exception must be pa.rt§cu-
lgrly stated, and either deliveredin writing to the judge,
or entered in his minutes, and immediately corrected
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn, raocnnulw-
or added to, until made conformable to the truth, or it
may afterwards be settled, in a statement of the case,
as provided in section 807.
§803. No particular form of exception is required.
The objection must be stated, with so much of the
evidence as is necessary to explain it, but no more,
and the whole as briefly as possible. If the de-
cision excepted to be verbally made, it must, upon
the exception being taken, be reduced to writing, and
entered either in the judge's minutes, or the minutes of
the court, or in the statement.
It has been too often the practice to encumber ex-
ceptions with details of the evidence, to an unreasonable
length. In most cases, with a little care, all the evidence
necessary to explain the exception can be given in a narrow
wmpass. The following is a bill of egtwqptions, taken in Mas-
sachusetts, Which, for its shortness, is worthy of imitation ;
Berkshire ss.-Common Pleas, June nm, 1849.
Commonwealth,
vs.
Robert Walden .
The defendant was indicted for malicious
mischief, under that branch of § 39, ch. 126, of rev. statutes,
which prohibits the wilfully and maliciously destroying ol' in-
juring thepersonal property of another, in any manner, or by
any means not particularly described or mentioned in said
chapter. ,
The indictment is made a part of the case. The court de
lined the word maliciously, in said part of said section, to
mean the wilfully doing of any act prohibited by law, amlfor
Digitized by G0O8 le
3362 'ran ooo: or
which defendant had no lawful excuse-that moral turpitude
of mind was not necessary to be shewn, and so instructed the
jury.
To this instruction the defendant excepts, and prays that his
exceptions may be allowed.
By H. W. B.
His ./Ittomey.
The foregoing exceptions being found conformable to the
truth, are allowed.
H. B.,
Jwt. C. C. Pleas.
ARTICLE 11.
NEW TRIALB»
Blcfmn' 804. New trial defined.
88. In what e-ee may be granted.
806. On what papers moved for.
831. Manner of settling a can on exeeptione.
8(B. Application to be heard nt special term.
HW. Notice in certain cases when to be given.
§ 804. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of
fact, in the same court, after a trial and decision by a
jury, court, or referees.
§ 805. The former verdict or other decision may be
vacated and a new trial granted, on the application of
the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes,
materially affecting the substantial rights of such party :
l. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury,
or prevailing party, or any order of the court, or abuse
ofdiscretion, by which either party was prevented from
having a fair trid:
Digitized by GOO8 le
cnvu. nocmmm. W
2. Misconduct ofthe jury, or of the pgevailing partym
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against:
4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been givem
under the influence of passion or prejudice:
5. Insufiiciency of the evidence to justify the verdict:
or other decision: or that it is against law:
6. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party'
making the application, which he could not with rea-
sonable diligence have discovered and produced at the
trial:
7. Error in law, occurring at the trial, and excepted
to by the party making the application.
§ 806. When the application is made for a cause,
mentioned in the fourth, Mb, and seventh subdivisions
of the last section, it is made either upon the judge's
minutes, or a statement of the case, preparedzas pre-
scribed in the next section; for any other cause it is
made upon affidavit.
§ 807. The party preparinga statement is to propose a
draft of it, and, within five days after the trial, serve it
upon the adverse party, who may within five days
thereafter, propose amendments to it. If no amend-
ment be proposed, the draft is adopted; if proposed,
the statement and amendments may be submitted En'
settlement to the judge, or referee, before whom the
trial was had, upon a notice of five days: ifsuch notice
lcmx. oonn] 22
Digitized by GOO8 le
838 ' rn cons or'
be notserved within five days after the amendments
are proposed, they are adopted.
It is our wish to substitute for the present cases and bills of
exceptions, a simple statement of the exception or other part
of the case suffcient to pxesent the question.
§ 808. The application for a new trial must, in the
first instance, be made at a special term, except when
made upon an appeal.
§ eos. The application for a cause mentioned in the
4th and oth subdivisions of section 805 can only be
made, when notice thereo£ oral or written, was given
in open court, immediately after the verdict or other
decision rendered ; and thereupon if the adverse party
consent, the court must appoint a day in the same
term for hearing the application upon the judge's min-
ntes. If however the application be not heard at the
same term, or if an appeal be taken, a statement ofthe
case must be made.
ARTICLE HI.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Bxcnou 810. Rate of damages recoverable.
811. On trial, parties to lubmtt distinctly the points.
812. Ccruin proviliulu applielbh to othor cues.
§ 810. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plain:-
may claim and recover any rate of damages, to
'which he may be entitled, for the cause of action es-
fdblished.
./Imonded Code, Q) 276:
Digitized by GOO816
cml. noczumu: 889
§811. Any party may, and if required by the court,
must when the evidence is closed, submit in distinct
and concise propositions, the conclusions of fact which
he claims to be established, or the conclusions of law,
which he desires to have adjudged, or both; they may
be written and handed to the court, or at the option or
the court, oral and entered in the judge's minutes; but
in either case they must be entered with any excep-
tions that may be taken, if either party require it.
The design of this section is to enable the court referee or
jury to have before them in a definite form the result which
the party seeks to establish. It will be found especially con-
venient in those cases, where the court or referee is required
to find separately on the conclusions of fact and of law, with
a view to their separation, when necessary uponan appeal.
The practice here proposed is but applying to trials on
questions of fact, what the courts have long since required
on appeals, whether they include questions of fact, or those of
law only. The points which each party produces, before ar-
gument, are the same thing as here intended to be made sp-
plicable to the first trial. Although no provision for the prac-
tice exists in any rule of the court, as applicable to the origi-
nal trial, yet in point of fact it has long been used in the oral
summary, which counsel usually present to the court or jury
on the conclusion of a trial.
In some states, it has become a part of the recognized
system of procedure, and with results very beneficial. The
object of this section is to give to the practice a legal sans
tion, and to introduce it in definite form, with a view to fs-
cilitate a more logical analysis of the results of a legal con-
troversy than has sometimes been had.
When the concludons of fact are distinctly pointed out by
counsel, it will necessarily relieve the court from some labor
in preparing ga summary of the facts, inasmuch as it will be
able to decide either in the affirmative or negative, upon the
Digitized by GOO8 le
s40 'rn oonl Ol'
several points, or it can easily modify them to its own con-
clusions.
§ 812. The provisions of this title, respecting trials
by jury, apply, so far as they are in their nature appli-
cable, to trials by the court or referees, and, in the same
manner, the provisions respecting trials by the court
apply to trials by referees.
CHAPTER vm.
'rm ummm or clvwc um mrrnlnu Junallnrr.
llcnon 813. Judgment to conform to verdict.
814. If judgment reserved, when end how given.
816. Judgment when counter-eldm is eetabllehed.
816. May include specille property and dnmnges.
817. Judgment to be entered on direction ot single judge.
818. Clerk to keep a judgment book.
819. Judgment must specify the relief grunted.
820. If n party die after verdict, judgment my be given.
81. Judgment roll, how made and exemplified.
M. Judgment, n llen from the time of docketlng in the county only.
. All judgment Ilene to ceue utter 186)-
824. What the docket must contain.
825. Satisfaction of judgment how entered.
§ 813. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be entered by the clerk, in conformity to the ver-
dict, unless the court order the case to be reserved for
argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of
proceedings.
.dmended Code, § 265.
§814. When the case is reserved for argument or
further consideration, as mentioned in the last section,
on the ground that judgment ought not to be given in
Digitized by GOO8 le
crvu. nocnnvnz an
conformity to the verdict, or that it is doubtful what
judgment shouldbe given, the questions reserved may
be decided by the court, and judgment thereupon ren-
dered without further argument, or if not so decided
they may be brought before the court for judgment, at
a special term, upon notice; and judgment thereupon
rendered.
New.
§ 815. If' acounter-claim, established at the trial, ex-
ceed the plaintili's demand so established, judgment for
the defendant must be given for the excess, or if it ap-
pear that the defendant is entitled to any other adirma-
tive relief] judgment must be given accordingly.
See 2 R. s., 355, §22.
§ 816. In an action to recover the possession of per-
sonal property, judgmentfor the plaintiff may be for
the possession, or the value, thereo£ in case a delivery
cannot be had, and of damages for the detention. If
the property have been delivered to the plaintiff; and
the defendant claim a return thereof; judgment for the
defendant may be for a return of the property, or the
value thereof; in case a return cannot be had, and dam~
ages for taking and withholding the same.
Jlmmded Code, §2°'/7.
§ 817. Judgment upon an issue of law, or of fact, ot
upon confession. or upon failure to answer, (except
where the clerk is authorised to enter the same by the
first subdivision of section 755,) must, in the first 'mv
Digitized by GOO8 le
us ras con 01
1tanee, be entered apon the direction of a single judge,
or the report of referees upon the whole issue, subject
to review at the general term, on the demand of either
party, as provided in this code. _
Amended Cade, §278.
§ 818. The clerk must keep among the records of the
court, a book for the entry of judgments, to be called
the "judgment book."
Jlmended Code, §279.
4 819. The judgment must be entered in the judg-
ment book, and must specify clearly the relief granted,
or other determination of the action.
Amended Code, §280.
§ 820. If a party die aRer a verdict or decision upon
ln issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may
nevertheless render judgment thereon. Such judgment
is not a lien on the real property of the deceased party,
but is payable in the course of administration on his
estate.
§ 821. Immediately after entering the judgment, the
clerk must attach together and file the following papers,
which constitute the judgment roll:
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any
defendant, the summons and complaint, or copies
thereof] proof of service, and that no answer has been
received, 'the report, if any, and a copy of the judg-
nent.
Digitized by GOO8 le
0IVIL, rnocmoual.
2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, on
copies thereof; and a copy of the judgment with any
verdict or report, the offer of the defendant, exceptions,
and all orders relating to a change of parties, or in
any way involving the merits and necessarily affect-
ing the judgment. If a statement of the case be made,
the same may be attached to the judgment roll, on the
request of either party, and thenceforth forms a pan
thereof! »
When the defendant is entitled to judgment, if the
plaintiff shall not have filed the summons, with proof
of service and the pleadings on his part, the copies ol'
summons and pleadings served on the defendant, may
be substituted therefor in making the judgment roll, or
the plaintiff may, at the instance of the defendant, be
ordered by a judge forthwith to file such papers.
Upon an exemplification of a judgment, as evidence
only that part ofthe rod1 which consists of the summons,
pleadings, and judgment need be given.
.dmendcd Code, §281. Slightly changed in respect to the
time of filing the case or exceptions.
§ 822. On filing a judgment roll, upon a judgment
requiring the payment of money, the judgment may
be docketed with the clerk of the county where it was
rendered, and in any other county, upon filing with the
clerk thereof a transcript of the original docket; and
Mgitized by GOO8 le
844 -rn com: or
thereupon the judgment becomes a lien on real proper-
ty in the county, from the time of docketing it therein.
Jlmended Code, § 282.
§823. The lien, mentioned in the last section, ex-
tends to all the real property of the judgment debtor in
the:county, owned by him at the ti me of the judgment,
or afterwards acquired, and continues till the first day
of .July, 1860, on all unsatisfied judgments rendered
or which may be rendered before that time. But after
the first day of January, 1860, there can be no such
lien.
See 2 R. s., ass, §§ a, 4, 5.
This section proposes an important change in respect to the
lien ofjudgments. We believe that the multiplication of liens
upon real property has come to be a serious evil. They are
but embarrassments in the way of the transfer of property. If
all the money collected annually out of real property, upon
judgments a year old, could be ascertained, we believe it would
not equal half the expense paid in the same year upon search-
es for the liens.
The liens of existing judgments cannot be cut oil, and
since they are to continue, it seems proper that subseqeunt
judgments should be put upon the same footing, and the liens of
all cease at the same period. That it may be seen at a glance
how many of these incumbrances upon real property, every
purchaser and every borrower upon mortgage must search
for, we present the following list of them, as they exist in
the city of New-York:
Digitized by GOO8 le
\
mn. nncmuu. 345
General Liens:
Judgments, U. S. circuit court.
U. S. district court. \
Suppreme, to June, 1840.
Superior, "
Common pleas, to April 1, 1844, Laws,
1845, p. 91.
Transcripts since June, 1840,Laws, 1840,
p. 334, § 26.
Surrogate's Decrees, 2 R. S. 46.
Laws of 1837, p. 535.
cc 1844, P- 91.
Insolvent Assignments, 1 R. S , ch. 5, arts. 1 to 10.
Insolvent Notices, 2 R. S., p. 8, sections 32, 33.
Collectors' Bonds and their sureties.
Laws, 1888, p. 184.
Laws, 1843, p. 314.
Forfeited Recognizances, Laws, 1844, p. 475.
Bonds of receiver of taxes, and deputy, and suneties,
to be Bled in comptroller's oilice, 1843, p. 315.
Notes given to Mutual Insurance Company, 1836, p.
91, which is a pattern act, and including others
framed upon it.
Specyic Hens :
Convcyances, 1 R. S., 762, § 38.
Mortgage to U. S. lca.n commissioners, 1837, p. 121.
Mechanics' liens, 1844, p. 339.
Notice of action pending, 2 R. S., 174, §48.
Certificates of sheriff and U. S. marshal sales, 2 R. S.,
370.
Taxes and sales for unpaid taxes.
Assessments and sales for unpaid assessments.
Water rents, 1849, p. 542
§ 824. The docket mentioned in section 822 is a book,
which the clerk must keep in his office, and in which
he must enter alphabetically, under the name of each
person,
Digitized by GOO8 le
run com: or 346
1. The names of the parties to the judgment:
2. The amount of the judgment: and
3. The precise time of his entry.
See 2 R. s. 359 §6, & 361,§ 13.
§ 825. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in
the c1erk's register and docket, upon an execution re-
turned satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment of satis-
faction tiled with the clerk, made in the manner of an
acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, by
the judgment creditor, or within two years after the
judgment, by the attorney, unless a revocation of his
authority is previously entered upon the register. When-
ever a judgment is satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon
an execution, it is the duty of the party or attorney to
,give such acknowledgment, and upon motion, the court
may compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to
be made without it. And whenever a judgment is sat-
isiied in fact as to any one of several defendants, an
entry to that eflect may be made in the register and
docket.
See 2 R. S. 382, §§ 22, 23, 247 25, 26.
Digitized byGoo3le
clvu. raocmunl. 847
TITLE IX.
OF THE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT IN CWIL ACTIONS.
Cl-nrrln I. The execution.
II. Proceedings supplementary to the execution.
CHAPTER I.
THE EXEEUTION.
Slcrxou ws. Execution within ive yearn, ot' course, u prescribed by this title.
827. The diferent kinda or execution.
m. Contents of the execution.
sw. To be returnable in sixty days.
sau. Bpecihc judgments, how enforced.
831. After tive years, to be issued only by leave of court. Leave how
obtained.
832. Execution after death of debtor.
sas. To what counties execution may be Issued.
au. Execution against the person, in what cues and when.
885. Persons arrested on execution to be imprisoned.
sae. After arrest, another execution not to issue.
837. What property may be levied on.
sas. When property is claimed by a third person, mer-in may summon
jury to try the claim.
889. What property ls exempt from execution.
840. Manner of executing against property.
841. Notice of sale of property.
842. Penalty for selling without notice.
w. Manner of conducting sale.
844. Certificate of sale of real property.
845. How real property may be redeemed.
846. Redemption may be by payment to purchaser.
847. The purchaser if a creditor may redeem.
848. The evidence ot' the lien must be produced.
849. Sherin' must execute deed after expiration of time.
aw. Injunction allowed to stay waste after sale.
851 When title fails, purchaser may have restitution.
ssa. When execution against several, ls enforced against one, he may
have contribution, or if a surety, restitution.
§ 826. The party in whose favor judgment is given,
may at any time within five years after the entry there-
012 proceed to enforce the same as prescribed in this
title.
Digitized by GOO8 le
I
848 'rn cons or
§ 827. There are three kinds of writs of execution;
one against the property of the judgment debtor ; an-
other against his person; and the third for the delivery
of the possession of real or personal property, or such
delivery with damages for withholding the same.
They are issued in the name of the people and are
deemed the process of the court, but they need not be
sealed nor subscribed, except as prescribed in the next
section.
./Imended Code, § 286.
§ 828. The writ of execution must be directed to the
sheriff, subscribed by the party issuing it, or his attor-
ney, and must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating
the court, the county where the judgment roll or
transcript is filed, the names of the parties, the amount
of' the judgment, if it be for money, the amount actual-
ly due thereon, and the time of docketing in the county
to which the execution is issued, and must require the
sheriff substantially as follows:
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debt-
or, it must require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment,
with interest, out of the personal property of such
debtor, and if sullicient personal property cannot be
found, out of his real property, or if the judgment be a
lien on real property, then out of the real property be-
longing to him on the day when the judgment was
docketed in the county, or at any time thereafter, or •
Digitized by GOO8 le
mm noclnun. 349
if the judgment be entered pursuant to the first subdi-
vision of section 632, the execution must conform to
such judgment:
2. If it be against real or personal property, in the
hands of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, lega-
tees, tenants of real property, or trustees, it must re-
quire the sheriif to satisfy the judgment, with interest,
out of such property:
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor,
it must require the sheriff to arrest such debtor, and
commit him to the jail of' the county, until he pay the
judgment, with interest, or be discharged according to
law:
4. If it be for the delivery of thepossession of red
or personal property, it must require the sheriff to de-
liver the possession of the same, particularly describing
it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the same
time require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, charges, dam-
ages, rents or profits recovered by the same judgment,
out of the personal property of the party against whom
it was rendered, and the value of the property for
which the judgment was recovered, to be specified
therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had, and if suti
licient personal property cannot be found, then out of
real property, as provided in the first subdivision of this
section, and in that respect it is to be deemed an exe-
cution against property.
.dmended Code, §289.
0
Digitized by GOO8 le
aso TBI com or
§ 829. The execution must be made returnable with#
in sixty days after its recdpt by the sheriii to the clerk
with whom the judgment roll is filed.
./Imendad Code, §290.
§'830. Where a judgment requires the payment of
money or the delivery of real or personal property, the
same is enforced in those respects by execution, as pro-
vided in the last three sections. Where it requires the
performance of any other act, a certified copy of the
judgment may be served upon the party against whom
it is given, or upon the person or oiiicer who is required
thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and his obedience
thereto enforced. If he refuse, he may be punished by
the court, as for a contempt.
Amended Coda, § 286.
§ 831. After the lapse of five years from the entry of
judgment, if no execution have been already issued,
an execution can be issued only by leave of the cow
on motion, upon notice to the adverse party. Such
leave must not be given unless it be established by the
oath of the party, or other proof; that the judgment, or
some part thereof; remains unsatisiied and due.
When the judgment has been rendered in a justiods
court, and docketed in the 08m of the clerk of the
county, the application fbr leave to issue execution
must be to the county court of the county where the
4
Digitized by GOO8 le
mm nlonnvir.. 8615
judgment was rendered, or in the city and county df
New-York, to the court of common pleas of that city,
and such court has jurisdiction over the judgment and
execution.
.flmended Code, § 284.
§832. Notwithstanding the death of a party after
judgment, execution thereon against his property may
be issued and executed in the same manner and with
the same effect, as if he were still living, except that
such execution cannot be issued within a year after his
death, unless upon permission granted by the surro-
gate.
See 2 R. s., aes, § 27.
§ 833. Where the execution is against the property
of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff
of any county where the judgment is docketed. Where
it requires the delivery of real or personal property, it
must be issued to the sheriff of the county where the
property or some part thereof; is situated. Executions
may be issued, at the same time, to different counties.
.Amended (Jade, § 287.
§ 834. If the actionbe one in which the defendant
might have been arrested, as provided in the first three
subdivisons of section 675, an execution against the
person of the judgment debtor may be issued to any
county within the jurisdiction of' the court, after the
return of an execution against his property, unsatished
Digitized by GOO8 le
an rnoomzor
in whole or in part. An execution against the person
may likewise be issued, after such return, in the cases
mentioned in the fourth and fifth subdivisions of that
section, where the defendant has been provisionally ar-
rested in the action, and the order for his arrest has not
been vacated, or upon an order of arrest obtained in the
same manner as for a provisional arrest.
.Hmmded Code, § 288, modified.
§ 835. A person arrested on execution must be im-
prisoned within the jail, or the liberties thereof; and
there kept at his own expense, until satisfaction of the
execution, or his legal discharge.
1 R. s., 376, § 76.
§886. When a defendant has been once imprison-
ed upon execution, no other execution can issue upon
the same judgment, unless he escape or die, while
charged in execution, or unless he be discharged with-
out the consent of the judgment creditor.
M. s,, 36, and §§ 7 and 8.
§ 837. All property liable to an attachment is liable
to execution. It must be levied on, in the same man-
ner as similar property is attached, pursuant to section
729. Until a levy, property is not affected by the ex-
cution.
New.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cms. rmcnnvas. 38
§;.888. lf. the property levied on.be.claimed, by- a tbind
person as his property, the sheriif may su.ml!|PFl,IiQQ|
his county any twelve persons, qualified as jqrors be-
tvveen the parties, to try the validity of the claim. The
and the witnesses must be sworn by the sheriff] and if
their verdict be in favor of the claimant, the sheriff may
relinquish the levy, unless the judgment cnditor give
him a sufhcient indemnity for proceeding thereon. The
fees of the jury must he paid by the claimant, if the
verdict be against him, otherwise by the plaintifll
§839. The following property owned by a house-
holder, and in actual use, or kept for use by and for his
family, or when being removed from one habitation to
another upon a change of resiclence, is exempt from
execution, except as herein otherwise specially pro-
vided:
1. Books,pi<;tures, and musical instruments, to the
vadue of fifty dollars:
2. Necessary household, table and kitchen furniture,
including stoves, stove pipe, and stove furniture, wear-
ing apparel, beds, bedding and bedsteads, provisions
actually provided for Family use, su8eient Ibr dx
months, including meat, iish, vegetables, Hour pnd
nal, with fue! for sixty days, one cow, ten Sheep, WI?
swine, end food for them for three months:
a. The seat or pew occupied by the debtor or kk
fmny, in 4 home af wblic woxahim
[gum num] $3
Digitized by GOO8 le
854 'ram cons or
4. The tools and implements of a mechanic, neces-
éary to carry on his trade:
5. A horse, harness, and cart or other vehicle, by
the use of which a physician, constable, cartman, team-
ster, or other laborer, habitually earns his living. But
the aggregate value of all the property so exempt, can-
not exceed two hundred and fifty dollars; nor is any
article exempt from an execution issued on a judg-
ment for its price.
2 R. S., 367, § 22, modified and extended. Whether the
exemption should be carried still further, so as to save the
homestead of a family, is a high question of public policy,
which it is for the legislature alone to entertain.
§ 840. The sherid` must execute the writ agdnst the
property of the judgment debtor, by levying on the pro-
perty, collecting the things in action, as prescribed by
section 731 and the fourth subdivision of section 736,
selling the other property, and paying to the plaintiff
the proceeds, or so much thereof as will satisfy the
execution.
§ 841. Before the sale of property on execution, no-
-tice thereof must be given as follows:
1. In case of personal property, by posting written
'notice of the time and place of sale, in three public
places of the town where the sale is to take place, six
,¢|gys successively:
2. In case of red property, by posting a similar na
tice describing the property with the certdnty pre-
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. rnocnnun. 866
scribed by section 656, for six weeks successively, in
three public places of the town where the property is
situated, and also where the property is to be sold, and
publishing a copy thereof once a week for the same
period, in a newspaper of the county, if there be one,
or if there be none, and the property is not occupied by
the judgment debtor, or by a tenant or purchaser under
him, then in the state paper. After the iirst of' July,
1860, such notice shall be a lien upon the property
until the sale thereof, and the filing the certificate of
the sale with the clerk of the county.
2 R. s., see, 4 21, 368,4> §34 and 35,
§842. A oicer selling without the notice prescrib-
ed by the last section, shall forfeit one hundred dollars
to the aggrieved party, in addition to his actual dama-
ges, and a person, taking down or defacing the notice
posted, if done before the sale or the satisfaction of the
execution, and without the consent of the parties, shall
forfeit Iifcy dollars; but the validity of the sale is not
affected by either act.
See 2 R. S., 369, § 37 and 39, and 40.
§ 843. A sale must be made by auction, between
nine o'clock in the morning and sunset ; after sufficient
property has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more
must be sold; neither the oflicer holding the execution
nor his deputy can purchase; when the sale is of per-
sonal property, capable of manual delivery, it must be
within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold
Digitized by GOO8 le
ana 'mm con: or >
\
in su¢h.parcels.as are likely td bring thé'highe8t'pri6e';1
and when the' sale is of real propérty, ankl' cohbisting df
levers! known- lots, or parcels, they must- be sold-sepd
rately, dr when a- portion of such real propérfy is
ciaimed by d third person; and' he requires it td blrsdai
sephrately, ~uch portion must bé thussoldv
2 n. s,-a6v,-§|23.,»3e9, aaa* gas,
4 s-MQ Upon ai salb of real pibpérty, xiuilicre tflie estate
i$"1e§8'd»an- ai lbmhbld df tWo` jears dhéxpired term,
file sale is alisolufe; I5 ali other ceses nie property
sold is subject to redemption es' provided ixi the next
live sections; the ofliccr must gire to the plirchaser a
certificate' of the de; proved or acknnwfédged stvthat
itdrsi be recorded, cofdtainlhgx;
1. A oulin' description of the property sold:
2. The' price bid for each distinct lot or puree! :~
s.- The whole price paid:
41. en' subject to tedemptidfr, it mud Be 86 stated,
ar duplicéte 0> which certificate must be filed by me
iicer with the clerk of the county:
2 R. s., 370, §§ 42, 43,44
§845. Property sold subject to redemption, as pm-
vided in the' last section; or imy part sold separately;
may be redeemed; in the manner provided in the next
four sections, by the folloiving persons or their sircoes-
aors in interest:
1; Tile jhdgmérit debtor, or His suecessbi hi iiitefést;
hi the wltble di irif pdrf of tile progeny,
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. mocxnunz. 357
»2. :A oreditonrhaving a lien by judgment or mort-
gage on 4the property sold, or on.someshare.or part
¢hf=rw£ .subsequentto that on which the property was
59151. »Tbepersons ,mentioned .in the last 'f'our.subdivi-
5iggs, arein this ohapter termed redemptioners.
§846. The judgment debtor, or redemptioner, may
redeem the property from the purchaser within sixty
days after the sale, on paying him the amount of his
purchase, and if' he be also a creditor having a lien prior
to that of' the redemptioner, the amount of such lien,
with interest.
- §84v. ' I£. 'the property be so redeemed,-by a redemp-
tioner, either -the judgment 'debtor or another redemp-
tioner, may within thirty days after the last redemption,
ggain redeem it from the last redemptioner on paygng
the sum paid on his redemption, with interest,,.and,
unless hiszlien be prior to that of the preceding re-
demptioner, the amount of such . lien, .with .interest
'lTh¢,.Pr9P¢ff>2 rn==y,be. ag°i"» end ®=.°!*9P.°°.thQ dehtor
or owner, or any redemptioner is so disposed, redeem-
91118291 ,any .redemptipppr -within lhirfy- d4y=».ef)¢4!\i°
r¢s1¢mP4i°9» .%4=d..11fr1if=e. thereof filed .With the .=h¢f=1€£
If no redemption is mad<=.in si;ty,da,ys,a,(ter thefsle.
the purchaser is entitled to a conveyance; or if so re-
deemed, .whenever= thirty -days have elapsed, and no
Digitized by GOO8 le
358 'rua com: or
redemption has been made and notified therein, the
time for redemption has expired, and the last redemp-
tioner is entitled to a sheriff's deed. If the debtor or
owner redeem at any time before the time for redemp-
tion expires, the effects of the sale are terminated, and
he is restored to his estate.
§ 848. The payment mentioned in the last two sec-
ti0nS, may be made to the purchaser or redemptioner,
as the case may be, or for him, to the oflicer who made
the sale ; and a tender of the money is equivalent to
payment.
§ 849. A redemptioner must produce to the oflicer or
person from whom he seeks to redeem, and file with
his notice in the sheriff's office.
1. A copy of` the docket of the judgment, under
which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the
clerk of the court or of the county, where the judgment
is docketed, or if he redeem upon a mortgage or other
lien, a note of the record thereof] certified by the clerk:
2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish
his claim, verified by the aflidavit of himself or of a
lubscribing witness thereto: and
3. An affidavit by.himself` or his agent showing the
amount then actually duc on the lien.
Digitized by GOO8 le
CIVIL nocnnunr.. aaa
It has been for some years the policy of our laws to allow
a redemption of real property upon sales on execution. 2 R.
S. 370, § 45-62. Whether this policy is founded in sound
principles, or even affords any beneit to the debtor, has been
seriously questioned by judicious men. The Commissioners
do not deem it expedient for them to propose to abolish re-
demptions, but there are some features in the existing system
which are unnecessary, and so clearly indefensible that they
have felt it a duty to endeavor, by a change, to make it more
conducive to the real policy of the law ; favor to an unfortu-
nate debtor, and the appropriation of his properiy in such
manner as to pay the largest possible amount of his debts. _
The existing system presents the following, among other
results »
It, in effect, delays the collection of a debt out of real pro-
perty, for lifteen months after the sale;
It suspends the remedy of all junior judgment creditors
against the same property for the same period ;
If redeemed upon judgment or other lien, the redemption
efects no payment on the lien debt, but the creditor takes the
debtor's land by redemption, and keeps his debt against him
also in full force, and may sell other property upon it in the
same manner as if he had not redeemed; even if paid after
wards, the payment does not restore the land .
Although the provisions proposed by the Commissioners do
not wholly obviate these objections, they at least have that
tendency.
There seems no good reason for the great lapse of time
heretofore allowed, nor for preventing the debtor from re-
deeming his land at any time while it is open for redemption
to a creditor. The uncertainty whether the holder of the
oldest lien will redeem,and the advantage of waiting until
the last hour, in case he fails, has often led to subsequentliti-
gation. The plan the Commissioners offer, partially obviate:
at least these objections.
u 850. Until the expiration of the time allowed for
redemption the court may restrain the commission of
Digitized by GOO8 le
960 nz: com: ar
Waste onthe property by order granted with or without
notice, on tlie application of the purchaser br the judg-
ment creditor. But it is not waste for the person in
'possession of theproperty at the time of sale, or enti-
tied to possession afterwards during the period allowed
forredemption, 'to continue to use=it in the same man-
iier' in which it was previously used, or fo use it in the
#ordinary course of hushandry, or to make the necessary
repairs of buildings thereon, or to use wood or timber
on the property therefor, or for the repair of fences, or
-M' fuel in'his'iirmily, while he occupies the property.
2 R. s.,336, §§20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29.
§ 851. If the purchaser of real property sold on exe-
eution, or his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom
in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings con-
cerning the sale, or of the reversal or discharge of the
judgment, he may recover the price paid with interest
hom the judgment creditor. Such judgment creditor,
if the recovery was in consequence of the irregularity,
'shall thereupon be entitled to a new execution on the
judgment, for the price paid on the sale with interest;
and for ' that purpose the judgment shall be deemed
'wid against the judgment debtor, his personal repre-
sentatives, heirs, or devisees, but not against a purcha-
ser in good faith, or an incumbrancer, whose title or
incumbrance shall have accrued before a levy on such
_DEW execution.
2 R. S., 375, 9 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73 and 74.
Digitized byGoo3le
mm hocunnnn. an
§ 852. When property, liable to an execution against
several persons, is sold thereon, and more than a due
proportion of the judgment is levied upon the property
of-one of them, or one of them .pays -withouta sale
more than hisproportion, he maycompel contribution
from the others. And when a judgment isugainst
several, and is upon an obligation of one of them, as
security for another, and the surety pays the amount
or any part thereof; either by 'sale of his property or be-
fore sale, he may compel repayment from the principal.
In such eases the person so paying, or contributing, is
entitled to the benefit of the judgment to enforce con-
tribution or repayment, if within .ten .days after his
payment he file with the clerk of the court, where the
judgment was rendered, notice of his payment and
claim ' tocontribution 'or repayment. 'Upon the filing
of-such notice, the clerk must make an entry thereof
'ln the 'margin of the docket.
2 R. S., 375, § 70, extended.
It -will ~be observed,1t\\at the providons of»!his chapterex-
tend the execution, so as in all cases to reach the prnpevg
which can be reached by at*achment. ln a case where an
attachment has been issued, the execution is as extensive in its
nperatian as'the» attadimentf and there seems no good reason
for making one execution against pF9P*4':tyam0re extansizqq
than another.
Digitized by GOO8 le
sez 'ran con: or
CHAPTER II.
PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY To rss 1-zxswnon.
Blcnon asa. When execution returned unsatlslled, order for discovery of pro-
party.
864. When judgment debtor refuses to evnly property to satisfy jndg~
ment.
855. Manner of proceeding to examine judgment debtor.
856. Any debtor may pay execution against his creditor.
857. Examination of debtors of judgment debtor or of those having
property belonging to him.
858. Witness required to testify.
sis. Compelling party or witnesses to attend. Examinations when to
be on oath.
aw. Judge may order property to be applied on execution.
sax. Judge may appoint receiver, and prohibit transfer, nc. of property
sez. Proc°edings upon claim of another party to property, or on denial
of indebtedness to judgment debtor.
sw. Reference by judge.
864- Costs of proceeding.
asc. Disobedience of order, how punished.
§853. When an execution against property of the
judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors, in
the same judgment, issued to the sherilf of the county
where he resides, or if he do not reside in this state, to
the sheriff of the county where the judgment roll, or
a transcript of a justice's judgment, is tiled, is returned
unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor,
at any time after such return made, is entitled to an
order from a judge of' the court, or a county judge of
the county to which the execution was issued, requir-
ing such judgment debtor to appear and answer, con-
cerning his property, before such judge, or a referee ap-
pointed by a judge of the court, at a time and place
speciiied in the order.
Amended Code, § 292.
Digitized by GOO816
cxvn. rnocsnun. 868
§ 854. After the issuing of an execution against pro-
perty, and upon proof by affidavit, of a party or other-
wise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof]
or county judge, that any judgment debtor has pro-
perty, which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the
satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may,
by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at
a specified time and place, to answer concerning the
same ; and such proceedings may thereupon be had, for
the application of the property of the judgment debtor
towards the satisfaction of the judgment, as are provid-
ed, upon the return of' an execution.
./lmended Code, § 292.
§ 855. Instead rf the order requiring the attendance
of the judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sec-
tions, the judge may, upon proof by aflidavit or other-
wise, to his satisfaction that there is danger of the
debtor's leaving the state, or concealing himself; issue
a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county where
such debtor may be, to arrest him and bringhim before
such judge. Upon being brought before the judge, he
may be examined on oath, and ordered to enter info an
undertaking with one or more sureties, that he will at-
tend from time to time before the judge or referee, as
he shall direct, during the pendency of the proceeding,
and until the final determination thereof; and will not
in the meantime dispose of any portion of his propvrty,
not exempt from execution. 'In default of enterrng into
Digitized by GOO8 le
864 mmww
alwhf undertaking, he -may be committed f to,-prison, :by
.warrantof the judge.
.awmaad 0044, 4 292.
.§ 856..Ailer the issuing ofiexecution against propprty,
any person indebtatsl to the .judgment debtor. m.aa'.n47
to the shfriffthe- amount of' his.debt, or,so.much jhqregf
as may be necegsagy to qatisfythe execution,~g4d .tho
sheHH".s receipt shall be a suiiicient discharge for tho
amount so paid.
#mended Code, Q 293.
§857. After the issuing or return of an execution
against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one
of several debtors in the same judgment, and upon
proof by aflidavit, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of
the judge, that any person or corporation, has property
of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an
amount exceeding ten dollars, the judge may by, an ,or-
der require such person or corporation, or any oflicer or
member thereof; to appear at a specified time aud,pla0¢»
and answer concerning the same. The judge mayalso,
in his discretion, require notice of such proceeding, to be
given to any party to the action, in such manner as
may seem to him proper.
.4-!?9\l'73d£d Cqa¢,,§,294~.
I
Digitized by GOO8 le
mm noemun. as
§ 868: Witnesses may be fequited* to vmpwf audltes-
my upon any proceeding' under .this chapter, in~ tho*
iiimé manner as upow the trial*of an issue.
Amndéd Code, § 295.
§» 859. The party or witness- may be required toot;
tend before the judge, .or.before a-1e%ree,, appointed by
the court or judge. If before a referee, the examina-
tion must be taken by the referee, and certified to the
jtidge. Au* eiaminations and' answers before a judge
or referee, und'er this chapter, must! be' cn' oath, except
fiiat when a corporation' answers, tHe answer must be
ob the chili of an officer thereo£'
./Ymended code, § 296.
§860. The judge may ordcl' any prgperzy of the
judgm¢ debtor, not exempt fronr exeduti'on,- in the!
hands either of' himself or' any other person, or due ta
the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satis*
fdé€i'on of the judgment, except that fne earnings' of
the' debtor for his personal services, at any time withitt
thirty days next preceding the order, cannot be $6 ap»
plied, when it is made to appear by the debtor's atiida-
vit, or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for
the tise of a family supported Wholly or partly by his
labor.
Amended Code, § 297. Modified, so as to preserve the cur-
rent earnings of a debtor for the use of his family, if neces-
sary for their support.
Digitized by GOO8 le
aes 'run cons or
§86l. The judge may also, by order, appoint a re-
ceiver of the property of the judgment debtor, in the
same manner and with the like authority, as if the ap-
pointment were made by the court. The judge may
also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of
the property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from
execution, and any inteference therewith.
./Ymended Code, § 298.
§ 862. If it appear that a person or corporation al-
leged to have property of the judgment debtor, or in-
debted to him, claims an interest in the property, ad-
verse to him, or denies the debt, such interest or debt
is recoverable only in an action against such person or
corporation, by the receiver: but the judge may, by
order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such
property or interest, till a sufiicient opportunity be
given to the receiver to commence the action, and
prosecute the same to judgment and execution. Such
order may be modified or vacated, by the judge grant-
ing the same, at any time, on such security as he may
direct.
.Hmendad Code, §299.
§ 863. The judge may, in his discretion, order a re-
ference to a referee agreed upon or appointed by him,
to report the evidence or the facts.
.Hmcnded Code, § 300.
Digitized by GOO816
CIVIL nocmuu. 861
§ 864. The judge may allow to the judgment credi-
tor, or to any person so examined, whether a party to
the action or not, his charges, and a fixed sum in addi-
tion, not exceeding ten dollars, as costs.
.Hmendcd Code, §301.
§ 865. If' any person, party or witness, disobey an or-
der of the judge or referee, duly served, such person,
party or witness, may be punished by the judge, as for
a contempt. The proceedings therefor are prescribed
in the title of the third part of this code, respecting the
punishment of contempts.
./Imended Code, §203.
Mgitized by (3003 le ,..*'
asa nmmm or
TITEE' X.
OF THE COSTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS»
SIcnon ses. Fee bill abolished. Allowances given, termed'/costs.
suv. When allowed. of course, to plaintitli
ass. In several actions against par ties to the same instrument, but one
bill of costs.,
ses. When allowed to defendant.
870; When allowed-toeither party, in tile discretion of theoouna
871. Colts not allowed in action on a judgment, unless brought by leave
of oonrt.
872. Amount of coatsvallowed ln certain cases.
m. Interest on verdict or report, when allowect
sm. Cost, how to.be lhserted.i|»judgmeat.
875. Glerk's fees.
876. Referees' fees.
877. Costs on postponement of trial.
878. Costs on a motion.
879. Costs against infant plalntlm
sw. Costs not allowed when tender has been made.
ssl. Costs ln an action by or against an executor or administrator, trun-
tee to an express trust, or a person expressly authorised by statute
to sue.
s82. Costs on a review of adeclslon of an Inferior court, ln aspeelal
proceeding.
sas. Costs tn actions by the people.
884. Costs in actions for the benetlt ot' a corporation.
sae. Costs against assignee of cause of action after action brought.
886. Costs on a settlement.
887- Costs ln action by plaintiff out of the state.
§ 866. All statutes, establishing or regulating the costs
or fees of attorneys and counsel in civil actions, and
all existing rules and provisions of law, restricting or
controlling the right of a party to a agree with an attor-
ney, or counsel, for his compensation, are repealed;
and hereafter the measure and mode ofsuch compen-
sation must be left to the agreement, express or im-
plied, of the parties. But there may be allowed to the
prevailing party, certain sums by way of indemnity,
Digitized by GOO8 le
crvix. Pnottnmn £489
Bi' his expenses in the dctibn ; which allowances ire
in this édde iermed iiimsts.
./Imendzd Code, § 303.
§ asv. Costs are allowed of course to the plaihfil§
upon a judgmefnt in his fdvor, in the following casés:
1. Ih ah aétion for the reizdvety of real property, or
when é cldim of title io ieél prdperiy driseh bn fhe
pleadings, or is certified by the court to have come in
quesiion at the trial:
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal
propeny:
3. In the actions of which, according to section 154,
a justice's court has iior juriédictiiih:
4. In an action for the recovery of money, where the
plaintiff recovers fifty dollars or more. But in an action
for assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander,
malicious prosecution, criminal conversation. or seduc-
tion, if the plaintiff recover less than fifty dollars dama-
ges, he can recover no more costs and charges than
damages. And in an action to recover the possession
of personal property, if the plaintilf recover less than
iifty dollars damages, he can recover no more costs and
charges than damages, unless he recover also property,
the value of which with the damages amounts to fifty
dollars. Such value must be determined by the jury,
court or referee, by whom the action is tried.
.fimended Code, § 304, 1-
fcliui. nina] 24
Digitized by GOO8 le
370 'ram mon Ol
f
§ 868. When several actions are brought on one
bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange,
or other instrument in writing, or in any other case for
the same cause of action, against several parties who
.might have beerrjoined as defendants in the same ac-
tion, no costs can be allowed to the plaintifI`,, in move
than one of such actions, which may be at his elec-
tion, if the parties proceeded against in the other ac-
tions were at the commencement of the previous ac-
tion, openly within this state; but the disbursements of
the plaintiff may be allowed to him,. as provided in sec-
tion 874.
./Imended Code, § 304.
§ 869. Costs are allowed of course to the defendant,
upon a judgment in his favor, in an action for the re-
covery of money, where the plaintiff recovers less than
fifty dollars, and also in the other actions mentioned in
section 867.
Amended Code, § 305.
§' 870. In other actions, costs may be allowed or not;
and if allowed, may be apportioned between the par-
ties, on the same or adverse s*des, in the discretion of
the court.
When there are several def`endants,.not united in in-
terest, and making separate defences by separate an-
swers, and the plaintiff fails to. recover judgment against
all, the court may award costs to such of the deflnd-
ants as have judgment in their favor, or any of them
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. nocmunm. 371
And in the fdllowing cases the costs of an appeal are in
the discretion of the court;
1. Where a new trial is ordered:
2. Where a judgment is modified.
.dmended Code, § 304.
§ 871. Costs can not be allowed to the plaintiff; in
an action upon a judgment of a court of this state, be-
tween the same parties, unless such action was brought
with previous leave of the court for cause shown; but
this prohibition does not apply to an action upon the
judgment of a justice's court, brought in another coun-
ty, or brought in the same county, in case of the sum-
mons not having been served on all the defendants, or
the death of a party, or the death, resignation, incapa-
city to act or removal from the county of the justice, or
the loss ol his docket.
.Hmended Code, § 71.
§ 872. When allowed, costs are as follows:
1. To the plaintiff for all proceedings before notice
of trial (including judgment when entered ;)
In an action arising on obligation for the recovery of
money only, seven dollars; in another action twelve
dollars; for all subsequent proceedings before trial, seven
dollars ;
2. To the defendant; for all proceedings before no-
tice of trial, five dollars ; for all subsequent proceedings
before trial, seven dollars;
3. For the trial of issues of law, if separate from the
trial of issues of fact, to the plaintiff, fifteen dollars; to
the defendant, twelve dollars:
Digitized by GOO8 le
m
4. Forthe trial of the issues offac't,if separate
the trial of the issues of law, =to the plaintiff fifteen
dollars ; to the defendant, twelve dollars'
5. For the trial of'the ksues ofihct and oflaw, when
tried at the same time, to tlieplaintill, twenty dollars;
to the defendant fifteen dollars:
6. To either partyon appeal, .ekcepting.tofthe court
of appeals,'before argument, fifteen dollars: ffor argu-
ment-thirty dollars: but this provision does not apply
to appeals in thecases mentioned in section
7. To either-party on appealto the courtof appeals;
before argument, twenty-live dollars; for argument,
my dollars:
8. To either party, for every circuit o1:'term~not ex-
ceeding three, at which the cause necessarily remains
on the calendar not reached or postponed, excluding
that at which it is tried or heard, ten dollars.
In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages upon real
property, or for the partition of real property, the plain-
tiff is also entitled to the additional allowance of nve
per centon the first tive hundred dollars, and one per
cent on all over that sum, upon the price of the proper-
ty sold, or the value of the propertypartitioned, such
value to be determined by the referees making the par-
tition. But such allowance can in no case exceed two
hundred dollars.
./Imended Code, § 307, 308 and 309, altered so as to reduce
the costs in the Sth subdivision, and to limit both the amount
of the per centage and the cases in which it may be allowed.
§S'73. When the judgment is for the recovery of
money, interest from the time of the verdict or report,
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvx: smennum: aaa
until judg~ment~ be: finally entered, must be computed
by the clerk, and' added therefa
./Imended Code, § 310.
§>s74. The clerk must insert in. the- enuy0f judg-
ment oaf the. application of the~ prevailingparty, uponf
twodays notice to the other, the- sum of the allow#-
a,nces» fbrcosts, as above provided, and the necessary#
disbursements, including the fees of oflicers allowed-byg
law, the fees of witnesses, the necessary expenses of
commissions, the compensation of referees, and the ex-
pense of printing the papers upon any appeal, which
disbursements are in this code also termed charges.
The disbursements must be stated in detail, and veri-
Hed by affidavit, which must be filed. Whenever costs
are allowed by this code, the charges also are allowed,
and when costs are not allowed, the charges are not
allowed; except' where express' provision is made
thereivblrs
.dmcndedv Cbd¢,§ an,
§ ers. The clerkmay receive,
On every trial, fiom the party btingihgit `on, one
dollar:
Onenfel-ing; judgment, Iiiiy.cents; except in courts
where the-clerks receive . sahries; and infsuch counts
one-dollar-z
Onlldoekfeting .a: jmigment'rendered by'a 'justite in-his
county, and filing a transcript thereof; twenty-five cents,
including execution when issued.
Heican s receive uno other féey ibn anya senioesr Whhi-.
Digitized by GOO8 le
374 rm: con: or
ever in a civil action, except for copies of papers, at the
rate of live cents for every hundred words.
./imended Code, § 312.
§ 876. The fees of referees are three dollars to each,
for every day spent in the business of' the reference;
but the parties may agree in writing upon any other
rate of compensation and thereupon such rate must be
allowed.
Amended Code, §313.
§877. When an application is made to a court or
referees, to postponea trial, the payment to the adverse
party of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides the
fees of witnesses, may be imposed, as the condition of'
grandng the postponement.
#mended Code, § 314.
§ 878. Costs may be allowed on an original motion,
or on an appeal from an order, in the discretion of the
court, not exceeding ten dollars. And when costs are
ordered against a party, upon a motion, proceedings on
his part may be stayed until payment thereofl
.Hmended Code, §315.
§8'79. When costs are adjudged against an infant
plaintiff] the guardian, by whom he appeared in the
action is responsible for them, and judgment therefor
may be entered, against both the guardian and infant.
Jlmended Code, § 816.
§ 880. When, in an action for the recovery of money
g:hly, the defendant alleges in his anwer, that, before
Digitized by GOO8 le
vmr. PKOCEDURE. 375
'the comencernent of the action, he tendered to the
3;»lainti the fixll amount to which he was entitled,
and thereupon deposits in court for the plaintiil, the
-amount so tendered, and the allegation be -found true,
the plaintiff cannot recover costs, but must pay costs
to the defendant.
§881. In an action prosecuted or defended by an
executor, administrator, trustee ef an express trust, or
a person expressly authorized by statute, costs may be
recoverd. as in an action by and against a person
prosecuting or defending in his own right, but such
costs must by the judgment be made chargeable only
upon the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the
court direct: the same to be paid by the plaintiff or de-
iendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith
in the action or defence. But no costs are recoverable
in such action, if brought without leave of the surro-
gate, against an executor or administrator within one
year after the death of the person whom he represents,
nor after that time, unless it appear that the demand
was first presented to the executor or administrator,
verified by oath, and payment demanded.
.Hmended Code, §317.
§ 882. When the decision of a court of inferior juris-
diction in a special proceeding, is brought before the
supreme court for review, such proceeding is for all
purposes of costs, to be deemed an action at issue, on a
question of law, from the time the same is brought into
Digitized by GOO8 le
474 ms con; cr
the supreme c9ugt, and. cost; thereon may be awarded
agd collected in sugl rqanger as thq equfpt :pay 4i¥.f2¢f,
49444598 ta the nature of the
./Imended Code, § 818. I
§ 883. In all civil actions prosecuted in the name of
the people of this state, by an oHicer duly authorized
fer fhnt pnrrwse, the People are liable fer cqqstsin the
same eases, and to the some extent. 49 Private parties-
If= a private person. be joined with the. people as. P14-iP"
135; he is liable in the first instance for the defendantln
costs; which cannot be recovered of the people, 1814
after execution issued therefor against such private
party and. returned unsatisfied. And. when costa are
awarded, and recoverable. against the people, Pay|T!¢|!i:
thereof must be made. by the comptmller, upon the
production of proper evidence thereof!
Amended Code, §3l9.
§88.4. In an acticn prqsgcntcd in the Mme of the
pqcple. Qf thjs§ta,te fe; fha r¢99>9rY. Qt" 1n9n¢1 Q: Pm-
QW, or to eqtahlislp. 4. ugh; or claim, for thc benefit
of any county, city, town, village, corpqration .or per-
son, costs awarded against the plaintiii; must by the
judgment be made a charge against the party for whose
894954 the 4¢fiQn.w4§ P1t9>9¢11ted, and not against the
n¢.° ,Pl¢
9444 vw 4 aaa.
L Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. rnocx-znun. 877
§ 885. In an action in which the cause of action, after
the commencement of the action, by assignment, or in
any other manner, becomes the property of a person
not a party to the action, and the prosecution or de#
fence is thereafter continued, such person is liable for
the costs, in the same manner as if he were a party,and
payment thereof may be enforced by order.
.Hmended Code, § 321.
§ 886. Upon the settlement, beforejudgment, of any
action mentioned in section 867, no greater sum can
be demanded from the defendant as costs, than at the
rates prescribed by section 872.
.Hmended Code, § 322.
§ sea. The attorney of a plaintiff; who resides out of
the state, or is a foreign corporation, against whom
costs are awarded to a defendant, is responsible to. such
defendant therefor, to an amount not exceeding two
hundred dollars. And the attorney neglecting to pay
the same, after due proceedings against him, may be
removed by. the court. But he may relieve himself
from responsibility, at any time before judgment, by
filing an undertaking, for the payment to the defendant
of the .costs and charges, executedby a sumcient surety.
2 R. S., 620,§ 1, 2, 3,4,51 6, 7 and 8.
Digitized byGoo3le
378 THE com: or
TITLE Xl.
ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.
Cl!/urnzn I. Action: to determine conflicting claims to real property and other
provisions relating to aaions concerning real property.
II. Actions for the foreclosure of mortgages.
m. Actions for nuisance, waste, trespass on Indian lands, and wilful
trespass on other real property.
IV. Actions for the partition of real property.
V. Actions respecting corporations.
VI. Actions by or against executors, administrators, legatees, heirs, or
devisees.
VII. Actions on odlcial securities, and for Enes and forfeitures.
VIII. Actions by and against certain public odicers, and public bodies.
IX. Actions to vacate charters, letters patent, and to prevent the usurps~
tion of an odice or franchise.
X. Actions in justices' courts.
The form of civil actions under the code, is in its nature
adapted to almost every case requiring the interposition of
judicial authority. In making provisions for proceedings in
special cases, it has been deemed wise to conform as far as
practicable, to the system already adopted in civil actions,
and to make provision for the points of difference only. By
this means the advantage is afforded of following the beaten
track already enlightened by the judicial consideration to
which the code has been subjected. The length and number
of statutory enactments, are by the same means greatly abridg-
ed. This remark is applicable not only to most of the pro-
visions under this title, but also to the special proceedings
for which rules are prescribed in part 3.
By comparing the provisions with those of the revised stat-
utes on the same subject, it will be found that the volume of
matter has been greatly reduced, while it contains, as we be
lieve. a more certain, safe and simple mode of procedure in
every case.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. PROC\-ZDUll» 379
CHAPTER I.
ACTIONS To DETERMINE cosrmcrnvc CLAIMS TO REAL PnoP1~:n'rY,
AND OTHER Pnovxslous RELATING 'ro ACTIONS ooncnnmnc REAL
PROPERTY
Bxcnon 888- An action allowed to determine an adverse clalm to real property.
ass If the defendant disclaim no costs allowed.
880. In an action by one tenant ln common agllnlt mother, a denial of
the right must be shown.
891 When the right has termlnated during the pendency of the action.
892. New trial may be had ln actions to recover real property.
893. After a second trial court may allow a third.
894. How judgment entered after new trial.
895. May recover proits only for six yearn.
896. A survey ot' property in dispute allowed.
897. Order for the survey.
898. A mortgage not a conveyance.
899. Injunction to prevent waste after sale.
soo. Pnrch-er ot' land on execution, may recover for injury after sale.
901 A sale of land pending an action does not affect rights.
902. An action for possession of land equivalent to re-entry, but tenant
may redeem.
§ 888. An action may be brought by any person in
possession, by himself; or his tenant, of real property,
against any person, who claims an estate or interest
therein, adverse to him, for the purpose of determining
such adverse claim, estate, or interest.
§ 889. If' the defendant, in such action, disclaim in
his answer any interest or estate in the property, or
suffer judgment to be taken against him without an-
swer, the plaintiff cannot recover costs.
R. S., part 3, chap. 5, lille 2.
The salutary provisions of this entire title are secured in the
two preceding sections. The form of action under the code
being adapted to these cases, it only requires a provision de
claring them the subject of an action, and regulating the
judgment, when the defendant disclaims, or makes no defence.
Digitized by GOO8 le
380 THE coma or
§ 890. In an action, for the recovery of flower before
admeasurement, or by a tenant in common, or joint
tenant of real property, against a co~tena.nt, the plaintiff
must show, in addition to the evidence of his right, that
the defendant either denied the plaintiffs right, or did
some act amounting to such denial.
The provisions of the Revised Statutes are extended, so as
to include actions for the recovery of dowel-net set- oE, as
coming within the reason of the rule whieh applies to other
tenants in common.
§ 891. In an action for the- recovery of speciiic real
or personal property, where the plaintiff shows a right
to. recove: at the time the action was-commenced, but
it appears that hisright has terminated during the pen-
dency of the action, the verdict andjudgment must be
accord.ing to the fact, and the plaintiff? may recover
damages for withholding the property.
The provisions of the Revised Statutes extended, so as to
include actions for specific personal property as well as real-
§ 892. Any person, against whom a judgment for the
recovery of specific real property is» rendered may,
within six. months- after written noticeof thejudgment.;
upon payment of all costs. and damages recovered
thereby, demand another trial, by notice in- writing. IQ
the adverse party, or to his attorney in the action, and
thereupon the action may be brought to trial by either
wrly-
It appears to have been the policy ofour law, at an early pe-
riod, to regard real propgrty, and alllegal pmceedinga relating
4 Digitized by GOO8 le
crvtr. rnocmmu: .381
=toit, with peculiar caution and jealousy of the courts. This
arises from the source whence we have drawn most of our syl-
tem of judicial policy, and is the legitimate descendant of
feudal times in England. But a few years since real proper
ty could not be sold on execution. Until the Revised Stat-
utes, a judgment in ejectment, though based exclusively on
evidence of title, decided nothing but the right of .possession
for the time being, and other actions might be brought the
next day by the defendant to recover back the same pro-
pony.
:By the Revised Statutes, when the action by writ of right
was abolished and ejectment substituted, the judgment was
made conclusive upon the title, but the losing party was al
lowed three years to pay the costs and demand a new trial
If unsuccessfulhgain, he might even then within two years ap
ply to the court for another new trial.
There seems no good reason for allowing so long a period,
within which an unsuccessful party may determine whether, to
submit to the result of the first trial. After a second trial,
with a similar result, the judgment ought to be conclusive.
The remaining sections of this title embrace all the remain
ing provisions of the existing laws relating to actions con
°cerning real property, which the Commissioners deem ne
oessamy.
§893. If on a second trial, as provided in the last
section, judgment be to the same effect, as on the first,
no further trial can be had, unless the court, in its dis-
crction, on motion by the party as to Whom the judg
ment last rendered is less favomble than the {irst,order
~a third trial.
§894. The judgment given on a trial, to be had un
der the last two sections, must be annexed to the.judg
ment roll of the former trial, and the judgment last
given shall be the final determination of the rights of
Digitized by GOO8 le
382 THE CODE OF
the parties. If a prior judgment shall have been execu-
ted, restitution must be ordered, as the last judgment
may determine the rig'1ts of the parties, and the same
may be enforced by execution.
§895. Damages for withholding the property re-
covered, can in no case exceed the fair value of the
property, (exclusive of the use of improvements, made
by the defendant,) for a period not exceeding six years;
and when permanent improvements have been made
by a defendant, or those under whom he claims, hold-
ing under color ot" title, adversely to the claims of the
plaintiff; in good faith, the value thereof must be
allowed as a set-off against thc damages of the plaintiff;
for the use of the property.
§896. The court, in which an action is pending for
the recovery of real property, may on motion, upon
notice, by either party, and for cause shown, grant an
order, allowing fo such party the right to enter upon
the property, and make survey and measurement there-
of for the purposes of the action.
§897. The order must describe the property, and a
copy theref must be served on the owner, or occupant,
and thereupon such party may enter upon the property
with necessary surveyors and assistants, and make such
survey and measurements, but if any unnecessary in-
jury be done to the property he is liable therefor.
Digitized by GOO8 le
s
CIVIL rnocnnvas. 383
§898. A mortgage of 'real property is not to be
deemed a conveyance, so as to enable the owner of the
mortgage to recover possession of the real property,
without a foreclosure.
§ 899. The court may, by injunction, on cause shown,
restrain the party in possession, from doing any ict to
the injury of real proper1y, during the summary fore-
closure of a mortgage thereon, or after a sale on execu-
tion, before a conveyance.
§900. When real property shall have been sold on
execution, the purchaser thereof; or any person, who
may have succeeded to his interest, may, after his es-
tate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury
to the property, by the tenant in possession, after the
sale, and before possession is delivered under the con-
veyance.
§901. An action for the recovery of real property
against a person in possession, or in the receipt of the
rents or profits thereof; can not be prejudiced by any
alienation, made by such person, either before or alter
the commencement of the action; but in such case, if
the defendant have no property sufiicient to satisfy the
damages recovered, for the Withholding of possession,
such damages may be collected by action against the
purchaser.
§ 902. When in case of a lease of' real property, and
the failure of the tenant to pay rent, the landlord has
Digitized by GOO8 le
384 THE CODE or
a subsistingright to re-enter for such failuie, he may
bring an action to recover possession of the property;
and such action is equivalent to a demand of the rent
and a re-entry upon the property. But if at any tiMe
before the expiration of six months after possession ob-
tained by the plaintiH, on recovery in the action, the
lessee, or his successor in interest as to the whole or
part of the property, pay to the plaintiff, or bring into
court, the amount of rent then in arrear with interest,
and the costs of the action, and perform the other co-
venanls on the part of the lessee, he may be restored to
the possession and hold the property according to the
terms ofthe original lease.
CHAPTER II.
ACTIONS FOR 'ms FORECLOSURE OF mon'rc.4css.
Bscnon 903. Actions for foreclosure of mortgages.
SIM. Where real property must be sold.
$15. Two actions for same debt not allowed.
906. Surplus on sale.
WY. SuMcient to satisfy debt only to be sold.
This chapter contains all the provisions deemed necessary
in actions for foreclosure of mortgages, which are substituted
for the provisions formerly in use for that purpose. When
mortgages are given for the payment of money only, as most
of them are, ample provisions are made in part 3, for their
foreclosure in a summary, and as we think safe manner. In
cases other than those, the action of the court, in determining
the amount is almost invariably necessary ; and these are the
only cases in which a mortgage foreclosure will necessarily
be by action.
§ 903. In an action for the foreclosure or satisfhction
of a mortgage of real property, or the satisfaction of is
Digitized by GOO8 le
crvu. nocmun. ` 385
lien or incumbrance upon Pr°Pf=rfy» real or personal,
the court has power, by its judgment, to direct a sale
of the property, or any part of it ; the application of the
proceeds to the payment of the amount due on the
mortgage, lien, or incumbrance with costs; and execu-
tion, for the balance, against any party liable therefor,
as principal, eurety, or otherwise.
§ 904. Real property adjudged to be sold, must be
sold in the county where it lies, by the sheriff of the
county, or by a referee, appointed by the court for that
purpose, and thereupon the sheriff or referee must exe-
cute a conveyance to the purchaser, which conveyance
passes the title of the parties to the action. And upon
the sale of property, real or personal, pursuant to a
judgment, the court may enforce the delivery of poa-
session thereof to the purchaser.
§ 905. When a debt is secured by mortgage of real
or personal property, or a lien or incumbrancc thereon,
separate actions respecting the debt and the security
cannot be allowed, but the creditor must include in one
action all his claims upon both.
To prevent multiplicity of actions.
§906. If there be surplus money, remaining after
paymenfof the amount mentioned in section 903, the
court may cause the same to he paid to the person en-
titled to it, and in the mean time, may direct it to be
deposited in court.
[cxvu oonr..] 25
Digitized by GOO8 le
386 TBI come or
§ 907. If the debt, for which the mortgage, lien or
incumbrance is held, be not all due, so soon as sutl
ficient of the property has been sold to pay the amount
due, with costs the sale must cease; and afterwards as
often as more becomes due, for principal or interest,
the court may, on motion, order more to be sold. But
if the property cannot be sold in portions, without in-
jury to the parties, the whole may be ordered to be sold
in the first instance, and the entire debt and costs be
paid, there being a°rebate of interest, where such rebate
'is proper.
CHAPTER HI.
'Aarons mn 'l|'UI8ANCE, vue-rm, rnsuas ON xunuu uzms, AID
WILFUL tauPAss ON GTHER aux. raorurr.
Bxcrxon 918. Nuisance dellnod, action than-ofor.
819. Wute dollued, action therefor.
910. Whatjudgmeut allowed.
911. Domagel for wilfully cutting um.
912. When dlmagcl mitigated.
913. Cutting tlmbcr for hlghwny.
914. Damages for forcible eviction.
910. Trelpul on Indim landl.
916. Who may ptosocuto.
917. To whom damages paid.
918. Security for cools must bo glvm.
§ 908. Anything, which is injurious to health, or in-
decent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to
the free use of property, so as to interfere with the com-
fortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance and
the subject of an action. Such action may be brought
by any person whose property is iujuriously affected, or
whose personal enjoyment islessened by the ndsance ;
Digitized by GOO8 le
crm. mocnwu. wr
and by the judgment, the nuisance may be enjoined or
abated, as well as damages recovered.
§ 909. If a guardian, tenant by the curtesy, in dower,
for life or years, joint tenant or tenant in common of
real property, commit waste thereon, any person ag
grieved by the waste, may bring an action against him
therefor, in which action, there may be judgment for
treble damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party of
fending, and eviction from the property.
§ 910. Judgment of forfeiture and eviction can only
be given, in favor of the person entitled to the rever
sion, against the tenant in possesdon, when .the injury
to the estate in reversion is adjudged in the action, to
be equal to the value of the tenant's estate or unex
pired term, or to have been done in malice.
The injuries known at common law by the expressive terms
of waste and nuisance, have been heretofore remediable only
by special waits and a peculiar form of proceeding, or by suit
in chancery. The injuries themselves are not defined in the
revised statutes, but are left to be gleaned from the reports of
common law cases, and elementary writers, while the method
of proceeding to obtain redress is delined at some length
The system of civil actions in the code is perfectly well ad
apted to these cases, and it only requires a definition of them
suHiciently comprehensive to prevent the loss of a remedy,
and to dware them within the cases for which an ordinary
action may be brought.
This the commissioners believe they have accomplished by
these provisions. The necessity is dispensed with for the spe
cial write and peculiar proceedings for whichthose parts of
the revised statutes were -enacted.
Digitized by GOO8 le
388 rnoonzoy
§ 911. Every person who cuts down, or carries 081
any wood or underwood, tree or timber, or girdles or
otherwise injures any tree, timber or shrub on the land
of another person, or on the street or highway, in front
of any person's house, village or city lot, or cultivated
grounds, or on the commons, or public grounds, of any
city or town, or on the street or highway, in front
thereof, without lawful authority, is liable to the owner
of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the
amount of damages, which may be assessed therefor,
in a civil action, in any court having jurisdiction, ex-
cept as provided in the next section.
The uses to which a penalty is attached for wilful treipan,
extended so~as to include ornamental trees in the streets.
§ 9122. 18 upon the trial of such action, it appear, that
the trespass was casual or involuntary, or that the de-
fendant had probable cause to believe, that the land, on
which the trespass was committed, was his own, or
that of the person in whose service, or by whose direc-
tion, the act was done, judgment must be given for
only the single damages assessed in the action.
§ 913. Nothing in the last two sections authorises the
recovery of more than the just value of the timber, ta-
ken from uncultivated wood land, for the repair of a
public highway or bridge upon the land or adjoining it.
§ 914. If a person be put out of real property
1 in a forcible manner, without lawful authority,
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. nocmun. seo
or, being so put out, be afterwards kept out by force,
recover damages therefor, judgment may be entered for
three timesthe amount at which the actual damages
are assessed.
§ 915. In case of forcible entry or forcible detention,
if a person claiming in good faith, under color of title,
to be rightfully in possession, so put out or kept out,
recover damages therefor, judgment may be entered in
his favor, for three times the amount, at which the ac-
tual damages are assessed.
§ 916. For trespass, by any person other than an In-
dian, on lands possessed by Indians, an action may be
brought in the name of the people of this state.
§ 917. Such action must be prosecuted by the district
attorney of the county where the lands are situated, or
'by an attorney to be designated for that purpose, by the
county judge.
§ 918. The damages recovered in such action, afler
defraying the expenses of the prosecution, must be dis-
tributed among the Indians occupying such lands, ac-
cording to their respective interests therein, to be de-
termined by the county judge, on summary application
before him.
§ 919. Before such action can be commenced,securi-
ty for costs must be given, satisfactory to the coun-
ty judge, or to the supervisor of the town where the
lands are situatd, by an undertaking in writing to pay
Digitized by GOO8 le
soo fnoonzor
to the defendant, ~the code which may be adjudged
against the plaintiff
'Hue last three sections contain the substance of the provi-
sions for the same purpose, in sec. 8 and 9, of chapta 234,
sesdon laws, 1841, with some definite provisions to regulate
them, and prevent abuse.
CHAPTER lv.
wnons mn mn unrrnoxror nur. nornn.
Buenos sm. Action fm- pnrtltlon of ru! property ellowed.
sm. To whom summons is addressed.
922. Contents of complaint.
azs. Creditors hsving general lien: may be pertlee.
sm. Liens on undivided shares.
925. Unknown owners made parties.
wa Rights of parties may he pnt In lssne.
921. Order may allow sale or partition.
sua. lhnner of making psrsltlon.
sus. Beferees to make report.
san. Elect of contlrmetlon of report.
sm. Tenants in dower, he., not slieeted.
sez. Expenses of referees end surveyor.
ms. Bde, when mllowed.
sm. When part only ls sold, life estntc.
aaa. Before sale, creditors hsvlng speclne Ilene.
sas. Certlllcete ss to general liens.
fm. 938. Court may order reference ss to liens.
939- Notice to creditors to meke proof.
w. Referee to report priority.
941. Creditor my hsve report corrected.
m Proceeds of sale, how epplled.
ma Blle not to be delnyed by reference.
944. Referees may dellver securities to psrtlee.
91-5- Kenner of lltigetlng se to claims.
946. Sales to be at suction.
sn. Terms ef sale to be ordered.
ms. Beperete securities ellowed.
ms. Mute for life, how disposed of.
soo. What posses by sale.
sox. Snm ln gross allowed for dower, le.
sm. Investment, If no consent given.
wa. Proportion of proceeds -eertslned.
aaa. Unknown tenants ln dower, tc.
mo. Investment for lnelroete right of dowsr.
aaa. Dower, how releesed.
sv. Terms of mls to be puxmarea.
Digitized by GOO8 le
oxvu. nocmun; l 891
llcnon ws. Who my not purchase.
959. Referees to report sale.
seo. Report when eonllrmed.
ssl. Receipt of incumbnncers.
962. Deeds to be recorded.
sea. Effect of conveyancel.
964. Proceeds, when invested.
sea. Investment, how made.
966. Securities in name of parties or clerk.
967. Clerk to collect interest.
sua. Partition made equal by compenntlon.
sw. ln|'ant'| share on -le to gnnrdlm.
970. insane perlon's share.
sm. Consent to pertltion by gnnnllan.
m. State may be party.
913. Cost of partition allowed.
This proceeding is one of those which has existed heretofone,
separate from the ordinary forms of actions, by special statu-
tory provisions in detail, providing for its prosecution in both
courts of law and equity.
The nature of the remedy is so unlike those sought in or-
dinary actions, as to require many distinct provisions, differing
from the general course of procedure.
We have endeavored to unite all that was valuable in the
old law and equity modesof practice, and to make the proce-
dure conform as far as the nature of the remedy admits, to
the procedure in ordinary actions. There are such a variety
of interests and contingencies to be guarded and provided for
that the provisions necessarily occupy a considerable space
though condensed into nearly half the volume,they have here-
tofore occupied in the revised statutes. Among other improve-
ments in the system heretofore in use, is that by which, in case
of a sale of property, the proceeds, whether money or securi-
ties, may, in certain cases, be paid or delivered directly to the
parties interested, without the tedious and expensive ceremony
of being tirst paid into court, and afterwards taken out on s
formal application.
See 2 R. S., 316-332.
§ 92n. Wherrseveral persons hold, and are in posses-
sion ofreal property, as joint tenants or as tenants in
common,~in which one or more of them have an estapi,
Digitized by GOO8 le
392 mx cons or
of inheritance, or for life or years, an action may be
brought by one or more of such persons, for a partition
thereof; according to the respective rights of the persons
interested therein, and for a sale of such property, or a
part of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be made,
without great prejudice to the owners.
§ 921. The summons must be addressed by name to
all the joint tenants, and tenants in common, who are
known, and generally to all persons unknown, having
or claiming an interest in the property.
§ 922. The interests of all persons in the property,
whcilwr such persons be known or unknown, must be
set forth in the complaint specifically and particularly,
as far as known to the plaintiff, and if any one or more
of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any
of the parties, be unknown to thc plaintiff] or be uncer-
tain or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance
depend upon executory devise, or the remainder be a
contingent remainder, so that such parties can not be
named, that fact must be set forth in the complaint.
§ 928. The plaintiff may at his option, make credit-
ora, having a specific or general lien upon the property
or upon any particular portion thereof] parties to the ac-
tion.
§ 924. When the lien is on an undivided interest or
estate of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be
made, is thenceforth a charge only on the shane assign-
od to such party; but such share must be first charged
Digitized by GOO8 le
avm noouwu.. 893
with its just proportion of the costs of the partition, in
preference to such lien.
§ 925. If a party having a share or interest be un-
known, or either of the known parties reside out of the
state or cannot be found therein, and such fact be made
to appear by affidavit, the summons may be served on
such absent or unknown party, by publication, directed
by the court or judge, in the manner prescribed by sec-
tions 629 and 680. When publication is made, the
summons, as published, must be accompanied by a
brief description of the property, which is the subject
of the action.
§ 926. The rights of .the several parties, plaintitlh, as
well as defendants, may be put in issue, tried and de-
termined by such action ; and where a defendant fails
to answer, or where a sale of the premises is necessary,
the title must be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction
of the court, before the judgment for parfition or sale
is given.
§ 927. If it be alleged in the complaint, and estab-
lished by evidence, to the satisfaction of the court, that
the property or any part of it is so situated, that parti-
tion cannot be made, without great prejudice to the
owners, the court may order a sale thereof] and for that
purpose may appoint one or more referees. Otherwise,
upon the requisite proofs being made, it must order a
partition, according to the respective rights of the par-
Digitized by GOO8 le
394 ml: cob: or
ties, as ascertained by the court, and appoint three
referees therefor; and must designate the portion to
remain undivided, for. the owners, whose interests
remain unknown or not ascertained.
§928. In making the partition, referees must divide
the property, and allot the several portions thereof' to
the respective parties, quality and quantity relatively
considered, according to the respective rights of the
parties, as determined by 'the court, designating the
several portions by proper landmarks, and may employ
a surveyor, with the necessary assistants, to aid them
tlierein.
§Q29. The referees must make report of their pro-
ceedings, specifing therein the manner of executing
their trust, describing the property divided, and the
shares allotted to each party, with a particular descrip-
tion of each share.
§ 930. The court may confirm or set aside the report,
and if necessary, appoint new referees. Upon the re-
port being confirmed, judgment must be rendered, that
such partition be effectual forever, which judgment is
binding and conclusive:
1. On all the parties named therein, and their legal~
representatives, who have at the time any interest in
the property divided, as owners in fee, or as tenants ibr
years, or as entitled to the reverdon, remainder or in-
heritance of such property, after the termination of a
Digitized by GOO8 le
mm rnoamuu.. ass-
particular estate therein: or who, by any contingency,
may be entitled toa beneficial interest in the property,
or who have an interest in~an individual share thereof;
as tenants for years, for life, by the curtesy, or in dower:
2. On all persons interested in the property, who may
be unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of
the application for partition by the publication directed
by section 925-: and,
<3. On .all~other persons claiming from such parties or
persons, or either of them.
§ 931. But such judgment ahd partition cannot affect
tenants, or persons having claims as tenant~, in dower,
by the curtesy or for life, to the whole of the property,
which is the subject of the partition; nor can such
judgment and partition preclude any person, except
such as are specified in the' last section, iiomclainiing
title to the property in question, or from controvezipg,
the title of the parties between whom the partition il
made.
§ 932. The expenses of the referees, including those
of a surveyor and his assistants, when employed. must
be ascertained and allowed by the court; and the
amount thereof; together with the fees allowed by law
to the referees, must be paid by the plaintiff] and may
be allowed aspart of the charges.
§933. If the referees report to the court, that the
property, of which partition shall have been directed,
Digitized by GOO8 le
396 1-sx oonmor
or any distinct portion thereof; is so situated, that a
partition thereof cannot be made, without great preju-
dice to the owners; and the court is satisfied that such
report is correct, it may thereupon, by an order, direct
the referees to sell the property, or portion so situated.
§934. When a part of the property only is ordered
to be sold, if there be an estate by the curtesy, in dow-
er, or for life or years, in an undivided share of the
property, the whole of such estate may be set 0E in
any part of the property not ordered to be sold.
§ 935. Before the making of an order for sale, where
the creditors having specific liens have not been made
parties, the court, on the motion of either party, must
direct the plaintiff to amend his complaint, if necessa-
ry, bv making every person having a specific lien on
the undivided interest or estate of any of the parties by
mortgage, devise or otherwise, a party to the action
§ 986. The plaintiff must produce to the court the
certificate of the clerk of the county where the proper-
ty issituated, showing whether there are any general
liens by judgment upon the property, or any part there-
o£
§937. Unless it be made to appear to the court by
the certificate of the clerk pursuant to the last section,
that there are outstanding no general liens on the pro-
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu noalwn. 897
peny, or on any share or parcel thereof] the court must
order a reference to ascertain them.
§ 938. If it appear by the certificate that there are out-
standing of record such general liens, the court must
appoint a referee to ascertain whether such liens have
been paid, or if not paid, what amount remains due or
secured by them respectively, and the order of priority
in which they are entitled to be paid out of the pro-
perty.
§ 939. The plaintiff must cause a notice to be served,
at least ten days before the time for appearance, on
each person having such general lien, to appear before
the referee at a specified time and place, to make proof
by his own affidavit or otherwise, of the true amount
due, or to become due, contingently or absolutely, on
his judgment.
§940. The referee must receive the evidence, and
report,the names of the creditors whose liens are es-
tablished, the amounts thereof; and their priority re
spectively, and if such liens are contingent he must
specify them. He must attach to his report the proof
of service of the notices, and the aiiidavits and copies
of other evidence before him.
§ 941. Any creditor having a lien, and being dissatis-
fied with the report of the referee, may move the court
to correct it, at any time.bef`ore distribution of the pro-
ceeds of sale, on ten days' notice to the plaintiff and
Digitized by GOO8 le
ass 'mn ooo: or
the other persons in whose favor liens arereported, and
thereupon the court may correct the report on the evi-
dence reported, or if necessary, may order a new refer-
ence of the whole or of any part of the matter. When
confirmed, the report is conclusive of the rights of the
several creditors on whom notice was served.
§942. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered
property, must be applied under the direction of the
court, as follows:
1 1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of
the action:
2. To pay the costs of the reference:
3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens
in their order of priority, by payment of the sums due
and to become due, the amount remaining due to be
verified by afiidavit at the time of payment:
4. The residue, among the owners of the property
- sold, according to their respective shares therein.
§948. The proceedings to ascertain the amount of
incumbranoes, and to determine their priority as above
provided, or those herein authorized to determine the
rights of parties, to funds paid into court, must not de-
lay the sale, nor affect any other party, whose rights
are not involved in such proceedings.
Q 944. 'The proceeds of sale, arid the éecurities takeh
by the referees, or any part thereof; may be distributed
Digitized by GOO8 le
mm- nocmvu. 399
by them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the
court so directs. But in case no direction be given, all
such proceeds and securities must be paid into court, or
deposited as required by law, or directed by the court.
§ 945. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or
parcels, belonging to persons, who have become parties
to the action, and who are known, are paid into court,
the action may be continued as between such parties,
for the determination of their respective claims thereto,
whichmust be ascertained andadjudge&- bythe court.
Further testimony may be taken, in court, or by a re-
feree, at the discretion of the-court, and the court may,
if necessary, require such parties to present the facts
or law in controversy, by pleadings, as in an original
action.
§ 946. All sales of real property, made by referees
under this chapter, must be made by public auction to
the highest bidder, upon notice, published in the man-
ner required for the sale of real property on execution.
The notice must state the terms of sale, and if the pro-
petty or any part of it is to be sold, subject to a prior
estate, charge or specific lien, that must be stated in
the notice.
§947. The court must, in the order for sale, direct
theterms of credit which may be allowed, for the pur-
chase money, of any portion of the premises of which
it may direct a sale on credit, and for that portion of
which the purchase money is required, by the provis-
¢
Digitized by GOO8 le
400 nm con: Ol'
ions hereinafter contained, to be invested for the bene-
fit of unknown owners, infants, parties out of the state,
or tenants in dower, or by the curtesy, or for life or
years, when the estate of such tenats is ordered to be
sold.
§ 948. The referees may take separate mortgages and
other securities, for the whole or convenient portions of
the purchase money, or such parts of the property as are
directed by the court to be sold on credit in the name
of the clerk of the court and his successors in oilice,
and for the shares of any known owner of full age, in
the name of such owner.
§ 949. When the estate of a tenant in dower, or by
the curtesy, or for life or years, in the whole or anypart
of the property in question has been admitted by the
parties, or ascertained by the court, to be existing at the
time ofthe order for sale, and the person entitled to such
estate, has been made a party to the action, such estate
may be first set off out of any part of the property, and
a sale make of such parcel, subject to the prior unsold
estate of such tenant dierein, But if in the judgment
of the court, a due regard to the interests ofall the par-
ties, require that such estate be also sold the sale may
be so ordered.
§ 950. If a sale of the property, including such estate,
be ordered, the estate and interest of every such tenant
or person passes thereby; and the purchaser, his
heirs and assigns, shall hold the property discharged
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. Pnoclmvnm. 401
fiom all claims, by virtue of such estate or interest,
whether the same be to the individual share of a joint
tenant, or tenant in common, or to the whole or any
part of the property sold.
§ 951. The persons entitled to such estate in dower,
tenancy by the curtesy, or tenancy for life or years,
whose estate shall have been sold, are entitled to re-
ceive such sum in gross, as may be deemed upon
plinciples of law applicable to annuities, a reasonable
satisfaction for such estate, and which the person so
entitled may consent to accept instead thereof, by an
instrument under seal, duly acknowledged or proved, in
in same manner as deeds for the purpose of record.
' § 952. If such consent be not given, at or before the
report of sale, the court must ascertain and determine
what proportion of the proceeds of the sale, after de-
ducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to
be invested, for the benefit of the person entitled to such
estate, in dower, by the curtesy, or for life ; and must
order the same to be deposited in court for that pur-
pose,
§ 953. The proportion of the proceeds of the sale to
be invested, must be ascertained and determined in the
several cases as follows:
1. If an estate in dowel' be included in the order of
sale, its proportion must be one-third of the proceeds of
the sale of the property, or of the sale of the individual
lcIvu. oom:.| 28
Digitized by GOO8 le
1402 'rm-: oonn or
aharejn sych property, upon which the claim of dower
pxiqtegiz
2. If an estate by the curtesy, or other estate for life
or years, be included in the order of sale, its proportion
9449 8 me »vhP1f=n1=9s4eeda of the .salemf the properly,
gr,Qf.fhe sale Qf»fh¢.m\diVid¢d .Share.1h¢re0»§ in .whisk
4\s°h4 esfMe .may .bez
And in dl cases, the proportion of the expenses of
proceedingsmlrst be deducted from the .proceeds of.1he
sale.
u
¢. §Q5%. ,If 3heperp9ns.enfitled.tp such estate in downr
by the ,c141'tesy, ,or -for life or years, be unknown the
cqurt rnust provide for ghe protection of .their rights in
the .same manner, ,a~ fgr gs may .be, as if they were
kpown and had appeared.
§ 955. In all cases of sales in partition, when it ap-
pears that a married woman has an inchoate right of
dower in any of the property divided or sold, or that
any person has a vested or contingent future right or
estate therein, the court must ascertain and settle the
proportioI1al value of such inchoate, contingent or ves-
ted right .or estate, according to the principles of law
applicable to annuities and survivorships, and must
direct such proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be
invested, secured, or paid over in such manner, as to
protect the rights and interests of the parties.
Digitized by GOO8 le
crvu. Pnocnnvar.. 40%
§ 956. A'married womanmay release such right, in-
terest or estate, to her husband, and acknowledge the
' same in the manner required by law, in respect to the
acknowledgment of deeds by married women, before
any officer authorized to take acknowledgment ofdeeds,
or if executed out of this state, before any oflicer resi-
ding in the state, district or county,where the acknowl-
edgment is made, who is authorized to take the ac-
knowledgment of deeds, to be recorded in this state.
Upon the release, the share of the proceeds of the sale,
arising from her contingent interest, must be paid to her
husband, and therelease, or the payment, investment,
br otherwise securing of, a share of the proceeds of h
sale, shall be a bar against such right,`e`state, or claim.
§ 957. The terms of the sale inust be made kndwn
atfhe time; and if the preniises consist of distinct
Harms, or lots, they must be sold separiitely.
§ 968. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the
benefit of either of them, can be interested in the pur-
chase ; nor can a guardian of an infant party be interest-
ed inthe purchase of any real property, being the sub-
ject of the action, except for the benefit of the infant.
All sales contrary to the provisions of this section are
void.
§ 959. Afle1 completing the sale, the referees must re-
port the same to the court, with a description of the
differcnt parcels of -land sold to each purchaser, the
Digitized by GOO8 le
404 ms cons OF
name of the purchaser, the price paid or secured,
the terms and conditions of the sale, and the securities
if any taken. The report must be Iiled in the ofiice of
the clerk of the county, where the property is situated.
§ 960. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order
must be entered, directing the referees to execute con-
veyances and take securities pursuant to such sale ;
which they are hereby authorized to do. Such order
may also give directions to them respecting the dispo-
aition of the proceeds of the sale.
§ 961. When a party entitled to a share of the pro-
perty, or an incumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid
out of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may
take his receipt for so much of the proceeds of the sale
as belongs to him, and must also pay over to the plain-
tiff or his attorney, and take his receipt for, the costs
and charges of the action.
§ 962. The conveyances must be recorded in the
county, where the premises are situated, and shall be
a bar against all persons interested in the property in
any Way, who shall have been named as parties in the
action, and against all such parties and persons as were
unknown, if the summons have been served as is di-
rected by section 925, and against all persons claiming
from them or either of them.
§ 963. The conveyances shall also be a bar against
all persons having specific or general liens or incum-
Digitized by GOO8 le
crvu. PROCEDURE. 405
brances by judgment, on any undivided share or interest
in the premises sold, who shall have been served with
notice as prescribed by section 939; and also against
all persons having specific liens on any undivided share
or interest therein, who shall have been made parties
to the action. But no creditor having such specilio
lien can be affected by the sale or conveyance unlesl
he has been made party.
§ 964. When there are proceeds of sale, belonging to
an unknown owner, or to a person without the state,
who has no legal representative within it, or when
there are proceeds arising from the sale of an estate,
subject to the prior estate of a tenant in dower, or by
the curtesy, or tenant for 1|f8, or years, which are paid
into court, or deposited with an oflicer by order of
the court, the same must be invested in securities on
interest, for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.
§ 965. When security for the proceeds of sale is ta-
ken, or when an investment of any such proceeds is
made, it must be done, except as herein otherwise pro-
vided, in the name of the clerk of the county, where
the papers are filed, and his successors in office, who
shall hold the same for the use and benefit of the
parties interested, subject to the order of the court.
§ 966. When security is taken by the referees on a
sale, and the parties interested in such security, by an
instrument in writing under their hands, delivered to
the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to
Digitized by GOO8 le
484; run cons or
which they are . respectively entitled, or. when. ~mehr
shares and proportions have been previously adjudged.
by. the court, such securitiesm uat be taken in the names,
08 and payable to, the pgrtiep reppectiyely entitled
thereto,.and must be. delivered to such parties upon.
their receipt. therefor. Such agreement, and receipt,
qrust ,be,re.turned .angl filed with. the clerk.
§966. The clerk, in whose name a security is taken,
or, by whom an investment is made, and his successors
in.oflice, must receive. the interest and principal, as it
becomes due, and apply and invest the same, as the
court may direct, and must file in his office. all securi-
0}¢.S taken, and keep an account, in a book provided.
and kept for that purpose in the clerk's oflice, free for
inspection by all persons, of investments, and rnoneyst
received by him thereon, and the dispoition thereofl
§968. Vlflien it app-ars that partition cannot be
made equal between the parties, according .to their re-
spective rights, without prejudice to the rightsand in-
terestsof some of them, the court mayadjudge corn'
pensation to be made, by one party to another for
equality of partition.. But such compensation cannot;
bg required to be made to others, by owners unknown,
nor by iafants, unless, in the case of an infant, it np-._
pear that he has personal property sutlicient for that
purpose, and that his interest will be promoted thereby.
269. When the sharc .of an infant . is §o1d, the.prp,_
ceeds of. _the salemay .be paid .by thg .refereeg making,
Digitized by GOO8 le
mvn. rnocmntfkt. 4o*P
the ' sale, to his general guardian; ol" to~ th'e"spe'cid'
guardian appointed forhim in th'e action; if such gen!
eral or special guardian, before the payment of such
share into court, shall have given the security required
By section 550.
§-940. The cummiuewwnb-may be~.emi*tFed. 16 'tw'
custody and management of the estate of" an insane"
person, or other person adjudged incapable of conduct-
ing his own affairs, whose interest in real property shall
have been sold, may receive, in behalf of such person,
his share of the proceeds of such real property, from the
referees, if the committee, before the money is paid
into court, shall have executed, with suflicient sureties,
an undertaking, approved by a judge of the court, or if
the action be in the supreme court, by a county judge,
that he will f`aithf`ully discharge the trust reposed in
him, and will render a true and just account to the per-
son entitled, or to his legal representative. 1
§ 992. The general guardian of an infant, and the
committee entitled to the custody and management of
the estate of' an insane person, or other person adjudged
incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is entled
to real estate held in joint tenancy, or in common, or
in any other manner, to authorise his being made party
to an action for the partition thereof; may consent to a
partition without action, and agree upon the share to
be set off to such infant, or other person entitled, and
may execute a release in his behalf; to the owners of
Digitized by GOO8 le
me -ms com: or
the shares of the parts to which they may be respec-
tively entitled, upon an order of the court.
§ 972. The people of this state may be made a party
to an action, for the sale or partition ofreal property, in
which case the summons and complaint must be served
upon the attorney general, who must appear on behalf
of the people.
§ 973. The costs ofpartition, including fees of referees
and other disbursments, must be paid by the panies
respectively entitled to share in the lands divided, in
proportion to their respective interests therein, and may
be included and specified in the judgment. In that
case, they are a lien on the several shares, and the
judgment may be enforced. by execution against the
parties separately. Where, however, a litigation arises
between some of the parties only the court may require,
the expense of such litigation to be paid by the parties
threto, or any of them.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. rnocmnmns. 409
CHAPTER V.
ACTIONS HESPECTING ooaPonA'rIo!<s.
llvnon 974. The kind of corporation included.
9*/5. Foreign corporations may not me when an act ll forbidden.
976. Ten per cent interest on bank bills not paid.
911. Injunction to restrain corporation.
978. Junuliction of supreme court over corporations-their oicers and
business.
979. Who may make application.
seo. Debts to be paid rateable in cue of Insolvency.
sax. When a corporation deemed insolvent.
982. Insolvent corporations may be enjoined.
983. Stockholders personally liable may be joined as defendants with the
corporation.
954. Or stockholders may be sued separately afterwards.
sas. Return of execution unsatisfied evidence, of insolvency.
986. Stockholders compelled to make contribution.
987. Multiplication of suits not allowed.
usa. Actions against foreign corporations.
The provisions of this chapter afford substantially the same
remedies as are provided for in articles 1 and 2, title 4, chap-
ter 8, part 3 of the revised statutes, changed so as to conform
to the uniform system of procedure under the code in actions.
The necessity of some parts of those articles is dispensed with
by other parts of the code applicable to such cases. This
chapter was prepared before the publication of the Session
Laws of 1849, and consequently without adverting to the pro-
visions of the act of that session. chapter 226, making pro-
visions to enforce the liabilities of banks under the article of the
constitution on that subject. On examination of that article, it is
found, that its provisions, which are not confined to banking
corporations, do not conflict with those of this chapter, but
that its special provisions are entirely in harmony with the
rules of more general application here prescribed. Consider-
ing the recent enactment of that statute, and that it is not
only confined to banks and banking associations, but to debts
contracted after lst January, 1850, the Commissioners have
not deemed it necessary or expedient either to attempt a re
vision of it, or to introduce it into the code, but rather to leave
it as a special law applicah'e to the particular cases embraced
within it.
Digitized by GOO8 le
410 'nn con: or
§974. This chapter embraces all corporations, in-
cluding in such designation, all associations having
any corporate rights, whether created by special acts
of legislation, or under general laws; except that nw
part of the chapter, other than the next section, ex-
tends to a municipal, or religious corporation, or to a
corporation for a public library, a cemetery, an acade-
my, or a society for literary or charitable purposes, or
for the encouragement of the fine arts, unless such cor-
poration has by its charter, or the law cf its organiza-
tion, shares or stock, from Which, in some contingency,
a dividend may be made.
The term corporation as used in the constitution and laws
of this state in general, includes municipal bodi°s with cor-
porate powers. These and the other corporations specially
exempted in this section, are not clearly within the policy of
provisions of this chapter, though by the terms of the Revised
Statutes, vol. 2, p. 4667 sec. 57, only religious societies, in-
corporated libraries, and Lancasteriau schools are specially
exempted.
§ 975. A foreign corporation cannot maintain an ac-
tion inthis state, upon an obligation or liability, aris-
ing out of; or in consideration of an act, which is con-
trary to the law or policy of this state, or which is
thereby forbidden, in respect to corporations or associ-
ations therein, whose general business is similar to that
of such foreigri corporation.
§ 976. When judgment is rendered against a bank, or
banking association, for any bill or other contract, for
the absolute payment of money, payment of which has
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. nocmns. nr
been refused, on presentment al. the bank, or place of
business of the defendant, the plaintiff may recover in-~
terest, at the rate of tenper cent a year, from the time=
of such refusai, unless in the act of incorporation, a,
different rate of interest, or measure of damages, has
been prescribed.
§ 977. A corporation may be restrained. by injunction,
provisional or final, from, exercising .any function or
doing anyact not allowed by law. Such injunction
may be granted upon the application of the attorney
general, or other officer authorized by statute, on satis-
factory evidence that the corporation has usurped,
exercised or claimed a franchise, privilege, or other cor-
porate right, not authorized by law, or has done or sufl
fared some other act, by which its corporate existence
or rights have become forfeited, or may by authority of~
law, be terminated.
§978. The supreme court has jurisdiction over all
corporations, and the directors, managers, trustees and
other ofiicers thereof;
1. To compel an officer to account for -his official
conduct in the management and disposition of its busi-
ness or property:
2.» To suspend an officer from exercising his func-
tions, when it appears that he has abused his trust :
3. To compel the payment, or delivery, by an oficer
to such corporation, or to its creditors, of any money
Digitized by GOO8 le
419 T82 mul or
or property of such corporation, or the avails thereof,
in his hands, or to pay the value of; or to deliver over,
any property he may have misapplied, or wasted, or ac-
quired to himself; or withheld, in violation of his duty:
4. To remove an ofiicer from his oflice on proof of
gross misconduct :
5. To direct a new election to be held, to supply a
vacancy, occasioned by such removal or otherwise:
6. In case such vacancy cannot be filled by the cor-
poration, then to report the facts to the governor, who
is hereby authorized to fill it:
7. To set aside alienations of property made by an
officer contrary to the provisions of law, or for purposes
foreign to the business of the corporation, in cases
where it may be done without injustice to the purcha-
ser or holder:
8 To prevent the improper alienation or disposition
of property, where there is reason to apprehend it will
be made.
But this jurisdiction does not deprive any corporate
body, or public ofiicer, of visitatorial power over any
corporation.
§ 979. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section
can only be exercised on the application of an autho-
rized public officer, or of a creditor or stockholder, and
the proceedings must be by action, in all proper cases;
in other cases by motion.
Digitized by GOO8 le
a
cxvn. Pnocmnunm. 4 1
§ 980. Whenever the affairs cf' a corporation are
closed by the supreme court, (except on a judgment,
obtained by a creditor for the satisfaction of a debt,)
the creditors are entitled to be paid ratably in propor-
tion to the amount of their respective demands, as as-
certained under the direction of the court, except, that,
in case of the insolvency of a bank or banking associ-
ation, the bill-holders thereof are entitled to preference
in payment over other creditors.
§ 981. A corporation may be adjudged to have forfeit-
ed its corporate rights, in either of the following cases:
1. When it has for one year neglected to pay its
notes, or other evidences of debt, or has, for that period,
suspended its ordinary and lawful business:
2. When, having banking powers, or authority to
make loans on pledgf-s or deposits, or to make insu-
rance, it violates any of the provisions of the act under
which it is incorporated, or of any other law.
§ 982. Any corporation mentioned in the last section,
may be restrained by injunction from the further exer#
cise of its corporate rights, and from receiving, paying,
transferring, or delivering any money or other property,
until the court otherwise order; and in that case, a re-
ceiver of the corporate property may be appointed.
Such injunction may be granted in an action brought
by the attorney general, in behalf' of' the state, to close
the business of the corporation, or by a creditor or
stockholder, in an action to have such forfeiture ad-
judged.
Digitized by GOO8 le
414 THE cons UF
§ 988. If the action '=be brought by a creditor of a
corporation, whosedirectors, .ofllcers or stockholders
are, by law, persona'ly liable for its debts, either abso-
lutely or in any contingency, theymay be made parties
to the action, either at it*s -commencement or wbse-
quently, forthe purpofse of enf`orcing'such liability.
§ 984. \Vhe4n a judgmvnt has been rendered in 'such
action, whether brought by theattorney general, or by
a stockholder or creditor, and the directors, of ficers or
stockholders are personally liable for the debts, and
have not been made parties, any creditor may com-
mence an action, founded upon such judgment, to en-
force the liability; and in such action, the former judg-
ment is conclusive evidence of the matters therein
adjudged.
§ 985. Whenever an execution, issued on a judgment
against a corporation, is returned unsatisfied in whole
or in part, by the sheriffof the county, where the prin-
cipal ofhce or place of business of the corporation is
situated, and whenever a corporation is adjudged to
have forfeited its corporate rights, the courtmust cause
its affairs to be closed, its debts collected, its .property
converted into money, and its creditors paid in propor-
tion to the amount of their respective debts, in the or-
der ,provided in a case of -a voluntary dissolution of a
corporation, except that the bill-holders of an insolvent
bank or banking association, must be preferred, as -pro-
vided in section 980.
Digitized by GOO8 le
own.. Pwelanvnm. 41:5
§ 986. VVhen the property of the corporation is insuf-
ficient to discharge its debts, the court may compel
each stockholder fo pay any amount, that may remain
unpaid, on the shares of stock held by him, or so much
thereof, as is necessary to satisfy the debts, and when
the officers or stockholders are personally liable for the
debts, and the property of the corporation, together with
the amount unpaid on the stock, is insuflicient to dis-
charge its debts, the court may compel contribution
from the offict-rs or stockholders, who may be liable to
satisfy the balance of the debts, from each according
to his liabil;ty.
§987. In any proceeding, pursuant to this chapter,
to close the affairs of' a corporation, the court may, an
application of a stockholder, oflicer or creditor, restrain
further proceedings by any creditor, inan action against
the corporation, so far as may be -proper, in order to
prevent the waste of the funds by unnecessary litiga-
tion; and may by a notice, served or published as the
court may direct, require all creditors to present and
prove their claims, or become .parties to the action,
within a reasonable time, or be precluded from the
benefit of any distribution, which may be made before
such claim is proved.
§ 988. An action ,against a corporation, created by, or
under the laws of, any other state, government or coun-
try, and having property in this state, or an agency es-
tablished thervin, may be brought in the supreme court,
the superior court of the city of Ne w-York, or the court
Mgitized by(3o03le __
416 THE con: or
of common pleas of the city of New-York, in the fol-
lowing cases:
1. By a resident of this state, for any cause of ac-
tion:
2. By a plaintiff not a resident of this state, when
the contract, on which the action is brought, was made
or delivered in this state, or when any other cause of
action has arisen, or the subject of the action is situa-
ted, within this state.
.ammdea cw, <> 427.
CHAPTER VI.
I
ACTION! av on AGAINST uscurons, ADMINISTRATORS, LmA1'xr.s,
HEIRS on DEV Issns
lxcnol ass. A cause of action for injury to person don not survive.
990. Other cause! of action do survive.
am. When death ensues an injury.
992. Representatives regarded as one person.
sw. Assets not presumed ou failure to answer.
994- Statute of limitations in case of death.
995. Exeeutor of executor not to sue, ss such.
996- Res! property of deceased not affected by judgment against oxen-
tors, and cannot be sold thereon.
991. l'M`ect of Inventory as evidence.
998. Executor in his own wrong not liable.
ass. Next of kin who have received distribution, liable for debts.
um. Each llahle for the whole amount received.
1001 Next of kin may compel contribution.
1002. Legatees, when liable for debts.
wus. Costs in action against next of kin and legatees.
um. Recovery exonerates from further liability.
:wo Heirs and devisees liable for debts.
ms. In what cues heirs liable, and to what extent.
um. When debt expressly charged by will.
me. Preference of debts.
1w9. No preference bet ween debts of same class.
1010. Defence that there are debts of s prior class.
1011 Judgment for excess only, over prior debtl.
1012. Payment of prior debt to be allowed.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. Pnoclznunx-:. 419
intxnr ma. Real property Inherited covered by the judgment.
1014. When heir: or devisees personally lisble.
1015. Contribution among heirs or legatees.
1016. Deviseel and heirs not liable when there are usets.
1011. Liable for deilciency only.
1018. When debts have been expressly charged.
1019. Devisees subject to action, -me nl heirs.
1020. After born child provided for. I
1021 Witnell to will who ls devises.
989. A cause of action, arising out of an injury to
the person, dies with the person of either party, except
as provided in section 991,
§ 990. All other causes of action, by one against an-
other, whether arising on contract or not, survive to the
personal representatives of the former, and against the
personal representatives of the latter. Therefore the
executors or administrators may maintain the action
against the party, against whom the cause of' action ac-
crued, or after his death against his representatives.
§991. When the death of one is caused by the
wrongful act or omission of another, the personal re-
presentatives of the former may maintain an action
therefor against the latter, if the former might have
maintained an action, had he lived, against the latter,
for an injury caused by the same act or omission. But
the action must be commenced, within two yearsafter
the act or omission, by which the death was caused;
the damages thereon cannot exceed five thousand dol-
lars; and the amount recovered is to be for the exclu-
sive benefit of the widow and next of kin, to be dis-
[c1v1L com-'.] 27
F
Mgitized by Google
418 :ras moz or
tributed to them in the same propartiens as the pmag
property of the deceased person.
§ 992. In an action against several executors or ad-
ministrators, they are all considered as one person re-
presenting their testator-or intestate, and judgment may
be taken, and execution issued against all who are
named as defendants in the summons, although it he
served only on part of them, in themme manner as 4'
served on all, except as provided in the next section.
'§ 993. When ajudgment is taken againt an admit-
nmtar m executor .upon fhilure ta answer, it is not 4°
be deemed evidence of -assets .in his heads, unlessit
qgpear that ,the complaint a ed assets, wsu pen-
mnally served .en him.
§ 994. The time which shall have elapsed between
tb# death af a person, and the granting iof letters testa-
meltary or of administration, on his estate, not exceed-
ing six months, and the period of six months after the
granting of such letterq, are not to be deemed any part
of the time limited for the commencement of wfiwm
hy executors or administrators.
'§995. An executor of an executor has no authority
as such to commence or maintain an action or pro-
ceeding, relating to the property of the testator of the
Hrst excutor, or to take any charge or control thereof
Digitized by GOO8 le
mvu. bnoémbbhm. £15
8 996. The real propeily, 'Which 'lieionged tb a de~
eeased person, is not bounci, or iii any way aifecieil, ug
ajudgment against his executors'or administrators, nor
liable to be sold, by virtue d' an execution issued upqq
mn judgment.
§ 997.. in an aétion agairist executors or aaminism-
tors, in which the fact of their having administereci the
estate of their testator or intestate, or any there3i;
odmes in issue; aid the inventory of the fpropenybf the
deceased, 'iiliad by 'them is -given in evidence; the same
mhy be repelled by dviildmnec
.1. what any ffwpenv has been amused in siitli i
téhtory, dr was Mt returned therein at its full vahie:
.2. That such propeity hah peri~heei or been- usbi,
Without the fault of such éiecutots or aaihini aturag
or that it rm been may wld by them at privafe
public sale, at a less price than the value so returneei;
or that, since the ré*tlli'n of the inventory, such property
has deteriorated or imeteased in value. In such action,
the ilefendants cannot be chaiged fbi' amy thiugal in
¢¢;,;n, bpeci£ed in their inventory, unless it appear
that they haue been collected, or ihlght with dime dili4
Qence, have been collected.
§ 998. No persbn is iiable to an acfion as eigclitor 63
his own wrong, fer having faken, received, oi' ihierferea
with, the property of a deceased personj iiuf is i°e§pbii-
siiale to tire executors, or general bi' speciai arimiriistrlié
tors, of such deceased person, for the value of nil fiiiii
.r
Digitized by GOO8 le
420 'run con: or
perty so taken or received, and for all damages, caused
by his acts, to the estate of the deceased.
' § 999. The next of kin of a deceased person are liable
to an action by a creditor ofthe estate, to recover the dis-
tributive shares, received out of such estate, or so much
thereof; as may be necessary to satisfy his debt. The
action may be` against all the next of kin jointly, or
dgainst any one or more of them severally.
§ 1000. In such action, the plaintiff may recover the
value of all the assets received by all the defendants in
the action, if necessary to satisfy his demand ; and the
amount of the recovery must be apportioned among
the defendants; in proportion to the value of the assets
received by each ; and no allowance or deduction can
be made from such amount, on account of there being
other relatives to whom assets have also been de-
livered.
§ 1001. Any one of the next of kin, against whom a
recovery is had pursuant to the last section, may
maintain an action against all the other relatives of the
testator, to whom any such assets have been paid, joint-
ly, or against any of them separately, for a just and equad
contribution, and may recover of each defendant such
an amount as shall be in the same proportion to the
whole sum collected of the plaintiff as the value of the
assets delivered to such defendant bore to the value of
all the assets delivered to all the relatives of the de-
qeased.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. rnocnnuaz. 421
§ 1002. Legatees are liable to an action by acreditor
of the testator to recover the value of any legacy re-
ceived by them. The action may be brought againét
all or only one of the legatees. In such action the
,plaintiff cannot recover unless he shows: s
1. That no assets were delivered by the executor br
administrator of the deceased, to his next of kin: or"
2. That the value of such assets has been recoveregi
by some other creditor: or
3. That such assets are not sufBcient to satisfy tho
demand of the plaintiff:
And in the last case, he can recover only the deficien-
cy. The whole amount which the plaintiff can recover,
must be apportioned among all the legatees of the tes-
~tator, in proportion to the amounts of their legacies re-
spectively, and his proportion can only be recovered of
each legatee.
§ 1003. If an action be brought against several next
of kin jointly, or against several legatees jointly, for
.assets delivered to them, and a recovery be had against
them, the costs of such action must be apportioned
among the several defendants, in proportion to the
amount of the debt or damages recovered against each
of them.
§ 1004. In case of a judgment against several next
of kin of a testator, or against several legatees, the
payment or satisfaction of the amount recovered
D igiiz dbyG<>o8le .4
-ms com: or
ggainst any qne of the defendants, discharges such de~
fgpdant, and exonerates him argd his property &0m. the
jqdgment.
§ 1005. Heirs and devisees are liable to an action by
a creditor,of a deceased person, to recover the debt, to
the extent of the value of any real property inherited
by, or devised tm *helm If such action, - against the
heirs, all the heirs who may be liable must be made
parties to the action.
rv §100_6. But the heirs are not liable for the debt,
unless it appear that the personal assets of the deceased
were not sufHcient to discharge it, or that after due
proceedings before the proper surrogate's court, the
creditor has been unable to collect the debt, from the
personal representatives of the deceased; or from hi
next of kin or legatees. If the personal assets were
sufficient topay a part of the debt, or.in case a part
thereof shall have been collected, as mentioned, in the
les# swine. th# heirs °f 84411. diseased persfm axe. liable
Qr tlwwvlsills
§ 1007. But the last section does notaiiect the liabil-
ity of heirs for a debt of 'their ancestor, where such debt
was, by his will, expressly charged exclusively on the
real property descended to such heirs, or where such
debt is by the will expressly directed to be paid'out of
the mal. property deseendwia 11¢f9r¢= resulting to, the per-
W .-poprty,
Digitized by GOO8 le
mvxr. nocmrmr.. as
1808. In cases where the next ofkin, legatees, heirs,
and* deviseesf are liable fbrthe debts of their ancestorsi
as herein provided, they must give' preference in the
payment* ofthe same, and'me liable therefor, in the fo19
lowing order :'
1. Debts entitled to a preference under the laws of
the United States: s
2. Judgments against the ancestor or testator accond-
ihg to the priority thereof respectively:
31 Recognizances, bonds, sealed instruments, notes;
bills, and unliquidated demands and accounts. 1
§1009. No preference can be given by any next
kin,,legatee, heir or devisee, to one debt over another
of the same class, except one specified in the second
subdivision of the last section ; nor is a debt,_ due an
payable, entitled to a preference over a debt not due;
mr2d ecmmncement' of an Mion against any
next of kin, legatee, heir or devisee, fbr the recovery of
a debt, entitle it to a preference over others of the same
dass:
§ 1010. The nextof kin, legatees, heirs and devisees,
may show that there are debts of a prior class unsat
fied; or that there are unpaid debts of the same class
with that on which the action is brought; and if it apr
pm, that the value of the personal property delivered
to them, or of the real estate descended or devised to
them, does not exceed the debts of a prior class judg-
ment must be rendered in their favor.
Digitized by GOO8 le
494 nm cons or
1 § 1611 If the personal property delivered to such next
of kin or legatees, or if the real estate descended or
devised to such heirs and devisees, exceed the amount
of debts which are entitled to a preference over the debt
for which the action is brought, judgment must be ren-
.dered against them only for such a sum as shall be a
just proportion to the other debts, of the same class with
that on which the action is brought.
§ 1012. If a debt of a class prior to that on which the
action is brought, or of the same class, shall have been
paid by any next of kin, legatees, heirs or devisees, they
may prove such payment, and the amount of the debts
so paid must be estimated in ascertaining the amount
to be recovered, in the same manner as if such debts
were outstanding and unpaid, as prescribed in the last
two sections.
§ 1013. If it appear that the real property so descend-
ed, was not aliened by the heir, at the time of the com-
mencement of the action, or if' the heir confess the
claim, aud show what real property has descended to
him, the court must order that the debt of the plaintiill
or the proportion thereof which he is entitled to recover,
be levied of the real property so descended, and not
otherwise; and every judgment rendered in such ac-
tion has preference, as a lien on the real property de-
scended, to any judgment obtained against such heir
personally, for a debt or demand in his own right.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. raocsnuxuz. 425
'§ 1014. When it appears, in the action, that before
the commencement thereof, the heir has aliened the
real property descended to him, or any part thereof; he
shall be pwsonally liable for the value of the property
so aliened, and judgment may be rendered therefor and
execution awarded, as in actions lor his own 'debts. But
no real property aliened in good faith by an heir, be-
fore action commenced against him, is liable to execu-
tion, or in any manner affected bya judgment against
him.
§ 1015. In actions brought against several heirs
jointly, or several devisees jointly, the amount, which
the plaintiff recovers, must be apportioned, among all
the heirs of the ancestor, or among all the devisees of
the testator, in proportion to thc value of' the real pro-
perty descended or devised, and such proportion only
can be recovered of each heir or legatee. i
§ 1016. Devisees made liable, by the foregoing pro-
visions of this chapter, to the creditors of their testator,
are not so liable, unless it appear that his personal assets
and the real property of the testator descended to his
heirs were insuflicient to discharge the debt ; or unless
it appear, that after due proceedings before the surro-
gate, the creditor has been unable to recover the debt,
or any part thereof] from the personal representatives
of the testator, or from his next of kin.or legatees,or
from his heirs.
»
Digitized by GOO8 le
426 -nmoonsur,
§1017. In either of the cases specified in the hat
section, the amount of the deficiency of' the personal
assets, 8lldi of the real property descended, tosatiafy
the debt of the plaintiff; and the amount which sneh
plaintiff may have failed to recover from the personal
regresentativegof the testator, his next of kin, legateeg
and heirs, may be recovered of the devisees of such
testator, to the extent of the real property devised to
them respectively.
§ 1018. But the last two sections do not affect the
liability of devisees, for a debt of' their testator, where
such debt was, by his will, expressly charged exclusive-
ly upon the real property devised, or by the terms of
the will made payable exclusively by such devisee, or
made payable out of` the real property devised, before
resorting to the personal property or to any other real
property descended or devised.
§ 1019. The provisions of this chapter, with regard
to heirs, and to proceedings by and against them, and
'to judgments and executions against them, are applica-
ble to actions and proceedings against devisees; and
they must, in like manner, be sued jointly.
4. 1020. In caseswhere, by the provisions<of'anyfstat|~
lie, a-child born after-the-making of a will, isentitled
itomuoceed to~a portion of the testatorls real and pen
usual property, such- ch=ild` shall have thesamerights
and remedies to compel a distribution of the pei-sand
property and a partition of' the real property, as are pro-
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvxn nocmuxl. 427
vided for next ofkin and for heirs ; and shall, in all
4 respects, be liable, in the same manner and to the same
extent, to the creditors of his ancestor, in respect to
the personal property delivered to him, and the real
property descended to him, as are herein prescribed in
relation to next of kin and heirs; and auch child may
recover of the legatees and devisees, who may have re-
ceived or taken any real or personal property of the
testator, the share or portion thereofto which he may
be entitled.
§ 1021. The provisions of the last two sections rela-
tive to a child, born after the making of a will, apply
equally to every person, who being a witness to a will,
is entitled, by the provisions of any statute, to recover
a portion of the real or personal property. of the testa-
tor, irorn the legatees and devisees named in such
WHL.
Digitized by GOO8 le
428 THE mon or
CHAPTER VII.
ACTIONS ON OFFICIAL sscunrrxns, AND FOR num AND mn~
nzlrvmzs.
Herron 1022. Odlclal bond to the people, construed severally.
1023. Any person aggrieved may prosecute.
1024. Leave of court must be obtained.
1025. A judgment in favor of one does not preclude another action for
another cause.
1026. Aggregate of recoveriee not to exceed the undertaking.
1027. Execution to be Grst enforced agalnst principal.
1028. Amount collected to be limited by the undertaking.
1029. Fines and forfeitures how prosecuted.
1030. Amount to be recovered in certain cases.
nm Efect of recovery by collusion.
1032. When not specially granted to belong to treasury, and property
forfeited recovered by action.
This chapterdiifers from the Revised Statutes, chiPHy in
making the rules applicable to all official securities uniform,
and in allowing a prosecution upon them, directly in the
name of the party aggrieved, instead of doingthe same thing
indirectly in the name of the people. As in most of the
other special cases in this title, the change in the system of
procedure has enabled the Commissioners to condense the
subject into less than half its length in the Revised Statutes.
See 2, R. s., 476-483.
§ 1022. The omcialwnd, or other security, of a pub-
lic officer, to the people of this state, whether with or
without sccuiities, is to be construed as security to the
people of the state, as a government, and also to all
persons severally, for the otlicial delinqucncies, against
which it is intended to provide. If` it be to a county,
town, city, village or other municipal body, it is, in like
manner, to be constrnvd as security severally to all per-
sons intended to be se<~tncd, as well as to the body p0°
litic named the"uin.
_ Digitized by GOO816
cxvu. rnocsnuu. 42?
§ 1023. When a public oiiicer, by official misconduct
or neglect of duty, forfeits his of'dcial bond, or renders
his sureties liable upon an oflicial security, any person
injured thereby, or who is, by law, entitled to the bene-
lit of the security, may bring an action thereon, in 114
own name, against the otlicer and his sureties, to re-
cover the amount to which he may be entitled, by rea-
son of the delinquency. |
§ 1024. Before an action can be brought by a plaim
Iifll other than the people, or body politic named in the
security, leave must be obtained of the court or a judge
thereof, or a county judge, within the district or county
where the action is triable; and leave can only be
granted, on a production of the copy of the bond, and
an aflidavit showing the delinquency; and if the de-
linquency be such, as that if established on the trial, it
would entitle the party applying to recover in the ac-
tion, leave must be granted.
§ 1025. A judgment in favor of a party for one dei
linquehcy, does not preclude the same, or another party,
from an action on the same security, for another delin-
quency.
§ 1026. If it appear in an action against a surety, on
an ofhcial security, that he has already been obliged,
by reason of prior recoveries against him on the same,
to pay amounts, which, in the aggregate, are equal to
the exteut of his undertaking, or that, by reason of the
Digitized by GOO8 le
Iso *mn com: or
insolvency of 1mis principal, he will be obliged to pay
to that extent on judgments already recovered againsl
fhe surefy. Anil fhe recovery against 8 surety must,
in 'all cases, be llmifed by the hmount of his under-
Making.
§ 1027. Upon the execution issued on a judgment,
recovered upon the ofiicial security of a public oflicer
against him and a surety, there must be endorsed a di-
faction to tihe otiicer, to whom the 'execution it deliv-
ered, to oollect tihie 'same out of' the property of the priI1~
oipal, if aufiident han be found, and if not, then 'to cob
lent it out of the property of the surety.
§ 1b28. lf' there be seveml juilgments on which exe-
éutiona are, at the same time, in the sherih"s handa,
against a puhlic oilicer and his sureties, amounting in
fhe aggregule to 8 sum greater than that, for which the
si1'ret:ies are liable, the court mus', oh their application,
limit the amount to be collected of them, to the amouni
of their respective liabilities, and may cause the same
to be appliecl on the judgments or executions, in pro-
portion to such amounts.
§ 1029. Actions for fines and forfeitures, may be 'pro-
secuted by the oflicers or persons, to whom they are by
law given, or who, by special provision of law, are au-
thorised to .recover them; and whether prosecuted by
public ofiicers, or by private persons, are governed by
the same rules as other civil actions, except as other-
wise specified in this chapter.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvm rnnonmas. 451
§ 1030. When an action is brought for a penalty,
which is limited bylaw, not to exceed a certain amount»
the action may be brought for that amount ; and upon
the trial, the amount recovered, must be determined in
proportion to the offence.
§ 103 l. A recovery of ajudgment, for a penalty or a
forfeiture, by collusion between the parties, with intent
to save the defendant .from the consequences contem-
plated by law, in a case where the penalty or forfeiture
is given, wholly or partly. to the prosecutor, does not
prevent the recovery of the same by another person.
'§ 1032. Fines and forfeitures, not specially granted
or appropriated by law, must be paid into the treasury
of the stete; and whenever by the provisions of law,
any propeny, real or personal, is forfeited to the people
of this state, or to any officer for their use, an action
for the recovery of such property, alleging the grounds
of the forfeiture, may be brought by the proper officer,
in the supreme court.
0P5* T>-
9 9, *
44/ " 4_ Q
3 <~ *
"'Uc151* \,\
Digitized by GOO8 le
432 THE cont. or
CHAPTER VIII.
Amicus BY AND AGAINST CERTAIN PUBLIC OFFICERS Asn Pvnuo
BODIES.
Blcnon ma. Who :my me ln otllclal capacity.
1w4. In what cases omcial persons may sue.
10:45. When special department of corporation mea.
IU36, Aczions against same oticinl persons.
1037. For acts of their own or their predecessors.
1038. When the muntclpal body il sued, judgment to be presented w
board of supervisors.
lass. Supervisors mul! inciude it In tax list.
1040. Treasurer: must pay judgments against county.
lun. Supervisor or overseer must pay for town. \ 1042. Execution not to issue until after demand.
1043; ' Judgnxenta against town odicers, how paid.
This chapter is substituted for the provisions of the Revised
Statutes, on the same subject, (art. 4, title 4, ch. 8, part 3,)
adapting them to the new system of procedure. It, however,
embracesa class of officers, who by special statutes`in' city
charters, are authorised to sue, and contains some new fea-
tures for the better attainment of the same remedies.
§ 1038. The following oiiicers may prosecute actions
in their oflicial capacity:
' The board of' supervisors of a county;
The loan ofEcers and commissioners of loans of a
county ;
The superintendents of the poor of a county ;
The supervisor of a town;
The overseers of the poor of a town ;
The commissioners of highways of a town;
The commissioners of common schools of a town;
The trustees of a school district;
Digitized by GOO8 le
mm mocnmu. 433
The trustees of gospel and school lots; and
Anyorganized department of a municipal corporation
having a board of officers in charge of a particular
branch of public service, and specially authorized by
statute to prosecute. In such action the plaintiffs may
be designated by their official name, or the action may
be brought in the name of the body, in whose behalf
the action is brought.
§ 1034. Every such action must be either,
1. On a contract made with them in their o§cial
capacity; or,
2. To enforce a liability, or a duty enjoined by law,
in favor of such officers, or the body represented by
them; or,
3. To recover a penalty or forfeiture given to such
oiicers or body; or,
4. To recover damages for an injury to their oHicial
rights or property.
§ 1oa5. When an organized department of a munici-
pal corporation is authorized by statute to sue, it shall,
for purposes of the action be deemed the real party in
interest, though the corporation, of which it is a de-
partment, be the party ultimately to be benefited by
the action, or responsible for any loss incurred therein.
§1036. An action may be brought against the*oHicers
mentioned in section 1033, in theirofEcial capacity, or
lcxvu. comm] 28
Digitized by GOO8 le
434 nm con: or
against the body they represent, either upon a contract
made by such ofiicers in their oiiicial capacity, and
within the scope of their authority, or for an injury to
the rights of the plaintifi, arising from some act or
omission of such officers, or of the body represented by
them.
§ 1037. The .actions authorized by this chapter may
be brought by or against the oiiicers mentioned in seo-
tion 1033 upon a cause of action which accrued during
the term of their predecessors, as well as during their
own term of oliice, and when brought maybe contin-
ued by, or against, the successors in ofiice of the par-
t.ies,,whose .names may, for that purpose, .be substituted
in the action.
§ 1038. If judgment, for the recovery of money, be
rendered against a county, or the board of supervisors,
or superintendents of the poor, of a county, or against a
ttown, or the supervisor or overseers of the poor of a
town, on account of the liability .of such county or
town, and the judgment be not satisfied, or proceed-
ings thereon stayed by appeal or otherwise, before the
-next annual meeting of the board of supervisors of the
county, a certified copy of the docket of the judgment,
may be presented to the board of supervisors at their
annual meeting.
§1039. The board of supervisors must thereupon
cause the amount due on the judgment, with interest,
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. rnocznunlz. 435
from the time' of the recovery until the first Monday in
February after such meeting, to be added to the tax df
the town or county, for whose liability the same was
recovered, and the same must be collected as other
contingent charges of the town or county.
§ 1040. The treasurer of a county, against which, or
against whose oilicers, a judgment has been recovered for
a lia bility of the county, the execution of which has not
been stayed upon. appeal, must, upon demand, and the
delivery to him of a certified copy of the docket of the
judgment, pay the amount due thereon, if there be suf-
Iicient money of the county in his hands, not other-
wise specifically appropriated. If he fail to do so,~he
shall be personally liable for the amount, unless the
collection thereof beaiterwards stayed upon appeal.
§ 1041. The supervisors, or overseers of the poor, of
a town, against which, or against whose ofiicers, a judg-
ment has been recovered for a liability of the town, the
execution of which has not been stayed upon appeal,
must in like manner upon demand, and the delivery of
a certified copy of the docket of the judgment, pay the
amount due thereon, if there be sufficient money of the
town in his hands, not otherwise specifically appropri-
ated. If he fail to do so, he shall be personally res-
ponsible for the amount, unless the collection thereof
be afterwards stayed upon appeal.
§ 1042. Execution cannot be issued on a judgment,
mentioned in sections 1038 and 1040, without leave of the
Digitized by GOO8 le
436 -ru con: or
cow, nor must leave be granted, until the court is sa-
tisfied that payment has been demanded of the proper
county, or town ollicers, as provided in the last two
sections, and that the board of supervisors have wrong-
fully omitted to include the amount in the tax lisf, as
provided in section 1039. When execution is issued,
the property of the county, or town, only is liable
thereon.
§1043, Judgments, for the recovery of money, ren-
dered against loan otlicers, commissioners of loans,
commissioners of common schools, commissioners of
highways, trustees of school districts, and trustees of
gospel and school lots, or other town or county ofhcers,
on account of a liability of such county or town, may
be enforced by execution, or otherwise, against such
oliicers personally, and the amount collected of them
must be allowed to them in their oflicial accounts.
Digitized by GOO8 le
crvxx. nocnnunz. 437
CHAPTER IX.
Acnoxs 'ro vmnr. cmnrms um Lrrrms PATENT, mn TO ru-
VEFT THE USURPATION or AN OFFICE on FRANCHISE-
Blcrlou 1044. Action substituted for quo warranto md acire facial.
1045. Action to vrate charter of a corporation.
ww. In what cues action may be brought.
1047. Leave to be nrst obtained from court.
1048- Action for usurplng an olllce or franchise.
1049. Action to vacate patent! for lands.
1050. When a private person may be joined as plalntldl
1001. When for usurping an omce and receiving feel, defendant may be
arrested.
1052. Judgment may determine the right of claimant.
1053. When claimant may enter upon otllce.
1064. Punishment for refusing to deliver books.
ww. Persons entitled may recover damages.
was. When several claimants to an odlee, all may be Included.
1uo7. Judgments ln actions under this chapter.
1068. Corporation may be dissolved.
was. Costs may be ordered.
1060. Iqjunctlon and receiver allowed.
1061. Record when Med with secretary of state.
waz. When patent for land ls vacated, secretary of state to enter note
thenof
§ 1044. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo war-
ranto, and proceedings by information in the nature of
quo warranto, are abolished, and the remedies hereto-
fore obtainable in these forms, may be obtained by ci-
vil actions, under the provisions of this chapter. But
nothing contained in this section aifects any right al-
ready required, or any judgment or order already made,
or any proceeding already taken.
Amended Code, §428. See also, 2 R. S., 579-586.
§ 1045. An action may be brought by the attorney.
general, in the name of the people of this state, when-
ever the legislature so directs, against a corporation, for ,
Digitized by GOO8 le
433 'nm con: cr
the purpose of vacating or annulling the act of incorpo-
ration, or an act renewing its corporate existence, on
the ground that such act or renewal was procured,
upon some fraudulent suggesdon or concealment of a
material fact, by the persons incorporated, or by some
of them, or with their knowledge and consent.
./Qmended Code, §4=29.
§ 1046. An action may be brought by the attorney
general, in the name of the people of this state, on
leave granted by the supreme court, or a judge thereof,
for thc 'purpose ofvacating the charter or annulling the
existence of a corporation, other than municipal, when~
ever such corporation;
1. Oifends against any of the provisions of the act or
acts creating, altering, or renewing, such corporation ;
or
2; Viiolates the provisions of any law, by which such
corporationforfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers;
gy.
3. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges or fianchi-
ses, by fhilure to exercise its powers; or
4. Whenever it has done or omitted any act, which
amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privi~
legen; and Iianehises ; or
'55 Whenever it exercises d liiuichise or priiriiege, dot
céiifeiredizpon it'by .law..
Digitized by GOO8 le
mir. rnocmnunn. 439
And it is the duty of the attorney general, to apply
for leave, and upon leavegranted, to bring the action
in every case of public interest, whenever he has rea-
son to believe, that any of these acts or omissions cah
beiproved; arid' also itievery other case, in which satis-
factory! security is given, to indemnify" the people of
this state, against the costs and expenses to be incur-
red thereby.
Jlmmded Code, §430.
§ 1047. Leave to bring the action may be granted; »'
upon the application of the attorney general; and the
court or judge may, at discretion, direct notice of such
application to be given to the corporation or its oflicers,
previous to granting such leave, and may hear the
corporation in opposition thereto.
./Immded Code, 4 481.
§ 1048: An action may be brouglit' by the attorney
general in the name of the people of this state, upon
his own information, or upon the complaint of a
private party, against the party offending in the follow-
ing cases:
1. When any person usurps, intrudes into, or un-
lawfully holds or exercises any public ofhce, civil or
military, or any franchise within this state, or any oflice
in a corporationcreated by the authority of this state:
or,
2. When any public ofiicer, civil or military, has
done~or'suB`e1'ed=an~ act-which, by the.provlsiohlslbf
lawv makesa »fo1-ibiture oflris otlices or non '§1'|
Digitized by GOO8 le
440 'rn oonl: or
3. When any association, or number of persons, act
within this state as a corporation, without being duly
incorporated.
And it is the duty of the attorney-general to bring the
action, whenever he has reason to believe that any of
these acts can be proved, or when he is directed to do
so, by a judge of the supreme court.
./Immded Code, § 432, with the last sentence added.
§1049. An action may be brought by the attorney-
general, in the name of the people of this state, .for the
purpose of vacating or annulling letters patent, granted
by the people of this state, in the following cases:
1.When he has reason to believe, that such letters
patent were obtained by means of' some fraudulent
suggestion or concealment of a material fact, made by
a person to whom the same were issued or made, or
withhis consent or knowledge: or,
2. When he has reason to believe, that such letters
patent were issued through mistake or in ignorance of
a material fact: or,
a. When he has reason to believe, that the patentee,
or those claiming under him, have done or omitted an
act, in violation of the terms and conditions on which
the letters patent were granted, or have, by any other
means, forfeited the interest acquired under the same.
JMM v<»d¢,§ 433.
§1050. When an action is brought by the attorney
general, by virtue of this chapter, on the complaint or
Digitized by GOO8 le
mvu. rmcnmn. 441
information of aperson having an interest in the ques-
tion, the name of such person must be joined with the
people, as plaintiff
.ammaa Code, 4 434.
§.1051. Whenever such action is brought against a
person for usurping an ofhce, the attorney-general, in
addition to the statement of the cause of action, may
also set forth in the complaint, the name of the person
rightfully entitled to the oflice, with a statement of his
right thereto, and in such case, upon proof by affidavit,
that the defendant has received fees or emoluments
belonging to the oflice, and by means of his usurpation
thereof, an order may be granted by a judge of the su-
preme court, for the arrest of such defendant, and hold~
ing him to bail, and thereupon he may be arrested and
held to bail, in the same manner, and with the same
effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities,al
in other civil actions, where the defendant is.subject tb
arrest, I
Amended cw, §435.
§ 1052. In every such case, judgment maybe rerider~
ed upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the
right of the party, so alleged to be entitled, or only upon
the right of the defendant, as justice requires.
Jimendcei Cade, § 436.
§ 1053. If the judgment be rendered upon the right
of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be
in favor of such person, he shall be entitled, after taking
Digitized by GOO8 le
's
44a rnroonior
the oath ofo6oe and executingsuch omeial bond as may
be required by law, to take upon himself the execution
of the ofhce, and it is his duty, immediately thereafter,
to demand of the defendant in the action, all the books
and papers, in his custody or within his power, belong-
ing to the office.
Jlmended cw, §437.
§ 1054. If the defendant refuse or neglect to deliver
over such books or papers, pursuant to the demand, he
is to be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the same
proceedings may be had, and with the same effect, to
compel delivery of such books and papers, as are pre-
scribed in article five, title six, chapter six, of the first
part of the Revised Statutes.
Amended Code, § 438.
§'*1G55'. Ifjudgment be rendered, upon the right ofthe
peYso'n s r alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person,
he may recover, by action, the damages which he shall
have sustained, by reason of the usurpation of the
ofice by the defendant.
.Hmmded Code, §439.
§ 1056. Where several persons claim to be entitled
to the same office or franchise, one action may be
brought against ll such persons, in order to try their
respective rightgtq such office or franchise,
J!mcnd¢d~ Code, § 4404
Digitized by GOO816
*w
svn. nocmuu 443'
J; 1057. When a defendant, whether a natural person
ora corporation, against whom such action has been
brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding
into, or unlawfully holding or exercising anfmfhce,
franchise or privilege, judgment must be rendered, that
such defendant be excluded from the ollice, franchise
or privilege, and also that the plaindif recover costs
against such defendant. The court may also, in its dis-
cretion,impose upon.the defendant a fine not exceed-
ing two thousand dollars; which fine when collected,
must be paid into the treasury of the state.
Jimcnded Code, § 441.
§ 1058. If it be adjudged, that a corporation, against
which an action shall have been brought, pursuant to
this chapter, has by neglect, abuse, or mirrender, for#
feited its corporate rights, privileges and franchises,
judgment must be rendered, that the corporation be ex-
cluded from such corporate rights privileges and lian-
chises, and that the corporation be dissolved.
Amended 0¢d¢,§ 442.
§ 1059. If judgment be rendered in such action,
against a corporation or against persons claiming to be
a corporation, the court may cause the costs therein to
be collected, by execution against the persons claiming
to be a corporation, or by process against the directors
or other ofhcers of such corporation.
.dmmded Code, §443.
Digitized by GOO816
444 'nn oonxor
§ 1060. When such judgment is rendered against a
corporation, the court has the same power to restrain the
corporation, to appoint a receiver of its property, and to
take an account and make distribution thereof among
its creditors, as are given in the chapter upon actions
respecting corporations, and in the chapter upon the
voluntary dissolution of corporations, and it is the duty
of the attorney general, immediately after the rendition
of such judgment, to institute proceedings for that pur-
pose.
./Ymended Code, §444.
§ 1061. Upon the rendition.of such judgment agdnst
a corporation, or for the vacating or annulling of letters
patent, it is the duty ofthe attorney-general, to cause a
copy of the judgment roll to be fonhwith filed in the
ofiice of the secretary of state.
.dmended Code, §-145.
§ 1062. Such secretary must thereupon, if the record
relate to letters patent, make an entry in the records of
the commissioners of the land office, of the substance
and effect of the judgment, and of the time when the
record thereof was docketed; and the real property
granted by the letters patent, may thereafter be dispo-
sed of by such commissioners, in the same manner asif
the letters patent had never been issued.
.dmmded Code, § 446.
Digitized by GOO816
avn. rnoclbuu. 445
CHAPTER X.
ACTIONS ur Jnsrxcss' oomvrs.
Arncu I. Summonl, an-alt and attachmont.
II. Plemdlngs and trial.
III. Judgment and oxeeutlon.}
xv. Gsueral provisions.
ARTICLE I.
summons, Annan AND ATTACHMENT.
Blcnox moss. Any person may act n attorney, except constable.
1064. Actions commenced by lummonl or appearance.
1066. Guardian for Infant, how appointed.
was. Contents of summons.
1m. Time when summons is returnable.
wsu. Manner of serving summons.
mm. Gomplaint may be served with summons, in certain eases.
!070. One hour allowed to appear after the time.
1071. Order to arrest, in what eases allowed.
1012. Proof to be mule, and security glven before order.
1073- Defendant when arrested, to be taken before justtee.
1m4. Constable to glve notice to plaintim
1075. Defendant arrested, how kept.
uns. Order to attach property when allowed.
um. Proof and security required before order made.
uns. Contents of order.
1079. Duty of constable, on attachment.
wsu. Disposition of property, when attached.
mom. Constable must make retnrn.
um. Pmnun' not a resident must give security.
1083. Beenrlty taken by constable, its avails how disposed of.
It was no part of the original design of the Commissioners
to review the system of procedure in justices' courts; but
further reflection and observation, as their work advanced,
satisfied them that it was indispensable to the proper and har-
monious arrangement of the entire system. Many statutes
equally applicable to proceedings in that court as to those of
higher jurisdiction, are rendered useless in regard to the latter,
by the new system of procedure, and must be either repealed
so far as they apply to one tribunal,.and left to stand in thdr
relation to another, or justices' courts must be included in
the revision.
Digitized by GOO8 le
446 rn con: OF
The Commissioners are of opinion, that the records in jus-
tices' courts are of a character requiring preservation. Their
decisions are final, unless appealed from, in the same man-
ner as judgments in higher courts. Their dockets have long
been declared to be evidence, and ought to be secured by
provisions for their preservation as public records. They
therefore determined to classify these courts as courts of re-
cord, and in this view, are required by law to include them
in the code.
The business of this court is larger in the aggregate, and
more intimately connected with the ordinary transactions of
the people, than that of any other, and there is a manifest
propriety in providing for it the very best eystem of procedure
which can be devised. An uniformity through all the courts,
as far as practicable, not only secures stability in the admin-
istration of justice, but it gives to inferior courts the benelit
of the learning and construction which would be otherwise
confined mostly to the higher tribunals. The justice's court
is the school, in which many of our mast eminent lawyers
\ and judges have taken their first lessons ; lessons which have
oRen beneficially influenced the opinions and conduct of the
lawyer, the judge and the statesman, in his later and more
elevated sphere. \
§ 1063. Parties in justices' couns may prosecute or
defend in person or by attorney, and any person may
act as attorney, except that the constable by whom the
summons or jury process was served, cannot appear or
act on the trial in behalf of either party. He may
however act, in any other stage of the action, as agent
or attorney for a party, and the authority of a person to
act for another as attorney, may be oral or written, but
unless admitted by the adverse party must be proved
by the oath of the attorney or otherwise.
Digitized by GOO8 le
s
cxv1L rnocmnvn. 447
<3 1064. Actionsin justices' courts are commenced by
summons, or bythe voluntary appearance and plead-
ings of the parties without summons. In the latter
case, the action is deemed commenced, at the time of
appearance.
In analogy to proceedings in the supreme court and to
secure uniformity in all cases as far as practicable, it is
deemed best to make the summons the only process by which
actions can be commenced, and when an arrest of the
defendant or attachment of his property is proper, to require
an order of the justice for that purpose to be endorsed.
§ 1065. When a guardian is necessary, he must be
appointed by the justice as follows:
1. If the infant be plaintiff, the appointment must be
made before the summons is issued, upon the applica-
tion of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years
or upwards, if under age, upon the application of some
relative or friend. The consent in writing of the guar-
dian to be appointed, and to be responsible for costs, if
hefail in the action, must be first filed with the justice.
2. If the infant be defendant, the guardian must be
appointed at the time the summons is returned, or be-
fore the pleadings. It is the right of the infant to nom-
inate his own guardianyif the infant be over fourteen
years of age, and the proposed guardian be present, ahd
consent in writing to be appointed. Otherwise the jus-
tice may appoint any suitable person who gives such
consent.
Digitized by GOO8 le
448 fu con: or
§ 1066. The summonds must be addressed to the de-
fendant by name, or if his name be unknown, by de-
scription of him, and must summon him to appear
before the justice, at his oflicein a town or ward, and at
a time specified therein, to answer the complaint of the
plaintiff, for a cause of action therein described in gen-
eral terms, sufficient to apprise the defendant of the na-
ture of the claim against him, and must state the
amount for which the plaintiff will take judgment, if
the defendant fail to appear and answer. It must be
subscribed by the plaintiff or by the justice before
-whom it is returnable.
The principal changes in practice required is this descrip-
tion of the summons are :
1. Its address to the defendant instead of a constable:
2. The direction to state the amount for which judgment
will be claimed if the defendant fails to appear and answer.
This is analogous to the summons in the supreme court; and
subsequent provision is made by which the plaintiif will be
induced to state his claim no higher than he can establish it
by evidence ;
3. The permission to the plaintid' toissue his ovm summons
if he chooses to do so. The summons in the supreme court
is always issued by the party or his attorney. Provision is
made for regular return days of process issued by the party,
at which times the justice is required to be in attendance, and
the system of costs is also made applicable to this mode of
proceeding.
§ 1067. The time mentioned in the summons, for the
appearance of the defendant, and the time of service
must be as follows:
Digitized by GOO8 le
CIYIL noel-zouns. 449
1. Where the sumnions is accompanied by an order
to arrest the defendant, or to attach property under sec~
tions 1071 and 1076, it must be returnable immediately:
2. When the defendant is nota resident of the coun-
ty, or where the plaintiff is not a resident, and gives
the security required by section 1082, it must be re~
turnable not more than three days from its date, and
must be served at least two days before the time for
appearance:
3. In all other cases it must be returnable, not more
than twelve days from its date, and must be served at
least six days before the time for appearance.
§ 1068. The summons must be served bya constable
of the county, as follows:
1. If the action be against a corporation, by delivery
of a copy to the president, or other head of the corpo-
ration, or to the secretary, cashier, or managing agent
thereof; or when no such ofiicer resides in the county,
to a director resident therein:
2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen
years, by delivery of a copy to such minor, and also to
his father, mother, or guardian, or if there be noun
within the county, then to any person having the cam
or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or
'm whose service he is:
3. If against a person judicially declared to be of
unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own
fcxvn. oormj 29
Digitized by GOO8 le
166 THE moz or
adaiis in consequence of habitual drunkenness, or
for any other cause, and for whom a committee hai
been appointed, by delivery of a copy, to such commit-
tee and to the defendant personally:
4. If an order to attach property be endorsed on the
iurnnions, by' leéving a copy, as prescribed in sectiori
1079.
5. In all other cases by delivery of a copy to the del
fendant personally.
By this section,the manner of service of thesummons isde-
i fined, vvhere d corpomtidn or a'minor, an insane person or ah
habitual drunkard is a defendant. The law has heretofore been
defective in this respect. The service by copy at the defend-
ant's residence is omitted. The summons, when served in that
manner was formerly followed by a warrant to arrest the
defendant; but that mode having'been superseded by the act
to abolish imprisonment for debt, and a new summons required
to be served personally before judgment can be taken, this
diode of service by copy is nb longer necessary.
§ 1069. When the action is on a promissory nofé,
`bHl of exchange, or other obligation for the payment of
money only, or for a specified amount of property, at a
valuation fixed in the contract, or on an account, the
plaintilf may serve, with the summons, a copy of his
-complaint, together with a copy of such obligation or
uccwnt. In such ease, unless the defendant, in his
answer, specifically deny the note, bill of exchange, or
other obligation or account, he is tobe deemed to have
admitted it.
This section is iri conformity with' the practice introduceli
by the code in higher courts, where its efects have been
Digitized by GOO8 le
crvm Pnoclount. 451.
very satisfactory. It saves the trouble of proof in those ca-
ses, where the demand has been presented to the defendant,
and he sees tit not to appear and deny it. In all other eases the
demand must be proved, whether the defendant fail to appear
or not,f unless he pu's ln an answer, and in that does not deny
the allegations in the complaint.
6 1o70. The parties are entitled to one hour in which#
tb appear; after the time mentioned in the summmis
for appearance, but are not bound to remain longer thnh;
that time, unlese both parties have appeared, and the
justice, beingpresent, isaetually engdged in the trial
of another action, or-of aspeeial- proceeding. Insueh.
case, he maypostpohe the time 0f` appearanve until tha.
close of such trial.
§ 1071. Ari order to arrest the defendanf may be en-
dorsed on a summons issued' by fhe justice, and' the del
fendant may be arrested thereon, by the constable, an
the time of serving the summons, and brougbt before
the justice, and there detained until duly discharged, in.
the following cases: l
1. In an action fbr the recovery of damages, on a
cause of action not arising on contract, when the cie-
fendant is not a resident of the county, or is abouttp,
remove therefrom, or when the action is for a wilful in-
jury to person, or to property knowing it to belong to
another:
2. In an action against a person who does not reside
In the state:
Digitized by GOO8 le 4
452 'ral wot or
8. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or
property, enibezzlcd or fraudulently misapplied or con-
verted to his own use, by a public otlicer, or an ofh-
cer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker,
agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as such
orby any other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for
misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professional em-
ployrnentz
4. When the defendant has bevn guilty of a fraud in
contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation, for
which the action is brought, or in concealing or dispos-
ing of the property for the taking, detention or conver-
sion of which the action is brought:
.5. When the defendant has removed, concealed or
disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with in-
tent to defraud his creditors:
6. When an arrest is authorized by special statute,
in an action for a fine or penalty, or for a wilful viola-
tion of duty.
But no female can be arrested, except for a wilful
injury to person or to property knowing it to belong to
another.
An order to arrest a defendant is substituted for a warrant,
l in analogy to the practice in \he higher courts. The order to
arrest is properly a judicial act, to be granted only in certain
cases, and upon compliance with certain conditions, whereas a
process to commence an action is matter of right, and does
not depend on judicial discretion . The party has a right to his
summons or process to commem e the action,but not to arrest
a defendant, unless his case, when presented to an officer, is
Digitized by GOO8 le
czvu. rancznuns. 463
adjudged to one entitling him to that remedy. The process
is his own act, the order to arrest that of the court.
The cases in which an order for arrest may be made are de-
fined. They are those contained in the act to abolish impris-
onment for debt, modihed so as to conform to the provisions
of the code, and to those cases in which an arrest is allowed
in actions in the supreme court. They embrace the cases
also in which an order to attach property may be granted.
§1072. Before an order for an arrest can be made,
the party applying must prove, to the satisfaction of
the justice, by the affidavit of himself; or some other
person, the facts on which the application is founded,
and the amount of his debt or claim over all payments
and set-offs. The plaintiff must also execute and de-
liver to the justice a written undertaking, with or with-
out sureties, to the efiirct that if the defendant recover
judgment the plaintiff will pay to him all costs that
may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not ex-
ceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which
must be double the amount claimed, not exceeding
one hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed
by the plaintiff without sureties, he must annex there-
to an afiidavit, that hc is a resident and householderor
freeholder, within the county, and worth double the
sum specified in the undertaking, over all his debts and
liabilities.
That part of this section which requires the plain-
tif to give security, is new in its appiication to jus-
tices' courts. It~ is in conformity with the existing- law in
relation to arrests in the higher cuurts, in which no man can
Digitized by GOO8 le
'cu ms oonnor
be arrested by an order of a judge even, without first giving
security to pay costa and damages in case the alleged cause
of arrest should turn out to be unfounded. Since the justices'
act. as contained in the revised statutes was passed,the policy
of the law has been materially changed by abolishing impris-
onment for debt; but the law regulating proceedings in this
court has never been revised to make it conformable to the
spirit of that act. .In order to have an attachment against the
property of n defendant, stronger proofs were required than
to procure .a .warrant byxvhioh the defendant-was restrained
of his liberty, besides the securities that are required to be
givento the defendant 'for the payment of damages ln case
the plaintiff shall fail .w make out 'bis case. Abuses by the
arrest of thc defendant without good cause, are of common
occurrence, and it is deemed right to throw about the per-
sonal liberty of the party safeguards equal to those by which
the possession of property is protected.
§ 1073. The defendant, immediately upon being ar-
rested, must be taken to the ollice of the justice who
made the order, and if 'he be absent, or unable to try
the action, or if it be made to appear to him, by the
aflidavit of the defendant that he is a material witness
in the action, the constable must immedixtely take the
defendant before the next jnstice of the city or town,
who must take cognizance of the action, and proceed
thereon, as if the summons had been issued, and the
ofder of arrest made by him.
4 1074. The constable, making thearrest, must im-
mediately give notice thereof to the plaintiff; and en-
dorse on the summons and subscribe a certificate, sta-
ting the time of serving the same, the time of`¢the arrest,
and of his giving notice to the plaintifil
Digitized by GOO8 le
czvu. ?HD£tDunr.. 655
§ 1075. The constable .making an .arrest, or another
constable, by direction of the justice, must keep the
defendant in custody until duly discharged by order of
,the court, but in np case, can ~uch detention exceed
twelve hours from the time of his being first brought
before the justice, unless, within thattirne, .the trial
of the action be commenced, or unless i,t.be delayedat
the .request .of »thc.defendg.nt.
§ 1076. When the cause of action arises upon a judg-
ment rendered within this state, or an order of a court
,of competent jurisdiction, to pay,a sum pf money, or
.upon any other contract, an order to attach the property
.of the defendant, may be endorsed upon,a.surnmqn.s.,ip|-
,sued by the justice, in the following cases:
1. When the defendant has deported, or is about to
depart, from the county of his residence, or where the
,action is brought, with intent to defgnud ,his creditors,
or to avoid .the .service of grocess, or when .he keep
himself' concealed therein with the like intent:
2. When the defendant has concealed, removed or
disposed of his property, or is about to doso, with in-
tent to defraud his creditors.
1077. Before an .order to attach property can» be
.made, the .plaintiff must prove to the satisfaction of the
justice, by the afiidavit of himself; or .another person
the facts on which the application is founded; he must
,also provein the same manner, .the amount, as neariu
Digitized by GOO8 le 4
456 THE cons or
may be, of his debt or claim, over all payments and set-
offs. He must also execute, and deliver to the justice,
a written undertaking approved by him, with sufficient
lureties, to the effect that he will pay to the defendant,
all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
attachment, if the plaintiff fail to recover judgment;
and that ifjudgment be recovered, the plaintiff will re~
store so much of the property, or the avails thereof, if
any, as may remain after satisfying the judgment and
the subsequent costs.
§ 1078. The order of attachment, must state the
amount shown by the aflidavit to be due, and must di-
rect that the property of the defendant liable to execu-
tion, sudicient to satisfy the same, be attached and
kept, in order to satisfy any judgment that may be re-
covered in the action.
§ 1079. The constable, to whom the summons with
'the order is delivered, musttake into his possession,
the property of the defendant liable to execution in the
action, and keep the same as directed in the order, and
make an inventory thereo£ and deliver the same to the
defendant, if he can be found in the county. If not
found, the constable must leave a cop.r of the sum-
-mons, the order and the inventory certified by him, at
.the residence of the defendant, with some person of
,suitable age and discretion, if any such person be found
there, otherwise, he must post the same on the outer
.door of such residence. If the defendant have no place
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. PROCEDURE. 457
of residence in the county, then the constable must
leave the copy with the person, in whose possession the
property is found.
By the act to abolish imprisonmer.t for debt, nn attachment
may be issued in some cases, when the defendant is neither
absent from the county nor concealed; but no provision is
made for serving the process by which the action is com-
menced personally on the defendant. In such cases it might
happen that the df-fendant's property attached is so situated
that he would get no notice of the proceedings, and have no
opportunity of defending on its rctum. This defect is reme-
died in this section.
§ 1080. The property, attached by a constable, must
not be removed by him, if an undertaking with sufii-
cient surety, be executed and delivered to him, to the
effect, that ifjudgment be rendered against the defend-
ant in the action and execution issued thereon, within
thirty days after the judgment, the property shall be
produced to satisfy the execution. If any person claim
the property attached, the same must be delivered tp
him, if at any time, after the seizure, and before a sale
on the execution, upon his executing, and delivering to
the constable, in whose custody the property may be,
an undertaking, with sufficient surety, to the effect,
that if any action be brought thereon within three
months, he will establish that he was the owner of the
property, at the time of the seizure, or pay the value
thereof to the plaintiff
§ 1081. The constable serving a summons must en-
dorse thereon a certificate of the time and manner of
Digitized by GOO8 le
ms rn: cons ,or
per-vice. Ifproperty has been attached, that must he
parted in the return, and an inventory of the property
annexed. If an undertaking have been given, it mug
be returned to the justice, with the summons, and '
mentioned in the return.
§ 1082..A plaintiff who resides out of the state, he-
fore commencing his action, must file or deposit with
the justice security approved by him, for the payment
to the defendant of any judgment that may be reco-
vered by him in the action.
§ 1083. When property is attached and delivered to
a claimant upon an undertaking as provided in section
1080, if the value of the property recovered from him
upon the undertaking, exceed the judgment recovered
in the action, on which the property was attached, with
interest thereon, the defendant in such original action
is entitled to the excess. Or if such defendant satisfy
the claim and costs, or the judgment against him, .he
shall be entitled to the benefit of the undertaking of
the claimant, and may bring an action thereon in his
own name.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. rnocenunm. 459
ARTICLE II.
PLEADINGS AND T`RlAY»
Bscrlon 1os1. When pleadings must be put lu.
1035. What pleadings allowed.
1086. May be on! or written.
1087. Contents of complaint.
was. Contents ol' answer.
mu. When a reply allowed, and its contents.
1090. Statement of ignorance equivalent to denial.
1091. An action upon note or account, syhat sugcient.
xwz. Pleadings must be verilied.
1093. Allegations not denied, tobedeemed true.
1094. Court may require pleading to be amended,
1095. Variance, when disregarded.
1096. When party may amendhis pleading.
nm. Answer to be in writing when title to lands comes In question.
1098. Surety must be given with answer.
1099. Justice to order cause transl3zrred.
lun. When title to land arises, cause to be dismissed.
llol. Other causes of action may bo tried.
1102. On return of summons, case must then be adjourned or tried.
1103. In what cases adjournment allowed.
110-1. Length of adjournment and proof required.
1105. Proceedings if party do not appear.
1106. Proceedings when jury is demanded.
11117. Order for jury, and constable's duty thereon.
nos. » Six jurors to be drawn for trlal.
1|0<1_ When others may bc summoned.
mo. Party demanding jury must deposit fees.
,1 I 1 1. Adjournment after jury summoned, not slltiwedunleu fees are paid
1112, Competency of jurors, how tried.
1113. Verdict of-jury regulated.
§ 1084. The pleadings must tdce place at the .time
the summons is returned served, or at such other time,
not exceeding five days thereafter, as the justice may
appoint for the convenience of parties, and by their
consent.
§ 1085. The pleadings in justices' courts are.
1. The complaint by the plaintifil stating the cause
of action :
2. The answer by the defendant, stating the grounds
of the defence:
Digitized by GOO8 le
460 THE cons OF
8. \Vhen the answer sets up a counter-claim, the re-
ply by the plaintiff
§ 1086. The pleadings may be oral, except when the
title to real property is brought in question, or they may
be in writing; if oral, the substance of them must be
entered by the justice in his docket; if in writing, they
must be filed in his office, and a reference to them
made in the docket. They are not required to be in any
particular form, but must be such, as to enable a per-
son of common understanding to know what is in-
tended.
§ 1087. The complaint must state in a plain and di-
rect manner, the facts constituting the cause of' action.
§ 1088. The answer may contain a denial of any of
the material facts stated in the complaint, which the
defendant believes to be untrue, and also a statement,
in a plain and direct manner, of any other facts, con-
stituting a defence, or a counter-claim upon which an
action might bc brought by the defendant against the
plaintiff in a justice's court.
§ 1089. When the answer contains a counter-claim,
the plaintiff may reply, denying any of the material
allegations relating thereto.
§ 1090. A statement in an answer or reply, that the
party has not suflicient knowledge or information in
respect to a particular allegation in the previous plead-
Digitized by GOO8 le
mm noclznunr.. 461
ing of the adverse party, to form a belief; is equivalent
to a denial.
w 1091. When the cause of action or counter-claim
arises upon an account or instrument for the payment
of money only, it is sufficient for the party to deliver
the account or instrument to the court, and to state,
that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse par-
ty, a specified sum, which he claims to recover or set
081 The court may at the time of the pleading, require
that such Writing or account be exhibited to the inspec-
tion of' the adverse party, with liberty to copy the same;
or if not so exhibited, may prohibit its being afterwards
given in evidence.
§ 1092. Every complaint, answer, or reply, must be
verified by the oath of the party pleading, or if he be
not present, by the oath of his agent or attorney, to the
effect that he believes it to be true. The verification
must be oral or in writing, in conformity with the plead-
ing verified.
§ 1093. Every material allegation in a complaint, or
relating to a counter-claim in an answer, not denied by
the pleading of the adverse party, must, on the trial be
taken to be true, except, that when a defendant, who
has not been served with a copy of the complaint with
the summons, fails to appear and answer, the plaintiff;
cannot recover, without proving his case.
§ 1094. Either parfy may object to a pleading of' his
adversary, or to any part thereof; that it is not suiiicienly
Digitized by GOO8 le
482 -nn cons of
explicit to enable hirh to understand if, or that it coli#
tains no cause of action or defence, although it be tai»
ken as true.
If the court deem the objection Well founded, it nuisf
order the pleading to b'e amended, and, if tl-e party ré-
hlsc fd arhend, the defective pleading muét be disre-
garded.
§1095. A variance between the proof on the triah
and the allegations in a pleading, must be disregarded
as immaterial, unless the court be satisfied, that tha
adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby.
§ 1096. The pleadings may be amended, atany time
before the trial, or during the fflillg or upon appeal, to
supply any deficiency or omissions in the allegations om
denial, necessary to support theaction or defence, when
by such amendment, substantial justice will be promo-
ted. If the amendment be made after the issue, and
it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court. byt
oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse
party, in consequence of such amendment, an adjourn-
ment must be granted. The court may also, in its dis-
cretion, require as a condition of an amendment, the
payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by
the court, not exceeding three dollars; but such pay-
ment cannot be required, unless an adjournment is
made necessary by the amendment; nor can an amend-
ment be allowed after a witness is sworn on the trial,
when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. noel-:nunl:. 458
§ 1097. When, by the def`endant's answer, the title
to real property is brought in question, such zmswer
niustbe in writing, subscribed by the defendant or his~
adorney.
§1098 If the defendant have been arrested, such
answer must be disregarded, unless the defendant also
ifnniediately deliver ro- the justice a' written undertak-
ing; executed by the defendant,- and one wMcien6
iwety; W if' the defendant be absent, by two sufficient-
§u&ties, approved W the' ance; fu the eEect, that*
M8 defendant Will always render hi'm'self amenable;
Within- such county, tb the' Noce$ of thé' supnmw
66-nrt, during th'c. progress of the action, and to such a8
Maybe issued to enforce the judgment, which may M
given therein; and in case of default, to pay all damn#
ges, not exceeding one hundnd dollars.
In the next section, the mode of transferring the cause to the
supreme court, is r-hanged toa simple order of transfer By the
justice. This cliange renders a change in the undertaking alsd
neeeséary, as contained in this' section.
§ 1099. Upon the def`endant"s making such an ari-
swer, or if he have been arrested, upon such answer
and undertaking, the justice must enter an order in
his docket transferring the action to the supreme court;
and the proceedings must thenceforth be conducted in
that court, in all respects as if the action nad been
first commenced therein';- and costs shall there be
given without regard to the amount recovered ; the
Digitized by GOO8 le
84 THE cons OF
costs before the justice being added as disbursements.
The plaintiff may, however, by a notice served within
twenty days thereafter, decline to prosecute his action
in the supreme court; in such case, the claim shall be
deemed abandoned, and no costs shall be recovered
against him in the supreme court.
§ 1100. The defendant is not at liberty to give evidence,
by which the question of title to real property is raised
on the trial before a justice. And when from the.plain-
tiff's own showing, on the trial, it appears that the de-
termination of the action will necessarily involve the
decision of a question of title to real property, the jus-
tice must dismiss the action, with costs, stating on his
docket the reason therefor; bnt such dissmissal sha'l
not preclude the plainiff from an action in the supreme
court for the same cause.
§ 1101. When the title to real property is set forth in
the answer as provided in section 1097, or appears on
the trial as provided in the last section, and there are
other causes of action in the complaint, not affected by
the question of title, the order to transfer or to dismiss
the action, shall not include such other causes; but as
to them, the action must be severed, and tried before
the justice in the same manner, as il' the question of
title had not been raised.
§ 1102. Upon the return day, if a jury be required, or
if the justice be actually engaged in other oH'icial busi-
Digitized by GOO8 le
mm nocmonr.. 465
ness, he may adjourn the trial without the consent of
either party, as follows:
1. Where a party, who is not n resident of the coun-
ty, is in attendance; or where the defendant is in at-
tendance under arrest; the adjournment not to exceed
twenty-four hours ; and the defendant, if under arrest,
to continue in custody:
2. In other cases, not to exceed five days, unless by
consent of parties.
If the trial be not adjourned, it must take place im- \
mediately upon the return of the summons.
§ 1103. The trial may be adjourned by consent, or up-
on application of either party, without the consent of
the other, for a period not exceeding eight days, as fol-
lows:
1. The party asking the adjournment must, if requir-
ed by his adversary, prove by his own oath or other-
wise, that he cannot, for want of material testimony,
which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial:
2. If the application be on the part of the plaintifi]
and the defendant be under arrest, an adjournment for
more than twenty-four hours, discharges the defendant
from custody, but the action may proceed notwith-
standing: and the defendant shall be subject to arrest
on the execution in the same manner as if he had not
been so discharged:
|_cxvu. oon|:.] 80
Digitized by GOO8 le
w raucous!
3. If the application be on the part of a defendant
under arrest, before it can be granted, he must execute
an undertaking, with one or more sufiicient sureties to
be approved by the justice, as follows: If the arrest be
:for a cause specifiedin the first four subdivisions of sec-
tion 1071, or in the sixth, the undertaking must be to the
effect, that he will appear at the return day, and not de-
part from the court until duly discharged, or until after
the trial and judgment,and after a reasonable opportunity
to arrest him on execution issued upon the judgment, if
any be obtained against him. Ifthe arrest be for a cause
specified in subdivision 6,ofthat section, the undertaking
must be to the effect, that no part of the property of the
defendant, liable to be taxen on execution, shall be
removed, secreted, assigned, or otherwise disposed 012
except for the necessary support, for the time, of him-
self and family, until the p1aintiH"s demand be satis-
fied, or until the expiration of ten days after the judg-
ment, if any be obtained against him in the action:
4. Either party applying for an adjournment, must
also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the
tesdmony of any witnesses of such adverse party who
are in attendance, be then taken by deposition before the
justice, which must accordingly be done; and the tes-
timony so taken may be read on the trial with the same
effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the Wit-
ness were produced.
The various provisions for adjournment in the justice's act
are embodied in this section and the two following, with some
Digitized by GOO8 le
cruz. nocmnnnt. 467
momiincation. Uhder the existing law, an adjournment upon
joining the issue, is I matter of course ; this section requires
that cause for an adjournment should be shdwn, when moved
for, by a party at any time, and imposes the further condition,
that any witness on time ailverse side may be sworn and ex-
amined and dnt his nieposition my afterwards be 'nad oh the
trial.
§ 1104. Aa adjournment may be had, either at the
time of joining the issue, or at any subsequent time w
which the cause may stand adjourned, an application
of either party, for a period longer than eight days, but
not to exceed ninety days from the time of the return
-of the summons, upon compliance with the provisions
of the last section, and upon proof; by the oath of the
party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the just e, that
such party cannot be ready for trial before the time to
which he desires an adjournment, for the want of ma-
terial evidence, describing it, that the delay has not
been made necessary by any act or negligence on his
part, since the action was commenced, and that he ex-
pects to procure the evidence at the time stated by him.
§ 1105. If the plaintiff fail to appear at the return day
-of the summons and make his complaint, the action
must be dismissed, If the defendant fail to appear at
the return day of the summons, or if either party fail,
to attend at a day to which the trial has been adjourn-
ed, or fail to make the necessary pleading or proof on
his part, the case may nevertheless proceed at the re-
quest of the adverse party; and judgment must be giv-
en in conformity with the pleadings and proofs.
Digitized by GOO8 le
468 THE con: or
§1106. A trial by jury must be demanded at the
time of joining issue; and is waived, if neither party
then demand it. When demanded, the trial of the
case must be adjourned, until a time and place fixed
for the return of the jury. If neither party desire an
adjournment, the time and place must be determined
by the justice, and must be on the same day or within
the next two days. The jury must be immediately
drawn and summoned, and the return thereof made as
prescribed in sections 317, 318, and 319.
Important changes are made in relation to a jury trial in
justices' courts :
1. The demand ol a jury trial must be made at the time
ue is joined :
2. The jury fees are increased to twenty-tive cents each,
for all who are summoned and attend, whether sworn or not,
and must be deposited with the justice at the time a jury is
demanded :
3. The jury is drawn from a jury-box, and summoned as
in the higher courts, and not left to be chosen by a constable,
as heretofore, often to the great scandal of the institution.
4. If, upon the attendance of a jury, the cause is adjourned,
the jury fees for attendance must be paid by the party moving
the adjournment, and they must again attend at the time to
which the trial is adjourned.
These provisions, it is believed,wil1 prove salutary in se-
curing goal juries, and in preveutingthe unnecessary ca1l of
juries in trifling. cases. Provision is also made for determining
the competency of a juror ; and the causes oi`challenge,which
are defined in the Code, apply to justices' courts as wellas
others.
§ 1107. At the time appointed for the trial, and on
the return of the order, if the trial be not fwher ad_
Digitized by GOO8 le
emi. mmclznuit. 38
journed, and if adjourned, then at the time To which
the trial is adjourned, the justice must proceed to draw
from the jurors summoned, the names of persons to
consiitute The jury for the trial of the issue. Six jurors
constitute a jury, but by consent of parties, a iess num-
ber may act.
§ 1108. If a suitlicient number of competent and in-
miifferent jurors do not attend, the justice must direct
others to be summoned by a constable, from the vicini-
ty, sufiicient to complete the jury.
§ 1109. The ballots containing names .of jurors not
summoned, if any, and of those summoned, but not
drawn, must bereturned by the justice to the drawn ju-
ry box, except that such of them as contain the names
of persons, not liable to serve as jurors, must be destroy-
ed. The ballots containing the names of the jurors,
who serve, must not be returned to the same box from
which they were taken, until all the names have been
drawn out. As often as that happens, the whole num-
ber must be returned to the undrawn jury box, to be
drawn as in the first instance.
§1110. Before a party can be entitled 'to a jury, he
must deposit with the justice the sum of three dollars,
for jury fees, from which the justice must refund to the
party the fees of all jurors Who do not attend, and those
not refunded must be included in the judgment as part
of the costs, in case the party calling the jury recover
judgment.
I
Digitized by (3008 le
470 THE ow: Ol'
§ 1111. No adjournment can be granted after the ne-
turn of the jury, unless the party requiring the same, in
addition to the other conditions imposed on him, depos-
in with the justice, to be immediately paid to the jurors
attending, the sum of twenty-five cents each, which
amount is in no case to be included as part of the costs
in the judgment. After the adjournment the jurors
must attend at the time and place appointed, without
further notice, and the fees deposited when the jury was
demanded, with the justice, may remain in his hands
until the jury are impanelled, and must be then paid
over to them~
§ 1112. If either pany object to the competencfof
a juror the question thereon must be tried in a summa-
ry manner by the justice, who may examine the juror
or other witnesses on oath.
§11.13€ The vendiqt qf the jury must be gsmaral. fn!
¢h,g.|>l9§,nt§Ii`, for a spwiiied mm. or Ibr H14 d8f8ndanI;
9: when there. is a cauntebqlaim proved, exceacling th;
dgmand of the plaintiff as pxovsdg fOr the- defendant fel
a speciied sum. But where there 818.84981181 Pl4inti8§
or . defendants, the verdict may be for or against. one or
more of them.
Digitized by GOO8 le
mm noouuu. m
ARTICLE III.
waanazvr ARD mltownol.
lunar HM.. Wbenntion may bo diunllnd.
ll 15. When defendant fails to appear, judgment to be given.
n 18. Whcnjury not de 'nzuded trld mnst be by justice.
1117. When judgment must be given.
ms. Party may remit exec- over jurisdiction.
1119. Nocosts allowed plaintilf in certaln cues.
nw. Offer of tlefendnnt to mow acerttih recovery, md th efects.
mn. Judgment, when defendant ie subject to -rest;
nm. Transcript of judgment Med and docketed.
lm. Execution allowed within ive years.
1124. Oontents of execution.
1125. Execution against joint debtors.
1126- Whena conetable my Qlllil ta aneal.
1127. When constable may arrest.
1128. I-:stem of lmprllonlnent
1129. When and how dncharged.
mo. Exccuzlon may be renewed.
||3|_ Execution cannot be executed after sixty days.
usa. Constablc'l litiility.
ma. Execution by county clerk on jugment docketed.
§ 1114. Judgmentthat the action be dismisdeé, with-~
out prejudice to' a new action; may be entered witli
costs, in the following cases:
I. When the plaimiff voluntarily dismisses the ac-
tion, before it is finally sulimitted :
2. Wl1en.he fails to appear at the time speci§ed inf
the summons, or upon adjournment, or within one hour
thereafter : A
3. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by
the evidence, that the action is brought in the wrong
county or town or by a plaintiff not a resident of the
county, without giving security, as provided in section
1882; but if the objectionbe taken and overruled, it id"
Digitized by GOO8 le
4:12 rnz con: or
cause only of reversal on appeal, and does not other-
wise invalidate the judgment, if not taken, at the trial,
it is waived, and is no cause of reversal.
By this section, the cases are defined where the action may
be dismissed. The plaintiH` cannot be non-suited nor can the
action be dismissed without his own consent. If he insist on
having his case decided finally in the action, it is his right to
do so. If he Ends his proof defective, or for any other cause
chooses to dismiss his own action before it is finally submit-
ted, he reserves his right of action; but if he submits it to
either court or jury, it is at his peril, and conclusive.
1115. When the defendant fails to appear and an-
swer, judgment must be given for the plaintiii] as fol-
lows:
1. Where a copy of the complaint and account, or
instrument, has been served personally with the sum-
mons, as prescribed in section 1069, judgment must be
given without further evidence for the sum specified in
the summons:
2. In other cases the justice must hear the evidence
of the plaintiff; and render judgment for such sum only
as shall appear by the evidence to be just; but in no
case to exceed the amount specified in the summons,
§ll16. Upon issue joined, if a jury trial 'be not de-
manded, 1he justice must hear the evidence, and decide
all questions of fact andof law, and render judgment
accordingly.
1 § 1117. Upon a_verdict, the justice must immediately
rgnder judgment accordingly. When the trial is by
Digitized by GOO8 le
clvm noezmu. m
the justice, judgment must be entered immediately
after the close of the trial, if the defendant has been
arrested, or his property attached: in other cases, it
must be entered either at the close of the trial, or, if
the justice then desire further time to consider, on the
fourth day thereafter, both days inclusive.
§ 1118. When the amount found due to either party
exceeds the sum, for which the justice is authorized to
enter judgment, such party may remit the excess, and
judgment may be entered for the residue.
§ 1119. In an action arising on contract, when there
is no counter-claim, if the plaintiff fail to recover
judgment for an amount equal to that stated in his
summons, he cannot recover costs.
This section is introduced to prevent plaintiffs from setting
up claims for a larger amount than is really due where a cause
of action exists. It sometimes happens that a plaintiff (wish-
ing to try a doubtful claim at the expense of his adversary,)
buys a small note, commences an action, and litigates his
other claim, in the consciousness that the costs must at all
events fall upon the defendant. This section also affords
security to a defendant who is sued for a debt which he is not
disposed to controvert. He is enabled to know, from the copy
of summons in his possession, the extent of the judgment
that can be taken against him. Instances of fraud upon a
defendant have occurred under the present system, where the
summons in all cases lays the plaintiE"s damage at fifty dollars
or under, as expressed in the printed blank forms. When
the defendant failed to appear, the plaintiff, instead of declar-
ing on the debt, which the defendant expected, has taken ad-
vantage of his absence, and produced perhaps some purchased
note, barred by the statute of limita tions, or to which the de-
fendant had some other good defence.
Digitized by GOO8 le
m nmcnnnor'
§ 1120. If the defendant, at any timebefare the trini,
offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against
him for a specified sum, the plaintiff may irnmediatdy
have judgment therefor, with the costs then accrued.
But if he do not accept such offer before the trial, and
fail to recover in the action a sum equal to the o&`er,
he cannot recover costs accrued after the offer: but
costs must be adjudged against him, and if he recover,
deducted from his recovery. But the offer, and failure
to accept it, cannot be given in evidence, to affect the
recovery, otherwise than as to costs, as above provided.
This section introduces a practice analogous to that under
the Code in the supreme court, and is calculated to prevent
unreasonable claims being set up, and to induce fair oiers and
liberal compromises. Of its usefd efeeuthe Commilimd!
entertain no doubt.
§ 1121. When a judgment is rendered, in a case
where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprison-
ment thereon, it must be so stated in the judgment, and
entered in his docket.
§ 1122. The justice, on the demand of a party in
whose favor judgment is rendered, must give him a
transcript thereof; which may be filed and docketed in
the office of the clerk of the county where the judgment
was rendered. The time of the receipt of the trans-
cript by the county clerk, must be noted by him there-
on, and entered in the docket; and from that time, the
judgment creates a lien in the same manner, as a judg-
Digitized by GOO8 le
czvu Pawmwu. m
ment of the supreme court. Upon a transcript of such
docket, certified by the clerk of the county, and filed in
any other county, the judgment may be there docketed
with the same effect, from the time of filing and dock-
sting in that county. The judgment so docketed, and
the enforcement thereof; are subject to the control d
the county court of the county where it was first dock-
eted, as a judgment of that court. But a judgment for
less than twenty-five dollars, so docketed, is not a lien
upon, and cannot be enforced against real property.
§ 1128. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment
in a justice's court, except when it has been docketed
in the county clerk's office, may be issued by the justice
before whom the judgment was rendered, or by his suc-
cessor in ofiice, on the application of the party entitled
thereto, at any time within five years from the entry of
judgment. '
Theexisiing law changed so as to allow execution to be
issued immediately after judgment, according to the pmotiee
in the higher courts. When a debt is justly due and has been
no adjudged by a court, it seems a perversion of right still to
extend the time for its collection. The delay is less neccssaf
ry since the exemption of property has been extended.
§ 1124. The executian must be directed to a eonsta
ble ofthe county, and subscribed by the justice by whom
the judgment was rendered, or by his successor in ofl
fice, and must bear date the day of its delivery to the
Digitized by GOO8 le
471 'rn con: Ol
oflicer to be executed. It must intelligibly refer to the
judgment, by stating the names of the parties, and the
name of the justice before whom, and of the county
and town where, and the time when, it was rendered;
the amount of the judgment; and, if less than the
whole is due, the true amount due thereon. It must
require the constable substantially as follows:
I. If it be a case where the defendant cannot be ar-
restsd, it must direct the ofiicer to collect the amount
of the judgment out of the personal property of the
debtor, and to paygthe same to the party entitled
thereto:
2. If it be a case where the defendant may be ar-
rested, in addition to the foregoing, it must direct the
otlicer, if sufficient property of the defendant liable to
the execution cannot be found to satisfy the judgment,
that he arrest the debtor, and commit him to the jail
of the county, until he pay the judgment, or be dis-
charged according to law:
3. It must further, in all cases, direct the ofiicer to
make return of the execution, and a certificate thereon,
showing the manner in which he has executed the
same, in sixty days from the time of his receipt thereo£
§ 1125. Upon an execution on a judgment against
joint debtors, upon one or more of whom the summons
was not served, the execution must contain a direction
to collect the amount out of the joint property of all tlze
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. mocxnvnn. 477
defendants, or the separate property of the persons up-
on whom the summons was served, to be specified by
name. If such judgment be also such that the dg;
fendants are subject to arrest thereon, the justice must
further specify the names of' those defendants, served
with the summons, who may be arrested for Want of
property.
§ 1126. A constable may, at his peril, omit to arrest
a debtor; or after arrest, suffer him to go at large be-
fore the return day ; subject only to his liability for an
escape, or for omitting to arrest, if he fail to have either
the money or the person of the debtor in custody at the
expiration of the sixty days.
§ 1127. When an execution directs the arrest of the
debtor for want of sutlicient personal chattels, if there
be not sufficient subject to levy known to the officer, or
if upon demand by the officer of the debtor, he fail to
produce sufiicient property, the otlicer may without fur-
ther delay arrest the defendant. When arrested, the
defendant must be conveyed to the common jail of the
county, and there be kept in custody until the execu-
tion with costs be paid, or he be discharged by due
course of law.
/
§ 1128. The debtor committed as provided in the last
section, may be held in prison ten days: and if he be
a person without a family, for which he provides, one
day in addition, for every dollar over ten due on the
Digitized by GOO8 le .4
m 'HIE consul'
execution; or, if he have a family for which he pro-
vides, one day in addition, fbr every two dollars over
twenty due on the execution.
§1129. The aflidavit of an imprisoned debtor, that
he has a family for which he provides, specifying by
name one or more persons, members of such family,
and the place of their residence, is sufficient evidence
thereof; to authorise his discharge by the jailor.
The last four sections contain some new provisions, calcu-
lated to soften the harshness of judicial arrests,when allowed,
and yet to secure all the benefits to be expected from them.
§ l 130. An execution may, at the request of the plain-
tiff] be renewed before the expiration of sixty days from
the time of its issue, by the word " renewed" written
thereon, with the date thereof; and subscribed by the
justice. Such renewal has the effect of an original
issue ; and may be repeated as often as may be neces-
sary. If an execution be returned unsatisfied, another
may be afterwards issued.
§ 1131. A debtor cannot be arrested, nor his property
sold on execution, after sixty days from its issue or re-
newel; but property levied on within the sixty days,
may be sold after a renewal.
§1132. A constable is liable to the party in whose
favor an execution is issued to him, for the amount
thereof; in the following cases:
Digitized by GOO8 le
czvu. noclnun. 479
1. When he suffers sixty days to elapse, without
making a true return thereof to the justice, and paying
to him or to the party entitled, the money collected
thereon by him:
2. When he wilfully or carelessly omits to levy upon
property; or if the debtor be liable 'to arrest, to arrest
and imprison him, within sixty days; or having arrest-
ed the debtor, fails to commit him to the county jail,
within the sixty days.
§ 1133. Upon a justice's judgment docketed in a
county clerk's office, execution can only be issued by
thc clerk with whom the transcript is filed, or by the
plaintiff in person: and it may be sent to one or more
counties where the judgment is docketed. It must
conform substantially to the execution issued by a jus-
tice, except that it must state the time when the judg-
ment was docketed in the county from which it is is-
sued, and must be directed to the sheriff; and may di-
rect, that for want of suflicient personal property, the
debt be made out of the real propeny of the debtor.
Until the adoption of the code in 1848, the county clerk
alone could issue executions in these cases. The practice
since then of issuing them by the pany doe~ not seem well
adapted to this class of judgments, when the parties generally
act in person, and are not conversant with the forms of pro
cess.
Digitized by GOO8 le
\ 480 nn ooo: or
ARTICLE IV.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sxcnon 1134. Proceeding in justices' courts in cases not provided for il this u-
ticle.
1135. Justices' docket, contents.
1136. Entries when to be evidence.
1137. Index to docket required.
1138. Dockets to be delivered to succeuor in oice.
1139. Successor In odlce may issue execution.
1140. Who deemed the successor.
1141. When two ue equally entitled, supervisor to designate une.
1142. Blank process not allowed.
1143 Every justice to have e weekly return day.
1144. Not to be the same day with mother justice of same town.
1145. Anotherjustlce may be substituted in cue ot' inability or absence.
1146. Justice may depute a person to nerve procees.
1147. Authority ot' special deputy.
1148. Constahle's sureties may require new sureties.
1149. Constable may complete execution after expiration of odloe.
1150. Justice may punish for contempt.
1151. Warrant of arrest for that purpose.
1152. Conviction and commitment.
1153. Juror or witness failing to attend may be arrested.
1154. Proceedings against delinquent juror or witness.
1155. Terms used in this chapter defined.
1156. Justice's fees.
1151. Constable's fees.
1158. Witnesses' fees.
1159. Jurors' fees.
neo. Fees on execution from county clerk's otllce.
1161. Odlcers receiving too much liable to action.
§ 1184. Justices' courts being couns of peculiar and
limited jurisdiction, only those provisions of this code,
which are in their nature applicable to the organization,
powers and course of proceeding in justices' courts,
Digitized by GOO8 le
crvm nocmun. 481
and in respect to which no special provision is made
in this chapter, are applicable to justices' courts and
the proceedings therein.
With a view to promote as far as practicable, a uniform
course of proceeding in all courts, it has been deemed best to
make the provisions of the code generally applicable to jus-
tices' courts as far as the nature of the case and their peculiar
jurisdiction and organizations admit. This chapter contains
all that is peculiar to the court, and a few rules that are com-
mon to all ; but these for the most part are contained in ,
other parts of the code.
§ 1136. Every justice must keep a book, denominat-
ed a docket, in which must be entered by him,
1. The title of every action in which the summons
is returned served, or when the parties voluntarily ap-
pear:
2. The date of the summons, and the time of its re-
turn ; and if an order to arrest the defendant or attach
property was made, such fact must also be stated:
3. The time when the parties, or either of them, ap-
peared; a minuteof the pleadings ; if in writing, re-
ferring to them; if not in writing, a concise statement
of the material parts of the pleadings:
4. Every adjournment; stating on whose application,
whether on oath, evidence, or consent, and to what time:
5. When a trial by jury is demanded, the demand
must be stated, and by whom made, the names of the
[c1vu. oonn] 31
Digitized by GOO8 le
482 ras cons or
jury drawn, and the time appointed for the trial and re-
turn of the jury:
6. The names of the jury who appear, and of those
sworn; the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose
request; the objection, if any, made to testimony, and
the decision thereon:
7. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the
jury disagree, and are discharged, that fact must be
stated:
8. The judgment of the court; specifying the items
of costs included,'and the time when rendered:
9. The issuing of execution ; when issued, and to
whom; the renewals thereof; if any, and when made;
the return, and when made; and a statement of any
money paid to the justice, and when, and by whom:
10. The giving of a transcript to be filed in the
county clerk's ofiice, and when given:
11. The receipt of a notice of appeal, or order to
make or amend a return, stating the time of the re-
ceipt, and the fees therefor.
§ 1136. The several particulars in the last sec-
tionspecified, must be entered under the title of the
action to which they relate, and at the time when they
occur. Such entries in a justice's docket, or a trans-
cript thereof; certified by the justice, or his successor
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. vnocnnuaz. 483
in oflice, are primary evidence to prove the facts so
stated therein.
' § 1137. A justice must keep an alphabetical index to
his docket, in which must be entered the names of the
parties to each judgment, with a reference to the page
of the entry. The names of the plaintiffs must be en.-
tered in the index, in the alphabetical order of the first
letter of the family names.
§ 1188. It is the duty of every justice, upon the ex-7
piration of his term of otiice, to deposit with his suc-
cessor his ofHciaI dockets, as well his own as those df
his predecessor, which may be in his custody ; there
to be kept as public records. If the oflice of a justice
become vacant, by his death, or removal from the
town or otherwise, before his successor is elected and
qualified, the dockets, in possession of such justice,
must be deposited with the supervisor of the town, to
be by him delivered to the successor in ofHce of the
justice.
§1139. Any justice, with whom the docket of his
predecessor is deposited, may issue execution on a
judgment there entered and unsatisfied, and not dock-
eted in the county clerk's office, in the same manner
and with the same effect, as the justice, by whom the
judgment was rendered, might have done.
§ 1140. The justice elected to fill a vacancy, or when
elected, chosen by lot to fill a vacancy for less than 4
6111 term, is deemed the successor of the justice whope
Digitized by GOO816
484 ms coma or
omce became vacant before the expiration of a full term.
When a full term expires, the same or anothor person
elected to take oiiice in the same town, from that time
is deemed the successor.
§ 1141. When two or more justices are equally enti-
tled, under the last section, to be deemed the succes-
sors in ofiice of a justice, the supervisor of the town
must by a certificate subscribed by him, and filed in
the office of the town clerk, with a duplicate attached
10 the last docket, designate which justice is to be
deemed the successor of a justice going out of ofhce
or whose 0mce has become vacant.
The provisions of the last five sections are new, but it is be
lieved that their propriety will be at once generally concurred
in. A justice's docket, containing the records of many hun}
dred judgments, and perhaps proof, of their satisfaction, ought
surely to be provided by law with a place of deposit, where
it may be found.
§1142. The summons, execution, and every other
paper made or issued by a justice, must be filled up
without a blank lefi to be filled by another ; otherwise
it is void.
§ 1143. Every justice now in office and every justice
hereafter elected, before entering upon the duties of his
ofiice, must, by appointment in writing, filed with the
town clerk, assign a day of the week, and a place
at which, a summons, issued by a plaintiff himself, may
be made returnable before him. It is the duty of the jus-
tice to attend at his oilice, thus designated, on the day
Digitized by GOO8 le
clvn. Pnocsnunn. 485
assigned for returns, from nine o'clock in the morning
until four o'clock in the afternoon.
§ 1144. The day so appointed must not be the same,
specified in the appointment of another justice of the
same town previously tiled. The place so designated
may be known as the justice's office and may be after-
wards changed by him, on filing a new appointment,
and posting notices thereof in three public places of'
the town.
§ 1145. In case of the sickness, other disability, or
necessary absence of a justice, at the time appointed,
another justice of the same town may, at his request,
attendin his behalf; and shall thereupon become vest-
ed with the power, for the time being, of the justice
before whom the summons was returnable. In that
case the proper entry of the proceeding before the at-
tending justice, subscribed by him, must be madoin
the docket of the justice before whom the summons
was returnable. If the case be adjourned, the justice
before whom the summons was returnable, mustre-
sume jurisdiction.
The last four sections provide for a systematic arrange-
ment of the time at which a summons may be made retuma-
ble before a justice when issued by a party. The Commis-
sioners are satisfied that it will be found convenient and bene-
ticialboth to the justices themselves, and to those who .do
business in their courts. It is not designed to prevent a jus-
tice from issuing a summons returnable before himself on an-
other day if he sees fit.
Digitized by GOO8 le _
486 'ru CODE or
§ 1146. A justice may at the request of a party, and
on being satistied that it is expedient, specially depute
any discreet person, of suitable age, and not interested
in the action, to serve a summons or execution, with
or without an order to arrest the defendant, or to attach
property. Such deputation must be in writing on the
process.
§1147. The person so deputed has the authority of a
constable in relation to the service, execution and return
of' such process, and is subject to the same obligations,
but cannot receive a fee for the service.
§ 1148. When the sureties of a constable make com-
plaint to.a county judge, that such constable has un-
lawfully converted to his own use, or misapplied,
money collected by him as constable, for which.they
have been sued, or are liable to be sued, such applica-
tioh being verified by oath that they believe it to be
true, the county judge must immediately make an or-
der, suspending~such constable from the further exer-
cise of his oflicial powers, until he give new security.
Such order must be served on the constable, and filed
in the oflice of the town clerk.
§ 1149. When an execution is delivered to a consta-
ble, within the last sixty days of his term of oflice, he
may, notwithstanding the expiration of his term, pro-
ceed thereon, in the same manner as if he still con-
tinued in otlice, and his sureties shall be liable to the
same extent.
Digitized by GOO8 le
CIVIL raocnnunn. 487
§ 1150. A justice may punish, as for a criminal con-
tempt, persons guilty of the following acts, and no
others :
1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behaviour
toward the justice while holding the court, tending to
interrupt the due course of a trial, or other judicial
proceeding:
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or vio-
lent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of
a trial or other judicial proceeding:
3. Wilful resistance in the presence of the justice;
to the execution of a lawful order or process made or
issued by him.
§1151. A warrant of arrest may be issued »by such
justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested,
and brought before the justice, on the same day, or the
next judicial day, when an opportunity to be heardin
his defence or excuse must be given. The justice may
thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of the
offence, and adjudge a punishment by fine or imprison-
ment,or both; such fine not to exced twenty dollars,
and such imprisonment, ten days.
§ 1152. The conviction, specifying particularly the
offence and the judgment thereon, must be entered by
the justice in his docket. A warrant of commitment
to the jail of the county until the ine be paid, or for
Digitized by GOO816
488 1rn: conn or
the term of the imprisonment, may then be issued'
Such warrant must contain a transcript of the entry in
the docket; and the same must be executed by any
constable to whom it may be given, and by the jailer
of the county.
§ 1153. If a person summoned as a juror or witness
fail to attend, the justice may issue o warrant to arrest
the delinquent for the purpose of compelling his attend-
ance, and punishing his disobedience.
§ 1154. When the person arrested is brought before
the justice, or when a person in attendance refuses to
serve as a juror or to testify as a witness, and no valid
excuse be shown, the justice may impose a fine upon
him, not exceeding five dollars. An entry of such fine,
stating the reason thereof; must be made by the jusdce
in his docket, and thereupon shall have the effect of' a
judgment, in favor of the overseers of the poor of the
town against the delinquent, and may be enforced as
well against his person as his property.
§ 1155. The term "justice," as used in this chapter,
includes justice of the peace and justices of justices'
courts in cities; the term "town," includes ward or
district, in reference to justices' courts in cities ; and
whenever other sections of the code are made applicable
to justices' courts,the term "judge" and "court" there-
\
Digitized by GOO8 le
crvn. Pnocmtmr.. 489
in, are to be deemed to include justice and justices'
courts; and the term "shertifll" to include consta-
ble.
§ 1156. For services rendered pursuant to the provi-
sions of this chapter, fees may be charged, and included
in the jugment, as follows:
For Justice's Fees.
l. For all proceedings when the defendant does not
answer, including judgment, transcript and execution,
one dollar:
2. For all proceedings to, and including the issue, if
an order to arrest a defendant, or to attach property, be
made, one dollar; if there be no order to arrest, or to
attach property, fifty cents:
3. For all proceedings after issue, to and including
trial by jury, if there be one, one dollar and fifty cents.
If there be no jury, one dollar:
4. For judgment upon the issue and any proceedings
afterwards, including transcript, executions, returns,
and all other proceedings and entries, fifty cents:
5. Postage actually paid, on sending or receiving a
a commission to take testimony.
§ 1157. Constables are entitled to receive, from the
pany in whose favor the services are rendered, the fol-
lowing fees ; of which those rendered before judgment
Digitized by GOO8 le
490 THE con: Ol
may be included therein, when it is in favor M the
party liable therefor:
1. For serving a summons or execution, and making
return, including a copy, when there is no arrest or
attachment of property, for each defendant served,
twenty cents:
2. When the defendant is arrested; for serving the
summons, making the arrest, and giving notice to the
plaintiff, including copies and return, forty cents for one
defendant, and twenty cents for each defendant, more
than one, arrested:
3. When property is attached; for serving summons,
attaching property, including copies, inventories and
return, fifty cents for one defendant, and ten cents for
each defendant more than one :
4. For travel; going to serve a summons, or give no-
tice to the plaintiff, or to arrest a debtor on execution,
or to summon a jury, six cents for each mile more than
one; to be computed for one person only, from the jus-
tice's ofhce to the place where the service is made; but
when there is more than one defendant included in the
same summons or execution, and in the case ofsum-
moning a jury, the constable must certify irrliis return
the number of miles actually and necessarily travelled
to make the service on all the persons served, and his
fees shall he accordingly; when a debtor is arrested on
execution and committed to jail,ten cents for each
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. rnocunuxz. 491
mile, frqm the place where the arrest is made, to the
jail:
5. For collecting money on execution, and paying it
over where property is not sold: four cents for every
dollar collected to fifty dollars, and two cents for every
dollar above fifty. For advertising property, twenty-
five cents; for selling property, fifty cents:
6. When an execution is settled by the parties while
in the constable's hands, he is entitled to receive from
the party in whose favor it was issued, his fees for trav-
el, and service actually performed, and one half the
fees he would have been entitled to for collecting and
paying over.
§1158. A witness is entitled to receive from the
party in whose behalf he attends, to be included in a
judgment in favor of the party liable therefor, as fol-
lows:
If a resident of the city, village or town where the
trial is had, twelve and a half cents; in other cases,
twenty-Iive cents; also, four cents .for each mile's ac-
tual travel, going from his residence to the place of
trial and returning.
§1159. Jurors are entitled to receive fees from the
party who demands a jury trial, to be included in a
judgment in his favor, twenty-five cents for attending,
whether sworn or not, and the same fee for another at-
tendance pursuant to adjournment, from the party ap-
plying therefor.
Digitized by GOO8 le
492 THE cons or
§ 1160. Upon an execution issued on a justice's judg-
ment docketed in a county clerk's oflice, the same fees
are allowed as on executions issued by a justice ; ex-
cept that when real property is sold, the printefs fees
for advertising may be charged in addition, and also,
the same fees for a certificate of sale, and for a sherifl"s
deed, as are allowed in the supreme court.
§ 1161. If a justice, constable, witness or juror re-
ceive greater fees than are allowed by law, the excess
may be recovered back, even though they may not be
included in the judgment. `
The changes made in the fees are considerable, and are ad-
justed like those in the higher courts by the result attaind,
and the state of the action rather than by the number of steps
taken to arrive at any particular stage. The items are
few in number, but respectable in the amount of compensa-
tion for the average services required. Whether they.are
too large or too small, the legislature can determine quite as
well or better than the Commissioners. But recollecting a
resolution of the assembly in 1848, in relation to filling the
blanks in sections regulating costs in the higher courts, the
Commissioners have deemed it their duty to specify sums
here, leaving it to the legislature to adopt or change them
as it may seem fit.
Digitized by GOO8 le L
cxvxr. Pnocanun. 493
'.
TITLE XII-
OF APPEALS m CIVIL ACTIONS.
CHAPTER I. Appeal: in general.
II. Appeals to the court of nppecls.
m. Appeals to the supreme court from an inferior court.
IV. Appeals in the supreme court, and the superlor court, and the eomt
of common pleas of the city of New-York, from a single judge to
the general term.
v. Appeal to the court of common pleas of the city of New-York, or to
s county court, from an inferior court.
CHAPTER I.
APPEALS IN GENERAL.
)
Bxcnou na. Judgments and orders reviewed u prescribed in this title.
usa. Orders made out of court, how reviewed.
1154. Any party aggrieved may appeal.
1165. Parties how designated on appeal.
1166. Appeals made by serving and Ming notice with clark.
1157. Clerk to transmit papers to appellate court.
1168. Intermediate orders afscting thejudgment, reviewed on appeal.
1169. What judgment may be given on appeal.
1170. Certain appeals to be within one year.
1171. Other appeals within sixty days.
1112. Appellant to furnish papers to tile court.
§ 1162. A judgment, or order, in a civil action, may
be reviewed as prescribed by this title, and not other-
wise.
.Hmended Code, § 323.
§ 1163. An order, made out of court, without notice
to the adverse party, may be vacated or modified, with-
out notice, by the judge who made it, or may be vacated
Digitized by GOO8 le
494 'rm con: OF
or modified on notice, in the manner in which other
motions are made.
.Hmended Code, § 324.
§ 1164. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases
prescribed in this title.
.dmended Code, § 825.
§ 1165. The party appealing, is known as the appel-
lant, and the adverse party as the respondent. But the
title of the action is not to be changed, in consequence
of the appeal.
Amended Code, § 826.
§ 1166. An appeal must be made by the service of a
notice in writing, on the adverse party, and on the clerk
with whom the judgment or order appealed from is en-
tered stating the appeal from the same, or some specifi-
sd part thereoti When a party gives, in goodfhith,
notice of appeal from a judgment or order, and omits,
through mistake, to do any other act necessary to per-
fect the appeal or to stay proceedings, the court may
permit an amendment on such terms as may be just.
.dmended Code, § 327.
§ 1167. Upon the appeal, allowed by the second and
third chapters of this title, being perfected, the clerk
with whom the notice of appeal is filed, must, at the
expense of the appellant, forthwith transmit to the ap-
Digitized by GOO8 le
clvn. mocnnunz. 495
pollute court a celtiiied copy of the notice of appeal and
of the judgment roll.
Amended Code, §328.
§ 1168. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court
may review any intermediate order, involving the mer-
its, and necessarily affecting the judgment.
./Imended Code, § 329.
§ 1169. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order,
the appellate court may reverse, affirm or modify the
judgment or order appealed from, in the respect men-
tioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of
the parties, and may, if necessary or proper, order a
new trial. When the judgment is reversed or modifi-
ed, the appellate court may make complete restitution
of all property and rights lost by the erroneous judg-
ment.
.Hmmded Code § 330.
§ 1170. The appeal allowed by the second and third
chapters of this title, must be taken within two years
after the judgment, if heretofore rendered, and within
one year after a judgment hereafter rendered.
Amended Code, § 381, changed so as to reduce the time for
appealing from judgments rendered hereafter. See next note.
§ 1171. The appeal allowed by the .fourth chapter of
this-title must be taken, within sixty days afier written
notice of the judgment or order shall have been given
to the party appealing.
Amended Code, §332, changed so as to extend the time
from thirty to sixty days.
Digitized by GOO8 le
496 'mn mn: or
Two years after judgment are deemed too long a time, pm-
ducing unnecessary delay in the final settlement of the rights
of parties. On the other hand,thirty days are too short a lim-
itation for appeals, requiring the same security and the same
deliberation.
§ 1172. The appellant must furnish the court with
copies of the notice of appeal, and of the order or judg-
ment roll. If he fail to do so, the appeal may be dis-
missed.
Original Code, 281.
CHAPTER II.
APPEALS TO THE COURT OF APPEALS.
Blcnon 1173. Appeal in what cues taken.
1174. Security must be given to pay damages, costa and charges.
1175- It' judgment for money, security to stay execution.
1176. If to deliver documents, they must be deposited.
1171. If to execute conveyance, it must be depolited.
1178. If to deliver property, security for, also on mortgage sale.
1179. Security given, proceedings stayed.
1180. Respondent may enforce judgment in certain cues, on giving se-
curity, notwithstanding appeal.
1181. Undertakings in one Instmmant or several.
um. Security to be approved, and to justify.
1183- Perllhable property may be sold.
§ 1173. An appeal may be taken to the court of ap-
peads, in the cases mentioned in section 28.
Amended Code, §333.
§ 1174. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose,
a Written undertaking must be executed, on the part of
the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that
the appellant will pay all damages, costs and charges,
which may be awarded against him on the appeal, not
exceeding two hundred and My dollars or that sum
Digitized by GOO8 le
eavu. rnocnnuu. 497
must be deposited with the clerk, with whom the judg-
ment or order was entered, to abide the event of the
appeal. But such undertaking or deposit may be waiv-
ed by a written consent on the part of the respondent.
Jlmended Code, § 334.
§ 1175. 'If the appeal be from a judgment directing
the payment of money, it does not stay the execution
of the judgment, unless a written undertaking be exe-
cuted on the part of the appellant, by at least two sure-
ties, to the effect that if the judgment appealed from,
or any part thereof; be aflirmed, the appellant will pay
the amount directed to be paid by the judgment, or the
part of such amount as to which the judgment shall be
affirmed, if it be aflirmed only in part, and all damages
which shall be awarded against the appellant, upon the
appeal.
Amended Code, § 335.
§1176. If the judgment appealed from, direct the
assignment or delivery of documents, or personal pro-
perty, the execution of the judgment is not stayed by
appeal unless the things required to be assigned or de-
livered, be brought into court, or placed in the custody
of such officer or receiver as the court may appoint, or
unless an undertaking be entered into, on the part of
the appellant, by at least two sureties, and in such
amount as the court or a judge thereof; or county judge
may direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey
the order of the appellate court, upon the appeal.
Amended Code, §336.
[ann umm] 32
Digitized by GOO8 le
498 'rn oonm or
1 177. If the judgment appealed from, direct the
execution of a conveyance, or other instrument, the
execution of the judgment is not stayed by the appeal,
until the instrument is executed and deposited with the
clerk with whom the judgment is entered, to abide the
judgment of the appellate court.
.Hmmded Code, § 337.
1178. If the judgment appealed from, direct the
sale or delivery of possession of real property, the exe-
cution of the same is not stayed, unless a written un-
dertaking be executed on the part of the appellant,
with .two sureties, to the effect, that during the posses-
sion of such property by thc appellant, he will not
, commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon,
and that if the judgment be aflirmed, he will pay the
vadue of the use and occupation of the property, from
the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession
thereof; pursuant to the judgment, not exceeding a sum
to be fixed by a judge of the court by which the judg-
ment was rendered, and which must be specified in
the undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale
of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficien-
cy arising upon the sale, the undertaking must also
provide for the payment of such deficiency.
.Hmended Code, §a:s8.
.§ 1 179. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided
by sections 1 175, 1176, 1177 and 1 178, it stays au further
proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment ap-
pealed from, or upon the matter embraced therein ; but
Digitized by GOO8 le
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 499
he court below may proceed upon any other matter
included in the action, and not affected by the judg-
ment appealed from. And the court below may, in its
discretion, dispense with, or limit, the security required
by sections 1175, 1176, and 1178, when the appellant
is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person
acting in another's right; and may also in all cases
limit such security to an amount not less than fifty
thousand dollars.
.dmended Code, § 339, modified by the addition of the last
sentence.
§1180. In an action arlsing on contract, notwith-
_standing an appeal and security given for a stay of pro-
ceedings thereon, if the respondent give adequate se-
curity to make restitution, in case the judgment is re-
versed or modified, he may, upon leave obtained from
the court below, proceed to enforce the judgment.
Such security must be an undertaking, executed to
the appellant, by at least two sufficient sureties, to
the effect, that if the judgment be reversed or modi-
fied, the respondent will make such restitution as the
appellate court may direct.
The object of this section is to secure to a party, who has
obtained a judgment, the benefit of it, notwithstanding an
appeal, if he will give adequate security to make restitution,
in case the judgment is reversed. This appears to be reason-
able, inasmuch as the recovery of the judgment creates a
strong presumption, that the amount of it is due to the credi-
tor. If parties are equally willing to give security to abide
by the judgment of an appellate court, he, whose right to the
subject of the litigation has been aiiirmed by the decision of a
Digitized by GOO8 le
500 tm: cons or
competent court, has the better claim to the benelit of it, du-
ring the appeal. The adoption of the section will do much
to discourage unfounded appeals, which are now not unfre-
queutly brought for delay.
§ 1181. The undertakings prescribed by sections 1174,
1175, 1176 and 1178, may be in one instrument or sever-
.d, at the option of the appellant ; and a copy, including
the names and residence of the sureties, must be served
on the adverse party, with the notice of appeal, unless
a deposit is made as provided in section 1174 and notice
thereof given.
Amended Code, lg 340.
§ 1182. An undertaking upon an appeal is of no eil
fect, unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the
sureties, that they are each worth. double the amount
specified therein. The adverse party may, however,
except to the sufficiency of the sureties, within ten
days after notice of the appeal; and unless they or other
sureties justify before a judge of the court below, or a
county judge,as prescribed by sections 691 and 692,with-
in ten days thereafter, the appeal must be regarded asif
no such undertaking had been given. The justification
-must be upon a notice of not less than five days.
Jimended Code, § 341.
§ 1183. In the cases not provided for in sections 1175,
1176, 1177,1178 and 1179, the perfectingof an appeal, by
giving the undertaking mentioned in section 1174, stays
proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment ap-
Digitized by GOO8 le
clvn. rnocnonnn. 501
pealed from, except, that where it directs the sale ofper-
ishable property, the court below may order the proper-
fy. to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited
or invested, to abide the judgment ofthe appellate court.
.dmendcd Code, § 342.
CHAPTER III.
APPEALS 'ro THE surnmm count mon All luvmnlon count.
Sxcnol 1184. Amml1, in what cues.
1185. Security to be given u on appeal to court ofappeall.
1186. Where heard.
1187. Papers, by whom furnished.
§ 1184. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court,
fiom the judgment rendered by a county court, or by
a city court.
Amended Code, §344. The amendment restricting the
fight omitted.
§ 1185. Security must be given upon such appeal, inf
the same manner, and to the same extent, as upon an ;
appeal to the court of appeals.
#mended Code, § 345.
§1186. Appeals in the supreme court must be heard
at a general term, either in the district embracing the
county where the judgment or order appealed fi-om was
entered, or in a county adjoining that county, except
that where the judgment or order was entered in the
city and county of New-York, the appeal mustbe heard
in the nm district.
J11nmd¢d Code, § 346.
Digitized by GOO8 le
502 'rn cons or
§ 1187. Judgment upon the appeal must be entered
and docketed with the clerk in whose oliice the judg-
ment roll was Iiled. When the appeal is heard in a
county other that than where the judgment rollis filed,
the judgment upon the appeal must be certified to the
clerk with whom the roll is filed, to be there entered
and docketed.
.dmended Code, §347.
CHAPTER W.
#PPEI\.Y,S IN THE surnmn couxrr, urn m 'mn suruuon oounr AND
CUL MT 0l' ooMMoN PI-EAS 0F THE CITY OF New-Yonx, raou A sur-
cu: mmm, TO 'rar cnxmul. TERM.
Slvfxou H88. Appeals allowed from circuits md special terms to uma court in
general term; where heard md security required.
1189. Orden in certain cues may be nppealed from.
1190. Orders at chunben to bo entered before appeal.
§ 1188. In the supreme court, the superior court of
the city of New-York, and the court of common pleas
of the city of New-York, an appeal, upon either the law
or the fact, may be taken to the general term, from a
judgment entered upon the refort of the referees or the
direction of a single judge of the same court. Security
must be given upon such appeal, in the same manner
as upon an appeal to the court of appeals. In the su-
preme court, the appeal must be heard in the same
manner as if it were an appeal from an inferior court ;
but the decision at the general term upon the facts se-
parately ' ri-om the law, is final.
.Hmmded Code, § 348.
Digitized by GOO816
cxvn. xmocnnunm. 503
Under the former practice, all questions, whether of fact or
law, in equity suits, were the subjects of appeal, even to the
court of last resort. The amendment made in 1849 bythe
legislature to section 348, confined an appeal to questions of
aw only, and in e8`ect made the decision of a dngle judge
on the first trial conclusive. There is a propriety in not sub-
jecting the verdict of a jury on the facts, to the review of a
court ; to allow which would much impair the value of a jury
trial. Not so, however, with respect to the decision of a dn-
gle judge, where a due regard to the rights of parties seems to
us to require, that at least one opportunity should be adbrded
to review such a decision more especially when we consider
that in the class of cases, where the trial of facts is by the
court, it is sometimes ditlicult to separate the law and fact.
To meet this view, we propose to modify the amendment of
last year as provided in this section.
§ 1189. An appeal may in like manner, and within
the same time, be taken from an order made by a sin-
gle judge of the same court, and may be thereupon re-
viewed in the following cases:
1. When the order grants or refuses a provisional
remedy:
2. When it grants or refuses a new trial:
13. When it involves the merits of the action, or some
part thereof '
4. When the order affects a substantial right, and
involves the construction of the constitution or of a
provision of this code:
5. When the order is made, upon a summary appli-
cation in an action after judgment, and affects a sub-
.stantial right.
./imcnded Code, § 349.
Digitized by GOO816 4
504 TBI mum or
§ 1190. The last section includes an order made out
of court upon notice; but in such case, the order must
be first entered with the clerk. And for the purpose of
an appeal, any party, affected by such order, may re~
quire it to be entered with the clerk, and it must be
entered accordingly.
.dmended Code, §350.
CHAPTER V.
u>rnL 'ro 'rum oounr OF comms PLEAS OF THE CITY OF N1-:w-You,
on -ro A COUNTY oounr, non AN INFERIOB couar
Blu-xox 1191. Manner of reviewing judgments.
1192. Judgments to be reviewed by common pleas, md by county courtl-
1193. Appellant to make amdavit.
1194. Copy allldsvlt and notice of appeal to be served.
JIM. Security to stay execution. I
1196. To be approved by judge or court below.
1197. Security served stays execution.
11%. In cue of death of justice, to be tiled.
1199. Counter amdavits allowed.
lil). Appeal mny be heard on aildavits.
1 1201. Return when and how mnde, and compelled.
1202. In cue justice be out of Mm.
1833. Amended return may be required.
1204. If justice be dead, witneu to be examined.
1206. Hearing, upon return.
185. Copies of papen not required on hearing.
1207. Judgment how given.
1218. Judgment roll.
INS. Conclusive, unless mother action Il allowed.
1210. Restitution may be ordered.
1211. Coats let of in eertnin easel.
1212. What costs allowed.
§ 1191. Judgments in civil cases, rendered by justices'
couns, and by 1he marine court of the city of New-York,
Digitized by GOO8 le
clvu. rnocmunl. 505
may be reviewed, as prescribed by this chapter, and not
otherwise.
.dmended Code, § 351.
§1192 When the judgment has been rendered by
the marine court of the city of New-York, or by a jus-
tice's court in that city, the appeal must be to the court
of common pleas of the city of New-York; and when
rendered by any of the other courts mentioned in the
last section, to the county court of the county where
the judgment was rendered.
Ji/nended Code, § 352.
§ 1198. The appellant must, within tw enty days af-
ter the judgment, make, or cause to be made, an am-
davit, stating the substance of the testimony and pro-
ceedings before the court below, and the grounds upon
which the appeal is founded.
Amended Code, § 353.
§ 1194. A copy of the aflidavit must, within the same
time, be served on the respondent, if he be a resident
of the city or county, or can be found therein, person-
ally, or by leaving it at his residence with some person
of suitable age and discretion, or if he be not a resident,
on the attorney or agent, if any, who appeared for him
on the trial, and is a resident of such city or county,
with a notice, stating that the appellant appeals from
the judgment, and that the appeal will be heard by
Digitized by GOO8 le
506 um con: or
the appellate court, at a time and place therein desig-
nated, not less than six nor more than twenty days
thereafter ; which time may be in or out of term.
When the notice cannot be thus served, the service may
be made on the justice.
.Hmcnded Code, § 354.
§ 1195. If the appellant desire a stay of' execution of
the judgment, he must give security as provided in the
next section.
.Hmended Code, § 855.
§ 1196. The security must be a written undertaking,
executed by one or more sufficient 'sureties, approved
by the county judge, or by the court below, to the effect,
that ifjudgment be rendered against the appellant, and
execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or
in part, the sureties will pay the amount unsatisfied.
Amended Code, § 356.
§ 1197. The delivery of the undertaking to the court
below stays the issuing of execution; or if it have been
issued, the service of a copy of the undertaking, certi-
fied by the court below, upon the otlicer holding the
execution, stays further proceedings thereon.
Amended Code, § 357.
§ 1198. Where, by reason of the death of a justice, or
his removal from the county, or any other cause, the
undeytaking on the appeal cannot be delivered to him,
Digitized by GOO8 le
civn. nocmnuus. 507
it must be filed with the clerk of the appellate court,
and notice thereof given to the respondent, or his attor-
ney or agent, as provided in section 1194, and it shall,
thereupon, have the same effect as if delivered to the
justice.
Amended Code, § 358.
§ 1199. When the affidavit and notice of appeal have
been served, the respondent may supply or correct ma-
terial omissions or mis-statements therein by an affida-
vit on his part, a copy of which must be served on the
attorney, if any, who prosecutes the appeal, or if there
be none, on the appellant, if to be found in the coun-
ty, at least one day before the time for hearing the ap-
peal.
Amended Code, § 359.
§ 1200. The appellate court must proceed to hear the
appeal, at the time and place mentioned in the notice,
or at such other time as the court may appoint, and
may decide the same upon the aflidavits; or if they be
contradictory or defective in material points, may order
the court below to make a return of the testimony and
proceedings before it, Within ten days after the service
of the order and affidavits, or of copies thereofl
0rig€nal Code, § 310.
§ 1201. The court below must thereupon, within the
ten days, make a return to the appellate c0M of the
testimony, proceedings andjudgment, and iile the same,
with the order and affidavits, in the appellate court, and
Digitized by GOO8 le 4
508 THE cont or
may be compelled to do so by the appellate court. But
a justice is not bound to make a return, unless the fee
prescribed by the last section of this chapter be paid
on service of the order.
Original Code, § 311 . ./Ymended Code, § 360.
§ 1202. If the return be defective, the appellate court
may direct a further or amended return, as often as.
may be necessary, and may compel a compliance with
its order.
Amended Code, 8; 362.
§ 1203. When a justice of the peace, by whom a
judgment appealed from was rendered, shall have gone
out oi" office, 'or removed to another county, before a
return is made, he must, nevertheless, make a return,
in the same manner, and with the same effect, as if
he were still in office, and may in the same manner be
compelled to do so.
.Hmended Code, § 361.
§ 1204. If a justice of the peace, whose judgment is
appealed from, die, become insane, or remove from the
state, the appellate court may examine witnesses on
oath, respecting the facts of the trial or judgment, and
determine the appeal, as if the facts had been returned
by the justice.
.8 uended Ctde, § 363.
Digitized by GOO8 le
crvn. rnocmnunz.
§ 1205. If a return be made, the appeal may be
brought to a hearing at a general term of the appellate
court, upon a notice by either party, of not less than
eight days. It must be placed upon the calendar and
continue thereon without further notice, until finally
disposed of; but if neither party bring it to a hearing
before the end of the second term, the court must dis-
miss the appeal, unless it continue the same, by spe-
cial order, for cause shown.
./imended Code, § 364.
§ 1206. The appeal whether heard on the affidavits
or return, must be heard on the original papers; and
no copy thereof need be furnished for the use of the
.co1u°t.
Original Code, § 316. Jlmended Code, § 365.
§ 1207. Upon the hearing of the appeal, the appellate
court must give judgment upon the law and the facts,
according to the justice of the case, without regard to
technical errors or defects, which do not affect the mer-
its. In case of a reversal, the court may allow anoth-
er action for the same cause.
Amended C'ode,§ 366, modified at the end.
§1208. To every judgment upon an appeal there
must be annexed the afiidavits »or return on which it
Digitized by GOO8 le
510 'rut com: or
was heard, which must be filed with the clerk of the
cow, and constitute the judgment roll.
./Imended Code, § 367. \
§ 1209. When upon a reversal, another action is al-
lowed the rights of the parties stand unaffected by the
former action. If another action 'be allowed, a concise
statement of the reasons thereformust be filed with the
clerk.
The first part of this section is new ; the last is the same
as in original code, § 319.
§ 1210. If the judgment below, or any pan thereof]
be collected and be aflerwards reversed, the appellate
court must order the amount collected to be restored
with interest from the time of collection. The order
may be obtained upon proof of the facts made at or
after the hearing, upon a previous notice of six days.
.Hmended Code, §369.
§ 1211. If; upon an apiaeal, a recovery be had by one
party, and costs be awarded to the other, the appellate
court must ~et off the one against the other, and render
judgment for the balance.
.dmended Code, § 370.
§ 1212. The following fees and costs, and no other,
except fees of' oiiicers, are allowed on appeals ;
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvu. rnocnnunx.. 511
To the appellant, on reversal, if upon affidavits, ten
dollars, if upon a return fifteen dollars.
To the respondent, on aflirmance, if upon affidavits,
seven dollars, if upon a return, twelve dollars.
To a justice of the peace, for his return one dollar.
If the judgment appealed from be reversed in part,
and afiirmed as to the residue, the amount of costs ad-
lowed to either party, is such as the appellate court
may award, not exceeding ten dollars.
If the appeal be dismissed for want of prosecution,
as provided by section 1205, no costs are allowed to ei-
ther party.
.dmended Code, § 371.
Digitized by GOO8 le
512 'ms con: or
TITLE Xlll.
or THE MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS, IN CIVIL ACTIONS, AND
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Cllflll I. Proceedings against joint debtors, heirs, legatees, devisoes and ten-
ants holding under s judgment debtor.
II. Oifer of the defendsm, to compromise the whola or put of the ac-
tion.
III. Admission or inspection of writings.
IV. Motions and orders,
v. Notices, and Ming and sarvicc of papers.
YI. General provisions.
CHAPTER I.
vnoc»:nnxNcs'AaA1Ns1~ JOINT neurons, mz1as, nnvxszns, Lscnsts no
uxuxrs HOLDING UNDER A JUDGMENT DEBTOR.
Bxcnos 1213. Parties not summoned In an action on joint obligation, msy be
summoned after judgmest.
1214. Ifjudgmeut debtor die, his representatives may bo summoned.
1215.. Contents of summons.
1216. Atldsvit of mont duo required.
1217. Psrty summoned may defend by mswer.
l2l8.1Beply and trid u in other actions.
1219. Reply md mnver to be veritiod.
§ 1218. When a judgment is recovered against one
or more of several persons, jointly indebted upon an ob-
ligation, by proceeding as provided in section 632, those
who were not originally summoned to answer the com-
plaint, may be summoned to show cause why they
should not be bound by the judgment, in the same
manner as if they had been originally summoned.
./Imended Code, §3'75.
§ 1214, In case of the death of a judgment debtor
after judgment, the heirs, devisees, legatees or personad
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvm rnomnunz. 513
representatives of the judgment debtor, or the tenants
of real property, owned by him and affected by the judg-
ment, may be summoned to show cause why the /ua8.
ment should not be enforced, against the estate of the
judgment debtor in their hands respectively. The pro
ceedings thereon are subject to the provisions of the
chapter upon actions by or against executors, adminis-
trators, legatees, heirs and devisees.
Jlmmded Coda, § 876.
§ 1215. The summons provided in the last two seo-
tions, must be subscribed by the judgment creditor, his
representatives, or attorney, describe the judgment, and
require the person summoned, to show cause, within
twenty days after the service of the summons; and
must be served in the same manner as the original
summons,
.A=m¢»aa Code, gan.
§ 1216. The summons must be accompanied by an
aflidavit df the person subscribing it, that the judg-
ment has not been satisfied, to his knowledge, or in-
formation and belief; and must specify the amount due
thereon.
Amended Code, §3'78.
§ 1217. Upon such summons, the party summoned
may answer within the time specified therein, denying
the judgment, or setting up any defence which may
have arisen subsequently; and in addition thereto, if
[a|.vu. oonn] 33
Digitized by GOO8 le
514 'mt con! or
he be proceeded against according to section 12133 he-
may make the same defence which might have been
originally made to the action, except the statute of lim-
itations; if he be proceeded against according to sec-
tion 1214, he may make the same defence, which he
might have made to.an action upon the judgment..
Jlmended aaa, §.379.
5 1218. The party issuing the summons, may reply to
the answer, if a counter-claim be set up therein, and
the issue~may be tried and judgment may be given, in
the same manner as in an action, and enforced by exe~
cution, or the application of property charged, to the
payment ot the judgment, may, if necessary, be com-»
pelled by attachment.
.Hmmded Code, § 380..
/ § 1219. The answer and reply must be verified in the-
same manner, and are subject to the same rules,as the
answer and reply in an action.
Amended Code, § 381
Digitized by GOO816
crvn. PROCEDURE. 515 '
CHAPTER II.
OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT 'ro COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR A PAI1'
OF THE ACTION.
Bu:-no: 1220. Dcfcndmt may serve olfer to compromise, md the prooeodhgl
thereon.
1221. Defendant may ole: tn liquidate damages ccndltionally.
I . If plaintlR nccept or refuse, the effect thereof.
§ 1220. The defendant may, at any time before the
trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintiff; an offer to
allow judgment to be taken against him, for the sum or
property, or to the effect therein specified. If the
plaintiff accept the offer, and give notice thereof; within
ten days, he may file the summons, complaint and offer,
with on aflidavit of notice of acceptance, and the clerk
must thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the
notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be
deemed withdrawn, and can not be given in evidence,
and if the plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable judg-
ment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay the de-
fendant's costs, from the time of the offer.
Amended Code, § 385, extended so as to embrace every ac-
tion, instead of confining it to an action arising on contract.
§ 1221. In an action for the recovery of money only,
the defendant may, with his answer, serve upon the
plaintiff an offer in writing, that if he fail in his de-
fence, the amount of the recovery be assessed at a
specified sum; and if the plaintiff signify his accept-
ance thereof in writing, with or before the notice of
trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the amount must
be assessed accordingly.
.dmmdcd Code, § 386, extended.
Digitized by GOO8 le
me rs: cob: or
§1222. If the plaintiff do not accept the offer, he
must prove the amount to be recovered, as if the olfer
had not been made, and cannot be permitted to give it
in evidence. And if the amount assessed in his favor
do not exceed the sum mentioned in the oier, the de-
fendant may recover his expenses, incurred in conse-
quence of any necessary preparation or defence in re-
spect to the question of amount. Such expense must
be asceftained at the trial.
.Hmended Code, § 387.
CHAPTER III.
Anmssxou on msrscnos Qt wnlrwsrf-
Bmw! 1223. A pw! my be nequired tn admit a. mer tg be nnuinv. or nu
expense of proving it.
1294- 4 Pl!!! my demand inspeetion -6 cppy of \ paper.
§ 1228. Either pany may exhibit to the other, or to
his attorney, at any time before the trial, any document
or paper, material to the action, and request an admis-
sion in writing of its genuineness. If the adverse par-
ty or his attorney fail to give the admission within four
days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the
document or paper, be afterwards put to expense, in
order to proveits genuineness, and the same be finally
proved or admitted on the trial, such expense to be as-
certained at the trial, must be paid by the party refusing
the admission; unless it appear to the satisfaction of
the court, that there were good reasons for the refusal.
./Immdad Code, § 388.
Digitized by GOO816
erm Pibekbiru. 617
§ sm. The court heihre which an actiofr is peaaing,
dr a judge thereo£ or if the action be in the supreme
court, a county judge may order either party to QW to
the other, within a specified time, an inspection and
copy, or permission to take a copy of any book, docu-
ment or paper in his possession, or under his control,
containing evidence relating to the merits of the ac-
tion, or the defence therein. If compliance with the
ariler be refused, the court may exréluzre the book, 'docu-
:matter paper,.from being given in evicféiice, of if ww:.
sa as eviaeme sy the pany wvlving. may direct -tile
jury to presume it robe susli 'as he arlegés if tu H8 ;
ami the court my also' punish the My rerasmg.
This section is not to be construed tb prevent a pihdy
numsompellmg another to protl'u'cé hooks, paw ar
&ocum1ehfs, Whei hé is examinéa as a
#Wien&d Code, §388, modiBei!.
CHAPTER W.
HOTIONS AND onnsas. I
llc-non 1225- An order, dellned.
ms. A motion, dehned.
1221. Motions, how made.
1228. Motions to be meds in the dzdriet, or niyiining eouity.
1229. When notice is necessary, it must be served eight day | helen
hearing.
1530. In actions in supreme court, county M350 may act.
man. in die absence ef.jnd{e,1\o¢lim m|§y!ie\tr|\n¢en\i
ma. Order for payment of money enforced by execution.
12834 onueilm, wma: mv beuamaua 0nny.
1224. When answer admits pert of clnim, court may order it -tlstled.
§ 1225. Every direction of a court or judge, made or
entered in writing, and not included ina judgment, in
'|8!\0!hllliIU(1.HI\'61'd%[".
m--»»=<M=:'v-»¢;fw°=
Digitized by GOO8 le
618 nm cons or
§ 1226. An application for an order is a motion.
.Hmcndad Code, §401.
§ 1227. All motions may be made to the court at a
special term, except upon appeals. Motions may like-
wise be made to a judge out of court, as provided in
other parts of this code.
Original Code, §359, modified.
§ 1228. Motions must be made Within the district in
which the action is triable, or in a county adjoining
that in which it is triable, except that where the action
is triable in the first judicial district, the motion must
be made therein. Orders made out of court, without
notice, may be made by any judge of the court, in any
part of the state; and if the action be in the supreme
court they may also be made by a county judge of the
county where the action is triable, except to stay pro-
ceedings after a verdict. No order to stay proceedings
for a longer time than twenty days, can be granted by
a judge out of court, except upon previous notice to
the adverse party.
Original Code, §36 1.
§1229. When notice of a motion is necessary, it
must be served eight days before the time appointed
for the hearing; but the court or judge may, by an
order to show cause, prescribe a shorter time.
Amended Code, § 402.
§ 1230. In an action in the supreme cond, a county
judge, in addition to the powers conferred upon him by
Digitized by GOO8 le
uvn. rnoctnbn. My
ihis code, may exercise, within his county, the powers
~of a judge of the supreme court out of court as provided
in section 222. And in all cases where an order 'is
made by a county judge, it may bc reviewed in the
asame manner, as if it had been made by a .judge of Ihe
'supreme court.
.dmendul Code, § 403.
§ 1231~ When a notice of a motion is given, or an
order to show cause provides for a motion, before a
.judge out of' court, and at the time fixed for the motion,
he is unable to hear it, the same may be transferred, by
his order, to some other judge, before whom the motion
might originally have been made.
#mended Cade, § 404.
§ 1232. Whenever an order for the payment ofa mm
of money is made by a court pursuant to a provision- of
this code, the same may be enforced by execution, in
the same manner, as if it were a judgment, except that
the person cannot be arrested unless specially directed
in the order, nor can real property be sold 'thereon,;ex-
cept in the cases where the samcis by law a charge
upon real property.
New
§ 1283. Upon a motion, any person present in court,
whose afHdavit or deposition would be admissable
thereupon, may be orally examined
New.
Digitized by GOO8 le
uv nn ownof
§12s4. When the answer of the defendant mdmib
pd of the plaintiffs claim to be just, the court, on
motion, may order such defendant to satisfy that pan
of the claim, and may enforce the order, as it enforces
a provisional remedy.
.N°ew. To prevent defendants from keeping plaintifs out
of what is admitted to be due, while litigating as to the rd.
CHAPTER V.
mum, AND nlsma, AND sznvxcz or runs.
titer WM, 1236. llama acl other pepm, how served on hen) ez etledey.
1247, 1238. When md how lerved by mail.
. mreuaun lvnfrlnx mmm no umiée.
1240. Service of pap-e where pany resides out ef Btde.
1241. Gomhoee one pleedingi, Inc., tb be hledz
1242. Notice good, though title onitted.
1243, 1244. Tm. empzer nm td nip!! as inmmom ur rrvvuh, a mph-
pm to bring party into contempt.
§1235. Notices must be in writing; and notices and
' -papers may be served on the party or attorney,
hike manner prescz-ibeé in the next three sectiohl,
vm. me ¢ih¢¢wi¢¢=pwm¢a by fha. cada.
Jlihmded Code, § 4.8.
§1236~. The service may be personal, or by delivery
ta the pany or attorney an whom the service is required
to be made, or it may be as follows:
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his
absence from his ofiice, by leaving the paper with his
`él'éi"k therein, or with a person having charge thereof;
or when there is no 'person in the oiiice, by leaving it,
between the hours of' six in the morning ahd nine in
Digitized by GOO8 le
cxvn. nocmuan. ul
the evening, in a conspicuous place in the oEce, or if
.it be not open, so as to admit of such service, then by
leaving it at the attomey's residence, with some person
of suitable age and discretion.
2. Ifupon a party, it may be made by leaving the
paper at his residence, between the hours of' six in the
morning and nine in the evening, with some person of
suitable age and discretion.
.dmended Code, 9 409.
§ 1237. Servitze by mail may be made, where the
` person making the service, and the person on whom it
is to be made, reside in different places, between
which there is a regular commimicatlon hy mail.
./Pmtnded Code, § 410.
§ 1238. In case of service hy mail, the paper must be
deposited in the post odice; addressed to the person on
whom it is to be served, at his place of residence, and
the postage paid. And in such case, the time of ser-
vice must be increased one day fbt' every lifty miles dis-
tance between the place of the deposit and theplace
.of the address.
~Code, §§ 411 and 412, modiEed so as not fo dis-
courage service by mail.
4 t»239. A defendant appears in an acttun when he
answers, demurs, or gives the plaintiff written notice
of his appearance. After appearance, otherwise than
by answer, a defendant is entitled to notice of all subsc-
qubnt proceedings, in the same manneras if he hadn-
Digitized by GOO8 le
I
522 rn: com: or
swcred. But where a defendant has not appeared, ser-
viee of' notice or papers, in the ordinary proceedings in
an action, need not be made upon him, unless he be
imprisoned for want of baii.
Amended Oode, §4l4. The first sentence is new.
§ 1240. Where a plaintiff; or a defendant who has
appeared, resides out of 'the state, and has no attorney
in the action, the service may be made by mail, if his
residence be known, if not known, on the clerk for
him. But where a party has an attorney in the action,
the service of papers must be upon the attorney, in~
stead of the party.
./Imended Code, §415 and 417.
§ 1241. The foregoing provisions of this chapter do
not apply to the service of a summons or other process,
or of' any paper to bring.a party into contempt.
./Intended Code, § 418.
§ 1242. A notice or other paper is valid and effectual
though the title of the action in which it is made, be
omitted, or be defective either in respect to the court
or parties, if it intelligibly refer to such action or pro-
ceeding, and, in furtherance of justice, upon proper
terms, any other defect or error in any notice, or other
paper or proceeding, may be amended by the court,
and any mischance relieved within one year thereafter.
§ 12.13. The various undertakings required to be
given by this code and the afiidavits and other written
proceedings in an action, must be filed or entered in
Digitized by GOO8 le
oxvu. rnocnmmz. 523
court, or with the clerk thereof; unless the court ex-
pressly provide for a different disposition thereof] ex-
cept that the undertakings provided for by the chapter
on the claim and delivery of personal property. must
after the justification of the sureties, be delivered by
the sheriff to the parties respectively, for whose benefit
they are taken. The summons, and the several plead-
ings in an action, must be filed with the clerk within
ten days after the service thereof; respectively, or the
adverse party, on proof of the omission, is entitled,
without notice, to an order from a judge that the same
be filed within a time specified in the order, or be
deemed abandoned.
CHAPTER VI.
\ GENERAL rnovxsl ONS.
imc:-xox 1214. Papers lost or withheld, how supplied.
1245. Successive actions on same contract.
1246. Actions, when consolidated.
1247. Action, when deemed pending.
1248- Action to determine adverse claim.
1249. Jurisdiction of court over persons.
1250. Jurisdiction of court over corporations.
mol. Jurisdiction of court over causes of action.
1252. Action barred by limitation in another state, barred In this.
ms. Register of actions, to be kept by clerk.
1254. Authority conferred on several, majority may act.
1255. Time, how computed.
1256. Legal notices, how published.
1257. Counsel to speak only an hour, without leave.
1258. Persons prosecuting or defending, without probable cause, liable.
1259. All existing rights of action prosecuted aa prescribed in this code.
§ 1244. If an original pleading or paper be lost or
withheld by any person, the ceurt may authorise a copy
thereof to be filed and used instead of theoriginal.
#mended Cod¢, §422.
Digitized by GOO8 le
524 'mx con: or
§ 1245. Successive actions may be maintained upon
the same contract, or transaction, whenever after the
former action, a new cause of action arises therefrom
New.
§1246. Whenever two or more actions are pending
at one time, between the same parties, and in the same
court, upon causes of action which might have been
joined, the court may order the actions to be consoli-
dated into one.
2 R. s., asa, §a6 and 38.
§1247. An action is deemed to be pending, from flie
time of its commencement, until its final determinatibh
upon appeal, or until the time for an appeal has passed,
and the judgment has been sntisfied.
New.
§1248. An action may be brought by one person
against another, for the purpose of determining an ad-
verse claim, which the latter makes against the former,
for money or property, upon an alleged obligation; and
also against two or more persons, for the purpose of
compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the other, for
which the plaintiff is bound as surety.
New.
4244. No natural persdn is subject to the jurisdic-
tion of a eourt of this state, unless he appear in the
court, or be fouind within the state, or be a 1-esideat
thereof; or have property therein; and in the last case
Digitized by GOO8 le
clvn. Pnocnnunl. 525
only to the extent of such property at the time the ju-
risdiction attached. 1
New.
This section and the next two are intended to define the
extent of the jurisdiction which our courts may exercise.
This seems the more necessary to be done, since legal tictions
are abolished. It is a curious fact in legal history, that the
jurisdiction, as well as the practice of courts, has depended in
a considerable degree upon tictions. ln the case of Mostyn
vs. Fabrigas, Cowp. 161, it became a question, whether the
defendant was 'responsible in England for a false imprison-
ment in the island of Minorca, and Lord Mansfield,delivering
the judgment of the court, placed his reason principally upon
the venue being laid in England, that is, the plaintiff had
averred that the defendant imprisoned him at Mnwca, to wit,
at London qforesaid in the parish of St. .Mary le Bow in the
ward qfC/zeap. Upon such reasons, was the doctrine estab-
lished that trespasses abroad might be sued for in courts at
home.
The qualification, in section 1251, with respect to actions
concerning real property, is proper in itself, and conformable
to the decisions of our courts. Livingston vs. Jefferson, 1
Brockenb , 203 ~Watts vs. Kinney, 6 Hill 82.
§ 1250. No corporation is subject to the jurisdiction
of a court of this state, unless it appear in the court, or
have been created by, nr under the laws of this state,
or have an agency established therein for the transac-
tion of some portion of' its business, or have property
therein, and in the last case only to the extent of such
property at the time the jurisdiction attached.
New.
§ 1251. When the court has jurisdiction of the parties,
it may exercise it, in respect to any cause of action,
Digitized by GOO8 le
526 rm cont. or
wherever arising, except for the specific recovery of real
property, situated out of this state, or an injury thereto,
and except also as provided in section 988.
New.
§ 1252. When a cause of action has arisen in a sis-
ter state, or in a foreign country, and by the laws there-
of, an action thereon cannot there be maintained
against a person by reason of the lapse of time, an ac-
tion thereon cannot be maintained against him in this
state, except in favor of a citizen thereof; who has had
the cause of action from the time it accrued.
It is a general principle of our jurisprudence, that the law
of the place, where a contract is made, determines its vali-
dity and construction, but that the remedy is to be adminis-
tered according to the law of the place where the action is
brought. The prescription of actions, or the time within
which they may be brought, is, however, placed in the latter
category, 13 Peters,312,-6 Wend., 475. Hence,it hap-
pens, thata person who, by the lapse of time, is absolved
from prosecution in his own state, is held liable the moment
he passes it, even though the liability may be to his neighbor,
who followshim 'fora remedy which he has lost at home.
Now, as a general principle, it appears most consonant with
right, that where, by the law of the domicil of the debtor, the
debt is barred, it should be barred every where, except in fa-
vor of a domestic creditor.
Take, for example, the case of two persons living in the
same town in Georgia. They had transactions twenty years
ago, and one claimed a balance from the other, but time gra-
dually closed over the claim, without any attempt by the ore
ditor to enforce it in his own courts. At length, the debtor
takes a journey to this state, and the creditor follows him and
sues in our courts. The defendant cannot defend himself
Digitized by GOO8 le
atm nocmn: m.
upon our rule of limitations,because a person absent from the
state is excepted from its operation, and, thus, our courts are
compelled to investigate this ancient claim. It is to provide
for such a contingency, that this section is proposed.
§ 1253. The clerk must keep among the records of
the court, a register of actions. He must enter therein
the title of the action, with brief notes under it, from
time to time, of' all papers filed, and proceedings had,
therein.
.N`ew. Necessary for many purposes, and especially for
procuring hereafter full and accurate statistics of litigation.
§ 1254. When there are three referees, all must meet,
but two of them may do any act which might be done
by all; and whenever any authority is conferred on
three or more persons, it may be exercised by a major-
ity, upon the meeting of all, unless expressly otherwise
provided by this code or by some other s1atute.
Conformable to the existing law.
§ 1255. The time within which an act is to be done,
as herein provided, must be computed, by excluding
the first day and including the last. If the last day be
Sunday, it must be excluded.
.Hmcnded Code, § 407.
§ 1256. The publication of' legal notices, required by
law, or by an orcler of a judge or court, to be published
in a newspaper once in each week, for a specified
number of weeks, must be made on the first day of
each week, in which such newspaper is published; an!!
if 1jequ'red to be published oftener than once in each
Digitized by GOO8 le
528 me cons or
week, the second publication must be made on Thurs-
day of each week, or if the paper be not issued and
published on Thursday, then on any other day in the
week on which such paper is issued. Md in all cases,
where a municipal corporation is required to publish
legal notices, and may designate the papers in which
the publication is to be made, it must make such der
ignation annually, by ordinance, for one year, and atlex
such designation, all such legal notices must be pub-
lished in the papers so designated.
The time for publication of legal notices must be
computed so as to exclude the first day of publication,
and to include the day on which the act or event, of
which notice is given, is to happen, or which complete;
the full period required for publication.
./inmvded Cock, §425,modilied,
§ 1257. No counsel can be permitted to speak on the
argument of any case, more than one hour, without the
special leave of the court, granted befhre the argument
begins.
Conformable to the rule of the supreme court of the United
States, Yately adopted, substituting one hour for two.
§ 12581 A person, who, without probable cause, pro-
qeogtes an gction or makes a defence, or takes any le-
gal proceeding agqinst another, is guilty of a contempt.
4nd is also liable to an action therefor, at the quit of
the Parfy 8gg\'ie ved.
Intended to preventor punish sham actions or defences.
Digitized by GOO816
cxvu. nouuns as
~§ L259. Rights ofaction, given or secured by. 6lilf1
ing laws, may be prosecuted in the manner provided
bythis code. If a case ever arise, in which an action
for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the re»
dressorprevention of a wrong, cannot be had -under
this code, the practice heretofore in use may beadopt-
ed, so far as may benecessary - to prevent .a failwe of
justice.
./lmmded Code, §468.
TITLE XIV.
PROVISIONS nmsncrxua surrs unnmoronm oonnmuclzn.
§ 1260. The provisions of this code apply to future
proceedings in actions or suits heretofore commenced
and now pending, as follows, and not otherwise :
1. If there have been no pleading therein, to the
pleadings and all subsequent proceedings:
2. When there is an issue of law or of fact, or any
other question of fact to be tried, to the trial and all
subsequent proceedings:
3. Afier a judgment or order, to the proceedings to
enforce, vacate, modify or reverse it, including the costs
of an appeal.
§ 1261. Whenever the judges of the supreme court,
I
in any district, find, that the court, at any term or cir-
cuit, has not been or will not be able to dispose of all
the cases upon the calendar, it shall be their duty to
[cxvu. oonn] 34
Digitized by GOO8 le
an mnannor
request the governor to assign other judges, and if ne-
eessary appoint extraordinary ferms and circuits, for the
purpose of disposing of such cases. The governor must
thereupon make such assignment, and the judges as-
signed must hold the courts accordingly. This promi-
sion shall last, so long as any of the actions and suits
now pending remain undetermined.
Digitized by GOO8 le
