PART THIRD.

PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES.
Giitlz 1.

PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS IN COURTS OF COMMON LAW.

Cnar. 1. Of the parties.

“ 2. Of the mode of commencing suit.

“ 3. Of the issue, execution and return of the summons.

“ 4. Of arrest and hail.

“ 5. For the recovery of personal property in specie.
“ 6. Of real actions.
“ 7. Of defamation.
“ 8. Of pl '
“ 9. Of the t ° and its incidents.
“ 10. Of evidence.
“ 11. B1113 of exception.

‘° 12. Of the removal of the trial.
“ 13. Proceedings when suit is brought or judgment rendered for a less

amount than that of which the court has jurisdiction; and calculation of interest by the clerks.

-' 14. Appeal; from justices of the peace, and removal of causes by certiorari.

“ 15. Costs.

“ 16. Amendments.

“ 17. For the c0n'e('tinu of errors after judgment, prevention of abuse of

rocess, and for rehearings in certain cases.
"’ 13. O the revival of ju ents.
-‘ 19. Of execution and fo coming bonds.

“ 20. Garnishment on judgments.
“ 21. Of limitation of actions.

CHAPTER 1.

OF THE PARTIES.

Sac. Sec.
2129. Suits nrou ht in the name of the 2133. Unmarried woman may sue for
beneiic' owner, subject to 03- her seduction.
sets agaimtthe psyeetillnotice. 2134. Suits for seduction of a daughter
2130. Beneficiary considered the sole brought by either parent.
to the record. 2185. Either parent may sue for injury
2131. husband and wife should to a child.
be 'oined as plaintiffs and de- 2136. On desertion of the husband and
fen father, the wife may sue in his
2132. Infants sue by neat friend, and name.

defend by guardian appointed 2137. State sues in its own name, withby the court. out aliidavit or security foreosts.

Sac. - 1 Ste.
2188. State may be sued by citizens or. 2150. Suits do not abate by 

domestic corporations. of a 
8189. Solicitor of the circuit defends for 2151. Suits on ost notes. bills of extho state. change, dc, except loot hank
2140. Comptroller pays the judgment notes.

2152. Execution not to issue without

on certificate of the judge, dzc.
bond of indemnity.

2141. Claim to be presented to the court
before suit against the county. 2153. Service on one representative '3
2142. J oinder of partners by service on sudicicnt.
one, or only one may be sued. 2154. Suits on ofiieial bonds, or bonds

 

2143. Joint promises in writing con- of executors, guardians, «kc.
strued as joint and several. brought in the name of the

2144. Interpleader in courts of common injured.
law. ‘ 2155. Suits for penalties, whennomode

2145. Notice of such plea, when claim- of recovery is provided in the
ant is a non-resident. statute imposing them.

2146. Actions not abated by death of 2156. I‘lainti1i'sumg several defendant:

parties, but may be revived in liable for ccsts to those who
eighteen months. east him.

2147. Death of nominal plaintiff docs! 2157. Actions which survive to there}:not abate the action. resentative.

2148. On citation to representative judg-l 2158. Real actions. and for trespasato

 

mcnt may be rendered b dc- I lands. survive to heir or reprefault. after eighteen mont is. l sentativc.

2149. Discontinuance may be entered if i 2159. If performance of contract
defendant not Served, or alias’ vented by death, recovery d
issued. i for part performance.

§2129. Every action founded upon a promissory note,

bond, or other contract, express or implied, for the payment

t against the payee, obligcc, or creditor, previous to notice of

of money, must be prosecuted in the name of the party really
interested, whether he have the legal title or not, su ject to
any defence the payer, obligor, or debtor m.y have had

the assignment or transfer; but this clause does not apply to
bills of exchange, or instruments payable in bank or at a private banking house; in all other cases the suit must be instituted in the name of the person having the legal title.

§ 2130. In all cases where suits are brought in the name

a of the person having the legal right for the use of another,

the beneficiary must be considered as the sole party on the

record.
§ 2131. Husband and wife must be joined, either as plainbtiifs or defendants, when the wife has an interest in the sub

ject-matter of the suit, unless the suit relate to her scpamtc
estate, when she must sue or be sued alone.
§ 2132. Infants must sue by their next friend, and be
defended by a guardian, to be appointed by the court. _
§2133. An unmarried female may prosecute as plaintlil
an action for her own seduction, and may recover such damages as may be assessed in her favor.
§ 2134. A father, or in case of his death, or desertion of

,his family, the mother, may prosecute as plaintiff for the

seduction of the daughter, though the daughter be not living
with or in the service of the plaintiff at the time of the seduction or afterwards, and there be no loss of service; but the
institution of a suit by the daughter is a bar to an action by
the father or mother.

§2135. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of
his family, the mother, may maintain an action for an injury
to a minor child living in the family, and a guardian for an
injury to his ward.
§ 2136. When a husband and father has deserted his
family, the wife and mother ma prosecute or defend in his
name, any action which he might ave prosecuted or defended,
and has the same powers and rights he might have had.
§ 2137. The state of Alabama may sue in its own name,
and is entitled to all the remedies provided for the enforcement of rights between individuals, without giving bond or
security, or causing affidavit to be made, though the same
may be required if the action were between private citizens.
§2138. A citizen of this state, or domestic corporation,
may bring suit against the state of Alabama in the circuit
court of the county in which he resides, or in which such
corporation is located, which must in all respects be governed
by the same rules as suits between individuals.
§2139. The solicitor of the circuit in which the suit is
pending must attend to the suit on the part of the state, and
the governor may, if necessary, employ assistant counsel, and
the judge of the court determine the compensation.
§ 2140. If judgment be rendered against the state, it is the
duty of the comptroller, on the certificate of the clerk of the
court, together with that of the judge who tried the cause,
that the recovery was just, to issue his warrant for the
amount, but no certificate must issue until six months after
the recovery of judgment.
§ 2141. No suit can be brought against a county until the
claim or demand has been presented within the time limited
by section 775, to the court of county commissioners, and
either disallowed or reduced by such court, and refused by
the party.
§ 2142. Two or more persons associated together as partners in any business or pursuit, who transact business under
a common name, whether it comprise the names of such persons or not, may be sued by their common name, and the
summons in such case being served on one or more of the
associates, the judgment in the action binds the joint property of all the associates, in the same manner as if all had
been named defendants, had been sued upon their joint
liability, and served with process; any one of the associates
or their legal representatives may also be sued for the obligation of all.
21-13. When two or more persons are jointly bound by
ju gment, bond, covenant, or promise in writing of any des- .
cription whatsoever, the obligation or promise is in law sev- ,
-eral as well as joint, and suit may be instituted thereon against .,
the legal re resentatives of such as are dead.
§ 21-1-1. defendant against whom an action is pending;
upon an contract for the ayment of money, may at any
time be ore issue joined, ma e aflidavit in writing that a per-'

son not a party to the action, and without collusion with him,
claims the money in controversy, and deposit the money in
court, raying an order that the person so claiming the
money e substituted in his place. The court must thereupon direct notice to be given to the claimant of the money,
and the plaintiff, and may in its discretion, after such notice
has been served, make the order prayed for; and thereupon
the substituted defendant stands in the place of the original
defendant, and the latter is discharged from liability.
. § 2145. If the person claiming the money is a non-resident, the court must direct the manner of giving notice.
§ 2146. No action abates by the death or other disability
of the plaintiff or defendant, if the cause of action survive or
continue; but the same must, on motion, within eighteen
- months thereafter, be revived in the name of or against the
{legal representative of the deceased, his successor or party in
interest; or the death of such party may be suggested upon
the record, and the action proceed in the name of or against
the survivor.
§ 2147. When suit is brought for the use of another, the
death of the nominal plaintiff does not abate the suit, but it
roceeds in the name of the beneficiary; when the beneficiary
'es, it must be revived in the name of his personal representatives, Whether the nominal plaintiff be living or not.
§ 2148. When suggestion is made of the death of a party
to the suit, and motion to revive, the legal representative of
such deceased must be cited to ap ear at the next term and
i defend, and on failure to do so, r service of citation on
him, judgment ma be rendered against such legal representative, after eig teen months from the grant of letters, in
the same manner as if he had appeared
§ 2149. When any suit is instituted against two or more
persons, upon any joint, or joint and several contract, or upon
‘any joint, or joint and several cause of action, the plaintiff
: may, at his election, sue out an alias summons, or discontinue
as to those on Whom the summons is not served, and proceed
to judgment against those on whom it has been executed.
; § 2150. Suits brought by or against an unmarried woman,
do not abate by her marriage, but the marriage being sug!gested upon the record, the suit proceeds in her name acquired by the marriage, and judgment is rendered accordingly. If judgment be rendered against her, it may be satisfied out of her separate estate.
§ 2151. Suit may be brought on a bond, note, bill of exfchange, or other mercantile instrument, which has been lost,
or destroyed by accident, and if affidavit be made b the
plaintiff of such loss and destruction, and the contents ereof; and that the same has not been paid, or otherwise discharged, and accompanies the complaint, it must be received
as presumptive evi ence both of the contents, and loss or
destruction of such instrument; unless the defendant, b
plea, verified by aiiidavit, denies the execution of such bonti

note, or bill, or the indorsement, acceptance, or the contents
thereof; in which case proof of such execution, indorsement,
acceptance, or contents, must be made by the plaintiff; but
this section must not be so construed as to authorize a suit
for the recovery of a note or bill issued by an incorporated
bank to pass as money, and alleged to be lost or destroyed.
When the suit is against an executor or administrator, he
may controvert the oath of the plaintiff of the loss, destruction, or contents of the instrument sued on, by swearing to
the best of his knowledge and belief.

§ 2152. When suit .is brought under the provisions of the
preceding section, to recover upon a bill of exchange or other
instrument which by the provisions of this code is declared
sub’ect to the law merchant, and alleged to have been lost
or estroyed before the maturity thereof, no execution must
issue on the judgment, until the plaintiff execute bond payable to the defendant, with surety in twice the amount of
the recovery, with condition to pay all such damages as he
may sustain by reason of the said judgment and the payment
thereof

§ 2153. When there are two or more executors or administrators of an estate,.service of summons on one is sufficient.

§ 2154. For any breach of any official bond or undertaking of any oflicer of this state, executor, administrator, or
guardian, or of any bond or undertaking given in an official
capacity to the state of Alabama, or any ofhcer thereof, the
person aggrieved may sue in his own name, assigning the
ap ropriate breach.

2155. V’Vhen a penalty is imposed by statute, and no
mode is provided therein for the recovery thereof, any citizen of the state may sue for the same, on behalf of himself
and the county in which it is instituted.

§2156. VVhen a suit is instituted against several defendants, whether sued as partners, or otherwise, the plaintiff
may recover against one or more, but is liable for costs to
those against whom he does not obtain judgment.

§2157. All actions on contracts, express or implied, all
personal actions except for injuries to the person or reputati0D, Survive in favor of and against the personal representatives.

§ 2158. Real actions to try the title, or for the recovery of
the possession of lands, and actions for injuries to lands, survive in favor of heirs, devisees, or personal representatives,
and against heirs, devisees, tenants, or personal representatives, according to their respective rights, and the court must
direct the record and judgment to be so framed as to secure
their rights and declare their respective interests.

§2159. When a party contracts for the performance of
services by himself for a stipulated period of time, and is prevented from the performance of his contract by death before
the expiration of the time, his legal representatives may recover a rateable compensation for the service actually rendered, notwithstanding the contract is entire for the whole
period.

CHAPTER II.

OF THE MODE OF COMMENCING SUIT.

SEC. SEC.
2160. All civil actions commenced by l‘.!l64. Freeholdcrs sued in their own
summons. + counties exec t in actions re2161. Summons issued by a clerk ac-; lating to re estate, or in
companied by complaint. ’ case of leaving county to avoid
‘.2162. Form of a summons. 3 process.

2163. Branch summons when defend-;
ants reside in different coun-5
ties.

§ 2160. All civil actions in the courts of record of this
state for the recovery of real estate or any interest therein,
or for waste or trespass on land, or for the recovery of money
or personal property, or for the recover of damages, (exce t
in such cases as is otherwise provided y this code), must
commenced by the service of a summons.

§ 2161. The summons must be issued by the clerk of the
court, and be accompanied by the complaint of the plaintiff;
signed by him, or his attorney, setting forth the cause of
action.

§ 2162. The summons must be in the followin form:

The state of Alabama, To any sheriff of t e state of

County. l Alabama. You are hereby commanded to summon A. B., to appear at the next term of the
circuit court to be held for said county, at the place of holding the same, then and there to answer the com laint of C. D.

Witness my hand, this day of, . F., clerk.

. § 2163. When an joint or joint and several cause of action exists, and the dlefendants reside or may be found in different counties, a summons ma issue from the court having
jurisdiction of any one of such efendants, and be executed in
any county, which must be returned and iiled in the court
from whic the process issued, and constitute but one suit, in
the same manner as if but one summons had issued against
all the defendants: and it is the duty of the clerk, on issuing
such branch summons, to indorse thereon that it is a branch
of the original suit, and that all the summons constitute one
suit and are for one and the same cause of action.

§ 2164. No freeholder of this state, having a permanent

‘residence within it, must be sued out of the county of his

; residence, unless the suit be for the recovery of real property

- or the possession thereof; or for a trespass thereto, when the
suit must be instituted in the county where the land lieu
Any summons issuing contrary to the provisions of this seo
tion must be abated on the plea of the defendant.

CHAPTER III.

OF THE ISSUE, EXECUTION, AND RETURN OF THE

SUMMONS.

Sac. , Sac.
2165. Summons executed by leaving a: ing copy with the president,

copy of the summons and: &c.

complaint. “.2170. If officers unknown, left with
2166. Summons to be executed threef any white agent.

days before return, when re- , ‘.2171. When executed by coroner or

turned. dzc. ; special coroner.
2167. If issued less thanthree days he ; 217 2. State sued by summons to the

fore return day it is returna- , governor.

blc to the succeeding term. - 217 3. When executed in an adjoining
2168. Return day is first day of the, county. . _

term. 12174. County sued by serving on Judge
2169. Served on corporation by lcav- 1 of probate.

§ 2165. The summons must be executed by the shcrilf or
other oliicer, in any county in the state, by leaving a copy of
the summons and complaint with the defendant, which fact he
must return with the process.

§ 2166. The summons must be executed at least three
(is s before the return day thereof, and be returned to the
0 cc whence it issued, on or before the return day; but
when the summons has been executed twenty days or more
before the return day, it must be returned five days after the
execution thereof.

§ 2167. Where the summons is issued less than three da s
before the term of the court next thereafter, it must be made
returnable to the next succeeding term.

§2168. The return day of the summons is the first day
of the court to which it is returnable.

§ 2169. When the suit is against a corporation, the summons may be executed by the delivery of a cop of the summons, and complaint to the president, or other cad thereof,
secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof.

§ 2170. If afiidavit is made that the offieersnamed in the
preceding section are unknown, the summons may be served
on any white person in the employ of, or doing business for
such corporation.

§2171. In the cases provided for by Cha ter three, Title
ten, Part one, the summons must be directe to and served
by the coroner, or special coroner, as the case may be.

§2172. VVhen the state of Alabama is a defendant, the
summons must be executed by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint with the governor.

§ 2173. When a summons issues to the sheriff of the
county in which the defendant resides, he may execute it in
an adjoining county, if the defendant is there found.

§ 2174. When a county is defendant, the summons must

be executed by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint,

with the judge of the probate court.

CHAPTER IV.

OF ARREST AND BAIL.

Sac. ' Ste.
2175. Bail, when required in defend- 2185. Appeal to circuit court. Bond
ant’s own county. on appeal.
2176. Bailin qui tam or damage suits. 2186. Pro rt in schedule sold by
217 7. How required when suit is pend-  for the plaintili
ing. 2187. Proceeds rateably dividedamong
2178. Allbail is s ialbail. plaintids.
2179. Condition 0 the bail bond. 2188. Ball may arrest and surrender
2180. Payable to plaintiff and returned his principal.
with the summons. 2189. Debtor's imprisonment in the
2181. Sheriff liable for taking insufii- peniten ' discharges.
cient bail. 2190. Liability of ' on judgment
2182. Mode of obtaining discharge against ' 'pal.
from arrest. 2191. Bail pa 3 e costs on surrender2183. Notice of schedule given plain-  e debtor.
tiff, who may contest it

2184. Verdict of the ‘my discharges
or imprisons e defendant.

: § 2175. The defendant may be held to bail in the county
7 of his residence, in a civil action, but the plaintiff or l1lS
agent must make affidavit before the clerk of the court or
1 some judicial officer, of the amount of the indebtedness of
’ the defendant, and in addition thereto make one of the followin oaths in Writing:

1. ‘hat the defendant is about to abscond.

2. That he has fraudulently disposed of his estate or effects

3. That he is about fraudulent yto dispose of his estate or
effects.

4. That he has money liable to the satisfaction of his debts
which he fraudulently withholds.

Upon making the above affidavit, with either of the alternate oaths here recited, and giving security for costs, the
clerk must indorse upon the summons that the sheriff hold
the defendant to bail 1n double the amount sworn to be due.

§ 2176. When the action is qui tam or sounds in damages
merely, the clerk or jud e of the circuit court in which the

’ suit is instituted, may order the defendant to be held to ball

in such sum as may seem roper, on the affidavit of the
plaintiff or his agent of the acts, and some one of the causes
specified in the receding section.

§ 2177. Whi e the suit is pending and before final
ment, bail may be required in like manner by the plain_ 1
on his making the aflidavit prescribed in the two preceding
sections, and giving security for costs, and thereupon the
clerk must issue an alias summons, with an order 111(lOl'_53d
thereon, requiring the sheriff to hold the defendant to ball.

§ 1278. All bail is special bail.

§ 2179. The condition of the bail bond is, that should
j u gment be rendered against the defendant, he will satisfy
it or surrender his body, or the bail will do it for him.

§ 2180. The bail bond must be made payable to the laintitf and returned to the clerk with the summons by the s eriif.

§ 2181. If the sheriff neglect to take bail or take insufficient bail, he is responsible to the plaintiff as bail; but the
plaintiff must notify the sheriff, by filing exceptions at the
first term of the court, or he will be discharged.

§ 2182. When the defendant has thus been arrested, he
may obtain his discharge:

1. By makin afiidavit before some one qualified to administer an oat , that the particular fact sworn to by the
plaintiff’, to hold him to bai , is untrue, and that he has no
property within the state of Alabama to satisfy the debt or
any part thereof. Upon the delive of this ailidavit to the
arresting officer, he must immediate y discharge the defendant from custody, making return thereof, and return the amdavit with the process to the proper court.

2. By rendering a schedule of all his estate, money and
effects of every kind, real and personal, in possession and in
expectancy within the state, subject to levy and sale by execution, and of all things in action in his possession or under
his control, accompanied by an affidavit made before a justice of the ce, that the schedule rendered is true, excepting only th)<?e articles exem t from le and sale by law,
and that he has not conveye or conceale any thing for his
own use or to defraud his creditors.

§ 2183. The defendant must give the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney, at least one day’s notice of the time and place of
rendering such schedule, if resident in the county, and if the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney controvert on oath the truth
of the schedule, by swearing that he believes it to be false;
it is the duty of the justice immediately to empannel a j
of twelve men to try the issue between the parties, w'l:ii<lih
jurors are liable to challenge as in other cases.

§ 2184. If the 'ury find the schedule to be false, judgment
must be rendere against the defendant for the costs of the
proceedings, and he must be re1nanded to the custody of the
arresting oilicer; if the schedule is found to be correct, judgment must be rendered against the laintiff for cost and the
defendant be discharged from custo y.

§ 2185. Either arty may appeal to the circuit court, on
entering into bon with surety in such sum as may be approved by the justice, with condition on the part of the plaintiff that he will pay all damages which may accrue to the
defendant, and on the part of the defendant that he will appear at such court and abide its judgment.

§ 2186. When the defendant is discharged upon his schedule, the pro rty therein described vests in the sheriff, and
must be sol by him for the benefit of the plaintiff, whether
the property so rendered consists of real or personal estate,
01' any interest therein, or of things in action.

§ 2187. If the defendant is arrested in more cases than
one, the proceeds of the sale of the debtor’s effects must,

after the payment of the sheriff's and magistrate’s fees, be
divided rateably in proportion to the debts, between the several plaintiffs.
§ 2188. The bail has liberty at any time before final judg.ment against him, to arrest and surrender his principal either
to the court from which the process issued, in term time, or
to the sheriff in vacation, and such surrender is a discharge
of the bail bond.
§ 2189. If the defendant is confined in the penitentiary or
common jail, so that he cannot be delivered up by the bail,
if the bail give notice in writing to the plaintiii of the fact of
such imprisonment and that he desires to surrender his principal, it is in law a surrender and discharge of the bond; and
on notice being given by the plaintiff to the jailor or warden
of the penitentiary, the defendant must not be 
from confinement at the ex iration of his term of imprisonment, but must be delivere up to the sheriff of the court in
which the cause is pending, who must retain him in custody
until discharged by due course of law. But if not demanded
within three da s after such convict is entitled to his discharge, he must he set at liberty.

§ 2190. No proceeding can be had against the bail to sub; ject him to the payment of the judgment against his princi' al, until an execution against the body of the defendant has
en returned “ not found,” and then 'udgment ma be obtained against the bail, by motion to t e court in w 'ch the
judgment was rendered, ten days’ notice thereof in writing
being given; the motion must state concisely the grounds
upon which the recovery is sought, and judgment thereon
must be given at the first term, unless good cause is shown

for a continuance.

§ 2191. When the rincipal is surrendered after notice

L given under the prece °ng section, judgment for cost must

be rendered against the bail.

CHAPTER V.
FOR THE RECOVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN SPECII.

Sac. - Sec.

2192. In actions of detinue the plaintiff 2195. On failure to deliver property
may give bond and require alter judgment, execution '3the sheriff to seize the prop- sues on the bond
erty if bond be not given _ 2196. Bonds taken by sheriff to be re2l93. On neglectto give bond, the prop- turned in ten days. Penalty
erty is delivered to the plain- for neglect.
till" on his giving bond. 2197. Delivery of property compelled

2194. Verdict in detinuetoasscss value by attachment or distring-no.

of each item and damages for
detention. Judgment in such
suits.

§ 2192. When a suit is brought for the recovery of perIsonal chattels in specie, if the plaintiff, his agent or attorney

make afiidavit that the property sued for belongs to the plaintifi, and execute a bon in such sum and with such surety
apz_na1y;fl}e_i1p_proyled by tlllie cleliik, withh co(p(i‘iti((>1n thzélif thle
p amt a1 in t e suit, e wi pay t e e en ant suc
costs and damages as he ma sustain by the wrongful complaint, it is the duty of the e erk to indorse on the summons
that the sheriff is required to take the property mentioned in
the complaint into his ession unless the defendant give
bond payable to the laiiitsilI', witli suflicient surety, in double
the amount of the va ue of the property, with condition that
if the defendant is cast in the suit he will, within thirty days
thereafter, deliver the property to the plaintiff and pay all
plclnsts and damages which may accrue from the detention
ereofi
§ 2193. If the defendant neglect for five days to 've such
bond, the property sued for must be delivered to t e laintiff, on his giving bond, with sufficient surety, in doub e the
value of the pro erty, payable to the defendant, with condition to deliver t e property to the defendant within thirty
days after judgment, in case he fail in the suit, and to pay
damages for the detention of the property and costs of suit.
Ifthe plaintiff fail for five days to give such bond, after the
expiration of the time allowed the defendant, the property
must be returned to the defendant.
§ 2194. Upon the trial of any cause for the recovery of
property in specie, the jury must, if they find for the plaintiff, if practicable, assess the value of each article of the propertyseparately, and also assess damages for its detention; if
ey find for the defendant, they must in like manner assess
its value; and if in the possession of the plaintiff, assess the
damages for its detention. Judgment against either party
must be for the property sued for, or its alternate value,
with damaoes for the detention to the time of trial.
§ 2195. Dlf either of the parties who are unsuccessful in the
suit, fail within thirty da s after judgment to deliver the
pro rty to the sheriff, an return be made thereof by him
of t e fact, the bond in either case has the force and effect of
a judgment, and execution may issue thereon against all the
0bl1l,9,:1)lI‘S,d for the altcgmatetsjudgmcnt so rendered as aforesaid,
an e amages an cos .
§ 2196. All bonds taken under sections 2192 and 2193,
must be returned within ten days thereafter to the clerk of
tlie court in which the suit is pending, ang: on failure, the
s eriff is liable to the successful arty, to t e amount of the
value of the property, and the Llhmages for its detention as
assessed by the jury, with interestthereon from the rendition
of the judgment, to be recovered by motion to the court in
which such judgment was rendered, on three days’ notice;
or may be at any time compelled to make such return by attaehment.
§ 2197. Any party recovering specific propert , _ may
compel its restoration, when practicable, by a writ o (1lStI'll1gas, or by moving for an attachment.

CHAPTER VI.

OF REAL ACTIONS.

Ste. Size.
2198. Seal not necessary to pass legal} 2209. Statement ofdemise to yhiitil
title to lands. and ouster casual 
2199. On recovery of land with a grow- omitted, but e law applicable
ing crop possession retained to to actions of ejectment, applia.
gather crop, on giving bond for_ 2210. S td0f plainttE;_sth}:omaren sion escnptaon 0 land,
2200. Bond filed with the clerk, and‘ with charge of entry by defaulhas the force of a judgment. ant, is all that is required.
2201. Suggestion of adverse possession 2211. Defendant may demand abut:-ad
for three years, to be tried by a pf pla§nt:iH’s 
‘my. 2212. P ea 0 not ' ty, a.dtn1ts' the
2202. ll’ found to be true, the verdict same evidence as in ejectments.
must show the value of the 2213. Such plea admits possession :
lantti, the improvements, and the 2014  in wlnroalle gr
ren ‘ - . ere seve dants,
2203. If value of improvements greater. damages may be assessed sevthan the rent, possession retain- Terally. an
ed for one car. 2215. enantnot elsumng' ' ' e, liable‘
2204. On failure is) pa within the only for rent in arrear.
year, the defen t on paying 2216. Persons ha ' color of Etle,
the value of the land, becomes “ bona tide,” ' ble only forum
the owner. car's rent.
2205. Landlord made a. party on his 2217. Viardicgm for plaintihl to 
motion. or W t part
2206. Actions for use and occupation of 2218. J udgmentby default, admitstitle,
land, when sustained but possession to be proved to
2207. Damages to the time of the ver- recover costs.
dict. 2219. Two verdicts bar another suit.

2208. Rent accrued auer judgment, recovered on motion.

§ 2198. A seal is not necessary to convey the legal title

,to land, to enable the grantee to sue at law. Any instru*ment in writing, signed by the grantor or his agent, having

a written authority, is effectual to transfer the legal title to

’the grantee, if such was the intention of the grantor, to be

collected from the entire instrument.
§ 2199. In actions for the recover of land or the po$es, sion thereof, if it be made to appear t at the defendant has a

the p aintiff, they must also fin

crop lanted or growing on the premises, if the jury find for
the value of the premises
during the current year, and no writ of possession can be is‘sued until the ex iration of the year, if the defendant executes a bond in ouble the amount of the rent, payable to
the laintiif, with surety, to be approved by the clerk, with
condition to pay the rent so assessed at the expiration of the
ear.
y § 2200. The bond so taken must be filed in the clerk’s office; has the force and effect of a judgment; and if not paid
at maturity, the clerk, on the application of the plaintin;
must issue execution against all the obligors.
§ 2201. When suit is brought to recover land, or the possession thereof‘, the defendant may at an time before the
trial, suggest upon the record, that he, an those whose possession he has for three years next before the commencement
of the suit, had adverse possession thereof. In such case, if
the jury find for the plaintiff, they must also ascertain by
their verdict whether such suggestion be true or false.

§ 2202. If they find it to be false, they must return a. verdict as in ordinary cases for the damages; if they find it to be
true, they must assess the value, at the time of the trial, of
the permanent improvements made by the defendant, or
those whose estate e has, and also ascertain b their verdict
the value of the lands and tenements, and of t e use and occu ation of the land, not including the increased value thereoflhy reason of such improvements; if the value of the use
and occupation as assessed, exceed the value of the permanent improvements made, judgment must be rendered against
the defendant for the excess.

§ 2203. If the value of the improvements exceed the value
of the use and occupation, no writ of possession shall issue
for one year after the rendition of the judgment, unless the
plaintiff or his legal representative pay the defendant, or deposit with the clerk for him, the excess of the assessed value
of the improvements over the value of the use and occupation.

§ 220-}. If the plaintiff, or his legal representative, neglect
to pay such excess for the term of one ear, and the defendant, or his legal representative, within t ee months after the
expiration of the year, pays to the clerk of the court, for the
use of the plaintilf, the value of the lands and tenements as
assessed by the jury, the plaintiff is forever barred from his
writ of possession, and from maintaining any action whatever
against the defendant, his heirs, or assigns, for the recovery
of such lands and tenements, or the possession thereof.

§ 2205. When the suit is against a tenant, the landlord
must, on his motion, be made defendant,

§ 2206. A reasonable satisfaction may be recovered for
the use and occupation of land:

1. When there has been a demise by deed, or by parol,
and no specific sum agreed on as rent.

2. Where, after a demise, the tenant holds over without
any further agreement for rent.

3. “Then the tenant has been let into possession upon a
supposed sale of the lands, which from the act of the tenant
has not been consummated.

4. When the tenant remains on the land by the sufferance
of the owner. .

§ 2207. Damages in real actions, for the possession or use
anddloccupation of land, must be computed to the time of the
ver 'ct. ‘

§ 2208. The plaintiff, in a real action, may have judgment
against the defendant for the rent of the premises which accrues after judgment, and before delivery of possession, by
motion in the circuit court where the judgment was renderfad, ten days’ notice thereof in writing being given, unless the
Judgment is stayed by appeal, and bond given to supersede

the judgment; in which case the motion may be made after
the aflirmance thereof.

§ 2209. Actions to recover the possession of land may
be brought in the nature of an action of ejeetment, without
any statement of any lease or demise to the plaintiff, or ouster
by a casual or nominal ejector; and in such cases, the law
now in force in relation to the action of ejectment, except so
far as relates to the fictitious roceedings therein, or except
so far as the same is changed) by this code, si applicab e

thereto.

§ 2210. It is sufficient for the plaintiff to allege in his
complaint, that he was possessed of the premises sued for,

describing the same by its designation at the land ofiice; or

When that cannot be done, by metes and bounds, or other
appropriate designation; and that after his right awrued, the
deten ant entered thereupon and unlawfully withholds and
detains the same.

§ 2211. The defendant may, by notice in writing to the
plaintiff or his attorney, five days before the trial of the
cause, demand an abstract in writing of the title or titles on
which he will rely for a recovery, and the plaintiif must be
confined to the roof of such title or titles.

§ 2212. The efendant may plead that he is not guilty of
unlawfully withholdin g the premises claimed by the plaintitf, and upon such plea, may give the same matter in evidence as upon the plea of not guilty in the action of ej ectment.

§ 2213. Such plea is an admission by the defendant that
he is in the possession of the (premises sued for, unless he
states distinctly upon the recor the extent of his possession,
in which case it is an'admission of possession to such extent
onl .

§y221-1. Where there are more defendants than one, the
jury may assess damages arising from the detention of the
land, and injury thereto, in severalty, against each defendant
for distinct damages. ,

§2215. A tenant in possession, and asserting his ri ht
thereto under a lease or license from another, is not lia le
beyond the rent in arrear at the time of suit brought, and
that which may accrue during the continuance of his possession.

§ 2216. Persons holding possession under color of title, in
good faith, are not res onsible for damages or rent for more
than one year before tr e commencement of the suit.

§ 2217. If the verdict is for the plaintiff, it must specify
whether it is for the whole or a part only of the premises,
describing such art, and judgment aecordin ly.

§ 2218. A ju gment b default against a defendant, is an
admission of title in the pllaintiff; but to recover costs against
the defendant, the plaintiff must prove possession of the
premises, or some part thereof, at the commencement of the
suit.

§2219. Two judgments in favor of the defendant in an

action of ejectment, or in the nature of an action of ejectment
between the same parties, in which the same title is put in
issue, is a bar to any action for the recovery of the same land
or an art thereof, between the same parties or their privies,
foun e on the same title.

CHAPTER VII.

OF DEFAMATION.

 i Size.

2220. Rellectioii nu a woman's chastity 2224. Words used to be construed in
made actionable. ‘ their ordinary import.

2221. Retraetiou of charge received in! 2225. True statements as to public men
mitigation of damages. , do not subject the party to a

2222. On retraction and tender of eom- prosecution.
pensation, no costs recovered T 2226. Truth of the words, or the cirunless the verdict is larger. ! cumstanees under which spoken,

2223. Receipt of the money is a release, the, evidence under the general
except as to costs. issue.

:
I
I

§ 2220. Any words, written, spoken or printed, of any
female, married or unmarried, falsely imputing to hera Want
of chastity, are actionable, without_proof of special damages.
§ 2221. The defendant in an action of libel or slander, may
prove under the general issue, in miticration of damages that
the charge was made by mistake or Through inadvertlance,
and that he has retracted the charge an offered amends
before suit, by ublishing an apology iii a newspaper Where
the charge had een thus promulgated; or ver ly in the
presence of witnesses, where the accusation was verbal or
written, and had ofered to certify the same in writing.
§ 2222. If the defendant after or before suit brouwht, make
the recantation and amends recited in the preeediiig section,
and also tender to the plaintiff a compensation in money and
bring the same into court, the plaintiff can recover no costs,
if the jury believe and find the tender was sufficient.
§ 2223. The receipt of the money tendered, if before suit
brought, is a bar to the action; if after suit, releases the
defendant from all damages and costs, except the costs which
may have accrued before the tender and receipt of the money.
_ § 2224. Every accusation of false swearing presumptively
lllrllports a ‘charge of perjury; and every accusation importing
t e commission of a crime punishable by indictment, must
be held presumptively to mean what the language used ordiHllrily imports.
§2225. In roseeutions for publications investigating the
conduct of pu lie men, when the matter published is proper
for pugilic information, the truth of the charges may be given
In evi ence.
§2226. In all actions of slander, verbal or written, the
truth of the words spoken or written, or the circumstances

under which they were spoken or written, may be given in
evidence under the general issue, in mitigation of the damages.

CHAPTER VIII.

OF PLEADINGS.

ARTICLE 1. General rules.
“ 2. Of the complaint.
“ 8. Of the plea.
“ 4. Of the replication and subsequent pleading.
“ 5. Of demurrer.

ARTICLE I.

General rules.

Size. Size.

2227. Pleadings to be short, and not , 2231. Assignmentofbreachesonapenal
bad for want of form. t bond.

2228. On motion, pleadings struck out 2232. New actions on same contract.
for prolixity. when new causes arise.

2229. Character of complaint for defa- 2233. Profert of bond, &c., dispensed
mation. with, notice given to produce it

2280. Consideration of a sealed instru- or bill of particulars.

ment may be inquired into.

§ 2227. All leadings must be as brief as is consistent with
perspicuity, ang the presentation of the facts or matter to be
put in issue in an intelligible form; no objection can be
allowed for defect of form, if facts are so presented that a
material issue in law or fact can be taken by the adverse
party thereon. '

§ 2228. If any pleading is unnecessarily prolix, irrelevant,

for frivolous, it maybe stricken out at the cost of the partv

so pleading, on motion of the adverse party; and any pleading which conforms substantially to t e schedule of forms
attached to this art, is sufficient.

§ 2229. No coqloquium or inuendo is necessary in actions
for defamation; it is suiiicient to state in the complaint that
defendant falsely and maliciously charged the plaintiff with
perjury, larceny, or other crime, as the case may be, in substance as follows, setting it out.

§2230. The defendant may by plea impeach or inquire
into the consideration of a sealed instrument, in the same
manner as if it had not been sealed.

§ 2231. In actions upon any penal bonds or other writing
for the non-performance of any covenant or agreement contained therein, the plaintiff may assign such breaches as he
may deem proper, and verdict and judgment may be ren'dered for such of the breaches as he may prove; and if j udgment be rendered for the plaintiff on demurrer or by default,
a writ of inquiry of damages must be awarded.

§2332. Successive actions may be maintained upon the
same contract or transaction, Whenever, after the former
action, a new cause of action arises therefrom.

§2233. No profert of a sealed instrument is re uired in
pleading, but at any time previous to the trial, the efendant
may have inspection of the bond, or other instrument sued
on, upon notice to the attorney of the party; or when an
account is the foundation of the suit, a list of the items composing it.

ARTICLE H.
Of the complaint.

Sac. ' S20.

2234. Complaint to accompany the E 2235. All actions on contracts may be
summons, and be signed by united in one complaint, except
plaintiff or his counseL when breaches are to be assigned.

 

§ 2234:. The complaint, which must in all cases accompany
the summons, is in ieu of a declaration, and must be signed
by the plaintiff or his attorney.

§ 2235. All actions on contracts, express or implied, for
the payment of money, Whether under seal or not, may be
united in the same action; but a contract u on which it is‘
necessary to assign a special breach, cannot e united in the
same complaint with a contract on which no such breach is I

necessary.

 

ARTICLE III.
Of the plea.

Sac, SEC.
2236. Plea to state the facts relied on 2242. Judgments in same court set-off

as a defence; no objection to on motion.
be made to the form. 2243. Surety sued alone may set-off a
2237. “Not guilty," covers all defences debt due the principal.

in defamation, or suits for in- 2244. Set-off not allowedto commercial
jury to property or the person; paper negotiated before due.
  required in all 2245. Ten: 81‘ to be made In court

other c3geg_ 2246. When tender in court impossible
2238. Pleas in abatement (except of from bulk. dzc, readiness to

matters of record) sworn to. deliversuflicient.
2239. Character of the plea determined 2247. Indorsementto be made on pleadby the subject-matter. mgs of the date of  them,
2240. Liquidated or unliquidated de- due.

mmds allowed a5get,.o(f,un1ess 2248. Plea of “since the last continusounding merely in damages. ance,” does not waive former
2241. Judgment for defendant for ex- pleas to the merits.

cess of set-off and costs.

§2236. The plea must consist of a succinct statement of 2
the facts relied on, in bar or abatement of the suit, and no I

objection can be taken thereto, if the facts are so stated that
a material issue can be taken thereon.

§ 2237. In all actions of defamation for injuriesto the person, or to real or ersonal property, the plea of “not guilty”
puts in issue all t e material allegations of the complaint; in
all other cases the defendant must briefly plead specially the

matter of defence, and may, by leave of the court, plead
more pleas than one.

§ 2238. All pleas in abatement, (unless it be of matter of

record,) pleas which deny the execution by the defendant,
his agent, attorney or partner, of any instrument in writing
the foundation of the suit, or the assignment of the same, or
which sets forth any instrument in writing, whether under
seal or not, which is alleged to be lost or destroyed, and pleas
since the last continuance, must be verified by affidavit
’ § 2239. The fact whether a plea is in bar or abatement, is
ascertained by the subject matter and pra er of the plea.

§ 2240. Mutual debts, liquidated or un iquidated demands
not sounding in damages merely, subsisting between the parties at the time of suit brought, may be set-off, one against
4-the other, by the defendant or his personal representative,
whether the legal title be in the defendant or not; and such
set-off, if found for the defendant, extin shes either in
whole or in part, as the case may be, the p%:1:lI1tJ.lf’S demand.

§ 2241. If the debt or demand so offered to be set-oil‘,

exceed the amount of the plaintiif’s demand, the amount of

[ such excess being found by the jury, judgment must be rendered against the plaintiff for costs, and in favor of the defendant for such excess.

§ 2242. Judgments in the same court may be set-off against
~ each other, by the court on motion.
§ 2243. A comaker or surety when sued alone, may with
the consent of his comaker or principal, avail himself‘, by way
of off-set, of a debt or liquidated demand, due from the plain' tiff at the commencement of the suit, to such comaker or
lrprincipal. ’
§ 2244. The foregoin provisions relating to sets-oil", do
-not apply to bills of exc ange or notes payable in hank, or
at a private banking house, which have been in good faith
, negotiated before maturity.
§ 2245. A plea of tender of money, or of a thing in action,
’must be accompanied b a delivery of the money, or such
thing in action, to the clerk of the court.
§ 2246. If the tender be of ponderous articles, or other
personal roperty, the plea must aver a readiness to deliver
them to t e plaintiff, and judgment for the defendant upon
3 the plea, vests the title to the thing tendered in the plaintiff,
subject to any claim the defendant may have for his trouble
: in keeping it.
§ 2247. All pleas must be indorsed by the clerk when
1 filed, with the true date, and for want of such indorsement

may be rejected by the court on motion, unless sufiicient
cause be shown.'}

§ 2248. A plea since the last continuance, is not a waiver
of other pleas to the merits previously pleaded.

ARTICLE IV.

Of the replication and subsequent pleadings.

Site. See.
2249. General replication is joinder ol 2251. More than one re lication may
issue. be allowed by the court.
2250. Special replication. 2252. Rules of this article apply to all
subsequent pleadings.

§ 2249. The general replication is, the plaintiff joins issue
on said plea.

§ 2250. A special replication, like the plea, is a brief statement, in plain mtelligible language, of the facts relied on as

an answer to the plea.
§ 2251. By leave of the court, for causes shown, the defendant ma file more than one re lication.
§ 2252. he rules of this artic e in relation to pleas and

replications, apply to all subsequent pleadings.

ARTICLE V.

Q/‘ (lenmrrers.

Ste. | Sac.

2253. Special demurrers abolished; de- ; 2255. Plea over, after judgment does
murrer must set out specili- ' not waive errors.
call the grounds relied on. ‘2256. Court imposes terms, for frivol2254. Amen ments allowed, after jud.g- 7 ous demurrer.
ment on demurrer. «

§ 2253. No demurrer in pleading can be allowed, but to
matter of substance which the arty demurring specifies; and
no objection can be taken or a lowed which is not distinctly
stated in the demurrer.

§ 2254. Either before or after judgment on demurrer, the
court must permit an amendment of the pleadings; and such
amendment must cause no dela in the trial of the cause,
unless injustice will thereby be clone.

§ 2255. The party against whom a judgment on demurrer is rendered, may plead over as a matter of right, without
waiving his privilege of assigning the judgment on demurrer, as error in an appellate court, unless he has subsequently
had the benefit secured by the demurrer, upon the trial of
other equivalent issues.

§ 2256. If in the opinion of the court, a demurrer is interposed without cause, terms may be imposed, not exceeding
the costs of the action or a continuance of the cause.

CHAPTER IX.

OF THE TRIAL AND ITS INCIDENTS.

Sac. Ste.

2257. Cause tried at return term. if 2266. Non-suit to be taken before jury
summons executed twenty leaves the box. Two non.suits
days before court. equal to a verdict.

2258. Time forpleading when the term 2267. Only two new trials granted to
is more than a week. a party in the cause.

2259. Other pleadings tiled when or- 2268. Copy may beiiled on loss of oridered by the com't.  ple '

2260. Plea filed in two days, if court 2269. Jury take with em the written
site only a week. evidence.

2261. Causes set for special days when 2270. Court may order consolidation of
the term is more than one suits.
week. 2271. Suits dismissed in vacation.

2262. Challenge of jurors. 2272. Citizens competent jurors and

2263. Selection, summoning and oath witnesses when the state,
of jurors. county or town is interested.

2264. Struck jury, when allowed and 2273. Notice to the attorney is notice
how selected. to the client; sheriff ‘in return

2265. Only two counsel to speak on evidence of service.
each side. 2274. C e of the court to the jury.

2275. Emp oyment of sworn interpreters.

§ 2257. When the summons is executed twenty days pre,vious to the return term thereof, it must be placed on the

; trial docket and stand for trial at the first term, unless
cause be shown for a continuance. '

§ 2258. When the term of the court is more than one
week, the defendant must within the three first days of the

» return of the summons, plead or demur to the com laint, and
the replication thereto must be filed within three ays thereafter, unless the time be enlarged by order of the court.

' § 2259. Other pleadings may be filed within such time as

r the court directs.

§ 2260. When the term of the court is but one week, the
’ lea must be filed within the two first days, and the issue

made u , within the two succeeding days, unless the time
is extendet by the court.

. § 2261. The trial causes must be set for particular days,

. where the term of the court is more than one week ; to which
da the witnesses must be subpoenaed; and no cause can be
calyled for trial before the day for which it is set but by
consent.

§ 2262. Each party has the right to challenge four of the
j perem torily.

V M32263. urors for the trial of civil causes are drawn, summoned, empannelled, and sworn as directed by the provisions
of Chapter six, Title second, Part four.

3 § 2264. In all civil causes sounding in damages merely, or
where the amount in controversy exceeds one hundred dollars, either party may demand a struck jury, and must thereupon be furnished by the sheriif with a hst of twenty-four
jurors, in attendance upon the court, from which a jury must

be obtained by the parties or their attorneys, striking alternately one from the list, until twelve are stricken otf; the
party demanding the jury commencing; and the jury thus
obtained, must not be challenged for any cause.

§ 2265. But two counsel can argue on a side but by leave
of the court.

2266. Non-suits must be taken before the jury retires,
an two non-suits not set aside at the term at which they are
suffered, or reversed on error, are equivalent to a verdict
against the party suffering them.

§ 2267. N o more than two new trials on the same side
can be granted in any cause.

§ 2268. If an original pleading be lost, or withheld by
any person, the court may order a copy to be filed in the
place of the original.

§ 2269. All instruments of evidence and depositions read
to the jury, may be taken out by them on their retirement.

§ 2270. \Vhenever two or more actions are pending at the
same time between the same parties, in the same court, and
which might have been joined, the court may order them to
be consolidated.

§ 2271. The plaintiff may dismiss his suit in vacation by
causing an entry to be made by the clerk on the docket of
the dismissal of the suit. When the summons has been executed, notice must be given the defendant of the intended
dismissal.

§ 2272. In actions for the recovery of penalties, where a
part thereof may enure to the state, county, or corporate
town, or city, any citizen of the county, state, town or city,
13 a competent juror or witness.

§ 2273. VVritten notice to the attorney of record is as ef-'

fectual as notice to the party to be affected by it, and may
be executed by the sheriff, whose return of service is evidence of the fact.

§ 2274. The court may state to the 'ury the law of the
case, and ma also state the evidence w ere the sa.me is disputed, but slirall not charge upon the effect of the testimony
unless required to do so by one of the parties.

§ 2275. Interpreters may be sworn, truly to interpret
when necessary.

CHAPTER X.

OF EVIDENCE.

Aurxcur 1. Of general rules.

“ 2. Of the mode of procuring testimony by subpcena.
“ 3. Of procuring testimony by deposition.

“ 4. Examination of the parties by interrogatories.

“ 5. Proceedings to perpetuate testimony.

“ 6. Demurrers to evidence.

ARTICLE I.

Of general rules.
Sac. 1 Size.
227 6. Negroes, Indians, mulattoes, &c., I 2290. Assignec not competent to prove

2277.

2278.

227 9.

2280.

2281.
2282.
2283.

2284.

not competent witnesses exthe cause of action; exceptions.

cept for and against each other. »2291. Defendant in execution or mortConsideration to be proved by‘

I

two witnesses in all suits |
against Indians. l 2292.

Effect of written contract as evidence of consideration, im- 2293.
peached by plea.

Execution of notes urporting to 2294.
be signed by cfcndant, im-5
peached only by sworn deniaL

No proof required of execution
0 notes or assignment, unless

2295.

§

9

!

denied on oath. I

Partnership not required to be
proved, unless denied on oath. 2296.

Releases, receipts, dzc. have effect as such without seal.

Compromiscs of debts for less
sums sustained, without seal
or new consideration.

Sheriff may justify under process

ar on its face.

2297.
2298.

gage, not competent for claimant.

Register’s receipts vest the legll
title to land.

Proof of statutes of other states
or United States.

Authentication by certificate of
chief of a bureau or department.

Copies of odicial bonds and other
instruments required by 111.
to be kept by sworn o2icer.
are evidence.

Private acts of state legislatures
received as evidence, without
being pleaded.

Patents evidence without proof

Entry by a physician, evidence
of the service, but value of
the services must be proved.

. Prices current, evidence of value

2285. Rate of interest in other states, of the articles at their date.
how proved. 2300. Effect, as evidence, of ' ersof

2286. Security made a com tent wit- births, marriages death.
ness, by deposit 0 indemnity 2301. Evidence given in open court on
in court. oath, (to.

2287. Nominal plaintiff competent. 2302. Convictions, crime, (exee per2288. Defendant against whom there is jury,) nor interest in sub

2289.

no evidence, is competent.
One defendant, competent against
another.

ject-matter, do not 

witnesses. Restriction.

§ 2276. Negroes, mulattoes, Indians, and all persons of
mixed blood, descended from negro or Indian ancestors, to
the third generation inclusive, though one ancestor of each
neration may have been a white person, whether bond or
e, must not be Witnesses in any cause, civil or criminal,
except for or against each other.
§ 2277. When suit is brought to recover money or property from an Indian, the consideration must be proved by
two credible witnesses.
§ 2278. Every written contract, the foundation of the
suit, p orting to be executed by the party sought to be
charged, is partner, agent, or attorney in fact, is evidence
of the existence of the debt, or that the party undertook to
perform the duty for which it was given, and that it was
made on sufficient consideration; but may be impeached by
lea; and when so impeached, the burthen of proof is on the
efendant.
§ 2279. All written instruments, the foundation of the
suit, purporting to be signed b the defendant, his partner,
agent or attorney in fact, must he received in evidence, with

out proof of the execution, unless the execution thereof is
denied by plea, verified by aflidavit; and every assignment
of such instrument, on which suit is brought in the name of
the assignee, must be deemed genuine, unless impeached in
like manner, when in either case the burthen of proof is cast
on the plaintiff.
§ 2280. It is not necessary to prove the execution or assignment of any instrument offered in evidence under the
plea of set-off, or other plea in bar, unless the plaintiff put
the execution or assignment thereof in issue, by a replication,
verified by aflidavit. 0
§ 2281. When suit is brought by a firm, or in the name
of a partnership, the ‘plaintiff must not be required to prove
the existence of the rm, or the individuals composing it,
unless the same is denied by plea, verified by affidavit.
§ 2282. All rccei ts, releases, and discharges in writing,
whether of a debt 0 record, or a contract under seal, or otherwise, must have effect according to the intention of the
parties to the same.
§ 2283. All settlements in Writing, made in good faith for
the composition of debts, must be taken as evidence, and
held to operate according to the intention of the parties,
though no release under seal is given, and no new consideration has passed.
§ 2284. Whenever it a pears that the process is regular on
its face, and is issued by t e competent authority, a s eritf or
other ministerial ofiicer is justified in the execution of the
same, whatever may be the defect in the proceeding on which
it was issued.
§ 2285. The secretary of state must cause to be printed in
the pamphlet acts of each session of the legislature, the rate
of interest of each of the states and territories of the United
States, which must be received as presumptive evidence of
the rate of interest aforesaid.
§ 2286. A security, though a party to the suit, may be made
a competent witness for his princi al, by the deposit in court
of the amount of his supposed lia ility, and a sufficient sum
to cover the probable costs.
§ 2287. A nominal plaintiff is a competent witness for the
defendant.
§ 2288. A defendant against whom there is no testimony,
is a competent witness for a codefendant.
§ 2289. A defendant is a competent witness for the plaintill‘ against a codefendant.
§2290. When suit is brouoht by the transferee of any
contract, express or implied, the transferor, or party wit
whom the contract was originally made, is not a competent
yntness for the plaintiff, to rove the cause of action, except
In such cases and under suc restrictions as are provided by
sections 2313, 2314, and 2315, and such other cases as are
ex ressl rovided for.
E 229 . e defendant in execution or mortgagor, Where

’property levied on by execution is covered by a mo
are incompetent witnesses for the claimant, upon trial of e
right of pro erty.
‘ § 2292. ill certilicates issued pursuant to any act of congress, by any board of commissioners, register of a land
roflice, or by any one authorized by law to issue such certifi,cate, upon any Warrant or order of survey, or for any donation or preemption claim, vests the lecral title in the holder,
or his assignee, and must be received as evidence of such
title.
§ 2293. Transcripts of acts of con ess, or of the statutes
of any state or territory of the Unite States, certified b the
secretary of state of this state, as being deposited in his 0 cc;
and public or private statutes, or the proceedings of any legislative body, purporting, on the face of the book, to be
printed by the authority of the government, state, or territory, are evidence without further proof
I § 2294. The certificate of the head of any bureau or de' partment of the general government is a sutlicient authenti_ cation of an paper or document appertaining to or belong- ing to his 0 ce.
§2295. Copies of oihcial bonds, or other instruments or
.papers, required to be kept by any otlicer of this state, and
'transcripts from the books and proceedings required to be
kept by any sworn oflicer of the state, are presumptive evirdence, in any civil cause, and have the same effect as if the
"original were produced and proved, upon the certificate of
the custodian thereof that it 18 a true copy of the original;
but the court may, on motion, require the production of the
original, if practicable, when necessary to promote the ends
of 'ustice.

‘ 2296. All private acts of the legislature of this or any
' otheg satate, may be given in evidence without being specially
’ lea e .

P § 2297. Patents issued b the United States, or any state
‘of the United States, must e received in evidence without

further proof.‘

§2298. The original entries in the books of a physician
are evidence for him, in all actions brought for the recovery
of’ his medical services, that the service was rendered, unlem
the defendant in open court deny upon oath the truth of such
entries; but he is required to prove the value of such services. Where the denial is by a legal representative of she
arty, it is sufficient for him to swear that he believes it to
e untrue.

§ 2299. Prices current and commercial lists rinted at
any commercial mart, are presumptive evidence 0 the value
of any article of merchandize s ecified therein, at that place,
at the date thereof, and of t e rate of exchange between
that and other places; also of the rates of insurance, freights,

and the times of the arrival and departure of ships and other
vessels.

§ 2300. Registers of marriages, births, and deaths, kept in
pursuance of law, or by any ecclesiastical rule of any religious
church, or society, may be certified by the custodian thereof,
and are presumptive evidence of the facts certified, as well
as of the law or rule in virtue of which such registry was
made, and his authority to certify the same.

§ 2301. All testimony, except as otherwise directed, must
begiven in open court on the oath or affirmation of the Witness.

2302. No objection must be allowed to the competency
of a witness in any legal proceeding, whether examined
orally or by deposition, because the witness has been rendered infamous by a conviction for any crime, (except perjury or subornation of peij ury), or because he is interested
in the event of the suit, or liable for costs, unless the verdict
and 'udgment would be evidence for him in another suit;
butt e objection for such cause goes to his credit only. This
section is not to be construed so as to authorize persons or
parties to be witnesses further than is authorized by the other
grpcvisions of this code, or to prevent any witness from being

' redited by proof that he is unworthy of belief in a court
of justice; nor must it change or qualify the mode or manner of establishin or proving the execution of conveyances
of property or W513, as regulated by this code.

 

ARTICLE II.

Of the mode of procuring testimony by subpoena.

SE0. Sec.

2303. Subpmna issues when cause is 2311. Witnesses exempt from arrestin
on the trial docket. civil cases while attending

2304. No sub na can issue for wit- court, drc.
ness iving one hundred miles 2312. Excuse made in court by written
from court, without aiiidavit, affidavit or oral examination.
dzc. 2313. Plaintiff may prove his claim to

2305. Subpcena executed by the sheriff the amount of three hundred
by leaving a copy, drc. dollars by his own oath.

2306. Subpoena issued to each term 2314. Five days‘ notice to be left with
until case is dis sed of. clerk or given defendant, that

‘$307. Penalty for defau t by the wit- such roof will be made.
ness. 2315. Plaint° not permitted to prove

‘2308. Proceedings to recover the pen- claims against executors, trusalty. tees, guardians, «Ste.

‘2309. Witness imprisoned for refusal 2316. Defendantma prove usury, unto testify. less plaint° den it on oath.

2310. Not discharged without bond to 2317. Representative of efendant may
appear and testify. use same defence.

§ 2303. At the request of either arty, his agent or attorHex, to an suit which is then en ing, or where the comPlalnt has en executed more t an twenty days before the
return day thereof, the clerk of the court where the suit is
P°11d1_I1g must issue subpoenas for witnesses, specifying
therein the time and place for their appearance, the title of

the suit, and the party at whose instance they are summoned,
and commanding them to appear in conformity therewith.

and give testimony.
§2304. No su poena can issue for a witness, residing

;more than one hundred miles from the lace of trial, computing by the usual travelled route, un ess the party summoning him make afiidavit that the personal attendance of
the witness is necessary to a proper decision of the cause, and
that his deposition would be insufficient for that purpose;
which must be indorsed by the clerk upon the subpoena.
§ 2305. The subpoena must be directed to “any sheriff of
the state of Alabama,” and may be executed upon the witness, either personally or by leaving a co y at his place of
residence, unless the sub oena is issued uring term time,
when it must be execute by personal service.
§2306. In civil cases, when the cause is not decided at
L the first term, witnesses must be summoned by the clerk, by
the issue of a subpoena to each term, until the cause is determined, unless otherwise directed by the parties.
§ 2307. Any witness who after being summoned, fails to
attend, pursuant to the mandate of the sub oena, and remain
until his testimony is given, or he is discharged by the
court, or the party summoning him, forfeits one hundred
dollars for the use of the party summoning him.
§ 2308. A conditional judgment must, on motion of such
party, be rendered against such witness, and a notice issued
to l]JIIl that such judgment will be made absolute, unless he
appear at the next court and render a good excuse for his
de ault; and on being personally served with a copy of such
notice, ten days before the next or any succeedin term, if
he fail to appear, and render a satisfacto excuse or his default, such judgment may be made abso ute, or reduced, as
the court may direct.
§ 2309. Any witness refusing to testify, unless privileged
by law from testifying in the cause, must be committed to
the jail of the county, there to remain without bail until he
consent to testify.
§ 2310. N 0 Witness so imprisoned must be disc
at the adjournment of the court or after, until he give bond
and security in an amount to be prescribed by the judge of
such court, to be approved by the judge of probate, payable
to the state, and conditioned to appear at the next term, and
give evidence in the cause.
§ 2311. Witnesses are exempt from arrest in civil cases,
whilst attending court in that capacity, or going to or returning therefrom, allowing one day for every twenty-five miles,
travel by the usual route.
§ 2312. Witnesses failing for suflicient cause to attend
court, may make their excuse by affidavit, or viva voce, In
open court, which the court must hear, at any time, unless
engaged in the trial of a cause, and if the excuse is suflicient,
release the party from any fine imposed, without the payment of costs.

§2313. In all suits upon contracts, where the defendant

has been personally served with process, where the matter;
in controversy does not exceed three hundred dollars, the‘
plaintiff is competent to establish the correctness of the de- 1
mand by his own oath, if the defendant is a resident of the I
state, unless he in open court denies, u on oath, the truth of I

the facts pro osed to be sworn to by t e plaintiff.
§ 2314. T e plaintiff must give the defendant, or his attorney, five days’ notice of his intention to establish the demand a

by his own oath, unless the defendant resides out of the

county, and has no attorney of record Within the county, inf
which case a notice filed in the clerk’s office five days has the 1

same effect.

§ 2315. The two preceding sections do not apply, when
executors, administrators, trustees or guardians are defendants.

§ 2316. When usur is relied on as a defence, the defendant having given ten a s’ notice to the plaintiff or his attorney, of his intention to o so, is acorn etent witness toprove
the usury, if the plaintiff was the len er, unless the plaintiff
denies on oath, in 0 en court, the truth of the facts proposed
to be sworn to by t e defendant.

§ 2317. If the borrower be dead his legal representative
is entitled to the benefit of the preceding section, by swearing that he believes the contract to be usurious.

ARTICLE IH.

Of the procuring testimony by deposition.

Size. Site.
2318. Cases in which testimony may 2325. Commissioner to issue subpaauas
be taken by de osition. for witnesses; default proved
‘I319. Steps taken be ore issue of by his certificate.
commission. 2326. Depcsitions thus taken, read in
2320. Intcrrogatories may be filed and evidence.
notice given by the clerk. 2327. Depositions, except of females,
2321. Mode of giving notice when par- taken de bene esse.
ty resides out of the county. 2328. Objections to the whole deposi‘2322. Duty of the commissioner in ex- tion taken before trial an not
ecuting the commission. afterwards.
2323. Effect of commissioncr’s eertifi- 2329. Fees of witnesses before commiscate and return. sinner, taxed in the bill of
2324. Fine for failure to appear before costs.
commissioner; pooeecding to
recover it.

§ 2318. The evidence of witnesses may be taken by deposition, in civil cases by either party:

1. Where the witness is a female.

2. Where the witness from age, infirmity or sickness is
unable to attend court.

3. Where the witness resides more than one hundred miles
from the place of trial, computing by the route usually travelled, or resides out of or is absent from the state.

4. Where the witness is about to leave the state, and will
probabl not return until after the trial.

5. ere the claim or defence, or a material part thereof,
depends exclusively on the evidence of the witness.

6. Where the witness is governor of the state, treasurer,
comptroller, chancellor, judge, clerk or sheriff of a court of
record, president, director or other officer of a bank incorpo
rated in this state, post master or any other officer of the
United States, practicing hysician or lawyer, oris constantly
employed on any steam oat or other_water-craft, or about
the engine or other machinery of any rail road, plank road or

manufactory,
2319. he party desiring to take such deposition, must
m 'e affidavit efore a justice of the peace of the state or

clerk of the court, setting forth some one or more of the
above causes for taking such deposition, and that the witness
is material, which must be filed in the cause, and thereupon
the clerk must issue a commission to one or more persons to
take such deposition, and prescribe the notice to be given to
the opposite arty or his attorney, of the time and place of

' taking it. I the party on whom the notice is to be served

resides out of the county and has no attorney of record, it is
sufiicient to file the same with the papers in the cause, the

length of time prescribed.
§ 2320. Or the party after making aiiidavit may file with

i the clerk interrogatories to be propounded to the witness, of

which he must give the opposite party or his attorney notice

'in writing, who has ten days thereafter to tile cross mterrogatories, to which the party filing the interrogatories may iile
rebutting interrogatories; after the expiration of the ten days
a commission, accompanied by a copy of the interrogatories,
cross and rebutting, if filed, must be issued by the clerk to
take the deposition, which may be taken at such time and

place as the commissioner shall appoint.
§ 2321. If the party to whom notice is to be given under

the provisions of the preceding section, resides out of or is

absent from, and has no attorne of record within the county,
notice may be given by filing t e interrogatories in the office
of the clerk for ten days.

§ 2322. It is the duty of the commissioner to reduce the
answers of the witness to writing or cause it to be done by
the witness himself or some impartial person, as near as may
be in the language of the witness, havin first sworn him to
speak the truth, the whole truth, and no 'ng but the truth;
and the deposition when complete must be by him enveloped
together with the commission and any document which may
have been de oscd to, sealed and directed to the clerk of the
court where t e cause is pending, with the title of the cause

indorsed thereon.
§ 2323. The certiiicate of the commissioner of the manner,

time and place of taking the deposition, and that he has personal knowledge of, or as had proof made before him of the

rsonal identity of the witness, shall be presumptive evigznce of the facts stated by him, and the package may be
sent by mail or by private conveyance to the clerk.
§ 2324. Any witness whose testimon is thus required,
and who fails on due notice to appear before the commissioner and give evidence, forfeits to the party aggrieved the
sum of one hundred dollars, for which judgment may be
rendered by the court where the cause is pending, five days’
notice in writing having been given him, that such motion
will be made; and is also liable at the suit of the party aggrieved, to an action for damages; but such witness may
make his excuse as in other cases.
§ 2325. The commissioner has power to issue subpoenas
for witnesses, which may be served by the sheriff or any
constable, and the certificate of the commissioner that he
failed to appear, together with the return of the ofiicer, is
roof of the fact.
P § 2326. Any deposition thus taken, may be read in evidence, so far as the same is pertinent to the issue and legal
evidence; and if the package bears no marks of violence or
evidence of mutilation, must be presumed to be as it came
from the hands of the commissioner, until the contrary is
shown.
§ 2327. When the deposition of a witness is taken for any
other cause than being a female, the deposition cannot be
used, if it appear at the trial that the cause for which it was
taken does not exist, unless such witness is dead, insane or
resides more than one hundred miles from the place of trial.
§ 2328. All objection to the admissibility of the entire
deposition in evidence, must be made before entering on the
trial, and not after, unless the matter is not disclosed in the
de sition, and appears after the commencement of the trial.
2329. VVitncsses who attend and testify, with or without
a subpoena, are on the certilicate of the commissioner of the
distance travelled, and number of days’ attendance, &c., entitled to the same compensation as other witnesses, and the
commissioner to twent cents for every hundred words, all
of which must be taxedy in the bill of costs, upon the certificate of the commissioner.

ARTICLE IV.

Exanzinatzbzz of the parties by 2'nterr0gat0rz'es.

SEC. 1 SEC.

2330. Interrogatories filed to a(l_verse 2333. Impertinent guestious need not
party on affidavit of niateriality. be answere . _

2331. Interrogatories served on hun, or 2334. Proceedings on failure to answer,
if a non-resident, commission to or answer f1'eel{.c
issue to examine him. 2335. The answer ma contradicted.

2332. Answers duly sworn to are evi- 2336. All pertinent cyiuestions, not indeuce, «kc. volving a prosecution, must be

answered.

§2330. Either party to any civil suit desiring the testimony of his adversaay, may file with the clerk interrogatories to be propoun ed to him, with an ailidavit that the
answers thereto will be material testimony for him in the
cause.

§2331. If the part whose testimony is required resides
out of the state, the c erk must issue a commission to take
his testimony, to which a copy of the interrogatories must be
appended; if he resides within the state, the party desiring
h1S testimony must serve him with a copy of the interrogatories, which may be executed by the sheriff.

§ 2332. The answers to the interrogatories, duly sworn to
before the clerk or any 'ustice of the peace, are evidence in
the cause, when offered y the party taking them.

§ 2333. If the interrogatories are not pertinent to the iaue,
or matter in dispute between the parties, there shall be no
obligation to answer them; and if answered, the answers may
be suppressed by the court at the trial.

§ 2334. If answers to the interrogatories are not filed
within sixty days after service of a copy of the interrogatories, or when the answers are not full or are evasive, the

court may either attach the part and cause him to answer
fully in open court, or continue t e cause until full answers
are made, or direct a non-suit or judgment by default to be
entered.

§ 2335. A resort to this mode of obtaining evidence does

3 not preclude the party calling for it from adducing other proof

of the same facts, or from contradicting it.
§ 2336. Under the provisions of this article the party is

bound to answer all pertinent interrogatories, unless by the

answer he subjects himself to a criminal prosecution.

 

ARTICLE V.

Proceedings to perpetuate testt'nz0n_2/.

Sac. SIC.
2337. Testimony may be perpetuated. certified and filed in o$ee with
2338. Atlidavit filed speci ying the the other papers.

grounds. 2345. Return of the sheriff proof of the
2339. Order for examination, and no- facts stated.

tice to adverse party. 2346. Depositions so taken evidence, if
2340. If to a non-resi ent, made by witnesses cannot be obtained.

publication. 2347. Effect of such depositions as evi234l. Contents of the nptice. 8 Fdencp. d f
2342. A licant s t no costs. 234 . ees o ‘u eo rebate, re-gust‘ or
2343. Egininatidiiazf the witnesses. and slier-if‘f. P

2344. Examination reduced to writing,

§ 2337. The testimony of a witness may be taken condi'tionally, and perpetuated as provided in this article.

§ 2338. The applicant must make aiiidavit before a circuit

f or probate judge, or register in chancery, stating:

1. That he is a party, or expects to be a party to a suit,
either at law or in equity, in a court of this state.

2. That the testimony of a witness, whose name and place
of residence is stated, is necessary to the prosecution or
defence of such suit, and generally the facts expected to be
proved by such witness.

3. If such suit be not actually commenced, the name of the
party who is expected to be adverse to the party in such suit,
and his residence, and that he is of full age.

§2339. Such judge or register must thereupon make an
order allowing the examination of the witness, and if the
adverse party, or the party expected to be adverse to the
application, resides in t is state, a copy of such application,
and notice of the time and place of the examination, must be

'ven to such adverse or expected adverse party, at least ten
ys before such examination.

§ 2340. If such adverse party, or expected adverse party,
is a non-resident, notice of such ap lication must be given by
publication in such paper as maylie directed by the judge
or register, for six successive weeks, and a newspaper containing such publication sent by mail to the residence of such
adverse arty, directed to him, once a week for the three
first wechs of the publication.

§2341. The notice as published must contain a cop of
the application, and notice of the time and place of ta 'ing
the examination, which must not be less than three months
from the time of the first publication.

§_ 2342. The applicant must pay the expenses of the publication.

§ 2343. Upon the a plication and notice being returned
executed by the sherillf), if such adverse or expected adverse
party is a resident of the state, or upon roof of the notice
required by section 2340 if a non-resi ent, such judge or
register must take the deposition of the witness at the time
and place appointed, and the examination, if necessary, may
be continued from day to day until completed.

§ 2344. Every question answered, or declaration of the
Witness, must be taken down, the deposition when completed
carefully read to and subscribed by the Witness, certified by
the judge or register, and immediately thereafter filed in the
Ofiice of the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which
it was taken, with the order for the examination of such Witness, the aihdavit on which the same was granted, and the
a plication and notice, with the return of service indorsed
t. ereon by the sheriff, or the affidavit proving the publication and transmission of the papers containing the same, to
such adverse party.

_ § 2345. The return of the sheriff on the affidavit so filed
18 presumptive evidence of the facts therein stated, and the
clerk must record all the apers so returned to him.

_§ 2346. If a trial he had) between the persons in the aiiidaVlt described as parties actual or expectant, or their successors in interest, upon proof of the death or insanity of the
witness at the time of such trial, the deposition, or a certided
copy thereof, ma be given in evidence by either party.

5‘ 2347. The eposition so read in evidence has the same
effect as the oral testimony or the deposition of such witness,
and no other; and every objection to the witness, or to the
relevancy of any question put to him or of any answer made
by him, may be made in t e same manner as if he was orally
examined on the trial, or as if his deposition had been taken
in the case.

§ 2348. The judge of rebate and register are entitled for
copy of application, and) taking questions, recording the
same, and answers, to twenty-five cents for each hundred
Words; for the other duties, one dollar on each application,
to be paid by the applicant. The sheriff for serving and returning the application, one dollar. ‘

ARTICLE VI.

Dem-urrer to evidence.

Site. Site.

2349. When allowed. 2352. If judgment be for plaintiff. and

2350. Effect of demurrer to evidence. damages uncertain. the jury

2351. Testimony to be written out and must assess the damages.
becomes part of the record.

. § 2349. In all actions upon contracts, when the testimony
on both sides is written, either party may demur thereto;
when the testimony on either side is parol, the opposite party, having offered no parol testimony, may also demur thereto; and the other party must be required by the court to
join in the demurrer.
§ 2350. The effect of a demurrer to evidence, is an admission by the party demurring, of the truth of the evidence demurred to, and of every inference or conclusion which a jury
could legally deduce therefrom; and devolves on the court
the determination of the issue of fact between the parties, as
Well as the law.
, § 2351. Upon a demurrer to the evidence being tendered,
the court must reduce the testimony to Writing, or cause it
1 to be done; which being signed by the judge, constitutes
- part of the record.
§ 2352. If the court determine the issue for the plaintill", a
' jury must be immediately empannelled to ascertain the damages, if unliqgidated; or the jury, if one has been empannelled, may required to assess the damages conditionally,
previous to their being discharged.

CHAPTER XI.

BILLS OF EXCEPTION.

Sac. ‘ Size.

2853. Bills of exception taken during . °udge rcfusesto sign a correct
the trial. ‘ 

2354. Bill to state the point excepted i 2357. Plaintiff suffering a non-suit, may
to, and when stated correctly, take a bill of exceptions.

must be 3' ed by the judge. 2358. Such bills to be signed during
2355. Charges aske to be in writing, I court, or, by consent of counand given or refusedas asked. » scl, within ten days after.
2356. Supreme court hears evidence as L
to the point excepted to, when I

§ 2353. Either of the parties in an civil case during the
trial of the cause, may reserve, by ill of exceptions, any
charge, opinion, or decision of the court, touching the cause
of action, and which would not otherwise appear of record.

§ 2354. The bill must be tendered by the party supposing
himself aggrieved, stating the point, charge, opinion, or decision, wherein the court is supposed to err, with such a
statement of the facts as is necessary to make it intelligible;
and if correctly stated, it is the duty of the presiding judge
to sign the same, which thereby becomes a part of the record.

§ 2355. Charges moved for by either party, must be in
writing, and must be given or refused, in the terms in which
they are written; and it is the duty of the judge to write,
“given,” or “refused,” as the case may be, on the document,
and sign his name thereto; which thereby becomes a part of
the record, and may be taken by the jury with them on their
retirement.

§ 2356. If the judge fail, or refuse to sign a bill of exce tions, the point or decision, and the facts bein truly stated,
he is guilty of a high misdemeanor in oiiice, and the supreme
court must receive such evidence of the facts as may be
deemed by it satisfactory, and proceed to hear the cause, as
if the bill had been signed by the court.

§ 2257. “Then from any decision of the court on the trial
of a cause, it may become necessary for the plaintiff to suffer
a non-suit, the facts, point, or decision, may be reserved for
the decision of the supreme court by bill of exceptions, as in
other cases.

§ 2358. No bill of exce tions can be signed after the
adjournment of the court, uring which the exception was
taken, unless by consent of counsel in writing, when it may
be signed within ten days thereafter, except in such cases as
is otherwise provided.

CHAPTER XII.

OF THE REMOVAL OF THE TRIAL.

SIC. Sim.

2859. Venue changed on motion of 2362. Change of trial to new county
either party; changed but formed where defendant reonce. sides.

2860. Depositions of witnesses in the 2368. Clerk’s duty in transmissionof
county taken on such change. papers in such cases.

2861. Subpcenas command attendance 2364. Pay of messenger carrying the
at place of trial. papers.

§ 2359. Either of the parties to a civil suit, may move the
court to change the venue, at any time before iinal trial, and
the court is authorized to direct such chan to the nearest
county free from exception, as to either of t e parties, to be
determined by afiidavits; the party applying for such change
making afiidavit, that he cannot have a fair and 
trial, for reasons and causes therein set forth, in the county
where the suit is pending. The same party cannot change
the venue but once.

§ 2360. When there has been a change of venue, the ty opposed to such change may, in civil cases, take the eposition of all witnesses residing in the county from which the
venue has been changed, under the same rules and regulations as now provided by law for taking depositions in other
cases.

§ 2361. It is the duty of the clerk of the court where the
cause was instituted, or is pending, unless otherwise directed,
to issue subpoenas to all witnesses, to attend the place to
which the venue is changed.

§ 2362. In like manner, where new counties are formed
out of old counties, the original pa els of all unfinished business in the county where the efendant resided, with a
transcri t of all orders made in the cause, must be transmitted to t c new county as soon as it is organized.

§ 2363. When a change of venue is directed, the clerk of

the court must make a transcript of all the minutes, orders

and proceedings in the cause, with his certificate, and the

' seal of his court annexed, that it is a true copy; which, together with all the original papers, he shall envelope and securel seal, with his name written across the seals, together
With ' certificate on the back thereof, that the enclosed pa»
pers, numbered from 1 to , include all the orignal par
pers in the cause, (naming it;) which attestation and certificate must be received as true, until the contrary is shown.
This package he may deliver himself, or send by a messenger; and if not mutilated or defaced, must be presumed to
be as it came from the hands of the clerk.

2364. The clerk or messenger is entitled to five centsper
e, and tolls and ferriages, going and returning, which
must be paid in advance by the party applyin for the change
of venue. If paid by the opposing party, to lie taxed in the
bill of costs against his adversary.

 

CHAPTER XIII.

PROCEEDINGS WHERE SUIT IS BROUGHT, OR VERDICT IS RENDERED, FOR A LESS AMOUNT THAN THAT FOR WHICH
THE COURT HAS JURISDICTION, AND CALCULATION OF
INTEREST BY THE CLERK.

Sac. Sec.

2365. Non-suit if plaintiff sues or recov- damages on a bill, on judgers a verdict, for aless amount ment by default.
than that for which the court 2367. Judgment on penal bond, only
has jurisdiction. for amount due.

2366. Calculation of interest, due, and

§ 2365. If suit be brought on any moneyed demand, for a
less amount than that of which the court has jurisdiction, the
suit must be dismissed; or if suit be brought for such
amount, and a less sum be recovered, unless the amount is
reduced below that of which the court has jurisdiction, by a
set-off successfully made by the defendant. the judgment
must be set aside and the suit dismissed, unless he, or some
one for him, make affidavit, which must be filed in the cause,
that the amount sued for is actually due, and that a recovery
for the true amount was prevented by failure of proof, the
interposition of the statute of limitations, or some other sulficient cause, to be judged of by the court; and in that event,
he must have judgment for the reduced sum.

§ 2366. In all actions founded on any instrument of writing, ascertaining the plaintiii"s demand, if judgment by default, nil dicit, or on demurrer be rendered for the plaintiff,
such jud ent may be entered up by the clerk, under the direction o the court, without the intervention of a jury; and
the clerk must compute the interest; and in case of a bill of
exchange, the damages, if any be due thereon.

§ 2367. In all actions which are brought on any penal
bond, for the payment of money, Whenever the plaintiff recovers, judgment must be entered for no more than principal
and interest due on the bond.

CHAPTER XIV.

APPEALS FROM J USTICES OF THE PEACE, AND CAUSES
REMOVED BY CERTIORARI.

339- Sec.
2368. Appeals and cases by certiorari, 2373. Not dismissed for defect in bond,
tried at first term, dzc. Or, if party is willing and
2369. If for less sum than twenty do1- ready to amend it.
13115, tried without a ‘my. 2374. Not tried at the first term unless
2370. Damages, if taken for clay. on notice of five days, unless
2371. Costs in such cases; discretion as defendant reside in another
to costs. county.

2372. On sdirmance, judgment rendered against sureties.

l § 2368. Appeals and writs of certiorari, from judgments
« of justices of the peace, must be tried at the first term, unless
good cause be shown for a continuance, according to equity
' and justice, Without regard to any defect in the summons or
other proceeding before the justice.
§ 2369. When the sum claimed does not exceed twenty
dollars, the cause must be tried by the court, Without the intervention of a jur . When it exceeds twent dollars, upon
an issue to be m e up under the direction 0 the court and
tried by a jury.
§ 2370. If it appear that the appeal or certiorari was taken for delay merely, fifteen per cent. damages may be as» § 2371. If the defendant appeals, or obtains a writ of certiorari, and the judgment of the circuit court is for less than
the judgment of the justice, the court may tax either artyf
with the costs, or both parties with any portion thereog
the plaintiff appeals, and does not recover more than the
amount for which the justice rendered judgment, he must be
taxed With the costs.
§ 2372. When the judgment is afiirmed, on appeal or cer-tiorari, judgment must be rendered b the court against the
surety, as Well as the principal, whic must include the costs
of the inferior and a pellate court.
, § 2373. No appe or certiorari must be dismissed for any
‘defect in the appeal bond, or bond given to obtain the certio’rari, if the party is Willing to execute a suiiicient bond or
undertaking.
§ 2374. No appeal or certiorari shall be tried at the first
_term, unless it appear that five days’ notice in Writing has
been given to the opposite party, his agent, or attorney, but
in such case must be continued until the next term.

?

CHAPTER XV.

COSTS.

Anncu: l. Taxation and retaxation of costs.
" 2. Security for costs.

ARTICLE I.

Taxation and retaasation of costs.

SE0. S30.

2375. Costs given to successful party. 2378. Costs of set-om if sustained. V’

2376. In actions for damages no more be recovered by defendant
costs than dam es allowed, 2379. Fees of witnesses for mile‘?
when verdict is or less than and attendance.
twenty dollars. 2380. Certificates given witnesses Of

2377. Defendant proving usury recov- mileage and attendance.
ere costs.

Sac. ; S30.

2381. Attendance, &c., proved in three fendant, plaintiff pays the
days after judgment. costs.

2382. Only one party to be charged 9 2390. An attorney’s fee taxed for deby witness. fendants who succeed, when

2383. Beneficial plaintiff pays the costs. plaintiff recovers against the

2384. Costs of transcripts from other
courts, taxed in the bill.
2385. Fees for certificates, &c., taxed

others.
2391. If the laintiff fail as to one defen t, he recovers his costs

 

in the bill. of him.
2386. Costs on a plea, “since the last 2392. Only two witnesses charged for
continuance.” ~ to prove one fact. Exception.
2387. Witness fees taxed and collected,  2393. Motion to refuse costs as to other
paid to clerk for the wit- 3 witnesses made at trial term.
uesses. ’ 2394. Motion to retax the costs for ex2388. On refusal of payment after pre- , cess. &c.
senting certificate, witness: 2395. On filing written cxce tions to
may refuse to attend  } cost bill, sheriff or ered not
2389. On abatement by death of de-_ to collect them till after the

, next term, «kc.

§ 2375. The successful arty in all civil actions is entitled
to full costs, for which 'ud)gment must be rendered, unless in
cases otherwise directe by law.
§ 2376. In all actions to recover damages for torts, the
plaintiff recovers no more costs than damages, where such
es do not exceed twenty dollars, unless the presiding
judge certifies that greater damages should have been awarded, and on failure to certify, judgment must be rendered
against the plaintiff‘ for such residue.
§ 2377. If it be made to appear that usurious interest has
‘zlefln intentionally taken or reserved, the defendant recovers
costs.
§ 2378. In all actions where a set-off is pleaded, and controverted, the defendant recovers his costs, sustained in establishing the set-off, though judgment be rendered for the
plaintiff for a residue.
§ 2379. VVitnesses are allowed one dollar and fifty cents
per da in civil cases, also five cents per mile for each mile
todan from their residence, by the. usual travelled) rgute,
an all necessar ferria es fees of turn ikes, and tell ri ges,
whether attendillg undlger subpoena, orlat the request of the
part . .
§)2380. After the trial, continuance of the cause, or discharge of the witness, the clerk must on his application, and
upon his oath, give him a certificate, setting forth the cause
in which he was a Witness, the party by whom he was summoned, the number of days he attended as a witness, and the
811m to which he is entitled for his attendance, travel, fer1"13-ge, &c., which he must also enter, either upon the subp0ena docket, or book to be kept for that purpose.
§2381. The witness must prove his attendance, within

five days after the adjournment of court at which the witness
attended.

§ 2382. No witness shall charge for his attendance but on

one side of the same cause.
§2383. When judgment is rendered against the plaintiff

in any suit brought in the name of a nominal plaintiff for the
use of another, judgment for costs must be rendered against
the beneficia or his personal re resentatives.

. § 2384. W en the suit is foun ed on the record of another
court, the costs of the transcript, on proof to the court, must
be taxed in the bill of costs.

§ 2385. When either party introduces on the trial any
execution, bond, or other matter of evidence, certified by
any officer, or person whose certificate makes the copy
thereof evidence, the fees allowed by law to such oiiicer or
person, for the transcript thereof and certificate, must be alowed as costs.

§ 2386. When the party filing a plea “ puis darrien continuance,” succeeds thereon, but fails on the plea to the merits, previously filed, he must be taxed with the costs which
accrued previous to the filing the last plea.

L § 2387. Upon the final disposition of any civil cause, the

' amount so proved by the Witnesses must be taxed in the bill

Lof costs, against the rightful part , setting forth the name of

"each Witness, and the amount al owed him, which must be
collected by the sheriff for the use of such witnesses, and be
paid to the clerk issuing the execution, unless the certificate
of such clerk, with the receipt of the witness thereon, is produced to the sheriif.

, § 2388. The certificate granted as aforesaid, entitles the
witness to demand of the party summoning him the amount
therein stated, and is resumptive evidence that such amount
is due, in any procee ing instituted for its recovery; and if

E in any civil cause, on demand thereof, of the party summoning him, or his agent, or in the case of his being a non-resident, of his attorney, the same is not paid, the plaintiff is not
obliged to appear again as a witness in the same cause, until
his Witness fees are paid.

§ 2389. When a plaintiff brings a suit, which he suffersto
abate by the death of the defendant, or other cause; or where

; the suit abates by the death of the plaintiff, and his representatives fail to revive the same, judgment for costs may be
rendered against such representatives, in the name of the
ofhcers of the court, and are paid as other claims against
such estate. .

« § 2390. When judgment is rendered in favor of one or

' more defendants, less than the whole number, an attorney’S
fee must be taxed in favor of such defendant, or defendants,
against the laintitf.

§ 2391. When a plaintiff fails to recover against all of the
defendants, the defendants against whom he fails to recover

Iare entitled to have their aliquot proportion of the whole

_ costs taxed against the plaintiff, except that provided form
the preceding section. _

§ 2392. Not more than two Witnesses shall be taxed 111
any bill of costs, who were called to prove any one matter
of fact, or having been subpoenaed, were not examined, 1111'

less the court, u n a motion to retax the costs, should in its
discretion consi er that the circumstances of the case warranted the examining or summoning more than two witnesses
for the proof of a particular fact; or unless such witnesses
were summoned or examined to assail or defend the re utation of a witness for veracit , or to assail or to establis the
character of a party, when clyiaracter is put in issue.

§ 2393. If more than two witnesses are examined in proof
of any particular fact, a motion must be made, at the term
at whic the cause is tried, for instructions to the clerk as to
the taxation of costs, and cannot be made afterwards.

§ 2394. If the taxation of costs be excessive, by charging
the costs of witnesses who were not examined, or by char 'ng
costs to an improper party, or taxing costs contrary to aw,
the party aggneved ma move the court for a retaxation,
setting 'orth the particu ars in which the clerk has erred.

§ 2395. If execution has issued in any such case, the party
complaining thereof; or his attorney, may file a written application with the clerk for a retaxation of the costs, setting
forth in what the alleged error consists, and the clerk must
issue an order to the sheriff, directing him to abstain from
the collection of the ' uted items of costs until the further
order of the court, to w ich a motion must be made, at the
ensuing term, for a retaxation thereof.

ARTICLE II.

Security for costs.

SE0. SEC.

23%. In suits by non-residents, secu-. 2399. On judgment for defendant, exerity for costs required beforet cution against security on

139 Onissue of smpnipnsum , If motlilon. ed th

2. 7. removal 0 p ain ' security ,» 2400. we suits commenc wi required. , out security, clerk and plain2398. Corporations to give security be- tiff ’s attorney both liable.
fore summons. I

§ 2396. All actions commenced by or for the use of a nonresident of this state, must be dismissed, on motion, by the
court, unless security for the costs be endorsed on the complaint, or lodged with the clerk revious to the issue of the
summons; and the costs which ave accrued must be taxed
against the attorney directing the summons to issue.

§ 2397. Ifsuit be commenced by or for the use of a resident who afterwards removes from the state, the defendant,
bymmotion to the court in term time, or by notice to the
p 'nti1f, his agent, or attorne , in vacation, may require security for the costs, and if suc security be not given, on or
before the next term of the court, the suit mustbe dismissed.

§ 2398. Corporations before commencing suits, must give
security for the costs, which must be lodged with the clerk,

and on failure to do so, the suit, on motion of the defendant,

must be dismissed.

§ 2399. If judgment be rendered for the defendant, judgment must, on motion, be rendered against the security, for
the costs, as well as against the plaintiff.

§ 2400. If such suit be commenced without security 
given for the costs, the attorney at law directing the issue of
the summons, and the clerk issuing it, are liable to the defendant, on motion, for the costs of the suit.

..._____..:_....___.-.,.—._._:._:_—._—.

CHAPTER XVI.
AMENDMENTS.

Size. 481:0.

2401. Amendments made by the court 1 2404. Mistakes of namw, dntesfsulna,
in three years, if enough ap- . &c., in any summons, &c.,cured
pears of record to amend, by by judgment, if correct, in any

2402. Summons, complaint, pleading,l art of the record.

(he, not vitiated by want of 2405. en complaint contains a muse
form. of action, 'udgment not set

2403. Amendments of form allowed at: aside for o jection not takm

any time, and parties added or! below.
struck out, dzc. 3

§ 2401. The judges of the circuit courts may at any time
within three years after the rendition of final judgment, upon
the “application of either party, amend any clerical error,
mis e in the calculation of interest, or other mistake of the
clerk, where there is sufiicient matter apparent on the record
or entries of the court to amend by. No cause can be
reversed for such error or defect by the supreme court, unlx
the court of original jurisdiction refuses to make the amendment.

§ 2402. No summons, complaint, plea, return, process,
judgment, or other proceeding, can be arrested, quashed or
reversed, for any defect or want of form in any of the courts
of this state; but the courts must proceed and give judgment
according to the right of the cause and matter in law, without regard to any defect or want of form in the summons,
complaint, or other pleading.

§ 2403. The courts res ctively must, whilst the cause is
in progress, amend all an every such imperfection and defect
of cm on motion of the arty, without costs and without
delay, unless injustice will t ereby be done to the opposite
party; and must permit the amendment of the complaint by
striking out or adding new parties plaintiff, or by strikin
out or adding new parties defendant, upon such terms and
conditions as the justice of the case may require.

§ 2404. Any mistake in the christian or surname of either

party, sum of money, quantity of merchandise, day, month

or year, in the summons, complaint or other pleading
1

(the

same being right in any part of the record or procee '

must, after ju

D 1
gment, be considered as having been amenggci

whilst the cause was in progress.

§2405. No judgment can be arrested, annulled, or set'

aside for any matter not previously objected to, if the complaint contain a substantial cause of action.

CHAPTER XVII.

FOR THE CORRECTION OF ERRORS AFTER JUDGMENT, PREVENTION OF ABUSE OF PROCESS, AND FOR REHEARINGS

IN CERTAIN CASES.

Sm. SEC.

2406. Power of circuit court after 'udg- 2412. On denial of petition on oath, sument to correct errors an pre- persedeas dismissed; tried at
vent abuse of rocess. hrst term.

2407. Receipt found r trial, entitles 2413. Refunding bond required before
party to new trial within two execution issues.
ymirs. 2414. Damages on final hearing.

2408. Rehearing a plied for in four 2415. Bonds taken under this chapter
months, if efencewas preveut- have the force of judgments.
ed by fraud, dze. 2416. Court may also decide in term

2409. Applied for by petition to circuit time on the validity of an exejudge, contents of petition. cution.

2410. Supersedeasordered by the judge. 2417. Of motions of fact tried by a jury.

2411. Bond given before issue of the
supersedeas.

§ 2406. The circuit court has the power, after final judgment:

1. To correct any error in fact in the judgment or process,
apparent upon the whole record.

2. To secure parties or privies in their rights, against any
0 pression or abuse of execution, or upon any release, dis0 rge, or a ment after jud ent.
_ § 2407. here a party h a release or discharge in writmg of any claim upon which judgment has been rendered
against him, which was lost or mislaid at the trial, and which
such party was unable to prove by secondary evidence, but
has since been found, the circuit court may cause the action
to be retried at any time after the discovery of the release or
discharge, within two years after judgment.

 2408. Where a party has been prevented from making
his defence by surprise, accident, mistake or fraud, without
fault on his part, he may in like manner apply for a rehearmg, at any time within four months from the rendition of
the judgment.

§ 2409. In the cases speciiied in the two preceding sections,
the proceeding is by petition to a judge of the circuit court,
8’!-iitlng the matter complained of, with a prayer for the appropriate relief. The facts stated in the petition must be sworn'

to, unless the appear from a transcript of the record, submitted With t e petition.

§ 2410. The judge to whom the application is made must,
if satisfied that the applicant is entitled to the relief sought,
make the necessary order for a supersedeas to issue, or in
restraint of the issue or collection of the execution.

§ 2411. The supersedeas must not issue, or the execution
be suspended, unless the applicant, or some one for him, give
bond in double the amount of the 'udgment or execution,
or in double the amount superseded or restrained, payable
to the plaintiff in the judgment or his personal re resentstives, with sufficient suretles, to be approved by t e clerk
and conditioned to pay such judgment or execution with
interest, and all damages and costs awarded on the trial of
the proceeding against him.

§ 2412. The facts alleged in the petition must be tried, or
the cause reheard at the first term after the grantin of the
order, unless for cause the same is continued. W en the

cause is not tried or reheard at such first term, the court may,

on the denial on oath by the adverse party of the facts alleged
in the petition, make an interlocutory order dismissing the
su ersedeas or dissolving the restrainin order.

2413. In the case provided for by t e receding section,
no execution can issue unless such p , ° agent or attorne , execute a refunding bond in doub e the amount of the
judgment or execution, payable to the adverse part , with
sutiicient security, to be approved by the clerk, an conditioned that if the final determination of the cause is against
him, he will refund the amount collected and interest.

§ 2414. If, on the final hearing of the cause, it is decided
against the complainant, and it appears that the application
was not founde on a just or meritorious cause, the court may
award damages not exceeding ten per cent. on the amount
su erseded or restrained.

E 2415. The bonds given under this chapter have the force
an effect of judgments, and executions may issue against
any or all the obligors, either for the amount superseded or
restrained, damages and costs, or the amount collected of the
petitioner after the execution of the refunding bond, and
interest on such amount.

§ 2416. The provisions of this chapter must not be col}strued to prevent the circuit court from deciding, on an application made in term time, on the validity of any writ of execution.

§ 2417. The court may direct the trial of all questions of

fact by a jury, upon an issue made up under its direction.

CHAPTER XVIII.

or rm-3 Rsvrvu. or JUDGMENT.

Src. Ste.

2418. If execution issue in a year, within a ear, or where none
others may issue for ten. has issu for ten years.

2419. Scire facias andother Ngceedingsl 2420. Existing judgments excepted.
when execution di not issue , 2421. Scire facias barred in twenty

years.

§2418. When execution has been issued on a judgment
within a year after its rendition, and has not been returned
satisfied, another execution may be issued at any time within
ten years after the test of the last, without a revival of the
judgment.

§ 2419. No execution can issue on a judgment on which
execution has not been sued out within one year after the
rendition, until the judgment is revived b scire facias, calling on the defendant to show cause wh t e plaintiff should
not have execution of his jud ent. ut if ten years have
elapsed from the rendition oft e judgment, witnout the issue
of the execution, or if ten years have elapsed since the date
of the last execution issued, the judgment must be presumed
to be satisfied, and the burthen of proving that it is not satisfied is cast on the plaintiif.

§ 2420. The provisions of the above section do not apply
to existing judgments.

§ 2421. No scire facias shall issue to revive a judgment,
after the lapse of twenty years from its rendition.

CHAPTER XIX.

OF EXECUTIONS AND FORTHCOMING BONDS.

Axrxcnz 1. Form of, by whom and how issued.

“ 2. Of the levy, sale aud return.

“ 3. Of the roperty subject to execution.

“ 4. Of the ien of executions.

“ 5. Property exempt from execution.

“ 6. Forthcoming bonds and execution thereon.

ARTICLE 1.
Form qf; by whom and when zlsszwd.

Sac. Sac.

2422. Forms of executions to enforce 2424. Time in which they must be is»
judgments, either for debt, sued.
damages, &c., or for recovery 2425. Bill of costs to be indorsed on
of specific property. the execution.

2-423. To issue as soon as racticable

2426. May issue before judgment on
after judgmentof ecourt.

adidavit, but new trial not
waived.

 

Sac. l 830.

2427. To issue immediately after(f'udg- against the plaintiff for his
ment on aflidavit, an ca. ~ . own cost.
911., if required. I 2432. Females exempt from ca. ca.

2428. Plaintiff may take out more than 2433. Ca. sa. issued only on amdavit,
one writ on  costs. l discharge from arrest, how
2429. When directed to an served by t obtained.
coroner, dzc. . 2434. Person discharged by privilege,
2430. Payment on the judgment to be to surrender after it ceases.
indorsed on an alias execution. . 2435. On arrest, property received in
2431. If defendant insolvent. execution j discharge of the person.

§ 2422. For the satisfaction of 'ud merits, the party in
' Whose favor the judgment is ren ere%, whether for eht,
damages or costs, may Within a year thereafter, have either
a writ of fieri facias against the lands and goods of the party
against whom the judgment is rendered, or a capias ad satis
faciendum against the body. When the jud ent is for specific property or the alternate value, or for t e possession of
lands, appro riate writs of execution, as hereafter described,
may issue or the satisfaction thereof, which must conform
substantially to the forms hereby prescribed.
[Fz'erz' Faciaa]
The State of Alabama,
County. i To any sheriff of the state. You are
. hereby commanded that of the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements of A. B., you cause to be made the sum of -dollars, which C. D. recovered of him on the da of ——
18 , by the 'udgment of our circuit court, hel for the
county of , esides costs of suit; and have the same to
render to the said C. D., and make return of this writ, and
the execution thereof according to law.
VVitness my hand, this day of

 

   

E. F., Clerk.
ECapia.s ad .satzls_facz'endum.]
The State of A abama
County. , To any sheriff of the state.

You are hereby commanded to take the body of A. B., if
to be found in your county, and him safely. keep so that you
have his body at the next term of our circuit court to be
held for the county of —, to satisfy C. D. the sum of -dollars, yiirhifchhthe saidhC. D., by the fj udgmiztsigf said cog?
recovere 0 im on e ay 0 es —-~- 0 lars costs of suit; hnd make return of this virit and the execution thereof according to law. Witness my hand, &c.

E. F., Clerk.

Th StEl.gab:‘T‘6A'_f1.(1(.E:.a:S'_Z)0-$3(3«3«S‘?..07'le777» and

e o a ama
County. , i To any sheriff of the state. _

You are hereby commandedto de1iver.to A. B. possession
of the l8.I11)dS alilid tegements wyhich the said A.  §e<:fove1t§d
of C. D. t e ju gment 0 our circuit court cl or 6
county 0 , on the —— dayof —, viz: (describe the
land recovered.) You are further directed, of the goods and
chattels, lands and tenements of the said C. D., you cause to

be made the sum of dollars damages, adjudged to the
said A. B., and also the further sum of dollars costs of
suit; and make return of this Writ and the execution thereof,
according to law. Witness my hand, &c. E. F., Clerk.

[For the delivery Qf .sj2ec2_.'fic property, and damages for the
detention.]
The State of Alabama,
County. i To any sheriff of the state.
_ You are hereby commanded to seize and deliver to A. B.,
the following slaves, (or other personal property as the case
may be,) which the said A. B., on the day of , by
judgment of our circuit court, held for the county of ,
recovered of C. D., if the same can be had, if not, you are
hereby directed that of the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, of the said C. D., you cause to be made the sum
of dollars, the alternate value of the said slaves, viz:
(here set out the assessed value of each slave or other personal property.) Also the further sum of dollars for
the detention of the said slaves b the said C. D., besides

dollars, costs of suit; and ma 'e return of this writ and
the execution thereof according to law.

Witness my hand, &c. E. F., Clerk.

5' 2423. The clerk must issue executions on all judgments
in favor of the successful party, as soon after the adjournment of the court as practicable, within the time prescribed

   

 

by this code, unless otherwise directed. The writ must be‘

signed by the clerk, and tested on the day it is issued.
§ 2424. “Then the court continues in session but one week,
the clerk must issue executions within five days thereafter;
when it continues more than one and less than two weeks,
within ten days thereafter; when it continues in session more
than two, and less than three weeks, within liftecn days
thereafter; and when it continues more than three weeks,
within twenty days from the adjournment.
§ 2425. At the foot or on some part of the execution, the
clerk must state the several items composing the bill of costs,
in intelligible words and figures.
§ 2-126. Upon the rendition of judgment, execution may
be issued by leave of the court, before the adjournment thereof, the plaintiff, his agent or attorne showing sufficient cause
therefor, by atlidavit; but the de endant is not prevented
thereby from moving for a new trial or in arrest of judgment,
or deprived of any right he would otherwise have had.
§ 2427. After the adjournment of the court and before
the expiration of the time limited by section 2424, the clerk
must, on afhdavit being made and tiled in his oliice, that the
defendant is about fraudulently to dispose of, or remove his
property, and that thereby the plaintiff will probably lose
°s debt, issue execution against the property of the defendant. And must also, if required, and the affidavit prescribed

by section 2175 is made, issue an execution against the body
of the defendant.

§ 2428. More than one writ of execution may be issued,
at the costs of the plaintiff, though the first be not returned,

‘ and when a capias ad satisfaciendum is returned not found, a

fieri facias may issue. So when a fieri facias is returned not
satisfied, or satisfied only in part, an alias iieri facias, or
ca ias ad satisfaciendum may be issued.

2429. In the cases provided for by Chapter three, Title

iten, Part one., the execution must be directed to, and executed by the coroner, or special coroner, as the case may be
§ 2430. When a judgment has been satisfied in part, and

i an alias execution issued, the clerk must indorse thereon the

amount which had been previously made, with the time of
its payment or collection by the sheriff.
§ 2431. When execution against the defendant is returned

' “no property found,” execution may issue against the plaintiff, in the name of the clerk of the court, for all costs created
by him in obtaining his judgment.

§ 2432. The writ of capias ad satisfaciendum must not issue to take the body of a female.

§ 2433. Before a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum is issued

‘in any case, the party applying for it must make and file

with the clerk the afhdavit re uired by section 2175, providing for bail in civil cases. When an arrest is made under
the writ, the defendant may discharge himself from custody
in the mode pointed out for persons arrested on a bail writ,
and the plaintiff, in all res ects, has the benefit of the pro
visions of the law for the scharge of bail, for the collection
of his demand.

§ 2434. Any person taken in execution, who is delivered
out of custody by his privilege as a member of the legisla'ture, as soon as his privilege ceases, must return himselfa

prisoner in execution, or be liable as for an escape.
§ 2435. When a capias ad satisfaciendum is issued, the defendant may tender to the sheriff property in disch of

' the judgment, which he must receive in lieu of the y of

the defendant, endorsing the recei t thereof on the writ, and
make sale thereof as in case of a levy by fieri facias; if by
the sale, a sufficient sum is not raised to satisfy the judgment

and costs, an alias fieri facias, or capias satisfaciendum may
188116.

ARTICLE II.

0f the levy, sale and return.

Sac. Size.
2436. Time of receipt of execution to be 2439. Reason for not executing, stated
indorsed, and order of receipt in the return.
if more than one. 2440. Sheriffs may make returns to
2437. To be executed with diligence, other counties by mail; moretumed, dtc. ney not to be sent by mail.
2488. When returned. 2441. Fi. fa. of less than onehundud

Snc. SIG.

dollars, not to be levied on 2448. Property of principal first levied
slaves if other property can on.

be found. 2449. Amount collected to be indorsed,
2442. Custody of slaves or cattle levied and receipt given to defendant.
on. 2450. Other property substituted for
2443. Description of property levied that levied on.
on to be indorsed on the ex- 2451. Notice of collection of the money
ecution, and notice given to given to the plaintiff.
the owner of land levied on. 2452. Excess of sales paid defendant,
1444. Indemnif ing bond, when re- or money collected before noquire tice of injunction.
2445. Lien of execution losth creditor, 245 3. When land or slaves are sold,
refusing to indemni y. the names, descri tion, and
2446. Time and place of selling proper- (price to be indorsed.
ty levied on. 2454. Or er of sale of goods on hand af‘2447. Notice of sale, how and when ter return of execution; form
given. of such order.

§ 2436. The sheriff, or other officer receiving an execution, must indorse thereon the day, month and year of its
receipt. When more than one execution against the same
defendant comes to his hands on the same day, if not received at the same time, he must indorse the order in which
the are received.
§y 2437. He must execute the writ With diligence, and if
pyticable, perform the mandate thereof, and make return of
° acts to the clerk, three days before the first day of the retum term of the writ. _ _
§ 2438. The return term of the writ is the term next after
its date, unless issued less than fifteen days before court; in
which case it is the term next thereafter.
§ 2439. If the Writ be not executed, or on] executed in
part, the reason why it is not executed, or on y executed in
part, must be stated in the return.
§ 2440. The return of an execution or other process, by a
sheriff of a county other than that from which t e process issued, may be made through the public mail, and the certificate of the post master, that it was placed in his office in time
by the usual course of the mail, to reach the court house of
the county where the return has to be made, by the return
day of the writ, shall be presumptive evidence for the sheriff
of the fact. The sheriff is not authorized to send money by
the mail without the consent of the plaintiff in execution.
§ 2441. No fieri facias, for an amount under one hundred
dollars, must be levied on slaves, unless there is not a sufficienc of other property of the defendant known to the
sherid‘, within the county of his residence, out of which it
can be satisfied.‘
§ 2442. When slaves or live stock are levied on, and remain in the hands of the officer for sale, it is his duty to provide them With sustenance. He must not, unless re mred
60 to do b the plaintiff, or defendant, imprison the s aves;
but it is ' duty to hire them out, or employ the slaves,
horses, and other stock, if practicable, for their support; and
If unable to do so, must be allowed a reasonable compensation by the court for their» support, which he may retain

from the proceeds of the sale.

§ 2443. Where a levy is made of real or personal property, a full description thereof, with the date of the levy, must
be indorsed upon, or appended to the execution. Where
the le is of real estate, personal notice thereof must be given to t e defendant, or a notice thereof in writing left at his
residence, if resident in the county; if not, then by putting
u a written notice at the court house door; and the manner
of) giving notice must be stated in the return.

2444. When a reasonable doubt exists, whether prope
levied on belongs to the defendant, or whether property leged to be his, is subject to levy and sale, the sheriff may
require of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, a bond of indemnity; and if it be not given within ten da s thereafter,
he ma restore the roperty to the defendant, ° ‘levied upon,
or dec ine to levy ' one has not been made; but may be required to levy and sell at any time thereafter, on being inemniiied.

; § 2445. If a party having the prior lien, refuse to give

-such indemnit on demand of the sherilf the rson ha '

. . 7 . r P3 “"3
the next hen in order, may give such bond and have the
property sold for his benefit,

§ 2446. Lands, slaves, horses, mules, jacks and jennets,

, when levied on by execution from courts of record, must be
sold on the iirst Monday in the month, at the court house of
the county; other roperty may be sold on any day exce t
Sunday, either at t e court house, the residence of the difendant, the place where levied, or the neighborhood thereof,
as m. y be most ex edient. The sale may be continued from
day to day, if ren ered necessary b the inelemeney of the
weather, or from inability to conclud: the sale in one day.

. § 2447. Ten days’ notice of the sale of personal property,

" other than slaves, must be given, by advertisement, at the
court house door, and also by advertisement in a newspaper,

'° if one is published in the county. In like manner, twenty
days’ notice must be given of the sale of slaves, and thirty
days’- notice of the sale of real property.

§ 2448. When execution issues a ainst two or more persons, any of whom were sureties on t e contract before judgment, the sherilf must levy on the property of the principal
first, if any can be found in the county, on the application of

,_ such surety; and may require of the suret affidavit of the
fact of suret ship, which he must file with t e execution.

t § 2449. hen money is collected on an execution, the

. officer collecting it must indorse thereon, or append themw.
the amount collected, specifying the judgment, interest thereon, and costs, with his own commissions, and sign his name
thereto. He must also, if required, receipt in like manner to
the defendant.

§ 2450. The debtor has the right, on the day of sale, 30
substitute other property of equal value, not covered by an!

lien, in lieu of that levied upon; which fact, and a description of the roperty substituted, must be indorsed on or a pended to t e execution, and the substituted property
sold in lieu of that levied upon.

§ 2451. When the money, or any part thereof, has been
made on an execution, the ofiieer must give the plaintiff, his
agent, or attorne , personal notice thereof, within ten da s
thereafter, if resi ent in the county. If not resident in t e
county, and he knows the residence of them, or either of
them, such notice may be sent by mail through the post otlice.

§ 2452. When at an execution sale, the amount of the
sale exceeds the judgment, interest, and costs, the excess
must be paid to the debtor or his legal representatives. Or
when money is aid, or collected on an execution, the whole,
or any part of w ich is enjoined in chancery, the same must,
on demand, be refunded to the debtor or his legal representatives, if it has not been paid over to the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney, without notice of the injunction.

§ 2453. When land or slaves are sold under execution, the
names of the slaves, and the rice for which they were sold,
with a description of the Ian and the price obtained for it,
must be indorsed on or appended to the writ by the otlicer
making such sale.

§ 2454. When goods levied on remain in the hands of the
oliicer unsold, it is his duty to make return of the fact, and
thereupon the clerk must issue a writ for the sale thereof, in
substance as follows:

The State of Alabama,
County. To the sheriff of said county:

You are hereby commanded to sell those goods and chattels of A. B., which you have taken pursuant to our command, and which according to your return remain in your
hands unsold, to satisfy C. D. the sum of dollars recovered by him of the said A. B., by the judgment of our circuit court hqld for the county of , on the -—— day of

 

 

 

—, aim» dollars costs of suit, and make return of this

writ and the execution thereof according to law. Witness

my hand, &c. E. F., Clerk.
ARTICLE II_I.

Of the prqmrty subject to execution.

SEQ. 2455. Titles to real property which can be sold under execution; character of personal property, and interests in mortgaged property.

§ 2455. Executions may be levied:

_ 1. On real property to which the defendant has a legal
title or a perfect equity, having paid the purchase money, or
In which 0 has a vested legal interest, in possession, reversion or remainder, whether he has the entire estate or is entitled to it in common with otheis.

2. On rsonal property of the defendant (except things in
action) W ether he has the absolute title thereto, or the right
only to the possession thereof for his own life, the life of
another, or any shorter period. But this does not apply to
a possession acquired by a bona fide hiring of a slave or other
chattels.

3. On an e uity of redemption in either land or personal
pro erty. en any interest less than the absolute title is
sold: the purchaser 1S subrogated to all the rights of the
defendant and subject to all his disabilities.

ARTICLE IV.

The lien of eacecutions.

810. SEC.

2456. Executions only have a lien on 2457. Orderof priorityof liensbetween
real or personal propert in different creditors.
the county, from time 0 de- 2458. Lien destroyed by supersedes:
livery to sheriff, and lien con- or injunction.
tinned by issuing other execu- 2459. Execution, having a lien levied
tions. after death of the defendant.

 
 

§ 2456. A writ of fieri facias is alien only within the county
in which it is received by the officer, on the lands and rsonal
propert of the defendant, subject to levy and sale, mm the
time on y that the Writ is received by the sheriff ; which lien
continues as long as the Writ is regularly issued and delivered to the sheriff without the lapse of an entire term.
§ 2-157. The liens of executions as between different judg
ment creditors, and between judgment creditors and pm‘chasers from the defendant for valuable consideration, are
hereby declared to be: that if an entire term elapse between
the return of an execution and the suing out of an alias, the
lien created by the delivery of the first execution to the
sheriif is lost; but if an alias be sued out before the lapse of
an entire term, and delivered to the sheriff before the sale of
roperty under a junior execution, the lien created by the
ehvery of the first execution must be preferred.
I § 2458. The execution of a bond for an appeal b which
' the judgment is sus ended, or the execution of a nd by
1 the defendant, upon the proper otlicer, grantin an injunction,
i supersedeas, or restraining order, destroys 5:
by the delivery of a fieri facias to the sheriff.
§ 2459. A writ of fieri facias issued and received b the
sheriff during the life of the defendant, may be levi 8361'
his decease, or an alias issued and levied if there has not been

the la se of an entire term, so as to destroy the lien originally
created.

e lien created

ARTICLE V.

Property exempt from execution.

Sm. ‘ See.
2460. Property on leased land, unless a' 2464. After claim of exemption the
year's rent be tendered , homestead cannotbe sold with2461. Growing crop not exempt from J out subject’ it to the lien.
levy, but exempt from sale till 2465. Sheriff not lie. le for trespass,
mature. unless allidavit of exemption
2462. List of propert exempt for the be made.
use of every liimily. 2466. Property exempt to be returned
2463. Value of homestead, how fixed. on claim.

§ 2460. N o execution must be levied on goods or chattels
in possession of and upon the premises of a tenant held by
lease for one or more years, until the rent due or to fall due
during the current year is paid or tendered to the landlord
or his agent or attorney, and the sheriff executing the writ
must levy and sell, as well for the repayment of the rent so
tendered as for the satisfaction of the execution.

§ 2461. A levy may be made upon a growing crop when
there is no other property of the defendant known to the
sheriff, but no sale must be made thereof until the crop is
gathered. It is the duty of the sheriff at the request of the

laintiff, his agent or attorney, to employ hands if ractica1e and gather the crop, unless the defendant is wil ing and
offers to do so. When the crop is sold the proceeds must be
applied, first to repay the cost of gathering it, and afterward
to the satisfaction of the execution.

§ 2462. The following property may be permanently retained for the use of every family in the state, exempt from
levy and sale b any legal process:

1. Househol and kitchen furniture of the value of one
hundred and fifty dollars, to be selected by the head of the
family, the value thereof to be assessed by three disinterested
persons, to be selected by the sheriff.

2. All books not kept for sale, all family portraits, one gun,
glgdloom, two spinning wheels, one man s and one woman’s

e.

3. Three cows and calves, twenty head of sheep, twenty
head of ho , five hundred pounds of meat, one thousand
pounds of odder, twenty-five bushels of wheat, all the meal
at any time on hand not kept for sale, one work horse or
mule, or one air of oxen, one horse or ox cart, all tools or
implements 0 any mechanical trade not kept for sale, not to
exceed two hundred dollars in value, two ploughs and plough
gear, and two hoes. ‘

4. Such real property as may be selected by the head of
the famil , to mclude the homestead, not to exceed forty
acres, an in value not to exceed five hundred dollars.

§ 2463. The value of the real property must be ascertained
b three disinterested freeholders, to be summoned by the
5 Griff for that purpose, who must be sworn to make the

valuation fairly, and if necessary must set off the land by
mctes and bounds, who are entitled to two dollars a day, to
be aid by the defendant in execution.

2464. Neither the head of the famil nor any member
thereof has the ower to sell or dispose o the property thus
exempt from sa e or levy; and if sold and taken possession
of by the urchaser, or if abandoned by the family, by the
death or is ersion of its members, is liable for the debts
existing at t e time the exemption was claimed.

§ 2465. N o sheriff or other officer levying on property
exempt from execution, is liable for any damages therefor,
unless the defendant, or some other person for him, make
afiidavit that the propert about to be levied on is exempt
from execution, and exhigit the same to such sheriff or officer.

§ 2466. If the affidavit prescribed by the )receding section
is made within five days after the levy, sue sheriff or other
officer must, on such affidavit being delivered to him, and
the tender of the costs and expenses for keeping the pro
ert levied on, deliver such property on demand to t e
de endant, and failing so to do is, with his sureties, liable to
the defendant for all damages.

ARTICLE VII.

Fbrtlzcoming bonds and execution thereon.

SEO. Sac.

2467. Property levied on restored on 2469. Certain persons denied the right
 forthcomin bond. to give forthcoming bonds

2468. On forfeiture of the dthe clerk 2470. Ifthe pm rtyis destrayedvith
issues execution. out fa t, the value may bo

tendered.

§ 2467. “Then slaves or other personal property are levied
on by the sheriff, if the defendant execute bond payable to
the plaintiff in double the amount of the execution, with
sufficient surety, conditioned to deliver the property levied
on to the pro r officer by twelve o’c1ocl{ noon of the day
and at the p ace appointed for the sale thereof, the sheriff
must restore the property to the defendant.

§2468. If the ropert is not delivered accordin to the
condition of the bond, the sheriff must return it orfeited
within five days thereafter to the clerk’s office out of which
the execution issued, indorsing thereon a forfeiture of the
bond; and it is then the duty of the clerk without delay to
issue execution on the forfeited bond, against all the obligors
therein, for the judgment and costs, upon which no security
of any kind can be taken, which he must indorse upon the
writ.

§ 2469. The two preceding sections do not apply to exe
cutions issued on judgments against sheriffs, coroners, 01'
other oflicers of court against whom judgment is obtained for

failing to pay over money collected or paid to them in official
capacity; and the clerk must indorse on all such executions,
“no securit of any kind to be taken.”

§ 2470. Vilhen property is restored to the defendant on the
execution of a forthcoming bond, and the same dies or is
destroyed before the da for the delivery thereof, without
fault on his part, the ob igors in the bond may tender the
value to the laintiff, his agent or attorney, and if such tender is refuse , the obligors in such bond may, on petition to
the judge of the circuit court, supersede the same.

CHAPTER XX.

GARNISHMENT ON JUDGMENTS.

Sn } Sec.

2471. On amdavit of judgment cred-  corporation on return of exe
itor that there is no visible cution, “no property.”
property to pay his debt, gar- l 2473. Proceedings similar to those
nishment issues. l against garnishees in attachS472. Garnishment of stockholders in a  ment.

§ 2471. Judgment creditors, their agents or attorneys,
may obtain process of garnishment, against any person supposed to be indebted to the defendant, in any cause, where
execution could issue on the judgment, by making affidavit,
before the clerk of the court in which the jud ment was
rendered, that such erson is su posed to be inde ted to, or
have effects of the efendant in ' possession or under his
control, and that he believes process of garnishment against
such persons is necessary to obtain satisfaction of such judgment, and thereupon the clerk must issue the process, returnable forthwith if in term time, or to the next term of
the court, if in vacation; aud such proceedings shall thereon
be had as u n arnishments in original attachments.

§2472. 'u§gment creditor of an existing corporation,
whose execution has been returned, “no roperty found,”
his agent, or attorney, upon making affi avit before the
clerk, that a certain erson supposed to be indebted to the
Qorporation, as stock older of the corporation, or otherwise,
gs entitled to process of garnishment, returnable forthwith, if
In term time, or to the next term if in vacation, and such
proceedings must thereupon be had, as in cases of original
attachments.

§2473. The provisions of Articles live and six, Cha ter
0I1e,_ Title two, of this part, are applicable to the preceding
sections of this chapter.

CHAPTER XXI.

OF LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

Anrxcu: 1. Of the time within which suits must be brought.
“ 2. General rules.

ARTICLE I.
0f the time within which suits must be brought.

Ste. 810.

2474. Civil suits to be commenced 2477. Within six years.
within a certain time, and not 2478. Within hve years.
afterwards. 2479. Within four years

2475. Suite which must be commenced 2480. Within three years.
within twenty years. 2481. Within one year.

2476. Suits to be commenced within

tenyears.

§ 2474. Civil suits must be commenced after the cause of
action has accrued, within the periods prescribed in thi
chapter, and not afterwards.
r §2475. Within twenty ears:
. 1. Actions at the suit 0 the state of Alabama against a
citizen thereof, for the recovery of real or personal property.
2. Actions upon a judgment or decree of an court of the
state of Alabama, of the United States, or 0 any state or
territory of the United States.
2476. Within ten ears:

1. Actions founde upon any contract, or writing under
seal.

2. Actions for the recovery of lands, tenements, or here
ditaments, or the ossession thereof.
3. Motions, an other actions, against sheriifs, coroners,

constables, and other public oflicers, for nonfeasance, misfeasance, or malfeasance in ofiice.

§ 2477. Within six years:
1. Actions for a trespass to real or personal properg.
2. Actions for the detention or conversion of person propert .

gt Actions founded on a promise in writing not under seal.

4. Actions for the recovery of money, upon a loan, upon 8
stated or liquidated account, or for arrears of rent, due upon
a parol demise.

6. Actions for the use and occupation of land. '

6. Motions, and other actions against the sureties of any
sheriff, coroner, constable, or any public oiiicer; or actions
against the sureties of executors, administrators, or gunfdians, for any misfeasance, or malfeasance whatever to their
principal; the time to be computed from the act done, or
omitted by their principal, which fixes the liability of the
surety.

7. Motions, and other actions t attorneys at law, for

failing to pa over money of their clients, or for neglect 01'
omission of uty.

8. Any action, founded upon any judgment of a justice of
the peace of this state.

9. Any action arising from simple contract, or specialty,
not herein s ifically enumerated.

§ 2478. Vvifhin five years:

1. All actions founded on e uities of redemption, where
lands have been sold under a decree of the court of chancery, existing In any person, not a party to the proceedings,
who claims under the mortgagor, or grantor 111 the deed of
trust.

§ 247 9. Within four years:

All actions or motions against any security to any writ

of error, appeal, replevin, or forthcoming bond, executed

in any cause, in any of the courts of the United States, or in
any other state or country except the state of Alabama.

§ 2480. VVithin three years:

1. Actions to recover money due by open or unliquidated
account, the time to be computed from the date of the last
item of the account, or from the time when, by contract or
usage, the account is due.

§ 2481. Within one year:

811; Actions for assault and battery, false imprisonment, or
in (310118 rosecution.

2. Actigns for criminal conversation, for the seduction of
a female, or breach of marriage promise.

3. Actions qui mm, or for a penalty given by statute to
the arty aggrieved, unless the statute imposing it prescribes
a digerent limitation.

4. Actions of libel, or slander.

5. Actions against steam boats, and other water-craft, commenced b attachment.

6. Civil actions, for any injury to the person, or rights of
another, not arising from contract, and not herein specifically
enumerated.

 

ARTICLE II.

General rules.

C. Ste.

2482. Entry presumed when the right a suit, a cause of action arisexists. ing there is also barred here.

2483. Right of, not tolled by descent 2488. The statute does not embrace
cast. accounts between merchants.

2484. Period of absence from the state 2489. Last item of an account is the
deducted from the time since date from W505 $110 Btltllte
action accrued. runs.

2485. If suit is brought, and judgment 2490. Bar of the statute only removed
rendered, another suit may be by partial payment or prombrought within a year. V ise in 

2486. Three years allowed infants, (#3,, 2491. When a demand is necessary.
to bring suits alter removal time computed from the act
of disability. Restriction, done, and not the demand.

2437. IN.-be laws of another state bar 2492. In 805003 for fraud, time @111 

SIG Sac.
computed from the discovery. 2497. Time of in'unction not computed
2493. Suing out a summons is a com- 2498. If the act  to run it is not
A mencement of suit. suspend
2494. Six months of time, between 2499. All disabilities to cease before
death and grant of letters not the act runs.
computed. 2500. Nor suspends the act as to citi2496. Nor the six months in which the zens of an enemy’s state.
executors and administrators 2501. No limitation as to notes put in
are exempt from suit. circulation as money.
2196. Time of accrual of action against ‘.2502. Applies to causes of action now
deputy or agent. subsisting. Exceptions.

§ 2482. When a right of entry on lands accrues, the entry
must be considered as having been made, and the cause of
action as having then accrued
§ 2483. The right of entry is not tolled by a descent cast
» 2484. When any person is absent from the state, during
the period within which a suit might have been brought
against him, such period or periods of time must not be computed as a portion of the time necessary to create a bar under
this chapter.
§ 2485. If suit be brought in any of the said actions, before
the time limited has expired, and judgment be rendered for
the plaintiff, and such judgment be arrested, or reversed on
appeal, the plaintiff, or his legal representatives, may com.mence suit again within one ear from the reversal or arrest
.of such judgment, though t e period limited may in the
mean time have expired; and in like manner, if more than
one judgment be reversed, or arrested, an action may be re
commenced within one year.
§ 2486. If an one entitled to bring any of the actions
enumerated in t is chapter, or to make an entry on land, or
defence founded on the title to real property, be at the time
»such right accrues, within the age of twenty-one years, 3
married woman, or insane, or im risoned on a criminal
charge, for any term less than for ' e, he or she has three
years after the termination of such disability to bring suit,
make en or defence. But no disability will extend the
period of imitation, so as to allow such action to be commenced, entry or defence made, after the lapse of twent
-years from the time of the cause of action, or right accru
nor must this exception extend to a married woman, in re
spect to her separate estate.
[ § 2487. When the statute of limitations of another state
r or foreign country has created a bar to an action upon a con§tract or act done in such state or country, whilst the part]
' sought to be charged thereb was a resident of such state} 01‘
country, the bar thus create is etfwtual in this state, agmllsl
any suit brought thereon, in the same manner it would have
been in the state or country where the act was done or contract made.
§ 2488. The limitations herein provided, do not apply W
such actions as concern the trade of merchandise between
merchants and merchants, their agents and factors, while 3119
accounts between them are current.

§ 2489. When there are mutual accounts between persons who are not merchants, the time must be computed
from the date of the last item, unless the account be liquidated, and a balance struck.

§ 2490. N 0 act, promise or acknowledgment is sufficient
to remove the bar to a suit created by the provisions of this
chapter, or is evidence of a new or continuing contract, except a partial payment made upon the contract, by the party
sought to be c arged before t e bar is complete, or an unconditional promise in writing, signed by the party to be
charged thereby.

§ 2491. When a right exists, but a demand is necessary
to entitle the party to an action against an officer, agent or
attorney, the imitation commences from t e commission or
omission of the act, giving the right of action, and not from
the date of the demand.

§ 2492. In actions seekin relief on the ground of fraud,
where the statute has create a bar, the cause of action must
not be considered as having accrued until the discovery by
the aggrieved party of the facts constituting the fraud, after
which he must have one year within which to prosecute his
suit.

§ 2493. The suin out of a summons, is the commencement of a suit, whet er it be executed or not, if the suit be
continued by an alias, or recommenced at the next term of
the court.

§ 2494. The time between the death of a person and the
grant of letters testamentary or of administration, not exceeding six months, is not to be taken as any part of the
time limited for the commencement of actions by or against
his executors or administrators.

§ 2495. The six months which an executor or administrator is exempt from suit, after the grant of letters, is not to be
takenas any part of the time limited for the commencement
of action against him.

§ 2496. When an injury arises from the act or omission
of a deputy or agent, the time for the limitation of an action
by the principal against such deputy or agent, does not commence to run until the liability o the principal for the act
or omission of such deputy or agent is ascertained, by suit of
the aggrieved party against the principal. . _

§ 2497. When the commencement of an action is stayed
by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the con-4
tinuance of the in'unction or statute prohibition, is not computed as part of t c time.

§ 2498. A disability which did not exist when the cause
of action accrued, does not suspend the operation of the
limitation, unless the contrary is expressly provided.

§ 2499. When two or more disabilities coexist, at the time
the cause of action accrued, the limitation does not attach
until all are removed.

§ 2500. When the United States is at war with a foreign

country, and either party to a contract is a subject or citizen
therco , the time of the continuance of the war is not computed as part of the time limited for the commencement of
the suit.
[ § 2501. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to acItions to enforce payment of bills, notes or other evidences of
debt, issued or put in circulation as money.
§ 2502. The provisions of this chapter apply to all subsisting causes of action, except such as suits ve been commenced upon, and all now pending, and those upon which
suits may be commenced, Within one year from the time this
code goes into operation.

Ctitlz 2.

SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS IN CERTAIN CASES.

Our. 1. Attachments at law.

“ 2. Trial of right of property.

“ 3. Summary judgments.

“ 4. Proceedings by sureties.

“ 5. To vacate charters of corporations, and prevent usurpation in 0643:.
“ 6. Mechanics’ lien.

“ 7. Partition of lands.

“ 8. Proceedings in admiralty.

“ 9, Arbitration

“ 10. To appoint and remove trustees.

“ 11. Prison bounds, and insolvent debtors.
“ 12. Inquisitions of lunacy.

CHAPTER I.

ATTACHMENTS AT LAW.

Aarrcuz 1. Of the issue of attachments.

“ 2. In what manner and on what property executed.
“ 3. Of tahttachmentsatzi rent.

“ 4. Of e replevy claim of pnoperty.

“ 5. Proceedmg' s aga1ns' t garmsh' ees.

“  Collateral issues.

“ . Ancillary attachments.

“ 8. Judicial attachments.

“ 9. Of the pleadings in attachment.

“ 10. Attachments against steam boats.

ARTICLE I.
0f the issue of attachments.

Sac. Sac.

2503. For what debts and damages is- 2506. Oath as to the debtandcause Ir
sued. attaehment to be made.

2504. Casesin which attachments is- 2507. Bondandsecnrityahorequired.
sue. 2508. Judge or chancellor to require

2505. By what otlicers issued for any sworn statemenb of facts on
certain money demand.

a plication for attachment for; 2412. Corporations may sue out attachments.
2609. Attachment by a non-resident, l 2513. Against foreign corporations.

against another. . 2514. Form of attachment; no objec‘.’.5l0. Notice to a non—resident dcfend- ' tions taken for want of form.

ant in attachment. 1 2515. Bond and affidavit returnable
2511. State banllfdhas attachment with- ‘ with the attachment
out bo ,

§. 2503. Attachments may issue:

1. To enforce the collection of a debt, whether it be due
or not, at the time the attachment is taken out.

2. For any moneyed demand, the amount of which can be
certainly ascertained.

3. To recover damages for a breach of contract, when the
damages are not certain or liquidated.

4. When the action sounds in damages merely.

§ 2504. And in the following cases:

1. When the defendant resides out of the state.

2. “Then the defendant absconds.

3. When the defendant secretes himself so that the ordinary process of law cannot be served on him.

4. When the defendant is about to remove out of the state.

5. When the defendant is about to remove his property
out of the state, so that the plaintiff will probably lose his
debt, or have to sue for it in another state.

6. When the defendant is about fraudulently to dispose of
his pro erty.

7. Vighen the defendant has fraudulently disposed of his

P1'°P9_$)’8. I hen the defendant has moneys, property or effects,
liable to satisfy his debts, which he fraudulently withholds.

§ 2505. In the first and second cases mentioned in section
2503, it may be issued by any judge of the circuit court, returnable to any county 111 the state, or by the clerk of the
circuit court, judge of the probate court or any justice of the
peace, within their respective counties. In the third and
fourth cases by a judge of the circuit court or chancellor
only, returnable to any county.

§ 2506. The officer, before issuing the attachment in the
two first cases mentioned in the last section, must require
the plaintiff, his agent or attorne , to make oath of the
amount of the debt or demand, an that it is justly due; also, that one of the causes enumerated in section 2504 exists,
and that the attachment is not sued out for the purpose of
vexing or harassing the defendant; which must also be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the party.

§ 2507. He must further require the laintiif, his agent
or attorney, to execute a bond in double the amount claimed
tobe due, with sufficient surety, payable to the defendant,
with condition that the laintiif will rosecute the attachment to effect, and ay tile defendant such damages as he

may sustain from t e wrongful or vexatious suing out such
attachment.

§ 2508. When an attachment is applied for in the cases
provided for in the third and fourth subdivisions of section
2503, the judge or chancellor, before issuing it, must r uire
the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, in addition to the davit and bond required in other cases to make affidavit in
Writing, of the special facts and circumstances, so as to enable
him to determine the amount for which a levy must be made;
which sum may, at the discretion of the court, be reduced at
the return term of the attachment, on aiiidavit of the defendant, and the levy released to the amount of such reduction.
2509. A non-resident of this state may sue out an attac ment against a non-resident for an existing debt, or ascertained (liiabilit tput giqhplaiI;i‘.1i1i', his agent, gphattomey,
is require in a on e oa necessary in er
to swear that accordin to the best of hisknowledge, information and belief, the _ efendant has not sufficient property
within the state of his residence, _wherefrom to satisfy the
debs;  iphust aals: give bond as in other cases, with surety,
resi en in is s .
§ 2510. When an attachment is sued out against a nonresident, the court, at the return term of the writ, must direct
the clerk to cause a notice of the attachment, and levy on the
defendant’s property, to be advertised four successive weeks,
in some newspaper, a copy of which must be sent by niail_to
the defendant, if his residence is known, or can be ascertained, unless he appears and defends.

_§ 2511. The commissioner and trustee of the state bank,
his agent or attorney, may sue out an attachment to recover
a debt due the bank, in any county of_the state, upon making
affidavit as required in other cases, without executing bond;
and for a wrongful suing out of the attachment, the bank is
liable  the defendant in_ damages, to be ascertained by a
suit against the said commissioner and trustee.

§ 2512. Corporations, either foreign or domestic, a.re entitled to process of attachment for the recovery of the debts,
or ascertained demands due them. The president, cashier of
the corporation, or an agent, or attorney thereof, making the
aihdavit and executing bond as in other cases.
§ 2513. Process of attachment may issue for the recovery _of debts against foreign corporations having property
within this state, in the same manner, and subject to the
same rules as in case of natural persons residing without this
state.
§ 2514. The form of attachment must be in substance as
follows; but no objection shall be taken for any defect in
form, if the essential matters are set forth:
The state of Alabama, To any sheriif of the state of AlCounty. abama: W'hereas A. B., (or C. D.,
as the agent or attorney of A. B._, as the case may be,) hath
complained on oath to me, E. F., judge of the circuit court of
said state, (or justice of the peace, or judge of the probate
court, or clerk of the circuit court of said county, or as the

case may be,) that G. H. is (or will be, as the case may be,)
justly indebted to the plaintiff in the sum of ——- dollars,
and the plaintiff having made afiidavit and given bond as required by law, in such cases, you are hereb commanded to
attach so much of the estate of G. H. as w' 1 be of value to
satisfy the said debt and costs, according to the complaint;
and such estate, unless replevied, so to secure that the same
may be liable to further proceedings thereon, to be had at

the next term of the circuit court for the count
be held at the court house thereof; when an

 

of , to
where you

must make known how you have executed this writ.

Witness my hand this, &c.

§ 2515. The bond and affidavit must be returned by the
ofiicer issuing the attachment, to the court to which the at-'

tachment is returnable.

 

E. F., clerk.

ARTICLE II.

In what manner and upon what property easecuted.

Size. A Size.

2516. Executed on any property, or on '
choses in action y garnishment.

2517. Garnishee cited to appea
answer on oath. ,

2518. Levied on joint estate or interest
in partnership.

2519. Executors and administrators.

2520. Garnisheed for amounts due leg- ;
atees, distributees, &c. '

2521. Money in the hands of sheriffs,

attorneys, &c., attached, and

in case of ofiicers of court, is

'd into court.
2522. J umxents against executors, &c.,

r, and,

 

' notto be rendered for eighteen 253‘).

months.

‘2524.
2525.

2626.
:2527.
+2528.
2529.
2530.
253L

Debts in suit may be attached.

Attachments may be cxecutedin
any county.

Branch writs of attachment.

Lien of an attachment from time
of levy or service of garnishment.

Perishable property sold by order of court.

In case of necessity, sold by sheriff
before return term.

Amount so received by sheriff,
recovered on one day’s notice.

Slaves levied on, how disposed of
till judgment.

Indemnifying bond, when demanded by the sheriff.

2523. Attachment of money, &c., inqai
trustees hands. .

§ 2516. Attachments may be levied on real estate, whether
the same be a fee simple or any lesser legal estate, or personal property of the defendant; or the same may be executed
by summoning an person indebted to, or having in his possession, or under his control, property belonging to the defendant; and the officer executing the writ, must indorse the
levy, or service thereon; and if practicable, take the property in his possession, unless replevied, as hereinafter described.

§ 2517. Such person is called the garnishee, and must be
cited by the officer to appear at the return term of the writ,
and answer upon oath whether he was indebted to the defendant at the time of the levy of the attachment, or at the
time of making his answer, and whether he will not be indebted in future to him by a contract then existing; and
whether he has not in possession, or under his control, personal or real property, or things in action, belonging to the
defendant; a copy of which citation he must return executed, together with the attachment and levy. _

§ 2518. An attachment may be levied on the joint or
se arate estate of joint obligors, promisors, or partners,
w ether resident or non-resident. _

§ 2519. Executors and administrators may be garmsheed
for a debt due by the testator, or intestate to the defendant,
and may commence a suit by attachment in their representative character. _

§ 2520. Executors andadministrators may be garnisheed
for debts due the legatees, or distributees, but no judgment
can be rendered against them until a settlement of the estate,
unless they assent to the legacy or admit assets to y the
amount claimed, or some portion thereof; out of the ' ‘butive share of the debtor.

f § 2521. Money in the hands of an attorney at law, sherm’,

. or other officer, may be attached; and in the case of oilicers
of the court, must be paid into court, to abide the result, unless the court otherwise direct.

_ § 2522. No judgment can be rendered against an executor or administrator upon his answer in attachment, or garpishment, until the lapse of eighteen months after grant of

etters.
§ 2523. Money or effects of the defendant in the hands of

Ba trustee, may be attached and held subject to the validity
of the instrument creating the trust; or the excess remaining
in the trustee’s hands, after the execution of the trust, if
valid; but if the deed be held void, the trustee, if not guilty
of actual fraud, may retain for a debt due himself, and must
be protected so far as he has acted in good faith under the
trust, before the levy of the attachment.

§ 2524. A debt in suit, in any of the courts of this state,
may be attached; and if the suit is not depending in the
same court where the attachment is brou ht, the court, after
judgment, on proof by the garnishee of t e ending attachment, must stay execution, until notified b t e clerk of the
court in which the attachment is institu , that final judgment has been rendered; in which case it must make the appropriate order, according as the judgment is rendered for
the plaintiff or defendant.

§ 2525. The attachment may be executed in any county
of the state by the sheriff of the county in which the property is found, or in which any person may be found indebted
to the defendant, or having property or things in action of
the defendant in his possession, or under his control. The
sheriff must take and hold the roperty attached, unless replevied, sub'ect to the order of t e court in which the attachment is pen ’ .

s § 2526. Branch writs of attachment may issue to any
county of the state, directed to any sheriff of the state of
Alabama, to be executed as in the preceding section.

§ 2527. The levy of an attachment creates a lien in favor
of the laintiif, upon the estate of the defendant so levied on,
from t e levy; and upon the money or effects in the po$ession of the garnishee, from the service of garnishment.
§ 2528. If the property levied on be perishable, it must be
sold by order of the court, on motion of either arty, and the
roceeds of the sale be retained by the she ' to await the
ecision of the cause, unless the court otherwise direct.
§ 2529. If the property levied on be of so perishing a nature that it will deteriorate greatly in value, or be destroyed
before the meeting of the court, or if the charge of kee ing it
be very great, it is the duty of the sheriff, if not rep evied,
to sell it at public auction, returning the facts and the money
to the court.
§ 2530. The sheriff and his securities, or either of them,
may be proceeded against by motion, on one day’s notice, at
the instance of the plaintiff, or defendant, if the plaintiff fail in
the action for any money thus received for the sale of erishable propert , and judgment rendered against him or the
amount, an five per cent. a month from the time of the demand.
§ 2531. VVhen slaves levied on are not replevied, the
sheriff must not put them in jail for safe keeping, unless instructed to do so by the plaintiff or defendant, but must hire
them to some suitable person, taking a note with surety for
the hire, which enures to the plaintiff, or to the defendant if
the sale of the slaves should discharge the judgment. If he
cannot hire them out, he may place them in the custody of
some suitable person for safe keeping; and if he acts in good
faith, is not liable for an escape.
§ 2532. When a doubt exists as to the title of the defendant to personal property, which the sheriff is required to
levy upon, he may demand indemnity from the plaintiff.

 

ARTICLE III.

Of attachment for rent.

Sac. Ssc.

2533. Landlord has alien on the crop ‘.2535. Levied on the crop in the hands
for the year’ s rent. of the tenant, or any one hold2534. Attachment to collect rent. ing for him, or purchaser’s,

with notice.

§ 2533. A landlord has a lien on the crop grown on rented
land for rent for the current year, and is entitled to process
of attachment for the recovery of the same, to be issued by
any one of the officers named in section 2505, in the following cases, whether the rent be due or not at the time the
attachment is sued out:

1. When the tenant is about to remove the crop from the
premises without paying the rent.

2. When he has removed it, or any portion thereof; without the consent of the landlord.

§2534. Affidavit in writing being made of one of these
facts by the landlord, his agent or attorney, also that the
amount claimed is or will be due for rent, or will be the
value of the portion of the crop agreed to be received as rent,
and giving bond with surety, and with condition as in other
cases of attachment, process of attachment must issue as in
other cases.

§ 2535. The attachment may be levied on the crppa in the
possession of the tenant, or any one holding it in right,

or in the possession of a purchaser from him with notice of

the lien of the landlord.

 

ARTICLE IV.

0/' the replevy and claim qf property.

Size. SEC.
2536. Replevy of property levied on, 2538. Forfeiture of claim on replevy

replevy bond. bond, and execution thereon.
2537. Claims to£mperty levicdon, and 2539. If the propertyis lost or destroy

trial of e right of property. ed, the value received in 
« charge.

§ 2536. The defendant in attachment, or in his absence a
stranger, may replevy the goods or chattels attached, b executing bond with surety ayable to the plaintiff, in ouble
the amount of the deman , with condition that if the defendant fail in the action, he or _his sureties will return the specific property attached within thirty days after Judgment,
whic bond must be returned with the other papers of the
cause.

§ 2537. If property attached be claimed by a peison not a
party tg bthel suit, and aifiidavit fand lllionid be executed as
require y aw in cases 0 tria o ria t o propert , when
levied on by a writ of fieri facias, the gro erty must lie delivered to the claimant, and the affidavit an bond be returned
by the sheriE' with the attachment, upon which the same
proceedings must be had,_as in other trials of right of pro
erty, excelpt that the sheriff must return the original attac ment to t e roper county.

’ § 2538. Vizhen property re levied, or which has been
delivered to a claimant, is not elivered within thirty days

. after judgment against such claimant and against the defendant in attachment, it is the duty of the sheriff to return the
bond forfeited and execution must issue thereon against the
principal and sureties in such bond, for the amount of the
Judgment and costs.

' § 2539. If any of the ‘property so replevied should die or
be destroyed without fa t or negligence on the part of the

Pperson in possession, the case is governed by the provisions
, of section 2470. '

ARTICLE V.

Proceedings against garnzlshees.

Sac. Sac.

2540. Gamishee, how and when exam- on answer admitting its possesamined. sion.

2541. Judgment on answer of indebt- 2543. On refusal tndeliver it, execution
ednees, if not yet due execution for the amount of the judgment.
suspended. 2544. Relief when failure to deliver is

2542. Defendant's property condemned without fault.

, ‘.2545. Penalty for failure to answer.

§ 2540. The garnishee must answer upon oath according
to the terms of the citation, within the three first da s of the
return term of the attachment, and may, if re uire by the
plaintiff, be examined orally in the presence 0 the court.

§ 2541. If he answer and admit indebtedness to the defendant, judgment thereon must be rendered against him, after
judgment against the defendant in attachment, for the amount
so admitted, if less than the amount of the judgment against
such defendant, if more, or e ual thereto, then for the amount
thereof. If the debt be not t en payable, execution must be

nded until its maturity.

2542. If he admit the possession of chattels of the defendant, judgment of condemnation must be rendered, that they
be delivered up on demand, after the rendition of judgment
on the attachment in favor of the laintiff, or so much as
may be necessary to satisfy the ju gment, and the sheriff
must make sale thereof.

§ 2543. If he fail to deliver them to the sheriff on demand,
he must make return thereof to the clerk, who must thereu 11 issue a writ of neri facias against him in favor of the
p aintiff, for the amount of the judgment and costs.

§2544. If the failure to deliver property, as provided in‘

the preceding section, is without fault or negligence on the
part of the garnishee, he may obtain relief by supersedeas,
according to the provisions of section 2470.

§ 2545. If the garnishee fail to appear and answer, a conditional judgment must be rendered against him for the
amount of the plaintiff ’s claim, as ascertained by_his judgment, to be made absolute if he does not appear within the
three first days of the next_ term and answer; a notice of the
judgment must be issued to him by the clerk, to be served
on him as other process by the sheriff; if he fail to appear
at the next term after notice executed, or if two notices be
returned not found by the sheriff of the county in which the
gaaiishment was executed, the judgment must be made
1% lute.

ARTICLE VI.
Cbllateral issues.

SEC. 3 S30.

2546. Issue made to contest gar-n1s' hee’s , 2557. Proceedings ondwthof
answer, on denial of its truth_ 2558. Judgmentinattachrneatsnspend
on oath . ed until trial of the collateral

2547. Defendant may insist that gar- issues.
nishee owes more than be ad- ' 2559. Property condemned restored if

mite, and the question is then 5 laintiff fail in his suit.
tried. ; 2560. ' writs of attachment and
2548. Judgment when the answer is not , garnishment.
sustained 2561. Attachment abated, if issued
2549. Gamishee may s est that an- 5 without bond or affidavit
other claims the ebt, &c., and 2 2562. Attachment law liberally canthe claimant then made a partyw strued for plaintiff, and no
2550. Proceedings to try such claims. 5 abatement for want of bond,
2551. When contestantxs anon-resident. , &c., if plaintif will make it.
2552. Ifresidentcontestantbenot found, & 2563. Judgment 
judgment against the garnishee. discharges the def s daim
2553. Such issues do not change the ju- ‘ on him, he may appeal
risdiction. 2564. Grounds of issue not issuable.
2554. Bills of exceptions in such cases. but suit may be brought for
2555. Appeals. im roperl suing it out.
2556. Garnishee recovers his costs on a 2565. Vin 'c-tive es for malicious
discharge. attachments.

§ 2546. The plaintiff, his agent or attorney, may controvert the answer of the garnishee by making oath at the term
the answer is made, that he believes it to be untrue; whereupon an issue must be made up under the direction of the
court, in which the plaintiff must allege in what respect the
answer is untrue, and, if required by either party, a jury
must be impannelled to try the facts.

§ 2547. 'l‘he defendant, upon the coming in of the answer,
may allege that the garnishee is indebted to him in a larger
sum than he has admitted, or that he holds property of the
defendant not admitted ‘by him in his answer, which being
reduced to writing, setting forth particularly in what respect

the answer is deneient, and sworn to, thereupon an isne

must be made up under the direction of the court to try the
fact by a jury, i required by either party; but this controvers does not prevent the plaintiff’ from taking judgment
for t e sum admitted to be due by the garnishee, or for a condemnation of the property admitted to be in his hands.

§ 2548. If this issue be found against the garnishee, judgment must be rendered against him for the amount of money
or pro erty in his hands not admitted by him, which must
be 1n avor of the laintilf, if necessary to satisfy his claim or

judgment against t e defendant, or in favor of the defendant
if the judgment has been satisfied.

2549. When the garnishee by his answer, or at any time
be ore final judgment against him, alleges that he has been

’notified that another person claims title to, or an interest in,

the debt or property which by his answer he has admitted to
be due, or to be in his possession, the court must suspend

proceedings against the garnishee, and cause a notice to mus

to such person, to appear at the next term of the court and
contest with the plaintiff the right to the money or property.
§ 2550. If he appear, he must be required to propound
his claim in the disputed pro erty or debt, in writing, and
make oath thereto, upon whic the plaintiff must take issue
in law or in fact, and the issue in fact must be tried b a jury,
if required by either party. If the issue be foun for the
plaintiff, judgment must be rendered against the garnishee
gpsclilis angzwer; if for the contestant, the garnishee must be
arge .
§ 2551. If the contestant be a non-resideiit, the contest
must be stayed six months, and the same proceedings had as
in the case of a non-resident defendant.
§ 2552. If two notices to the resident contestant be returned “ not found,” judgment must be rendered against the
garnishee on his answer. '
§ 2553. The interposition of these collateral issues does
It11(1)et :.tfT't:3:1 tlée tjurisdiction of the court obtained by levy of
m n
§ 2554. Upon the trial of these collateral issues, either
party may reserve any question by bill of exceptions, for revision, and judgment for costs must be rendered against the
unsuccessful party.
§ 2555. An appeal lies to the supreme court at the instance
of the plaintiff, t e defendant, the garnishee, the contestant,
or claimant.
§ 2556. “Then the answer of the arnishee is not contro8
verted, or if controverted is found for him, he is allowed the
pay of a 'uror during his attendance, and an attorney’s tax
epn may allowed to be paid out of the effects attached, for
w 'ch execution may issue. If there be no effects then
from the plaintiff, for which he may have judgment and
execution.
§ 2557. If the garnishee die after he has been summoned
as garnishee, and pending the litigation, the proceedings may
be revived against his legal representatives; so if the contestant die, after notice to appear and contest with the plaintiff, the right to the money or property in the hands of the
gearnisheteétthe suit may be revive in the name of his legal
presen ives.
§ 2558. No judgment can be rendered against the defendant in attachment, where a claim has been interposed to try
the right of property, where the answer of the garnishee is
Qontilested, or a contest has arisen about the title or interest
Int e money or goods attached until these uestions are
settled; unless other property or ’effects of the efendant be
attached, about which no contest has arisen.
§ 2559. If the plaintiff do not obtain judgment against the
defendant in attachment, all property condemned, where a
claim had been interposed, must e restored to the claimant
at the costs of the plaintiff.

§ 2560. Alias writs of attachment, or new writs of gamishment, may be issued by the clerk, without a renewal of
'the bond or aiiidavit, in cases where no property has been
found, or not suiiicient to satisfy the debt, or when pending
the suit, the plaintiff Wishes to garnishee other persons.
, § 2561. Attachments issued without aiiidavit and bond,
I as herein prescribed, may be abated on plea of the defendant, filed within the three first days of the return term.
§ 2562. The attachment law must be liberally construed,
to advance the manifest intent of the law, and the plainti&',
before or during the trial, must be permitted to amend any
. defect of form, in the aiiidavit, bond or attachment; and no
attachment must be dismissed for any defect in, or want of
a bond, if the plaintiff, his agent or attorney is willing to
give or substitute a. sufficient bond.
§ 2563. The judgment of the circuit court, condemning the
debt or pro erty in the hands of the garnishee, to the satis[faction of t e plaintiff ’s demand, is conclusive as between
the garnishee and the defendant, to the extent of such ju
ment, unless the defendant prosecute an appeal from su
judgment, which he may do in his own name; and if such
jud ent is superseded by bond, and the‘ garnishee notified
of t e fact, he is not permitted to discharge such judgment
pending the appeal.
§ 2564. The defendant must not deny or put in issue the
'cause for which the attachment issued, but may at any time
.within three cars, of the suing out of the attachment, before or after the suit is determined, commence suit on the
"attachment bond, and may recover such damages as he has
actually sustained, if the attachment was wrongfully sued
out.
» § 2565. If sued out maliciously, as well as wrongfully, the
' jury may, in addition, give vindictive damages.

ARTICLE VII.

Ancillary attachments.

2566. Attachments in suits already 2567. Same mode of proceedings: in

SE0. SE0.
commenced. i other attachments.

§ 2566. When a summons has been returned executed, the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney ma at any time before ju ment, make atlidavit before the c erk of the court in whi
the suit is pending, and give bond with security as in cases
of original attachment, and thereupon the clerk must issue
an attachment returnable as in other cases.

§ 2567. The suit must thereafter proceed in all respects,
as if it had been commenced originally by attachment.

ARTICLE VIH.

J udzbial attachments.

Site. See.

2568. Attachmentwhen residentdefen- 2569. Proceedings in such case.
dant evades service of summons.

§ 2568. When a summons has been returned “not found,”
as to all or any of the defendants, residents of the county, if
the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, make affidavit that the
defendant has evaded the service of the process, the court
must direct an attachment to issue returnable to the next
term of the court, and the cause must in all respects proceed
as 'nst such defendant, as if originally commenced by
attac ent.

§ 2569. The plaintiff may, notwithstanding such judicial
attachment, proceed to judgment against any of the defendants on whom process was served; but a judgment and satisfaction of the debt or claim, abates the attachment at the
costs of the plai ntiff.

ARTICLE IX.

Of the pleadings in attac/mzent.

Sec. Sec.

2570. Complaint to be filed within 2572. Proceedings on a pearance of
three days of the term. defendant, or judgment byde2571 Complaint not filed until matu- fault.
rity of the debt. 257 3. Execution for judgment not paid

by property attached.

§ 2570. The plaintiff must within the three first days of
the return term of the attachment, file his complaint as in
suits commenced by summons, but the cause does not stand
for trial until the next term of the court.

§ 2571. If the debt is not due, the plaintiff is not required
to file his com laint until the maturity of the debt.

§ 2572. Ift e defendant appear and (plead, the cause roceeds as in suits commenced in the or ‘nary mode. I he
make defence, the laintiif may, at the trial term, take judgment final, by nil 'cit, or execute a Writ of inquiry of damages, as ma be necessary.
§ 2573. a7hen the property attached, and in the hands of

the garnishee, is not sufficient to satisfy the judgment of the .

p_laintii}', against the defendant, the clerk must issue execution for the residue, which may be levied on any property
of the defendant.

ARTICLE X.

Attaclmzents agamst steam boats.
Size. Size.
2574. Attachments for injuries caused 2581. Mode of trialwhen bond is filed,
to vessels, <lro., by other steam- and when none.
boats, by negligence, racing, 2582. On proof of inj , defemhnt
dnc. must rove due ' ' ence.
2575. Affidavit of facts, and bond be- 2583. If bon not execut in sixty
fore issue. days, boat sold, 454:.
2576. On iilin the affidavit and bond 2584. Priority of debts, when there
the o cer issues the writ. are several attachments.
2577. Boat seized and held to satisfy 2585. After judgment, execution may
7 the judgment. issue pm the bocpd tiled.
25 8. 2586. An ot er reme ma be
25.,,,_ £»Replevy of boat, dzc. “fed Y 3' 1”"
2580. The value of the boat discharges l
the bond.

§2574. If any steam boat, vessel, or water-craft of any
,descri tion, from the negligence or want of skill of the maslter ilbt, engineer, or other ofiicer, or whilst racing with
ano er boat or vessel, runs into, runs foul of, destroys, or
, injures, any other boat, vessel, barge, flat boat, or other
water-craft, by means whereof the property of any person
-on board of such boat, or other water-craft, is injured or
destroyed, the person so injured has a lien upon the boat or
vessel causing the injury, to the amount of the loss, which
ma be enforced as hereinafter provided.
2575. The erson so injured, his agent or attorney,
.must make afii avit of the loss sustained, and the cause
thereof, stating the name of the boat or vessel, before any
judge of the circuit court, or judge of robate, clerk of the
circuit court, or justice of the peace, an also execute a bond
with surety, payable to the owners of the boat or vessel, by
name, if known, if not, payable to the “owners,” in double
the amount of the value of the property injured or destroyed,
with condition to prosecute the attachment to effect, and to
pay the owners all such costs and damages as ma be sustained by the wrongful or vexatious suing out suc attachment.
. §257 6. Upon the execution of such bond and ailidavit,
the judge, clerk, or justice must issue an attachment, which
' ay be made returnable to any circuit court in the state,
directing any sheriff of the state of Alabama to seize and
retain the boat, or other water-craft, her tackle, apparel, and
furniture, until discharged by due course of law.
§257 7. After such seizure, the sheriff must retain the
»boat or vessel in his possession, together with the tackle,
apparel, &c., to answer the judgment which may be rendered,
an make return thereof, together with the afiidavit, bond,
alnil attachment, to the court to which the process is returna e.
§ 2578. The boat or vessel seized may be released from
custody, by the master or owner of the boat or vessel, 0!

other person, entering into bond with surety, to be approved
by the sheriff, in double the amount of the alleged injury,
payable to the plaintiff, with condition to satisfy the judgment which may be rendered on the attachment.

§2579. Or the master, owner, or some person for him,
may enter into bond with surety, in double the estimated
value of the boat, tackle, apparel, &c., payable to the plaintiff, with condition to pay the plaintiff the value of the vessel, or boat, her tackle, apparel, &c., at the time of the seizure,
or so much thereof as will satisfy the judgment and costs;
and for the purpose of ascertaining the value of the boat or
vessel, her tackle, apparel, &c., the sheriff may appoint three
disinterested persons, to make ap raisement thereof.

§ 2580. The obligors in the ond last mentioned, may
pay into court the appraised value of the boat or vessel, and
such payment is a discharge of the bond.

§2581. If either of the above bonds be executed, the obligors therein are the defendants in the attachment. If no
bond be executed, to release the boat or vessel, the affidavit
must be received as evidence of the facts therein stated, and
judgment be rendered ex parte, for the demand of the plaintiff, which may be at the first term after the seizure, if the
attachment was executed thirty days previous to the judgment.

§ 2582. In an trial under this article, roof that the loss
was caused by the boat or vessel attached running foul of,
or running into, the boat or water-craft in which the plaintiff ’s property Was, is presumptive evidence that the injury
was caused by the negligence or want of skill of the ofiicers
of such boat; and the burthen of proof is then cast on the
owners of such boat, of roving that the collision was accidental, and without the fault of the officers thereof.

§ 2583. If no bond be executed, for the release of the boat
from seizure, Within sixty days thereafter, the sheriff must
sell the same for cash, giving thirty days’ notice of the time
and place of sale, and make return thereof to the court in
whic the attachment is pending.

§ 2584. When there are more attachments than one, if the
proceeds of the sale are not sufficient to discharge all the
Judipents, it must be divided among them rateably, or acoor ' g to riority. An appeal from such disposition of the
fund must be prosecuted within six months thereafter.

§ 2585. The bonds required by this article to release the
boat from seizure, must be filed in the clerk’s oilice, and
after judgment in favor of the plaintiff, have the force and
effect of judgments, upon which execution may issue for the
amount of such judgment and costs.

§2586. The provisions of this article must not be construed so as to prevent a resort to any other legal remedy.

CHAPTER II.

TRIAL OF RIGHT OF PROPERTY.

SEC. . S20.

2587. On claim of re rt levied on 2591. Proceedings’ when roperty levunder atiidgvitgeanii bond be- ied on under expecution from
ing given, it is restored to the another county is claimed.
claimant. f 2592. Proceedings on forfeiture of bond

2588. On return of such claim by the 1 in such cases.
sherim issue is joined between , 2593. Plaintilf may levy on other propplaintiff and claimant. erty.

2589. Burthen of proof on the plaintiff; 2594. Claim bond releases actiom
damages for delay. against the sherii

2590. On failure to deliver the prop-; 2595. Mortgagee of personal property
erty, if condemned, execution! may claim it, but plaintiii‘
issues on the bond. may pay 06 the debt.

§ 2587. When an execution is levied on rsonal roperty claimed by any erson not a party to e writ, he is
entitled to try the rig t to such property, before a sale thereof, making affidavit that he has a just claim to the property evied on, and also executing a bond payable to the laintiff, in double the amount of the execution, with s cient
surety, to be approved by the sheriff, with condition to have
the roperty forthcoming for the satisfaction of the judgment,

‘if it e found liable therefor; and also for the payment of

such costs and damagles as may be recovered for putting the

. claim in for dela . hereupon the property levied on must
be delivered to t e possession of the person from whom it
was taken.

§ 2588. The sheriff must return the aiiidavit and bond to

’ the next term of the court from which the execution issued,
when an issue must be made between the plaintiff in execution and the claimant, in which the former must be required
to allege that the property levied on is the property of the
defendant in execution, and liable to its satisfaction.

§ 2589. U n the trial of the issue, the burthen of proof
is upon the p aintiif in execution, and if the jury subject the
property to the payment of the execution, they must, as far
as practicable, assess the value at the time of trial of each

. article separately. If it be shown that the claim was inter‘posed for delay, they must also assess such damages as the
plaintiff may be entitled to, not less than ten per centum on
the execution.

3 3 2590. If judgment be rendered against the claimant,
an he fail to deliver the proplerty to the sheriff within thirty days thereafter, to satisfy t e execution of the plaintif, he

emust indorse the bond forfeited; and the clerk must thereupon issue an execution against all the obligors therein for
the amount of the judgment of the plaintiff, if that is less
than the value of the property as assessed by the jury, or for
the amount of such assessed value, if less than the amount of
the judgment. Also for the damages, if any were assaed,
and the costs of the trial of the right of property.

§ 2591. When the levy ismade in a different county from
that in which the judgment is rendered, if a claim is interposed to the property, it is the duty of the sheriff to return
the original execution to the ofiice of the clerk from which
it issued, with his return thereon of the interposition of a
claim; and make true copies of the bond and affidavit, which
he must return with the execution. He must also make a
true copy of the execution, and the returns thereon, which,
with the affidavit and bond, he must return to the oiiice of
the clerk of his own county, where the trial of the right of
property is to be had. The copies thus required to be made,
certifie by the sheriff to be true copies of the original, must
be received in lieu of, and have the same effect in all respects
as the originals.

§ 2592. If the property is found liable to the plaintiff's
execution, and is not delivered up within thirty days by the
claimant to the sheriff of the county where the trial of the
right of roperty was had, he must indorse the bond forfeited, and tliereu n the clerk must issue execution as in other
cases of trial o right of property, except that he must make
the execution for the collection of the judgment, and the
damages awarded on the trial of the right of property, (if
any,) returnable to the oiiice of the clerk of the court whence
the original execution issued, of which, and the time of its
receipt by the sheriff, he must give the clerk thereof written
notice, w ich is presumptive proof of the fact against the
sherin‘, and. must also issue a separate execution for the costs
of his own court.

§ 2593. The interposition of a claim and trial of the-right
of property, does not revent the plaintiff from levying on
other property of the efendant in execution.

§ 2594. A claim interposed for the trial of the right of
prope , is a release by the claimant in favor of the sheriff,

om damages for seizing such property.

§ 2595. When personal property mortgaged to another,
is levied on by execution, the mortgagee or his assi ee may
try the right of property as herein provided; but t e laintiif in execution may discharge the mortgage debt, an then
it shall be the duty of the sheriff to proceed and sell, as well
for the ayment of the mortgage, which must be first satistied, as tlir the satisfaction of the execution.

CHAPTER III.

SUMMARY J UDGMENTS.

Aarxcuz 1. General rules.

2. Proceedings against sheriffs, coroners, and other executive odicers
“ 8. In favor of sheriB's, dtc.

“ 4 Against clerks of the circuit and en reme courts.

“ 5: Against judge of probate, tax co cctors, tax assessors, notaries
public, and commissioners from other states.
“ 6. Against attorneys at law.

ARTICLE I.
General -rules.

SIG. S30.
2596. On notice of motion, 'udgments notice to an o&icer of court.
rendered sumn1aril’y against and his sureties.
certain oflicers, drc. 2599. Court to try the case, unless a
2597 . Made by the injured y against jury is demanded and thecsse
the dcfaulter his sureties, IS tried immediately.
and judgment against those 2600. In what court the motion should
having notice. be made.
2598. Entry on the motion docket, is

§ 2596. Judgment ma be rendered summarily against
the persons, and for the efaults hereinafter stated, upon notice in writing by the party aggrieved, that a motion will be
made for j ud ent, succinctly stating in such notice the
cause for whic such motion will be made, and the term of
the court, and county.

§ 2597. The motion may be made b the party aggrieved, or his legal representatives against t e erson in efault,
and his sureties upon his oilicial bond and ju ent, and must
be rendered against such of the parties, whegzr  or
surety, as may have received notice of the inten ed motion.

§ 2598. A motion entered on the motion docket, in term
time, is suilicient notice to all oiiicers of the court and their
sureties.

§ 2599. Unless in cases otherwise directed by this chap
ter, the court must hear and determine the motion, and render judgment upon the evidence, without a jury, unless an
issue is tendered, and a jury trial demanded, when a jury
must be immediately impannelled to try the facts, unlws
good cause be shown for a continuance.

§ 2600. The summary remedies here given, must be en.forced in the manner following, exce t in cases otherwise

specially provided in this chapter: hen the motion is
against a sheriff, coroner, clerk, or other ofiicer of court, 01'
their sureties, the motion must be made in the circuit court
of the count in which such ofiicer was acting oflicially at the
time of the efault, or in the court to which the process was
returnable, when the default consists in the failure to execute
or return process, or to pa over mone collected thereon.
In all other cases not specially provided or, the motion must

be made in the circuit court of the county in which the person moved against resides; if he has no permanent residence,
then in any county where he may be found.

ARTICLE H.

Proceedings against shertfs, coroners, and other e.1:ecutz've

oficers.

Sec. Sec.

2601. Judgment on three da.y’s notice fendant in execution, on three
to sheriff, or ofiicer, who re- days’ notice, in the following
ceived or executed the writ. cases:

2602. Penalty for  to return an 2609. For failure to pay over excess reexecution, or pay over money ceived on sales.
collected on one. 2610. For failure to return the credits

2603. For failure to make the money on on an execution.
an execution. 2611. For failure to refund money when

2604. For false and fraudulent return. its collectionhas been enjoined.

2605. For failure to give notice of the 2612. In favor of clerkof supreme court
collection of money. on three da s’ notice.

2606. For failure to indorse on an ex- 2613. Grounds of sue judgment.
ecution the true date of its de- 2614. Copy of the execution and certifilivery. cate of clerk are evidence, but
‘.2607. For failure to execute mesne pro- sheriff may deny the receipt

ccss. or aver the return of an execu2608. Judgment rendered in favor ofde- tion on oath.

§ 2601. Judgments must be rendered for the plaintiff on
three days’ notice, in the following cases, against the sheriff, j
coroner, or other officer receiving or executing the writ: ‘
§ 2602. For failing to return an execution, twenty per
centum on the judgment. For failing to pay over money?
collected upon an execution, on demand of the plaintiff, his:
agent or attorney, judgment for the amount so collected,
and five per centum per month damages from the time such
demand was made.
§ 2603. For failing to make the money on an execution,
which by due diligence could have been made, judgment for
the amount of the execution, interest, and ten per centum
es.
§ 2604. For fraudulently making a false return, judgment
for the amount of the execution, interest, and ten per centum
damages thereon.
§ 2605. For failing to notify the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, of the collection of money by execution, five per
centum per month, on the amount collected, from the time
when the notice should have been given, not to exceed
twenty-five dollars a month.
§ 2606. For failing to indorse on an execution the true
date of its delivery to him; judgment for ten er centum on
the amount of the execution. The officer is o responsible
for any injury or loss which may arise from such omission.
§ 2607. For failing to execute a summons, attachment, or

other mesne process which by due diligence could have been
executed; judgment for a sum not less than fifty nor more
than five hundred dollars, to be ascertained by a jury. This
remedy not to preclude the party injured from a resort to
other egal modes of redress.

§ 2608. Judgment must in like manner be rendered in
favor of the defendant in execution, against the sheriff or
coroner, on three days’ notice.

§ 2609. For the failure to pay over on demand any excea
of money which may remain u on a sale by execution, after
the satisfaction thereof and t e costs; judgment for the
amount of such excess, and five per centum per ‘month after
demand.

§ 2610. For failing to return an execution wholly or pmtially satisfied; twenty-five per centum on the amount paid.

§ 2611. For failing to pa over on demand money d or
collected on an execution, t e whole or any part of W 'ch is
enjoined in chancery; judgment for the amount so enjoined,
and five per centum per month on the amount from the time
of the demand.

§2612. Judgment must in like manner be rendered in
favor of the clerk of the supreme court, against the sheriff
or coroner, on three days’ notice.

§ 2613. For failure to return an execution from the
supreme court, for making a false return thereon, for failing
to make the money when by due diligence it could have
been made, or failing on demand to pay over money collected
on an execution; judgment for the penalties herein prescribed for the same defaults on executions issued from the
circuit court.

§ 2614. On the trial of the motion a copy of the execution
made and certilied by the clerk, with the return thereon if
any was made, or a statement that no return was made, if
such be the fact, together with his certificate that the execution was received by the sheriff, or sent to him by mail, is
evidence of the facts so certified, without producing a transcript of the record from the proceedings of the supreme
court; and also presumptive evidence that the writ was
received by the sheriff, unless he states under oath, in writing, that he never received the Writ or returned it acmrding
to law.

ARTICLE III.
In favor of slwnf, dc.

B30. 2616. Summary judgments for them on three days’ notice, in the following
cases:
1. Against parties to indemnifying bonds.
2. Against their deputies for any default

§ 2615. Judgment must in like manner be rendered summarily in favor of the sheriff or coroner, on three days’ notice
of the pendenc of the suit:

1. Against e obligors on bonds given to indemnify the
omcer for levying an execution or attachment, or for making
sale of property so levied on or attached, after judgment
against the oiiicer for making such levy or sale; judgment
for the same amount rendered against such otlicer.

2. Against the deputy of the sheriff and his sureties for
the amount of any judgment which may be rendered against
the sheriff or coroner for the default of such deputy.

ARTICLE IV.
Against clerks qf circuit and supreme court.

Sac. u S30.
2616.’ Judgment against circuit clerki 2622. For failure to return statement of

and his sureties, on three days’ l fines for the county.
notice. ,2623. In favor of comptroller on ten

2617. For failingto enter officer's return ' days’ notice.
on an execution. E 2624. For failure to [pay over taxes on

2618, For  boxy over moneyi commissione sor notary’sseal.
received ofiic' y. g 2625. For failure to issue execution for

2619. For failure to issue executions. ' forfeiture to the state.

2620. For grilure to pa money depos- 2626. For fines received and not paid
ite in eourtun er section 2144. over.

2621. For failure to paly over to the 1 2627. Against the clerk of the supreme
county treasurer unds collected i court for the amount of the state
for the county. * tax on suits received and not

accounted for.

§ 2616. Judgment must in like manner be rendered summarily against the clerk of the circuit court and his sureties,
on three da s’ notice. ,

§ 2617. n favor of the laintiif in execution, for failing to
enter on the execution docpket the return made upon an execution by the proper ofiieer, within three days after the
return is made; judgment for twenty per centum on the
amount of the execution, and interest thereon.

§ 2618. For failing on demand to pay over money received
by him on any judgment, or paid into court on a plea of tender or other plea, or by rule of court; judgment for the
sum so received by him, With five per centum per month on
the amount, after demand.

§ 2619. For failing to issue execution as prescribed by
sections 2424 and 2427, Within the time prescribed by law
after the adjournment of the court, or at any time subsequent, on request of the party interested, his agent or attorney, or for failure to issue execution within five days on all
bonds returned forfeited, and upon which execution may
rightfully issue, and upon judgments remanded from the
supreme court; judgment for twenty per centum on the

amount of the judgment.

§ 2620. In favor of the party entitled thereto, for failing
on demand to pay over money received by him under section
2144; judgment for the amount so paid, and five per centum
damages thereon for each month after demand made.

§ 2621. In favor of the county treasurer for failing to rpay
over to the county treasurer, on demand, all lines or fo eitures or other moneys belongingto the county treasury; judgment for the amount thereof, and five per cent. per month on
the amount from the time of the demand.

§ 2622. For failing to return to the county treasurer, within ten da s after the adjournment of court, the statement
required by the provisions of section 781, of all fines, forfeitures, and penalties belonging to the count assessed during
the previous term; judgment for fifty do ms, for the use of
the count .

§ 2623.yIn favor of the comptroller of public accounts, on
ten days’ notice to the circuit court held at the seat of government, or that of the county in which the clerk, or any
surety proceeded against, resides.

§ 2624. For failing to make the return required by the
provisions of section 483, not less than one hundred nor
more than five hundred dollars, as may be adjudged by the
court.

§ 2625. For failing to issue executions for forfeituiies belonging to the treasury of the state, as required by the provisions of section 2424; judgment for the sum of two hundred dollars.

§ 2626. For all fines, penalties, or forfeitures belonging to
the state treasu , received by the clerk and not paid into
the treasury wil-liin one month after their receipt; judgment
for the amount so received, and ten per cent. damages thereon.
§2627. Against the clerk of the supreme court and his
suretics, for failing to make rctugn and payment according

to the provisions of and Within the time prescribed by section

405, for the amount of the state tax on all cases decided at
the regular term of such court preceding the regular term
referred to in such section, and on all other -cases decided
before such term, on which the state tax has not been 
by such clerk; to be recovered on motion to bemade by the
attorney general, in the name of the comptroller of public
accounts, in the circuit court of the county in which the seat
of government is located, on three days’ notice; and on failure to produce the doekets of the supreme court, upon reasonable notice, a peremptory attachment may issue against
such clerk, without any rule to show cause.

ARTICLE V.

Against judges of probate, tax collectors, tax asssessors, notaries
public, and commzlssioners of other states.

Sn ,S:c.
2628. Judgment in tavor of the comp- [ failure to return abstract of
troller in the circuit court on 3 books of assessment.
ten days’ notice. { 2632. Against defaulting tax collectors.
2629. For failure to make return of ’ 2633. Certificate of the comptroller,
taxes collected. [ evidence of the facts stated.
2630. For failure to y them over i 2634. Against tax assessor for failure
when collecte . l to return assessment books.

2631. Against judge of probate for:

§ 2628. Judgment must in like manner be summarily rendered, in favor of the comptroller of public accounts, against
the defaulters hereinafter named, and their sureties, in the
circuit court held at the seat of government, or in that of
the county in which any defaulter, or his sureties, may reside, on ten days’ notice.

§2629. Against the judge of the probate court, notaries
public, and commissioners of deeds for other states, for failmgto make the returns required of them by sections 483 and
484; judgment for a sum not less than one hundred, nor
more than one thousand dollars.

§2630. Against the oflicers specified in the preceding
section, for failing to make the payments as required by the
provisions of sections 483 and 484, and for the amount of
money received, or collected, with ten er cent. damages
thereon, and interest from the time suc payment should
have been made; and on the trial of such mot1on, the return
of such omcer is conclusive evidence against him and his
sureties, for the amount therein specified; and if no return
has been made, the return of any preceding year, in relation
to the same subject-matter, made by such officer, or any
other oflicer of the same county, required by law to make
such return, may be given in evidence, to show the amount

so received or collected.
§2631. Against the 'udge of rebate, for failing to perform the duties require ,within t e time, and in the manner‘

prescribed by section 444, for a sum not less than two hundred or more than five hundred dollars.
§ 2632. Against defaulting tax collectors for the amount

of taxes collected by them, not paid into the treasury; judgment for the amount not paid into the treasur , interest from
the time such ayment should have been ma e, and twentyfive per cent. dirmages thereon.

§ 2633. Upon the trial of any motion made by the Com troller, his certificate of the act, or omission, u on Which suc
motion is founded, and of the amount due t e state, is presumptive evidence of the fact.
§ 2634. Against any tax assessor who fails to make return

of his assessment books according to the provisions of and

within the time prescribed by section 427, or to comply with
the rovisions of section 445, for every ten days he so fails,

not ess than iift or more than five hundred dollars, as the
court may adju ge.

ARTICLE VI.
Against attorneys at law.

SEO. S dgm f ,Sizc. V
2636. ummary 'n ents or money attorney’s compensation setcollected and not paid over. tled by the court.

Proceedings in such cases. 2637. Personal notice to be given the
2686. Plaintiff to show his title; and attorney.

§ 2635. Judgment may in like manner be rendered against
any attorney in this state, who fails to pay over money collected by him in that capacity, on demand made by the pertson entitled thereto, his agent or attorney, for the amount
due, interest thereon, and damages, at the rate of iive per
cent. per month after such demand, on the gate amount,
in the circuit court of the county in whic such attorn y
resides, or if he has no known place of residence, in this
state, in the circuit court of any county, on three days’ no-tice; but such attorney may, if a doubt exists as to the right
of the person making the demand, or if there be a dispute as
to his compensation, pay the money into court, the first court
after receiving notice of such motion, if notice of the same is
given before court; or into the court at which the notice is
given, if given during court, and have such questions there
ecided, without being liable to interest or damages.
§ 2636. The court may require the party claiming the
5 money to establish his right thereto, and in determining the
,_ question of compensation, may examine both parties, and
give costs in its discretion.
- §_2637. In the cases provided for in the two preceding

sections, personal notice is necessary.

CHAPTER IV .

PROCEEDINGS BY SURETIES.

810. SEC.
2638. Surety on replevin bond may I 2642. Proceedings on writ of seizure
demand indemnity. when the property is 
2689. Affidavit made of refusal to give ble.
indemnity. 2643. Judgments rendered for suretiel
2640. Writ of seizure then issues. against their principals and
2641. Ifbond is given. it is filed with’ each other, on motion with
the original bond. three days’ notice.

SIC. Ste.

2644. Cases inwhich they are rendered sureties, and discharged by
for the surety against the prin- ’ failure.
ci 2648. This does not up ly to bond with

2645. When allowed sureties against collateral conditions, or admineach other. iistrators’ or guardians’ bonds.

2646. Surety not to confess judgment, 2649. These rules up ly generally to
if princi will defend and executors an administrator:
indem ' him. of sureties.

2647. Surety ma require the creditor 2650. Court to which the motion
to sue the principal, or other should be made.

§ 2638. When the principal in any replevin bond is wasting the replevied property, or is removing, or about to remove himself‘, or roperty, out of the state, the surety or
sureties to the replevy bond may demand of the principal
adequate indemnity against loss, by collateral security.
§ 2639. If such security be not given within five days
after demand made, the security may make aiiidavit thereof
before the clerk of the circuit court in which such bond is
filed, setting forth the demand of the principal for collateral
security, for some one or more of the causes mentioned in
the preceding section, and that the principal has failed to
give such security.
§ 2640. Thereupon the clerk must issue a writ directed to
the sheriff, commanding him to seize the replevied property,
and hold the same until the decision of the cause in which
it was replevied, or until the principal execute bond with
sufficient surety, in the same penalty as the replevin bond,
payable to the surety, with condition to have the property
forthcoming to abide the decision in the principal cause, or
to pay and satisfy the judgment rendered therein.
§ 2641. If the bond is given, it must be filed with the
original re levy bond, and execution may issue thereon upon
a breach 0 the original replevy bond, in favor either of the
plaintiff, or of the surety. .
§ 2642. If bond is not given, and the pro erty is seized, i
and is of a wasting or perishable nature, or w en the expence«
of keeping it would materially affect its value, it must be}
sold by the sheriff, in the same manner as property levied‘
on by execution, and return thereof made as upon a writ of
fieri facias.
§ 2643. Sureties whether bound on the contract or instru-ment with the principal debtor, as joint, or joint and several:
obligors or promisois, or as accommodation drawer, acceptor, ;
or indorser of a bill of exchange, or in any other manner,}
are entitled to a summary judgment against their pri ucipal, «
and between each other, by motion in the circuit court, on}
theee days’ notice thereof} in the cases, and in the manner
following:
§ 2644. Against the rincipal debtor:
1. When a judgment as been obtained against the surety }
which he has satisfied, either Wholl y or in part, for the amount .
paid and interest. '

2. When a surety or sureties are sued Without their principal, upon notice given to the principal of the pending suit,
if judgment is obtained against the surety, judgment for the
same amount must be rendered against the principal, in favor
of the surety.

3. A suret to a debt payable in bank, which b its charter is entitle to a summary remedy against its dc tors, may
upon the payment by him of the debt to the bank, be entitled
to the same remedy against his princi al, in the circuit court
of the county in which the rinci a resides, or if he be a
non-resident or has no fixe resi ence, then in the circuit
court of any county in the state. The certificate of the resident or cashier of the bank, of the payment of the debt by
the surety, is evidence of the fact of payment

§ 2645. Between sureties:

. A surety who has paid the debt of his principal, may
recover of each of his co-sureties their aliquot proportion of
the debt. If any of the co-securities are insolvent, the proportion of such insolvent must be excluded from the estimate,
and judgment be rendered a 'nst the remaining solvent
sureties, for their proportion o the debt, as if such insolvent
was not a co-surety.

2. When suit is pending against one or more sureties,
either in connection with or without their principal, if the
principal is insolvent, the surety so sued may, on notice of
the pending suit, recover judgment against such of the cosureties as are not sued in that action, for their aliquot proportion of the debt, excluding from the estimate the reportion of such of the sureties as are insolvent, as if sue insolvent had not been a surety.

, § 2646. No surety when sued, can confess judgment or
suffer judgment to ass by default, if the principal debtor,

' on being notified o the pending suit, is wilhng to defend the

[suit at his own cost, and gives good and suflicient collateral
security to the surety, to be approved by the court.

§ 2647. A surety upon any contract for the payment of

' money, or for the p. ymeut or delivery of personal roperty.
may require the creditor or any one having the beneficial
3 interest in the contract, by notice in Writing, to bring suit
thereon against the principal debtor, or against any co-surety
‘to such contract; and if suit be not brought thereon, pursuant to such notice, to the first court to which suit can be
brought after the receipt of such notice, and prosecuted with
diligence according to the ordinary course of law, the surety
giving such notice is discharged from all liability as surety:
or his aliquot proportion of the debt, as the case may be.
One surety may give the notice in behalf of his co-sureties.
g § 2648. The remedy secured by the preceding section.
It does not apply to bonds or other contracts with collateral
, conditions, or to the bonds of executors, administrators,
" guardians or ublic officers.

§ 2649. A the provisions of this chapter enure to the

benefit of the executors or administrators of the creditor or
suret .

§ .‘;:650. In cases not otherwise provided for in this chapter, the motions hereby given must be made in the circuit
court of the county in which the parties, or any one of them
reside, against whom the motion is made. If the are nonresidents, or have no fixed residence in the state, t ien in the

circuit court of any county in the state.

CHAPTER V.

TO VACATE CHARTERS OF CORPORATIONS
OF OFFICES.

USURPATION

Sm. ;Si=:c.
2651. Proceedings to vacate charters, ;2660.
(except municipal charter.-1.);
instituted either by the state , ‘.2661.
or an individual, 1
2652. Solicitor directed to commence t 266:3.
roceedings in certain cast-s;:
ut any one may sue on giving security for costs.  2663.
2653. Such suits brought in the county 
of its principal business. ;
2654. Action in the name of the state, 1 2664.
for usurping an office or fran- f
chise. { 2665.
2655. Judge of the circuit may direct
such a suit, or any one giving
security for costs may begin
it. 1 2667.
2656. Brought in the circuit court of y
the county where the acts are 2668.
said to be committed. 2669.
2657. Informant joined as a plaintiff.
2658. On death of informant, any one 12670.
may continue the action on ~
giving security for costs. ,

‘Z666.

 

AND PREVENT

Contents of the complaint in such
suits.

Names of the true otiicers stated
in actions for usurpation.

Judgment on defendant's right
or in favor of party said to be
entitled.

If judgment is in favor of party
said to be the true officer, he

ma demand the ofiice.

Validity of contested elections,
not tried in this manner.

Judgment of exclusion from the
office or franchise.

On judgment of forfeiture, the
corporation is dissolved.

Costs against the informant or
state.

Costs on abatement.

Execution against informant and
sureties for costs.

Either party may appeal in ten
(lays.

defendant. final. in fee of

2659. Action abatcs by death of all the 5
solicitor.

informants. i

(3 F3

671 glf the state sues, judtrment for
672.

§ 2651. An action may be brought in the name of the
state on the information of any person, for the purpose of
vacating the charter, or annulling the existence of any corporation, other than municipal, whenever such corporation:

1. Offends against any of the acts creating, altering or renewing such corporation.

2. Violates the provisions of any law, by which such corporation forfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers.

3. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges or franchises,
by failure to exercise its powers.

4. Whenever it has done or omitted any act which amounts
to _a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges and franchises.

5. Whenever it exercises a franchise or privilege, not conferred on it by law.

§ 2652. The judge of the circuit, in which such corporation is located, whenever he has reason to believe that any
of these acts or omissions can be proved, and it is necessary
for the public good, must direct the solicitor of such circuit
to bring such action; or such action may be brought on the
information of any person, giving security for the costs of
the action, to be approved by the clerk of the court in which
the same is brought.

§ 2653. Such actions must be brought in the county in
which such corporation has its principal office, or if it has no
principal office, in any county in which it does business.

§ 2654. An action may be brought in the name of the
state against the party offending, in the following cases:

1. When any person usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully
holds or exercises any public office, civil or military, or any
franchise within this state, or any oiiice in a corporation
created by the authority of this state.

2. When any public officer, civil or military, has done or
suffered an act, by which, by law, he forfeits his office.

3. When any association or number of ersons act within
this state as a corporation, without being uly incorporated.

§ 2655. A judge of the circuit court ma direct such action to be brought, whenever he believes t ese acts can be
proved, and it is necessary for the public good; or it may be

rought on the information of any person giving security for
the costs of the action, to be approved by the clerk of the
court in which such action is brought.

§ 2656. Such actions must be brought in the circuit court
of the count in which the act or acts are done or suffered.

§ 2657. Vghenever an action is brought under the provisions of this chapter, on the information of any erson, the
name of such person must be joined as plaintiff with the
state.

§ 2658. Should such person die, pending such action, it
may be continued in the name of the surviving informant,
or in the name of any person, who on application is substituted in his lace, having first given security for the costs.

§ 2659. n the death of all the informants, if no personis
substituted in their place, the action abates.

§ 2660. The com laint in any action brought under the
provisions of this c apter, must concisely and clearly set
forth the act or omission complained of.

§ 2661. VVhenever such action is brought against a person for usurping an oilice, in addition to the statement set
forth in the complaint, the name of the person ri htfully entitled to the oilice, with a statement of his right t ereto, may
be added. '

§ 2662. In every such case, judgment may be rendered
upon the right of t e defendant, and also upon the right of

the party so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of
the efendant, as justice requires.

§ 2663. If the judgment is rendered upon the right of the
person so alleged to be entitled, and the same is in favor of
such person, he is entitled, after taking the oath of office and
executing such official bond as may be required, to take upon himself the execution of the office; and it is his dut , immediately thereafter, to demand of the defendant a 1 the
books, apers, and property in his custody, or within his
gower, elonging to the oflice ; and on refusal, or neglect to
eliver over the same, he may be proceeded aorainst, as is
jlirescribed by the rovisions of Article sixth, C apter first,
itle five, in Part rst of this code.
§ 2664. The validity of any election, which may be con 11I]llCleI' this code, cannot be tried under the provisions
0 t is c apter. ‘
§ 2665. When a defendant, whether a natural person or
a. corporation, against whom such action has been brought,
is adjudged guilty of usurpiiig or intruding into, or unlawfully holding, or exercising any oflice, or franchise, judgment
must be rendered, that such defendant be excluded from the
ofii(1:1e(prffrz:1nchise, and that the plaintiff recover costs against
suc e en ant.
§ 2666. If it be ad°udgcd that acorporation against which
an action has been rought, pursuant  this chapter, has,
by neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights,
privileges and franchises, judgment must be rendered, that
the corporation be excluded from such corporate rights, privileges or franchises, and be dissolved; and judgment for
costs must be rendered against the persons claiming to be
such corporation, and_the directors or managers thereof as
established by the testimony. _
§ 2667. If such action is at the suit of the state alone, and
judgment is for the defendant, or the defendants are insolvent,
the witnesses are paid as in other state cases; but if a person
is joined with the state as informant, judgment must be rendered against him for the costs, if rendered for the defendant.
§ 2668. On the abatement of the action, j udgment is rendered against the securities of the informant for the costs.
§ 2669. In all cases under this chapter, in which udgment
is rendered against the informant for costs, execution may isSue therefor against his securities.
§ 2670. The informant, or defendant, may appeal to the
supreme court within ten days after judgment, on application to the clerk and giving security for the costs of the appeal; the names of such securities to be certified with the
record, to the supreme court; and if the appeal is not sustained, judgment for costs may be rendered against such securities.

§ 2671. If the action is brought bfy the state alone, the

judgment in favor of the defendant is rial.
§ 2672. The solicitor, if judgment is rendered for the plaintiff, is entitled to a fee of twenty dollars.

CHAPTER VI.

MECHANICS’ LIEN.

Szc. , Sac.
2673. Character of mechanics’ lien, and 2676. Lien enforced in equity orby exconditions on which it vests. ecution.

2674. Lien accrues on estate of the par- 2676. Lien lost if not enforced in 
ty contracting, whether legal days.
or equitable.

§ 2673. Mechanics and builders have a rior lien upon
' the tract parcel, or lot of land, on which b ' dings are erect
ed by tliem, and on the building so erected, for thelspsice
‘agreed on, or com ensation to be paid, and materials in
the construction t ereof, unless surety be given to such builders for the performance of the contract, or an agreement be
made in writing, waiving the lien. The lien is created upon
the following conditions:
1. The contract for the erection of the building must bein
vslrlriting, and describe, with sufiicient certainty to identify
't e tract lot or parcel of land, on which the building is to
erected ;:1it must state the price or compensation to be paid,
be signe b the parties or their agents, and be registered in
the office 0 the judge of probate of the county in which the
lands lie, within sixty days after the date thereof. eed
2. The lien is subordinate to any existing mortgage, (1
jof trust, or other legal incumbrance, which, if required by
law to be recorded, is registered according to law.
3. The owner of the land may at any time relieve the land
from the lien, by giving the builder good and sumcient sure'ty for the payment of the price, or compensation agreed on.
. 4. A change or modification of the contract does not affect the lien.
§ 2674. The lien hereby created, is elfectual against the
title or estate of the party contracting for the erection of
buildings on the lands, at the time the contract was made;
whether it be a freehold or less estate, and whether the
title be legal or equitable. ,
§ 2675. The lien may be enforced in equity; or if the
builder obtain a judgment at law, he may, by execution, ex; pose to sale the land and the buildings erected thereon, if the
title is such as can be sold by execution at law, but is not to
be precluded from levying his execution upon any other
propert of such contraetin party.
§ 26 6. No lien under t e provisions of this chaptercap
be enforced, unless proceedings to enforce the same in eq:1h1ty or an action at law upon the contract, is commenced wi in,ninety days after the completion of the work, or supply of
materials. .

CHAPTER VII.

PARTITION OF LANDS.

Sac.

2677. Partition made among joint tenants, cl:c., of full age, on petition to the judge of probate.

2678. Contents of such application.

2679. Publication then made by the
judge; contents of the publication.

2680. If no objection is made, be appoints commissioners to make
partition.

2681. Commissioners sworn, and then
proceed to make the division.

2682. Publication of the time of making

Sic.

2685. Division so made, vests a title in
each; set aside in chancery
for fraud.

2686. Lien against one, attaches onlyto
his share.

2687. New commissioners appointed, if

necessary.

2688. Fee of judge of probate and commissioners.

2689. If costs not paid in thirty days,
execution against each part
owner for his proportion.

2690. No allotment made, if adverse

division. claim is set up.

2683. Partition made by lot, and result 2691. Other remedies may be used, dzc.
returned.

2684. Papers filed, and registered as
conveyances.

§ 2677. Lands held by joint tenants, or tenants in common, in fee, the arties interested therein, all being of full
age, may be divi ed amongst them, on the application of the
persons entitled thereto, or any one of them, in writing, to
the judge of probate of the county in which the lands are
situated.

§ 2678. The a plicant must set forth the names of all the
persons intereste in the land, and their residence; a full and
accurate description of the land to be divided, the interest of
each person in the land, and the number of shares into which
1t is to be divided.

_ § 2679. The judge of probate must thereupon cause a pubhcation to be made in some newspa er published in the
county; and if there be none, then in t e newspaper published nearest to the court house, setting forth the application to
him, by whom made, a particular descri tion of the land to
be divided, the number of shares into which it is to be divided, and amongst whom ; setting forth their names and places of abode; and that on a certain designated day, which
must be at least sixty days from the date of the notice, he
will appoint three persons, namin them, to make division of
the land, which must be continuecgl weekly until the appointment is made.

§ 2680. At the appointed time, if no objection is made, he
must by commission authorize the persons nominated to make
division of the land, describing it articularly, the number
of shares into which it is to be divi ed, and the names of the
persons entitled thereto. If a valid objection be made to
any of the nominees, their place must be_ supplied by suitable persons.

§2681. The commissioners must be sworn faithfully to
e_xecute the trust reposed in them, and must, after examination of the land, and survey thereof if necessary, proceed

without delay to make division thereof into the necessary
number of shares, having regard to the quality of the 8011
and other advantages, so as to make the different shares as
nearly e ual in value as racticable; makinor a plat and map
thereof, s owing the sub ivisions and boundaries of the lots,
and numbering them progressively, and are authorized to
em loy a surveyor, chain bearers, &c., if necessary.

§ 2682. They must cause publication to be made not less

'than three successive weeks 111 a newspaper published in the

count , if there be one, if not, in the one nearest thereto,
that t ey will, on a day designated, attend at the court house
of the county to make division.

§ 2683. On the day designated the commissioners must,

6 in the presence of the judge of probate, determine by lot to

whom each of the several arcels belong, and make a statement in writing of the resu t, setting forth to whom the sev. eral parcels or lots were allotted, together with all the facts
_ relating to the division and allotment, which must be signed

by them, and attested by the probate judgc.
_§ 2684. The petition, commission, statement of the comImissioners, map and lat, and all orders made by the probate judge, must be f1 cd in his ofiice and registered in the
book kept by him for the registry of conveyances of land,
which is presumptive evidence of the truth of any fact therein
stated.

§ 2685. The division so made vests a title in fee simple in

'the persons to whom the several shares are allotted, in as full

and ample a manner as if each had conveyed to the others;
but if any fraud or undue influence be employed by any of
theparties to obtain an unfair division or allotment, such

.-division may be annulled on application to the chancellor,

by bill in chancery, within five years after the allotment.
§ 2686. “Then there is a lien on an undivided interest of

' any of the parties, such lien, if a partition is made, is thenceforth a charge only on the share assigned to such party; but
such share must first be charged with its just roportion of

the costs of the partition, in preference to such 'en.

§ 2687. If any of the commissioners die, resign, or neglect

- or refuse to act, at any time before the final allotment, others

may be substituted in their stead by the judge of the probate

court, and have power to complete such division and allotment.

§ 2688. The judge of probate is entitled to two dollars per

_ day for each day he is engaged in making such division, and

to three dollars for making a record of the roceedings of the
commissioners; the commissioners to two ollars per day for
each day whilst engaged in such division and allotment, and
all expenses they may be at in causing survey to be made,
making ma , plat, &c.

§ 2689. he judge of robate must ascertain the costs and
expenses attending the 'vision, and make a record thereof,
stating distinctly each item of costs and expense, and if the

same is not paid within thirty days after the allotment, he
may issue execution against each of the persons to whom the
land was allotted, for their aliquot proportion thereof, which
must be directed to the sheriff, to be levied as other executions, and may be levied on the land so allotted.

§ 2690. No division or allotment can be made under this
chapter, where an adverse claim or title is asserted by any
one, or brought to the knowledge of the commissioners, or
judge of probate.

§ 2691. The ower hereb conferred does not prevent a
resort to any ot er legal mode of obtaining partition of lands.

CHAPTER VIII.

PROCEEDINGS IN ADMIRALTY.

Size. Size.
2692. Liens on steam boats, &c., for ma- ' 2701. N 0 notice required when bond is
terials and supplies. ‘ filed; manner of giving notice
2693. Complaint sworn to, and filed in when no bond is filed.
the circuit court; its contents. , 2702. Court. orders sale of the boat, if
269-1. Writ of seizure then issues. [ seizure is made less than twenty
2696. Boat released on bond stipulating days before court.
to satisfy the judgment 1 2703. Sheriff advertises and sells after
2696. Such roceedings not commenced ‘ sixty days, if no bond is filed.
for less than fifty dollars; cred- i 2704. Custody of the boat by the sheritors may unite. 0 iff, compensation for care of the

 

2697. All claims to be consolidated, and l boat.
one judgment rendered. l 2705. Any obligation to release the boat
2698. Wlien seizure is made twenty  is a stipulation.

days before court, judgment,2706. Lien waived if not asserted in
rendered at the first term. | thirty days from maturity.
2609. Judgment against the arties to _ 2707. Proceedings to enforce lien the

the bond, if one is ti ed, if not [ same as in admiralty courts of
the boat is condemned, and » the United States, unless othplaintiff proves his claim by his I erwise provided.

aflidavit. ' 2708. Damage for wantonly causing

2700. Costs taxed against complainant l boat to be seized, the.
who fails.

§ 2692. A lien is hereby created on all ships, vessels, steamboats, and other registered, enrolled or licensed water-craft,
built, repaired, fitted, furnished or victualled within this
state, for all debts contracted by the master, owner or consignees thereof; for work done or materials supplied by any
person within this state, for or concerning the bui ding,
repairing, fitting, furnishing, equipping, supplying or victualling, such ship, vessel, steam boat or other water-craft; and
for the wages of the officers, laborers and crew, in preference
to other debts due and owing from the owners thereof, which
lien may be asserted in the manner following:

§ 2693. The person or persons claiming such lien may file 2

their complaint in the circuit court of any county in which
the boat or vessel may be found, or in the city court of

Mobile, which must be sworn to, and must set forth the
nature and amount of the debt or claim, and when due, and
pray a seizure of the boat or vessel.

§ 2694. Thereu n the clerk of the court must issue a writ
reciting the com lgiht, and commanding the sheriff to seize
the boat or vesse , her tackle, apparel, and furniture, and hold
her until released by due course of law.

§ 2695. The owner, master of the boat, or any third person, may release the boat from custody at any time before

judgment, by entering into bond in double the amount of
the claim or claims asserted against the boat or vessel, with
sufiicient surety, to be approved by the sheriff, payable to
the complainant, with a stipulation to play and satisfy the
judgment which may be rendered in t e premises: which
bond must be returned to the court from which the procem
issued, by the sheriff, with his return indorsed thereon, and
the boat or vessel be delivered to the stipulators.
§ 2696. N o proceeding can be instituted under this chapter, unless the debt or claim is fifty dollars or upwards; but
any number of the persons entitled to a lien under the provisions of this chapter, may jointly unite in a complaint, if
tihcll aggregate of their claims amounts to or exceeds fihy
o ars.
§ 2697. Any number of persons claiming as aforesaid may
unite in the same complaint, and if more than one complaint
be filed against the same boat or vessel, the court must order
them to be consolidated, and render but one judgment, which
must com rehend all the claims established against the boat
or vessel, ut which must be considered several as to each
complainant.
§ 2698. If the boat or vessel is seized twenty da s previous to the return term of the court, judgment ma rendered at the first term, unless good cause be shown ibr acoutinuance.
§ 2699. If a stipulation be entered into, the stipulators are
de endants to the action; and if the claim he established,
judgment must be rendered against them and their sureties. If
there be no stipulation entered into, the court must proceed
and render judgment ex parte, condemning the boat, its tackle,
apparel, and furniture, to be sold for the satisfaction of the
c aim of the complainants; and the aflidavit of the complainant is presumptive evidence of the justice of the demand.
§ 2700. If any com lainant fails to establish his claim,
judgment must be ren ered against him for the costs in relation thereto.
§2701. If a sti ulation be entered into, no monition, or
notice of the com aint and seizure is necessary. If no stipulation be entere into, within three days after the seizure
of any boat or vessel, the sheriff must cause a notice of the
seizure, statin at whose instance, and when made, to be
posted up on t e boat or vessel, and at the court house door
of the county to which the process is returnable, which operates as a monition, and is notice of the seizure and of the
pendency of the litigation, to all persons; and his return
thereof 13 evidence of the fact.

§ 2702. If there be less than twenty days between the
seizure and the return of the process, and no stipulation be
entered into, the court must direct a sale of the boat or vessel, her tackle, apparel and furniture, for cash, which must
be aid into court, and be held subject to its ‘order.

2703. If a seizure be made sixty days, or more, before
the return of the writ, and no stipulation be entered into
within five days thereafter, the sheriif must advertise and
sell the boat, or vessel, her tackle, ap arel, and furniture, for
cash, in the same manner as upon a evy by iieri facias, and
make return thereof to the next term of the court.

§ 2704. Whilst the boat or vessel remains in the custody
of the sheriff, he must, as far as practicable, secure it against
loss or in'ury, and may ein loy a suitable rson, or rsons,
to take c arge thereof, an must therefor e allowe a suitable compensation, to be made by the court.
§ 2705. Any obligation or contract entered into for the
purpose of releasing the boat or vessel from the custody of
the sheriff, and in virtue of which the boat or vessel is restored to the master or owners, is in law a stipulation, whatever its form may be, and must charge the obhgors or makers
thereof, as stipulators.
§ 2706. The lien hereby given, continues onl thirty days
after the maturity of the claim or debt, and ' not asserted
in the mode prescribed in this cha ter within that time, must
be held to have been waived or abandoned.
§ 2707. Unless where otherwise provided in this chapter,
the proceedings for the enforcement of the lien are the same
as in the courts of admiralty of the United States; but either
party may have any question of fact decided by a jury, upon
an issue made up under the direction of the court.
§ 2708. For any abuse of the power conferred by this
chapter, by the seizure or sale of any boat or vessel, either
when no debt or claim existed, or when the debt or claim
was not a lien on the boat or vessel, the person or persons
suing out such process are liable to the owners, by action on
the case, for twice the amount of the damage actually sustained by the seizure, detention or sale of the boat or vessel.

CHAPTER IX.
ARBITRATION.
Sun Sea. 2709. Order of reference to arbitration 2710. Award made under a submission
made on motion of the parties without order of the court, to

to a suit be entered as a judgment.

Sac. . 81:0.

2711. Submission to be inwriting, &c.; 2717. They subpcnna witnesses and isits contents. sue commissions.

2712. Proc ' before arbitrators 2718. Parties are competent witnesses
and ' of the award. ‘ before them.

2713. Arbitrator not acting, his place , 2719. Subpoenas executed by sheriff or
supplied, and majority may T constable. _
make an award. 2720. Fine of defaulting witnesa

2714. Ifaward is not performed, it is f 2721. Award Ens]. unless made
returned to the circuit clerk,  through fraud.
and has the force of a judg- | 2722. Arbitrations as at common law.
ment; if for less than fifty : 2723. Pay of arbitrators, witnesses, cit.

dollars, to a justice. J 2724. Witness fees and other charges
2715. Performance enforced by attach- , paid in advance, but successful
ment. , party recovers them as costs.

2716. Oath of the arbitrators.

r. § 2709. It is the duty of all courts to encourage the settle‘ ment of controversies pending before them, by a reference

- thereof to arbitrators chosen by the parties or their attorneys;

. and, on motion of the parties, must make such order and
continue the cause for award; but such continuance must
not extend beyond one term, unless for good cause shown, or
by consent.

2 § 2710. When no suit is pending, the parties to any con. troversy may refer the determination thereof to the decision

' of arbitrators, to be chosen by themselves; and the award

I made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, must be entered u as the judgment of the proper court, if the award is
not pe ormed.

' § 2711. The parties must concisely state in writing, signed

I by them, the matter in dispute between them, and that they
desire to leave the determination thereof to certain persons,
naming them, as arbitrators; which must be delivered to the
arbitrators, or one of them, together with a list of the witnesses either party may desire to examine.

» § 2712. Thereupon it is the duty of the arbitrators to appoint a time and place for hearing the parties and ‘
their award, of which they must give the parties three days
notice; and if no cause is shown for a continuance, proceed
to hear and determine the matters referred to them, and make
their award in writing, which must be signed by them, and
a copy thereof be delivered to each of the parties, their agents
or attorneys.

§ 2713. If any of the arbitrators fail to attend at the time
and place designated, and the arties appear, they may substitute others in their place. the parties cannot agree, the
arbitrators present may themselves appoint others in their
stead, of which they must make a memorandum on the submission. A maj oritiy of the arbitrators chosen by the parties
ma make an aww: .

§Y2714. If the award is not rformed in ten days after
notice, and delivery of a copy t ereof, the succemful party
may return the submission and the award to the clerk of the
circuit court of the county in which the award is made, if for
the payment of more than fifty dollars, for the delivery of

specific property, or to do or omit to do any articular act. I
If for fifty dollars, or less, then to a justice o the peace of:
the county; and such award has the force and effect of a

judgment at law, upon which execution may issue as in other

C8868

§ 2715. If the award be for the delivery of pI'(()f)€l'ty, or to 1
do or omit to do any particulir act, on notice, an motion to I
the court performance may e enforced by attachment, or‘
other appropriate writ.

§2716. Before makin their award, the arbitrators must‘
be sworn im artially to etermine the matters submitted to'
theim, acco ing to the exlrlidgiice, and the (pianifest justice
an equity of the case to t e est of their ju gment without
favor or affection; which oath they may administer to each
other.

(52717. The arbitrators, or either of them, have power.
to subpoena_w_itnesses at the request of either of the parties, ?
and to administer all oaths svhich may behnecessiary in the
progress of the cause ° an must on t e a p ication of
either party, issue coirimissions to’ take the epositions of
any witness residing out of the county, which must be taken
in the same manner as depositions in the circuit court, ex-I
cept that no oath of the materiahty of thcia witness, or of the ‘
cause for taking the deposition is require .

§ 2718. The parties are competent witnesses, without re-1
ga1éd2’tf7>1t$ieSa.ri1i)ount, OE. mattetr in controvebrzy. ted _th 1

. u oenas or wi nesses may execu ei era
by the sheriif an constable of the county or by the ar- }
ti th 1 2 5’ Y 2 P

es emse ves. ‘

§ 2720. Witnesses duly summoned, who fail to attend;
without sutlicient excuse, may be fined ten dollars, for thej
use of the county; for the collection of which, the arbitrators
must issue execution; such defaulting witnesses are also liable to the party summoning them, for any injury sustained
by the loss of their testimony, to be recovered before any
court having jurisdiction.

§ 2721. An award made, substantially in compliance with,
the provisions of this chapter, is conclusive between the par-j
tiesl theretq, and their  as to thclzl I(Iil£}tte1‘S sqbnpipted,
an canno e enquire in or impeac e or wan o orm:
or irregularity, if the award determines the matter, or controversy submitted; and is final, unless the arbitrators are
guilty of fraud, partiality, or corruption, in making it.
pe§ 2722. Nothing this tqliapter contaipeed, preven: any.

rson or persons om se mg any ma rs or con oversy, by a reference to arbitration, at common law.

§ 2723. The arbitrators are, if demanded by them, entitled
each to two dollars per day, whilst actually engaged in the
arbitration; the witnesses, to one dollar per day; and the
shgriff and constable, to the customa fees for executing
an poenas, which must be aid jointly y the parties unless
the authorities otherwise etermine. ,

§ 2724. Any witness may refuse to testify until  fees
are paid by the arty summonin him; and the arbitrators
may refuse to de 'ver copies of e award until all
are paid. If paid by a par? not liable therefor, he may _re, cover the same by action be ore any court having j1lI'l8d1Gtl0Il
'»thereof; and the receipt of the arbitrators is resum live
.evidence of the fact of payment, and of the lia ility o the
party therefor.

CHAPTER X.

TO APPOINT AND REMOVE TRUSTEES.

Sm. S30.
2725. Circuit courtms remove a true» 2729. Also ifhe '3 absent.
tee : causes or such removal. 2780. Tried as othercases in the circuit
2726. Application died with the clerk court.
of the county in which the 2781. Court instead ofremaving, may
trustee resides. require bond.
2727. Its contents; notice to trustee. 2782. New trustee appointed, and band
2728. Publication when trustee is anou- required.
resident. 2783. Costs.

I § 2725. The circuit court has the power to remove the
trustee of an express trust, created b will or deed, upon the
application of any party intereste in the trust property,

' when such trustee has violated, or threatened to violate his
trust, is insolvent, or has removed from the state.

, § 2726. Such application must be filed with the clerk of
the county in whic the trustee resides; and if a non-resident,
in the county in which the most valuable portion of the trust
property is.

§ 2727. It must state the grounds on which the removal
is sought; and the trustee must be served with a copy of
such application ten days before the same is tried.

§ 2728. If the trustee is a non-resident, notice must be giv*‘ en, by publication in such paper as the clerk may direct, for
four successive weeks before the trial.

if § 2729. If the trustee is a resident, but absent from the

' state, the court, on proof thereof, may direct notice to be given, by publication In some paper for four successive weeks,
and to be left at his last place of residence or business.

§ 2730. The application must be heard on evidence, and
the facts determined as in other cases in the circuit court.
§ 2731. The court may, on the trial, instead of removing

d the trustee, require of him such bond as will effectually proI tect the interest of the parties; which bond must be approved by the jud e.

§ 2732. If t e trustee is removed, a new trustee may be

, appointed, and such bond required of him as is necessary to

protect the interest of the parties in the trust property.

§ 2733. Costs, or any rtion of the same, may be given
against the applicant, or t e other party, in the discretion of
the court.

CHAPTER XI.

PRISON BOUNDS AND INSOLVENT DEBTORS.

Anrrouz 1. Prison bounds.
“ 2. Insolvent debtors.

ARTICLE I.
Przson bounds.
S30. S20.
27 34. Prison bounds defined; privilege 2737. Judgment on the bond for breach
of prison bounds on giving of the condition.
bond, dzc. ‘.2738. Creditor not liable for support of
2736. Bond is taken by the sheriff. ~ the prisoner in bounds.
2736. Party imprisoned for non-pay- ‘ 2739. Prisoners under justice’s process
ment 0 dm or for contempt of entitled to the privilege.
court, allowed the benefit. ; 2740. Privilege continues only for sixty

« days.

§ 2734. The boundary of the county is the limit of the
prison bounds; and any person imprisoned in a civil action,
may have the benefit t ereof u on entering into bond, payable to the creditor, with sutiibient surety, in double the
amount of the judgment or debt for which he was imprisoned, with condition to continue a true prisoner within the
prison bounds, as by law established, until he is thence discharged by due course of law, without committing any escape
in the meantime.

§ 2735. The bond must be taken and a proved by the
sheriff, and be liled by him within five days t ereafter, in the
office of the clerk of the court from which the execution
issued.

§2736. Any person imprisoned for the non-payment of
the nne and costs, under the provisions of section 3625, or
for the non-payment of a fine imposed for contempt, after
the specific term of his imprisonment, may have the benefit
of the prison bounds, the bond in such case being payable
to the state of Alabama.

§ 2737. If the debtor is guilty of an escape, by 
beyond the prison bounds, after the execution of sue bon ,
and Without payment of the judgment, debt, or fine, interest
and costs, the obligee in such bond, his executor or administrator, may have judgment for the same b_ motion to the
circuit court, against such of the obligors in t ebond as have
live da s’ notice in writing that such motion will be made; .
and eit er party may have the fact of the escape tried by 9.;

jury.

§ 2738. The creditor is not liable for the sustenance or support of the prisoner after his discharge from close custody,
under the provisions of this chapter.

§ 2739. Phe provisions of this chapter apply to imprisonment under rocess from justices of the peace. In such
cases the hon for the prison bounds must be taken by the
sheriff, and filed in the ofiice of the clerk of the circuit court
of his proper county.

§ 2740. N 0 person is entitled to the benefit of the prison
bounds for a longer term than sixty days, and failing to surrender himself to the jailor after that time, must be deemed
to have committed an escape.

 

ARTICLE II.

Insolvent debtors.

830. Size.

2741. How discharged from arrest un- liable, but debtor not 
der execution. oned a second time.

2742. Notice of application for dis- 2746. Return of the schedule by the
charge given plaintiffs. sheriE'.

2743. And to solicitor on the part of 2747. Notice to debtors on insolvenfs
the state. schedule to answer as to their

2744. Proceeds of sale of pro rty em- indebtedness.
braced in the schedu e divided 2748. Proceedings to compel payment,
equally among the creditors. &c.

2745. Property acquired aderdischargc 2749. Discharge on denial of indebtedness.

§ 2741. Any person imprisoned in virtue of a judgment
rendered in an civil action, or for failing to pay any {inc
and costs legally imposed, after the specified term of his imrisonment for the non-payment of such fine and costs, must
released from custody by making the schedule, and giving
the notice provided in sections 2182 and 2183; and the same
proceedings must be had as therein provided for the 
charge of the risoner, and for the sale of the property rendere in the so edule.
§ 27 42. When the part is imprisoned at the suit of several persons, notice must e given to each of the plaintiffs,
or their agents or attorneys, if resident in the county, of the
intended a lication.
§2743. here the state is the plaintiff, the notice must
be given to the solicitor of the circuit, or the judge of probate of the county in which the person is imprisoned.
§2744. After the payment of the sheriffs and jail fees,
the proceeds of the sale of the effects of the debtor, rendered
in his schedule, must be divided rateably amongst the plaintiffs by whom he was charged in execution, if there be more
than one.
_ § 2745. Any prope acquired by such debtor after his
discharge, is liab e for t e payment of such judgments, but

the debtor must not be imprisoned again for or on account of
the judgment on which he was imprisoned at the time of his
discharge.

§ 2746. The sheriff must return the schedule rendered by
the defendant, and make return of the sale of the debtors
effects to the clerk of the circuit court of his county, with
the amount due to each of the plaintiffs, if more than one, at
whose suit the debtor was imprisoned, which it is the duty
of the clerk to credit on the entry made of the issue of the
execution. '

§ 2747. \Vhen an insolvent debtor is discharged, upon
rendering a schedule of his property, and returns in such
schedule, debts, money, or property, due to or bclongin to
him, in the hands of another person, it is the duty of the clerk
of the circuit court on the return of the schedule by the
sheriff, upon the a plication of the plaintiff, to issue a notice
to such person, escribing the debt, money, or property
alleged to be due from him to the debtor, or to be in his
hands, and requiring him to appear at the next term of the
court, and answer upon oath as to the correctness thereof.

§ 2748. If he appear and admit indebtedness to the debtor
or property of the debtor in his hands, judgment must be
rendered against him for the amount so admitted, or of condemnation of any chattel admitted to be in his hands, as in
case of garnishee in attachment. And in like manner if he
fail after notice to appear and answer, judgment must be rendered against him on the schedule, to be made absolute if
after notice thereof he fails to appear and answer.

§ 2749. If he deny indebtedness to the debtor, or property}
in his hands belonging to him, he must be discharged at the!
cost of the plaintiff, but no attorney’s fee must be taxed. If
a conditional judgment is set aside on his answer, he must
pay the cost.

CHAPTER XII.

INQUISITION S OF LUNACY.

Size.
2757. On restoration of mind, the guardian is discharged on his petiSec.
2750. On application, with atiidavit of

facts, judge of probate to fix a

day to examine into matter of tion.

lunacy or idiocy. 2758. Ward's petition, certified by
2751. Writ of arrest of lunatic, and physicians, tobeheard by judge

commanding a jury to try the of probate.

1 , (inc. 2759. If petition proved, order made
2752. Oath o the jurors; vacancies on discharging the guardian.

the list filled. 2760. If his restoration is disputed, a
2763. On verdict of insanity, dzc, papers jury tries the fact.

filed and a guardian appointed. 2761. Judgment when the verdict sus2754. Rights of the guardian, his duties.
2755. Provision for support of ward’s

family, the.
2756. Settlements by guardian, his duties and responsibility the same

as those of other guardians.

tains the petition.

2762. Pauper lunatics supported by the
overseers of the poor.

2763. Fees of judge, sheriff, jurors and
witnesses.

§ 2750. Upon the petition of any of the relations or friends
of any person alleged to be an idiot, lunatic, or person non
compos mentis, setting forth the facts and ‘name, sex, age,
and residence, of such alleged idiot or lunatic, accom anied
by an afiidavit that the etitioner believes the facts t erein
stated to be true, the ju ge of probate of the county in which
such alleged lunatic, idiot, or person non compos mentis
resides, must a point a day not more than ten days from the
presentment 0 such etition, for the hearing thereof.
§ 2751. He must a so issue a writ directed to the sherif,
commanding him to summon twelve disinterested persons of
the neighborhood for the trial thereof, and also issue subpoenas for witnesses as the parties may require, returnable to
the time of trial; he must also issue a writ directed to the
sheriff, to take the alleged insane pxerson or idiot, and if consistent with his health or safety, ave him present at the
place of trial.
§ 2752. At the time set forth in the trial, if good causebe
not shown for a continuance, the jury must be empannelled,
and sworn well and truly to make inéluisition of the facts
alle ed in the petition, and a true ve 'ct render according
to Sic evidence. If any of the jurors are excused from
serving, fail to attend, or are set aside from any cause, their
places may be supplied by the by-standers.
§ 2753. If the jury find by their verdict that the facts
alleged in the petition are true, and that such person is an
idiot, lunatic, or non compos mentis, the court must cause
the petition, and all the proceedings thereon, to be recorded,
and appoint a suitable person guardian to such idiot, lunatic,
or non compos mentis, requiring him to execute bond as other
guardians.
2754. The ardian so appointed is entitled to the custo y and contro of the person and estate of such idiot, lunatic, or non compos mentis; and it is his duty to provide for
his wants, and, by a keeper or otherwise, to exercise such a
supervision over him as to prevent injury to other ersons.
§ 2755. If the ward has a family, the judge o probate
must direct what portion of the estate or its income must be
ap ropriated by t e guardian for their su port.
g 2756. Sue guardian must be required to settle annually,
g or oftener if necessary; may be required to give additional
,suret when necessary; may be removed for sufficient cause,
as ot er guardians, and is in all respects subject to the provisions made for ordinary guardians.
§ 2757. If at an time after his ap ointment the guardian
becomes satisfied t at his ward has seen restored to sanity,

. and is ca able of managing his estate, and the judge of probate is 0 opinion from the proof and the facts stated, that
such representation is correct, he must make an order that
the guardian be discharged, and that the estate of the ward
be restored to him.

§ 2758. At any time after the dnding of the verdict against

the alleged insane person, he may in erson, or by his next
friend, petition the judge of probate, a leging his restoration
to sanity, which must be certified by two physicians, or other
competent persons; thereupon the judge of probate must

a point a. day, not more than ten days thereafter, for hearing,

e same, to which day the guardian must be cited to appear

and show cause against it.
§ 2759. If the guardian fail to appear and the judge of

probate is satisfied the allegations of the etition are true, he
must make an order declaring the fact, t at.the authority of
the guardian has ceased, and that the ward 1S entitled to the
custody and management of his estate.

§ 2760. If the guardian appear and contest the allegation
of the petition, a day must be fixed for the trial thereof, to
which time a jury must be summoned, and the same proceeding? be had as upon the original inquisition. . _

g 2161 If the jury find the facts alleged In the petition to
be true, judgment must be rendered that the etitioner be
restored to the possession of his estate ; from an after which
time the authority of the guardian over the estate and person of the ward ceases. The guardian may be taxed with
the costs, at the discretion of the judge of probate, for which
execution may issue. If otherwise the petition to be dismissed at the costs of the petitioner.’

§ 2762 If such idiot, or insane person, have no estate, or
no erson is willing to become his guardian the judge of
pro ate must place him in charge of the overseer of the poor,
who must provide for his safe kee ing and sustenance, and
may call on his relations to aid in is support, under the prov1s1ons of section 1212.
§ 2763. Upon any proceeding had under the provisions

of this chapter, the sheriii" and judge of probate are entitled?
to such fees as are allowed by law for similar services in other 1

cases; and the jury and witnesses, to seventy-five cents (per
day during their detention, which, unless otherwise provi ed
in this chapter, must be paid out of the estate of the lunatic
or idiot, on the certificate of the judge of probate. If he

have no estate, the same must be paid out of the county}

treasury.

iiitlc £3.

PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES BEFORE J USTICES OF’ THE PEACE

Czar. 1. Powers and duties of justices of the peace and constables.
“ 2. Special proceedings before justices of the peace.

CHAPTER I.
POWERS AND DUTIES OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE AND
CONSTABLES.
Snc. SEC.

2764.

least once a month to try civil
cases. ‘

27 65. Bcne6cial party to sue in their
courts.

2766. Suits commenced by summons
and cause of action indorsed;

form of summons.

Summons to be executed three
days before return day.

2768. Suits brought either in precinct
of defendant's residence or
where the cause of action arose.

2769. If there are several defendants,
suit brou ht in either precinct.

2770. Suits may e brought 1!]. other

recincts in certain cases.

2771. Bad) regulated by same provissions as in other suits.

And defendant discharged in the
same manner.

Deposition of witnesses taken in
certain cases.

Subpcenas issued by justices.

Served within another county if
within ten miles.

Conditional judgment against defaulting witnesses. Excuses
when heard.

Execution when judgment made
absolute, and paid to county
treasury when collected.

Witnesses’ fees.

Parties competent when sum is
less than twenty dollars. Either may examine the other.

Rules of evidence, those of other
courts.

Judgment at first return day.

Judgments in actions to recover
specific rope:-ty.

If no appea in five days execution issues returnable in twenty days,

Form of execution.

On affidavit of necessity, execution issues immediately.

Set-off in such suits.

If the off-set exceeds fifty dollars.

Stay of execution on giving security.

2789. Ca. sa. when issued; discharge

2767.

2772.
2773.

2774.
2775.

2776.
9777.

2778.
2779.
2780.

2781.
2782.

2783.

2784.
2786.

2786.
2787.
2788.

2807.

2812. Pape

Justices to fix a day and place at 2790. A judgment of a justice bars an

other suit.

2791. Statement (certified) of the 
ment, evidence of the fact, Ate.

2792. On death of a jus.t.i§eed(ol1;u:ther
vacancy) unfime ness
completed by the other justice
of the precinct.

2793. The constable is the odicer of the
court.

2794. Property lelyiied on, etxhcept slaves,
to be so within e precinct.

2795. Slaves not to be levied on ifother pro rty can be found;
sales olpfslaves to be made at
the courthouse.

2796. Levy made on land, is no personal property foun .

2797. Notice to be given of levy on

land
Motion made in circuit court for
order of sale.

2798.

2799. Proceedings before 'ust.ice, and
order of sale, to he recorded
b the clerk.

2800. For coming bonds.

2801. On forfeiture of bond, exeeuthn
issues.

2802. Return of forfeiture of a bond

taken on an execution from
another county.

Defects in form of such bonds
not to alter their legal e-Sect.

Executions sent to other counties
to be certified by judge of
probate.

Return of such executions.

Lien of such executions.

First execution received to be
first paid.

2803.
2804.

2805.
2806.

2808. Property exempt from levyand
sale underproeess from a jlBtice.

2809. Indemnifying bonds required in
cases of doubt.

2810. Liability of the constable and the
sureties on his odieial bond.

‘.3811

.Ap lstothe circuit court in
tiisxddays.

rs in the caseand statement
of the judgment returned to
the court in such cases.

from arrest as in other execu- 2813. Witnesses. how subpasned an

tions.

trial ofthe appeal.

Sac. Size.
2814. Notice of the appeal served on 2817. Effect on the suit, ifdeathof eiththe appellee. or party.

2815. If execution issues in six months, 2818. Judgment against executors and
others may issue within three administrators suspended for
years. eighteen months.

2816. If none were issued, notice to be 2819. Limitation of suits, and rules of
given the defendant to show proceedings in the circuit court
cause why execution should applicable to suits in the 
not. issue. tiees’ courts.

§ 276-1. Justices of the peace must designate certain days,
at least once a month, and appoint a particular place within
their precincts, for the trial of civil causes, but may in cases
of emergency make their process returnable at any other
time or place.
§ 2765. All actions brought before justices of the peace,
foutrilded on an tclpntract, expiieless ortiampliteeil, tI{1111St.l)6 bI1';)1;1g1l1t
in e name 0 e par y rea y in res _ erein w e er
he have the legal title or not; and all actions for the recovery of specific propert , or for the recovery of damages
merely, in the name of t e aggrieved party.
§ 2766. Civil suits before a justice of the eaee must be
commenced by a summons, to be issued by t em, with the
cause of action indorsed thereon, in substance as follows:
The State of Alabama,
County. To any constable of the county of -—.
Summon A. B. to appear befor me on the day of
1 next, at (designating the placc,) to answer the complaint

of C. D., and then and there make return of this summons.
Issued the day of

   

E. F., justice of the peace.

§ 2767. The summons must be executed three days before
the return day thereof, by personal service on the defendant.

§ 2768. Unless in cases otherwise provided for in this title,
no person can be sued out of the precinct of his (permanent
residence, or of that in which the debt was create , or cause
of action arose, and if suit be brought contrary to the pro_V1sions of this section, it must on motion be dismissed by the
justice.

§ 2769. Where there are several defendants, the summons may be made returnable into any precinct where any
one of them resides.

§ 2770. If there is no justice within the precinct of the

defendants’ residence, or if the justice is from any cause in-‘
competent to sit upon the trial, the summons must be issued‘

and the cause trie by the justice of any adjoining precinct
competent to try the cause.

§ 2771. If the plaintiff desires to hold the defendant to
hail, the same proceedings must be had, in all res ects, as
provided in Chapter fourth, Title first, of Part thir , for arTest and bail in cases returnable to the circuit court; and
“P0I_1 oath being made and security given, as there required,
l:l18i,:1uslt1e<1a)11111t11slt indorse on tltig Isyérgmons, that bail is requiron e e sum sworn ue.

§ 2772. Where the defendant is arrested on a bail summons, he must be discharged from custody, upon his giving
bail or tendering to the justice a schedule of his property, in
the mode prescribed in the chapter referred to in the receding section; and all the provisions therein made for t e discharge of the defendants, and for fixing the liability, and for
the discharge of the bail, are applicable where bail is required in justice’s court.
§ 2773. The depositions of females, aged, sick an-l infirm
persons, and non-residents of the county, living ten miles
rom the place of trial, may be taken on application to the
justice, in the same manner depositions are taken in the circuit courts; in all other cases, witnesses must be examined
orally before the justice.
§ 2774. The justice, on the application of either party,
must issue sub oenas for Witnesses, stating therein the name
of the parties y whom the witness is summoned, and the
time and place of trial; which must be executed by the constable, in the same manner as the summons.
. § 2775. Where the Witness is not a resident of the county, but resides Within ten miles of the (place of trial, computing the distance by the usual travelle route, the subpoena
may be served either by a constable of the count in which
it was issued, or by one in which the witness resi es; but in
the latter case, a justice of such county must certify that he
is an acting constable thereof.
§ 2776. If any witness duly summoned fails to attend, a
conditional line of ten dollars may be entered against him by
the justice; which must be made absolute if the witness,
upon notice issued by the justice, and served three days previous to the trial, fails to make a sufficient excuse, either in
person, by some one who knows the facts constituting the
excuse, or by affidavit before some justice of the peace, and
presented at the time designated for the trial thereof.
§ 2777. If the fine is made absolute, execution must issue
therefor, and the proceeds, when collected, must be paid
’to the county treasurer. He may also be compelled, b at'tachinent, to appear and give evidence; and is also liab e to
the party summoning him, for any injury caused by the
want of his testimony.
§ 2778. Witnesses are entitled to fifty cents r day,
while in attendance on the trial, to be taxed in £2 bill of
costs.
§ 2779. Where the matter in controversy, or damages
claimed by the complaint, do not exceed twent dollars,
I either party may be a Witness in his own behalf. hen the
-matter in controversy, or damages claimed, exceed twenty
dollars, either party may be a witness in his own behalf; unless the party against whom the testimony is offered, swears
that the testimony proposed to be given is untrue; but, in
- any case, either party may be compelled to testif at the in'stance of his adversar ; and if he declines to 0 so, judgment must be rendere against him.

§ 2780. The rules in relation to the competency of witnesses, are the same on trials before justices, as declared
by the provisions of Article one, Chapter ten, Title one, of
this part, except so far as the same may be altered by the
provisions of this title.
§ 2781. The justice must proceed to render judgment at
the return term of the summons, unless cause be shown for
a continuance.
§ 2782. In actions for the recovery of specific property,
the justice must ascertain the value thereof, and render judgment for the specific property, if to be had; if not, then for
its value; and execution must issue accordingly.
§ 2783. After the lapse of live days, if an appeal is not taken, he must, unless otherwise directed, issue a writ of fieri
facias for the satisfaction of the ’udgment, which must be
signed by him, be dated on the (fay it is issued, and be returnable, not less than twenty, nor more than thirty days after its issue, except in such cases as is otherwise provided.
27 84. The writ must be in substance as follows:
tate of Alabama
County.l To any constable of the Count of
—: You are hereby commanded, of goods and chatte s of
A. B., you make the sum of dollars, which C. D. recovered before me, of him, on the —— day of , besides ,
his costs; andmake return to me, on the day of
next, at —- in your county, how you have executed this writ.
Witness my hand this day of ——-.
E. F., justice of the peace.
§ 2785. If the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, make oath
in writing before the justice, that the laintiff is in danger of
losing the fruit of his judgment by de a , the justice must issue execution thereon immediately.
§ 2786. The defendant may set off any claim or demand,
founded on a contract, express or implied, he held against
the plaintilf at the time the suit was instituted, whether the
same was liquidated or not; and if his claim is greater than
that of the plaintiff, may have judgment for the residue, if it
does not exceed fifty dollars.
§ 2787. If such residue exceeds fifty dollars, and the defendant enters on the (locket of thej ustice a satisfaction of as
much of his claim as the amount of the glaintiffs demand, as
ascertained by the justice, and tenders t e plaintiff a receipt
for the amount thus set off, judgment must be rendered 111
favor of the defendant for costs.
§ 2788. The defendant may at any time before execution
issued, stay the issue thereof for thirty days, if the judgment
is for less than twenty dollars, and for sixty days, if over
twenty dollars, b executing in writing an undertaking to
the plaintiff in double the amount of the judgment, with
surety, to be approved by the justice, to pay the judgment at
the expiration of the stay. If not paid, execution may issue
therefor against all the parties to such undertaking.
§ 2789. A capias ad satisfaciendum mav be issued by a

   

 

justice of the peace upon the terms and conditions prescribed
in section 2175; and the defendant, when arrested, may be
discharged from custod , in the same manner as is provided
for the discharge of bailyin civil cases, in Chapter four, Title
one, of Part third.

§ 2790. A judgment rendered by a justice of the peace on
the merits of the case, is a bar to any other suit for the same

cause of action.
§ 2791. A statement of the judgment rendered by a justice of the peace, made and certified by the justice before

whom the cause was tried, or by his successor, in possession
of his docket, is presumptive evidence of the fact.

§ 2792. When a justice of the peace dies, resigns, orremoves, the remaining justice of the precinct is authorized to
com lete the unfinished business, in the same manner as if it
had en commenced before him. If there be no other justice in the precinct, then the nearest justice to his place of
residence.

§ 2793. It is the duty of the constable to attend the regular terms of the justice’s court of his precinct.

§ 2794. He must sell all property levied on, except slaves,
at the residence of the defendant, or at such other ace within the precinct as may be most for the benefit of t e parties,
between the hours of eleven in the morning and four in the
afternoon.

§ 2795. He must not levy on slaves unless there is not a
sufficiency of other personal property of the defendant
known to him to satisfy the execution. When a le is
made on slaves, he must advertise the sale at some pu lic
place within the precinct, and also at the court house of the
county, by putting u a written notice at each, ten days previous to the sale. gales of slaves, by constables, must be
made at the court house of the county, on the first Monday
of the month.

§ 2796. If the defendant has no personal ro erty known
to the constable, or if it is insufficient to satisf) tge execution,
he must indorse the fact upon the execution, and may then
levy on land of the defendant, describing it in his levy, and
ma e return thereof to the justice of the peace, whose duty
it is to transmit all the papers in the cause to the next circuit
court.

§ 2797. If the defendant, whose land is levied on, is a raident of, and within the county, personal notice of such levy
must be given him; otherwise, by posting a notice in a conspicuous place on the land levied on.

§ 2798. If the proceedings before the justice are regular,
and establish a judgment against the defendant, issue of execution, and levy on land for want of personal property, and
notice thereof, and no sufiicient objection is made, the court
must, on motion of the laintiff, direct a sale of the land for
the satisfaction of the ju gment.

§ 2799. The clerk of the circuit court must record all the

Y

proceedings before the justice, together with the return of the
constable, the motion of the plaintiff, and the order of the
court thereon; and issue a writ directing the sheriff to sell
the land for the satisfaction of the judgment.

§ 2800. When a lev is made on personal property, the
defendant may retain t e possession thereof until the day of
sale, by executing a forthcoming bond, payable to the plaintiff, in double the amount of the judgment, with suflicient
surety, to be approved by the constable, with condition to
have the property forthcoming at twelve o’c1ock of the day,
and at the place appointed for the sale.

§ 2801. If the roperty is not delivered at such time and
place, the constab e must return the bond forfeited to the justice, who must thereupon, without delay, issue execution
thereon for the amount of the judgment and costs, against all
the parties thereto, upon which no further stay of execution
must be taken.

§ 2802. If property is levied on by a constable under an
execution from another county, and the property is not delivered on the day of sale according to the forthcoming bond,
the constable must return the bond “forfeited” to any justice
of his county, together with a copy of the execution, who
must proceed thereon in the same manner as if judgment had
been rendered by him; and the constable must then return
the execution to the justice that issued it, with an indorsement, showing the levy and forfeiture of the bond.

§ 2803. Any undertaking entered into by the parties,
with the consent of the justice or constable, as a stay of execution, or forthcoming bond, and which has the effect to
stay execution, or continue the property levied on in the

ssession of the defendant, must be deemed sufficient, though

efeetive in form.

§ 2804. Where a defendant against whom judgment has
been rendered removes to another county, the justice mav
issue execution thereon, directed to any constable of such
county; which execution must be certified by the judge of
probate of the county in which such justice resides, or by a
justice of the county to which it is sent, who has knowledge
of the handwriting of the justice issuing it.

§2805. The execution must be made returnable before
the justice issuing it, not less than thirt , nor more than
sixty days from the time of its issue; an may be executed
by any constable of the county to which it is sent, and must
be by him returned to the justice by whom issued.

§2806. Executions issued b justices, are a lien on the
real and personal property of t e defendant, from the time
of the levy, and upon the property on which they are levied.

§ 2807. If more than one execution comes to the hands of
the constable against the same defendant at different times,
the first received by him must be hrst satisfied. If more
than one execution against the same defendant come to his
hands at the same time, if all cannot be satisfied, each must

receive a rateable proportion : and it is the duty of the constable to indorse on every execution received by him, the
true date of the receipt thereof.

_ § 2808. The same property is exempt from any levy, attachment, or sale by execution, from a justice, as provided

‘ in the nfth Article of the nineteenth Chapter, Title first, Part
third: and the same property subject to levy and sale by
execution from a justice, as declared by the provisions of
section 2455.

§ 2809. When a reasonable doubt exists as to the title of

}the defendant to roperty, the constable may refuse to levy,
unless indemnified by the plaintiff. If there are more plaintiffs than one, those having the oldest lien have the prior
right to give such indemnity, and upon his refusal, the person having the next oldest lien may give the indemnity, and
have the pro erty sold or attached for his benefit.

§ 2810. T e constable, and sureties on his bond, are reisponsible for moneys received by him, in virtue of his oilice,
upon any summons, attachment, or execution, issued by a.
justice, Whether the same is received before or after judgment, or before or after the return day of the execution.
§ 2811. Any person may appeal to the circuit court, from
any judgment rendered against him by a justice, Within five
' days after the rendition thereof, by entering into an under. taking in Writing, in double the amount of the judgment,
ayable to the person in whose favor the judgment is renered, to satisfy such judgment as may be rendered in the
premises, b the circuit court.

I § 2812. Vhen an appeal is taken, the justice must return

uall the original apers of the cause, together with a state‘ ment signed by ' of the case, and the judgment rendered
by him, to the clerk of the circuit court, by the first day of
the term.

. § 2813. He must also issue such subpoenas as either party

‘ may require, for Witnesses, to attend on the third day of the
next term of the circuit court, statin therein at whose instance such Witness is summoned, which must be executed

' by the constable, and returned on or before the second day
of the term, to the clerk of the circuit court.

3 § 2814. The justice must also issue a notice to the appellee,

E that such appeal has been taken, which must be executed by
personal service, five days before the return term of the appeal, and must be returned by the constable to the clerk of
the circuit court, on or before the second day of the term.

_ § 2815. When an execution has issued within six months
after the rendition of judgment, and has not been returned
“satisfied,” another execution may be issued thereon at any
time Within three years thereafter, without a revival of the
judgment.

, §2816. When execution has not been thus sued out, no

» execution can issue until the defendant is notified to appear,

’ at a time and place designated by the justice, and show cause

why the plaintiff should not have execution of his 'udgment;
but no judgment can be revived aRer the lapse 0 five years
from the rendition of judgment, or of the issue of the last
execution.
§ 2817. When any of the parties to a suit die during its
progress, the suit abates, unless the cause of action survives;
when it may be revived within six months thereafter, by live
days’ notice to the legal representative, to appear, and prosecute or defend the suit; unless such leg re resentative
voluntarily makes himself a party; and upon t e death of
either party being made known to the justice, he must continue t e cause six months.
§ 2818. _No judgment must be rendered by a justice of the
peace against an executor or administrator, as such, until
eighteen months after the grant of letters testamentary, or
of administration.
§2819. The provisions contained in Title iirst of Part
third, for the regulation of suits in the circuit court, and
prescribin the time Within which suits may be brought,
so far as t e same are applicable to suits before justices, and
not contradicted b any provisions contained in this title,
are hereby declare to be in full force, as to the rights of
arties, and to suits brought before justices, as fully as if C

ere repeated.

CHAPTER II.

SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS BEFORE J USTICES OF THE PEACE.

Armani: 1. Summary judgments.
“ 2. Trial of right of property.
“ 3. Attachments.
“ 4. Forcible entry and unlawful detainer.

ARTICLE I.

Summary judgments.

Size.

2820. Summary judgments for fifty 2827. For failure to execute a sumdollars on motion, and five mons.
days’ notice before justice in i 2828. For failure to levy an attachthe following cases: . merit.

2821. Against 'ustice; for acting as‘ 2829. For failure to return, or false resuch r removal, dzc. turn of process.
2822. For failure to pay over money.  2830. In favor of constables on indemSIC.

 

2823. Such motions made before any mfying bonds.

justice, within six months. 2831. Motions made in county of resi2824. Against constables; for acting | dence of defendants.

after removal, dzc. ' 2832. If the damages, &c., increase the
2825. For failure to make the money: sum beyond fifty dollars, the

on execution. I motion should be made in the
2826. For failure to pay over money circuit court.

 

collected, but demand and
motion to be made in six
months. 1

§ 2820. Judgments not exceeding fifty dollars may be rendered, on motion, by justices, in favor of the party aggrieved,
or the other persons herein specified, against the persons
hereinafter named, five days notice thereof in writing being
given, specifying the cause for which such motion will be
made, and the time and place.

§2821. Against justices of the peace for acting in an
official capacity as such, after their office has been vacated
by removal from the precinct for which they were elected,

.or from any other cause; judgment for forty dollars, one
half to the use of the county, and the residue to any one
who will sue for the same.

. § 2822. For any money received or collected by a justice

‘by virtue of his ofhce, after demand made; judgment ma
be rendered for the amount so received or collected, wi
five per cent. a month thereon.

s § 2823. The motions authorized by the two preceding

gseetions ma be made before any justice of the peace of the
county in w "ch such justice resides, within six months after
tho demand of the money from the justice, or within six
months after the act done.

. § 2824. For acting as such after removal from the recinct
for which they were elected, or after their term of o ce has

ex ired, or is vacated from an cause; judgment for fcm

do ars, one half to the use of t e county, and the other

' to the use of an erson who will sue for the same.

_ § 2825. For ai ing to make the money on any execution
which by due diligence might have been made; judgment

'for the amount of the execution, and interest, and five per
cent. dama es on the amount thereof.

v § 2826. or failing to pay over money collected or received

iin virtue of any execution, summons, or attachment, on demand by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney; judgment for

,the amount so received, and five per cent. per month on

= such amount from the time of demand made; but the demand
must be made, and notice for summary judgment given,
Within six months after the receipt of the money.

. §2827. For failing to execute any summons which by
proper diligence could have been executed; judgment for a
sum not more than ten nor less than nve dollars.

v § 2828. For failing to execute process of attachment, which
b due diligence could have been executed, whereby the
3 aintiif has lost his debt; judgment for the amount of the

ebt, and interest.
§ 2829. For neglecting to make return of a summons, execution, or other process, or for making a false return; judggielrlit for a sum not more than twenty nor less than 5V8
o ars.

§ 2830. Judgment may in like manner be rendered in
favor of the constable against the obligors in any bond 0!
promisors in any undertaking to indemnify him in levying
an attachment or execution; judgment for the same amount
which is rendered against the constable for making su!:h16V7:

t

on three da s’ notice of the pending motion or suit against
the constab e.

§ 2831. The motions authorized by this article may be
made before any justice of the county in which the parties
moved against reside, and judgments be obtained against
such justice and constable, and such of the sureties for their
official bond, or either of them, as may be notified that such
motion will be made.

§ 2832. “Then the amount claimed, by the accruing interest, or by the addition of the dam es, exceeds the sum of
fifty dol ars, the motion must be m e in the circuit court of
the county in which the parties moved against reside.

ARTICLE II.

Trial of right of property.

Size. Size.

2833. On claim and affidavit by a r- 2835. If a juror do not attend, «Inc, byson not a defendant, an on standers added.
tiling bond with security, the 2836. Jury sworn to readers. just verproperty levied on to be res- dict.
tored. 2837. The value of each article to be

2834. Proceedings to try the right, assessed separately, and damjury summoned.  given If claim is put in for

e y.

§ 2833. When an attachment or execution is levied by a
constable on personal property claimed by any person not a
party to the writ, he may try the right to sue pro erty by
making afiidavit that he has a just title thereto, ang executing bond in double the amount of the plaintiff ’s demand,
payable to the plaintiff, with sufficient surety, tobe approved

y the constable, with condition to have the property forthcoming for the satisfaction of the plaintiff ’s judgment, if it
be found liable therefor, and for the payment of such costs
and damages as may be recovered for putting in the claim
for delay; and thereupon the property must be restored to
the person from whom it was taken.

§ 2834. The constable must Without delay return the amdavit and bond to the justice who issued the process, who
must thereupon issue a writ directed to the constable, commanding him to summon seven householders of the precinct
as jurors, to appear at a time and place to be by him designated, within the precinct, not less than five nor more than
ten days from the issue of the writ, for the trial of the right
of ro ert .

§ 28)35.yIf any of the jury fail to attend, or are incompetent to serve as jurors, or are chal1enged_for cause, the deficiency must be su plied from the by-standers.

§ 2836. When t e jury is empannelled, they must be sworn
well and truly to inquire into the right of property so levied

on or attached, and a true verdict render, according to the
, evidence; and the burthen of proof that the property is liable to the satisfaction of the execution, or subject to the
attachment, is cast on the plaintiff.
§2837. If the claim was interposed to ale by execu. tion, or if the plaintiff in attachment has obtaine judgment,
the jury must, if they find for the plaintiff, ascertain the
value of each article of roperty separately, as far as practicable, and if they are otp opinion the claim was put in for
delay, assess the plaintiff damages, not exceeding fifteen per
cent. on the amount of the plainti1f’s demand; for which,
and for the costs of the claim suit, ju ent must be rendered for the plaintiff against the defen t and his sureties;
and should the property found subject not be delivered to
the constable within five days thereafter, execution issues for
the assessed value thereof, against the defendant and his
sureties.

ARTICLE IH.
Attachments.
Sad Sac.
2838. Justices alone issue attachments writing, and is evidence against
for less than fifty dollars; himonanappeal.
grounds for issue of attaoh- 2845. Replevied property to be delivment. ered in ten days after 
2889. Rules as to attachments in other ment, execution on band if nocourts applicable. glected.
2840. Form of attachments. 2846. Contents of answers, and collat284l. Notice to be given of levy of at- era.l issues tried without a jury.
tachment on land. 2847. Execution to issue if the
2842. Money in omcer’s hands and erty will not pay the de
debts in suit not attached in 2848. Appeals from justices’ decision
justice’s court. on contents of answers and oth2843. Sale of property before judgment er collateral issues.
in certain cases. 2849. Amendments permitted in the
2844. Answer of garnishee to be in boxlilsr atlidaviton the trialcn
“P

! § 2838. Justices have the exclusive power to issue attach,ments, returnable before themselves, where the amount
I claimed does not exceed fifty dollars, in the following cases
onl :
15.’ To enforce the collection of a debt, whether due or not
at the time the attachment is sued out.
2. To recover damages for the breach of a contract, where
the damages are uncertain or unliquidated.
§ 2839. The provisions contained in the first six Articles
of Chapter first, Title second of this Part, are applicable to
attachments issued by justices, except as otherwise provided
in this article.
§ 2840. The form of the attachment must be in substance
as follows:

State of Alabama, )
county. f To any constable of said county:

Whereas A. B. (or C. D. as the authorized agent or attorney of A. B.) hath complained on oath tome, E. F., a justice of
the peace for the county aforesaid, that G. H. is (or will be) justly indebted to him in the sum of dollars, and has made
aliidavit, and given bond as required by law. You are hereb
commanded to attach so much of the estate of G. H. as wi 1
be of value sufhcient to satisfy the complaint and costs, and
such estate, unless replevied, so to secure that the same may
be liable to further proceedings thereon, to be had before me
on the —— day of , at , when and where you must
make return how you have executed this Writ. Witness my
hand this day of —.

   

E. F., Justice of the Peace.
§ 2841. When an attachment from a justice is levied on
real estate, notice must be 'ven as provided for b section
27 97, and the papers after ju gment againstthe defen ant must
be returned to the clerk of the circuit court by the justice
for an order of sale, as in other cases of levy on lands by

constables.
§ 2842. Money in the hands of a sheriff or other executive

officer of the court, cannot be attached by process from a justice of the peace, nor a debt in any court of record of this
state, in any case in which the attachment or process is returnable before the justice.
§ 2843. Perishable propert , or when the expence of
keeping propert will materia ly im air its value, must be;
801 by order 0 the justice, when t e debt upon which the?
attachment is sued out is not due, when the defendant in
attachment is a non-resident, or where from any cause the
judgment or sale is postponed, so that the pro erty attached
will material] deteriorate in value, unless t e propert is
replevied, an the proceeds of such sale must be retaine in
the hands of the justice to abide the judgment.
2844. The garnishee must answer on oath in writing,«
or is statement be reduced to writing by the justice, and if 5
811 appeal is taken, the answer made before the justice is:
evidence against the garnishee, in the circuit court. '
§ 2845. Property replevied, must be delivered to the I
constable within ten days after judgment against the defend-5
ant, unless an ap eal is prosecuted from the judgment, and 2
On failure thereo , the constable must indorse the bond for- :
feited, upon which execution must issue against the parties a
thereto.
§ 2846. When the answer of a garnishee is contested, or:
when any collateral issues arise from a contest between a a
tfansferee or claimant of the debt attached, and the plain-2
$11}; the question must be decided by the justice, without the ‘
Intervention of a jury.
§ 2847. When the roperty attached, or in the hands of I
the garnishee is not euécient to satisfy the judgment, execu-ii

tion may issue for the residue, and be levied on any other
property of the defendant.
§ 2848. The plaintiff, garnishee or the contestant, upon
any collateral issue, may ap cal to the circuit court from any
ju gment of the justice, Wlt in five days thereafter, by executin an undertaking in writing, with surety, payable to
the a verse party; the garnishee in double the amount rendered against him, and the plaintiff and contestant in such
sum as the justice may require, with condition as in other
cases of appeals from a justice.

§ 2849. No attachment can he quashed or dismissed in
the circuit court, for any defect of form in the ailidavit, attachment or bond, or for want of a bond, if the laintiif is
willing and able to execute a sufficient bond; an no objection can be made in the appellate court to the regularity of
the proceedings, which was not made before the justice of
the peace.

ARTICLE IV.
Forcible entry and unlawful detainer.

Sxc. vS1tc.
2850. Cognizable before a justice ofthel 2862. Penalty for éailutrhe to ascents
county. rocess un er is arts’ e.
2851. Foreible entry and detainer de, 2863. Sue proceedings no bar to other
fined. remedies.
2852. Unlawful detainer defined. 2864. Appeals allowed on giving bond
2853. Terms of ears and estates of and case tried anew in the
freehol included. circuit court.
2854. Noticeto defendanton complaint‘2865. Appeal does not suspend the
made. Form of notice. 3 writ of restitution without
2866. Notice where, when and by} bond for the rent.
whom served. 2866. The bond and other papers, re2856. Issue made up, and if defendanti turned to the court in case of
does not :1 ar, not ' t * it
entered ashlife lea. gm] y, 2867. On Egeriiilance of judgment for
2867. Ifplaintifl‘ succc writ of resti- plaintiff, writ of restitution
tution issues, and execution. and judgment for the rent.
for costs. 2868. Such cases tried by the justice
2858. If plaintin‘ fails he pays the cost.' of the precinct where the land
2859. The estate or merits of the title , lies, and if in a town, «kc, by
not in issue. the mayor.
2860. Three years’ possession is a bar 2869. Defaulting witnesses fined.
8 T to any procleeding. d d 2870. Judginent raglan“: not made ab2 61. estimony; su pmnas an epo-‘ so ute un ' a rnotice, «kc.
sitions.  2871. Fees of witnesses, sheriff or constable.

§ 2850. The forcible entry upon and detainer, or the unrlawful detainer, of lands, tenements, and hereditaments, is
cognizable before a justice of the peace of the county where
the offence happens.
§ 2851. A forcible entry and detainer, is where one by
force or strong hand, or by exciting fear, or terror, enters
upon and detains lands or tenements 1n the possession of another; as by breaking open doors, windows or any other

part of a house, whether any person be within or not; b
threats of violence to the party in possession, or by suc
words or actions as have a tendency to excite fear or apprehension of dan er; b putting out of doors or removing the
goods or chatte of t e fparty in ossession ; _or by entering
peaceably and then, by orce or t reats, turning or keeping
mg the part out of possession.
2852. n unlawful detainer is, where one who has lawy entered into possession of lands or tenements, after the
termination of his possessory interest, refuses, on demand in
writing, to deliver the possession thereof to any one lawfully
entitled thereto, his agent or attorney.
§ 2853. The two preceding sections extend to and comprehend terms for years, and all estates, whether freehold or
ess than freehold.
§ 2854. Uapgn the complaint being made, the justice of the
peace must issue a notice to the party complained of, to
the following effect:
The state of Alabama, ) To C—— D——: You are
County. { hereby commanded to be and appear before me, at , on the day of —, to answer
to and make defence ainst a complaint exhibited to me,
against you, by A a%——, for a forcible entry and detainer, (or for an unlawful detainer, as the case may be.)
Witness my hand, this —— da of .
E—— , °ustice of the peace.
§2855. The notice must be serve on the defendant at
least six days before the return day of the process, and may
be served on him any where within the state. The return of
the service thereof by any sheriff or constable of the state is
suiiicient, or proof of the fact may be made before the justice
by a disinterested witness. It is sufficient to leave a copy
thereof at his usual place of abode.
§2856. If the parties appear, an issue must be made be-{
tween them upon the complaint. If the defendant, havingi
been duly cited, does not ap ear, or aplpearing, declines to}
plead, the cause proceeds as 1 the defen ant had pleaded not;
guilty; or for a good cause the trial may be postponed, not 1
more than fifteen days, at the cost of the apphcant. ‘
§ 2857. If the justice determine in favor of the plaintiif, he 3
must record the decision, and render judgment with costs, «
upon which he must issue a writ of execution, commanding:
the sheriff to restore the plaintiff to the possession of his‘
lands and tenments, according to the complaint; and to levy ,
and sell a sufficiency of the defendant’s goods and chattels,
lands and tenements, to satisfy the costs of the proceeding.
§ 2858. If the justice determine in favor of t e defendant, 1
judgment must be rendered against the plaintiff for the costs, i
upon which an execution may issue as in other cases; and in
either case the items composing the bill of costs must be
stated at the foot of the execution. I
§ 2859. The estate, or merits of the title, cannot be inquired .
into on the trial of any complaint exhibited under this article. I

   

 

 

§ 2860. The uninterrugted occupation of the remises in
controversy by the defen ant, for the space of t ee entire
years preceding the exhibition of the com laint, is, if the
estate of the defendant is not determined, a bar to any proceeding under this article.
§ 2861. The justice before whom the complaint is exhibited must issue subpoenas for witnesses, at the request of
either party, which may be served either by the sheriff or by
a constable. Either party may also take the testimony of
any witness living out of the county of the trial, by deposition, as in other cases before justices of the peace.
§ 2862. Any sheriff or constable ne lecting or refusing to
execute any process placed in his han , by a justice of the
peace, in virtue of authority conferred by this article, forfeits
two hundred dollars to the party aggrieved, to be recovered
by action in the circuit court.
§ 2863. No proceeding had under this article, or judgment
l rendered, bars or prevents the party injured from prosecuting
A an action of trespass, or other action against the aggressor, or
party offending.
§ § 2864. Either party aggrieved by the judgment rendered
'in any proceeding instituted under this article, may prosecute an appeal thereon, within ten days thereafter, to the
circuit court of the proper county, where the cause must be
tried anew, without regard to any defect in the proceedings
before the justice; the party praying the a peal executing
bond, payable to the other party, in the enalizy of treble the
amount of the judgment for costs, wit approved surety,
conditioned to prosecute the appeal to effect, and pay and
satisfy all costs, and the judgment which may be rendered
by the circuit court.
§ 2865. An appeal does not prevent the issue of a writ of
restitution, unless the defendant, in addition to the bond ded scribed in the preceding section, execute a bond with surety,
=- pa able to the other party, in the penalty of twice the year 3'
v ue of the rent of t e premises, with condition to pay him
all such damages as he may sustain by the rosecution of
the appeal; the value of the yearly rent must asaartained
by the justice.
§ 2866. When an a peal is prosecuted, the justice of the
f’° peace must return to t e circmt court the appeal bond, and
3 all the papers and proceedings in the cause, together with
p- his statement of the cause, as in other appeal cases; and
., judgment must be rendered in the circuit court against the
principal and sureties in the appeal bond.
I § 2867. If the appeal is prosecuted by the defendant below,
Si and the judgment amrmed by the circuit court, a writ of
,,,_ restitution must be awarded, and, on motion of the appellees,
,0, judgment must be rendered against the appellant and his
sureties, on his bond, for the value of the rent of the premises, Zpendin the appeal, and also the costs.
§ 868

he complaints provided for in this article must

be exhibited to and be tried by a justice of the peace, for:
the precinct in which the lands or tenements are situated. If «
in a city, or co orate town, before the ma or, intendant, or}
any justice of e peace thereof. If the 0 cc is vacated, or I
such justice, mayor, or intendant is disqualified, from any
cause, from sitting, then by the justice of some adjoining
precinct.

§ 2869. A witness duly subpoenaed and failing to attend, 4
or refusing to testify, may be fined by the justice of thej
peace, not exceedin one hundred dollars, for the use of the
county, for which e may issue his execution directed to
the constable.

§ 2870. The judgment specified in the preceding section, 2
must not be made absolute until a Written notice has been '
served on such witness, informing him of the rendition of
such judgment, ten days revious thereto.

§ 2871. To witnesses, t e same fees as allowed by law in .
the circuit court; to the sheriffs, for serving summons and
return, one dollar; for executing writ of restitution, two
dollars; for making money on execution, serving subpoenas,
&c., same fees as in cases in the circuit court; to the constable, same fees as in other cases.

ll

Qitlt 5..

PROCEEDINGS IN CHANCERY.

Cuarrn 1. Cases of which courts of chancery take cognizance, and of the bill,
answer, replication, and demurrer.

2. Of amendments, exceptions, filing papers, and serving notices.

3. Evidence in ehancery.

4. References to the register.

6. Decrees pro confesso.

“ 6. Bills of review, ne exeat, equitable attachments, and other writs
'7.
8
9
O

(6
6‘
CC

I‘

of seizure.
Of injunctions, and the appointment of receivers.

. Creditors’ bills.

. Of the resignation, death and removal of trustees.

“ 1 . Of issues out of chancery.

“ 11. Of the rendition, lien, effect and enforcement of decrees, and of
costs.

CC
I‘

6‘

CHAPTER I.

CASES OF WHICH COURTS OF CHANCERY TAKE COGNIZANCE,
AND OF THE BILL, ANSWER, REPLICATION, AND DEHURBER.
SIG Ste.
2872. J urisdiction against residents, or 2873. Joint demand may be prosecuted
in respect of liens, or when against asingle defendant.

canaeofsuitariaeshere: against 2874. Suits commenced by bill adnon-reaidents. dressed to the chancellor.

Sac. S Ste.

287 5. In what district to be filed. ' 2890. Decree pro confesso, on hilure
2876. Bill to contain only a sim lei toanswer forthirty days.
statement of the facts, an a 2891. Answer compelled by attachprayer for the proper relief.  ment.
2877. Answer not evi ence if sworn i 2892. Arrest under attachment, and
answer be waived. I discharge, upon bond being
2878. Summons issued, and copy served ‘ given to answer.
on each defendant. ‘ 2893. Sheriff and his sureties liable for
2879. Sheriff to serve the process. v failure to return attachmentor
2880. Each defendant may have acopy [ bond.
of the bill, on demand, which 13 , 2894. Suit on forfeiture of the bond.
taxedas costs. a 2895. Defendant imprisoned, until an2881. Summons executed in another ., swer filed or bond given.
count , to be returned bymail. , 2896. Afiidavit to answer, before
2882. It sho d be mailed within five= whom made.
days after service. ‘ 2897. Defendant may protect hirmelx
2883. Penalty for failure to return a. from answering fully.
summons. g 2898. Application for leave to unwa2884. Publication as to non-residents. * specially granted only after no2886. Fee for publication paid to the E tree to adverse party.
register. #2899. All defences set up in the an2886. Copy of bill delivered each de-l swer without special plea.
fendant, if r uired. E 2900. Grounds of demurrer set out
2887. N on-resident p ' tiffs required | specially.
to give security for costs, or 2901. N o replication required.
bill dismissed. 2902. When cause is heard on bill and
2888. Orders of publication in conform- answer, answer taken as true.
ity to the rules now in force. if responsive.
2889. Publication and proceedings
against unknown defendants. 2

§ 2872. Courts of chancery must take cognizance of cases

in equit :

1. W en the defendants reside in this state.

2. Against non-residents, when the object of the suit'concerns an estate of, lien, or charge, u on lands, or the disposition thereof, or any interest in, ti e to, or incumbrance on,
personal property, within this state; or where the cause of
action arose, or the act on which the suit is predicated, was
to have been performed in this state.

3. In such other cases as such courts are by law required
to take jurisdiction of.

§2873. When the plaintiff has a joint demand, he may
proceed against one or more of the parties thereto, without

joining the others.

§ 2874. The mode of commencing the suit in chancery is
by bill, addressed to the chancellor of the division in which
the same is hlcd.

§ 2875. It must be filed in the district in which the defendants, or a material defendant, resides; and if to enjoin proceedings on 'udgments in other courts, it may be filed in the
district in which such proceedings are pending, or judgment
rendered: and in case of non-residents, in the district where
the subject of the suit, or any portion of the same, is; where
the cause of action arose, or the act on which the suit is
predicated, was to be performed.

§ 2876. It must contain a clear and orderly statement of
the facts on which the suit is founded, without prolixity or

repetition, and conclude with a prayer for the a propriate
relief, without averring any combination or confe er y between the defendants, or others, the insufliciency of the
remedy at law, or charging pretences by the defendants;
and it is the duty of the courts to discountenance prolix
statements, and unnecessary and false allegations, in all chancery pleadings.

§ 2877. When a bill is filed for any other purpose than
discovery only, the plaintiff may waive in, or upon the bill,
the answer being made on the oath of the defendants, or
either of them, and in such case the answer is entitled to no
more weight as evidence than the bill.

§ 2878. Upon the filing of the bill, the register must forthwith issue a summons and copy for each defendant, against
whom publication is not shown to be necessary; requiring
him to appear, and plead to or answer the bill within thirty
da s after service.

2879. A copy of such summons must be personally
served by the sheriff, if the defendant is to be found in his
county, his return indorsed on the original, and returned to
the register within five days after service.

§ 2880. It is not necessary to serve the defendants with a
copy of the bill; but each defendant is, on application to the
register, entitled to a copy, unless otherwise provided by law,
which must be charged in the bill of costs.

§ 2881. VVhere the summons is executed in an other
county than the one in which the court, from which t e same
issues, is held, the return may be made by mail, directed to
the register; the title of the suit being indorsed on the envelope, and the word “summons” written against the same.

§ 2882. When the return is by mail, the summons directed, and indorsed according to the provisions of the preceding
section, must be deposited in a post office of the county in
which the same is executed, within five days after the execution.

§ 2883. For failing to return a summons, the sheriff and
his securities, or either of them, having three days’ notice,
are liable to the plaintiff in the sum of one hundred dollars;
to be recovered by motion in the circuit court of the county
in which the court from which such summons issued is held;
and on the trial of such motion, the certificate of the post
master of the pro er county, that on such a day the summons, directed an indorsed as required by the provisions of
section 2881, was deposited in the ofiice, is evidence of the

fact.

§ 2884. If any defendant is shown to be a non-resident, or
if his residence is unknown, or if being a resident, he has;

been absent from the state more than six months from the
filing of the bill, or conceals himself so that rocess cannot be
served on him, the register must on proof t ereof, supported
by affidavit, make out and superintend the execution of the
appropriate order of publication.

§ 2885. In all cases in which an order of publication is
necessary, a sufficient amount of money must be deposited
’with the register to cover the expence of such publication,
and the bill may be dismissed on thirty days’ notice to the
plaintiff, or his solicitor, on failure to make such deposit within that time.
§ 2886. Any defendant, after service of a summons, or after being brought into court by publication, may, on ap li.cation to the register, obtain a copy of the bill to be tax as
other costs.
§ 2887. VVhen any laintiif is a non-resident, security for
such costs as may be ecreed against him must be given, to
_ be approved by the register; and if not given within thirt
days after notice to such plaintiff, or his solicitor, the b’
may be dismissed, and the solicitor taxed with the costs.
§ 2888. Orders of publication must conform to the rules
,noW in force in the courts of chancery in this state, and to
‘those which may hereafter be made.
§ 2889. In cases where it isnecessary to make any per'sons defendants to a bill, and the names of all, or any _of

_them, are unknown to the laintiff, and cannot be ascertainI ed on diligent inquiry, and e annexes to his bill an aiiidavit
that the names of such persons are unknown, that he has
made diligent inquiry to ascertain the same, and that their
residence as he believes is not in this state, proceedings may
be had, and a decree be rendered against them, without
naming them; and the register must make publication as in
case of non-residents, in such paper as he thinks proper,
describing such unknown parties as near as may be, by the
character in which they are sued, and with reference to their
title or interest in the subject-matter.

’ § 2890. A defendant may answer at any time after the
bill is filed, and must answer within thirty da s after the ser'vice of the summons, or after perfecting pub ication, or obtain further time, or a decree ro confesso may be passed.

‘ § 2891. Answers from resident defendants may be compelled by attachments.

§ 2892. Such attachments are served by the arrest of the
defendant, and bringing him before a chancellor, circuit
judge, or register, w 0 may discharge him on his giving
bond and security, in such sum as may be fixed b such
chancellor, circuit judge, or register, to be approved y the
arresting officer, payable to the re ' ter of the court in which
the bill is filed, and conditione , that he will file a full
answer to the bill, within a time to be prescribed by the ofiicer before whom such defendant is brought; which bond
must be returned with the attachment, within the same time
after service, and in the same manner, if by mail, as a summons is required to be returned under the provisions of this
chapter.

§ 2893. The sheriif and his securities are liable for failing
to return such attachment, or bond, to the sa.me amount, recoverable on the same notice, in the same court, by the plaintiff, and the certificate of the post master is evidence, as in
case of a failure to return the summons. ,

§ 2894. Upon the forfeiture of the bond, the chancellor
may direct the same to be sued, and the whole, or such part
of the penalt thereof as he directs, may be recovered against
any or all 0 the obligors, having ten days’ notice, by motion
in the circuit court of the county in which the court issuing
the attachment is held; and on the trial of such motion, the
indorsement by the register of forfeiture, is presumptive evidence of the fact.

§ 2895. In case a defendant refuses or neglects to give
such bond, he must be committed to jail by the sheriff, and
there kept until he files a full and sufficient answer with the
register.

§ 2896. When an answer is required to be sworn to, the
oath may be administered by any 'udge of any court of record, chancellor, judge of the Unite States, or either of them;
by a commissioner appointed by the register, notary public,
commissioner of this state, or by any justice of the peace or
register in chancery in this state.

§ 2897. A defendant may in his answer protect himself
from furnishing a full answer to the allegations of the bill.

§ 2898. Where a party offers to answer specially, and
applies for leave to do so, the ground of such application may
be contested, and the application must only be granted upon
reasonable notice.

§ 2899. A defendant may inco orate all matters of defence
in his answer, and is not require to plead specially in any
case.
§ 2900. A demurrer to the bill must set forth the grounds
of demurrer specially, and otherwise must not be heard.

§ 2901. No replication is necessary to an answer.

§ 2902. When the cause is heard on bill and answer without testimony, the answer must be taken to be true, so far as
it is responsive to the allegations of the bill, except in those
cases where the complainant has waived the oath of the
defendant to the answer.

CHAPTER II.

OF AMENDMENTS, EXCEPTIONS, FILING OF PAPERS AND
SERVING NOTICES.

SID. Size.

2908. Amendments of course before after answer, on notice and payanawer. ment of costs of amendment.

2904. On amendment be’ filed, after 2906. Amendments after ublication alcopy of the bill been ob- lowed only by chancellor,
tamed, copy to be paid for. and on payment of costs.

2906. Register may allow amendments

Sm. Ste.

2907. Answer to amendment tiled in in sixty days, notice of day for
thirty days. hearing.
2908. Objection for want of parties, or 2914. Defendant may examine comjoinder of im roper parties set plainant on oath.
for se to  2915. Exceptions to such interrogato2909. Decree ' t the parties in a rice.
court, w en the injunction for 2916. Defendant may set up anygnound
want of ‘es, &c., is first of relief, connected with the
taken at e h ' . suit, and require complainant
2910. Pleading-s to be in orsed with toanswer it.
the date of filing. 2917. This defence on the nature of a
2911. Notice of motions, «he, served on cross bill.
solicitor. 2918. Answer to such matter on oath
2912. Notice to parties in default en- barred, and answer then no
tered on the order book. evidence.
2913. Exceptions toanswers to be filed 2919. Such answers filed as other answers.

§2903. Amendments to bills before answers, pleas, or

idemurrers tiled, are allowable as of course, and without

notice, and amendments to any summons may be made before
service thereof.
§ 2904. After a defendant has obtained a copy of the bill
from the register, and before answer, plea, or demurrer,
amendments to the bill may be made without notice, upon
payment of the costs of furnishing a copy of the amendment
to such defendants as have obtained a copy of the bill; and
amendments may also be made after demurrer and before
ar ent, on the same terms.
2905. The register may, on notice to the opposing party,

1 allow amendments to bills after answer, and amendments to

answers, but only on the p. ylment of the costs of the amendment b the gearty making t e application.
§ 29 6. A r publication of testimony,’ the plaintiff can

I amend his bill, or the defendant his answer, only by leave of

the chancellor, on tition, allegin the special matter of

- amendment propose to be made, an supported by aflidavit,

showing that such matter, with the use of due diligence,
could not sooner have been introduced into such bill or
answer; but permission for such amendment must only be
granted on payment of the costs up to the time of the amendment.

§2907. In all cases where an amendment of the bill is

' made after answer filed, and an answer thereto is necessary

the defendants are allowed thirty da s after notice of the
amendment to answer the same, an failing so to do, or to
obtain further time, the matter of the amendment may be
taken as confessed; but such defendant may, at any time
before the cause is set for hearing, obtain leave to set aside
the order pro confesso, on tiling a full and sufiicient answer
to the matter of amendment, on such terms as may be 
by the chancellor or register.

§ 2908. When an objection is made to a bill for want of

 or the joinder of im roperfparties, it may be set for

earing on that objection on y; an if not set for hearing on

that ground, the court, if the objection prevail on the final
hearing, must dismiss the bill.
§ 2909. If the defendant, at the hearing of a cause, take
an objection for want of parties, not having by plea or answer
taken the objection, the court may render a decree saving
the rights of parties not before it, or it may grant leave to
amend the bill, on terms not extending beyond the payment
of costs.
§ 2910. All bills, answers, and other pa ers filed in any
cause, must be indorsed by the register, wit the true date on
which they were filed.
§ 2911. Notice in relation to any supplemental bill, amendment, decree, motion, or other proceeding in the court of
Chancery, served on the solicitor of the arty, is valid.
§ 2912. When parties are in default, or want of an answer
or other cause, the notices may be entered on the order book
of the register, and such entries for such time as is fixed by
the register, are sufficient in cases of amendments, supplemental bills, and of other orders in the cause.
§ 2913. Exceptions to answers must be made within sixty
days after the same are filed, and notice must be given by
the register of the day of hearing of the same.
§ 2914. If the defendant wishes to examine the complainant touching the subject-matter of the bill, or his defence, he
may, after filin his answer, exhibit interrogatories to the
com lainant, an call u on him to answer the same; and on
his ailing to answer t em within such time as may be prescribed by the register, his bill must be dismissed with costs,
unless such time is extended.
§ 2915. Exceptions may be taken to such interrogatories,
and heard before the register at such time as he may prescribe, on reasonable notice to the defendant or his solicitor,
subject to an ap eal to the chancellor.
§ 2916. The efendant may obtain relief against the complainant for any cause connected with or growing out of the
subject-matter of the bill, by alleging in his answer, and as a
part thereof, the facts upon which such relief is prayed, and
uire the complainant to answer the same u on oath.
2917. The matter thus put in issue must e considered
in the nature of a cross bill, and be heard at the same time
as the original bill.
§ 2918. The defendant may waive the answer of the complain ant to such new matter being made upon oath, which!
waiver must be made in or upon the answer; and in such,
case the answer of the com lainant to such new matter is not 1
evidence, unless the defen ant use it as such.
§ 2919. The com lainant must tile his answer to such new;
matter under the r es and regulations rovided in this title:
for the answers of defendants to origin bills. ‘

CHAPTER III.

EVIDENCE IN CHANCERY.

Ssc. Snc.

2920. Testimon taken inten-ogato-i filing them 1n the register’:
riesun erruleso thecourt.,dzc. otlice.

2921. Rules of evidence as to com'pe- 2927. Rebutting interrogatories dledin
tency same as at law. five days, due.

2922. Testimony, when to be taken. 2928.  of suits in 
2923. Exhibits proved by amdavit. be- 2929. Filing of bill is the commencefore register. ment of suit.
2924. Commissioner-sto take testimony. 2930. Attendance of witnesses before
2926. Interrogatories served ten days commissioners.

before issue of commission. 2931. Defaulting witnesses.
2926. Notice given to non-resident by I

§ 2920. Testimony in chancery causes must be taken by
interrogatories, under the rules now in force, or such as may
hereafter be adopted.

§ 2921. The rules of evidence as to the competenc of witnesses in courts of chancery, are the same as those eclared
b thiscodeincourtsoflaw, exce t so far asthe sameare

tered by any provision of this ti e.

§ 2922. The plaintiff may take testimon at an time after
answer, or after a decree pro confesso, an the efendant at
an time after filing his answer.

2923. Exhibits to bills and answers may be roven by
aiiidavits filed with the exhibits in the register’s o ce, thirty
days before the hearing.

§ 2924. All commissions for the taking of testimony must
be directed to one or more commissioners, to be appointed
by tge register, and made returnable with all convenient
spee .
§ 2925. N 0 commission to take testimony must issue, until
the adverse party or his solicitor, if either of them reside in
the district, ave been served with a copy of the interrogatories for ten da s.

§ 2926. If such adverse part or his solicitor do not reside
in the district, this notice may be 'ven b filing interrogatories in the oiiice of the register or ten ys.

§2927. After such notice has been given, if cross interrogatories are nled, the party has five days to file rebutting
interrogatories, but this time may be extended, on application to the register, without notice.

§ 2928. The provisions of Chapter twen -one, Title one,
Part three, a ply to suits commenced by b’ 1 in chance .
§ 2929. T e filing of the bill is the commencement 0 the

suit, if prosecuted, whether the defendant is brought into

court by personal service or by publication.

§ 2930. The attendance of a Witness may be enforced by
commissioners in chancery causes, in the same mode, and
their attendance proved and certiiied to the register in all

respects the same as in the execution of commissions from
courts of law.

§ 2931. If the Witness fails to attend before the commis- D
sioner, being served With a subpoena so to do, the commission- '
er must indorse on the subpoena that the Witness failed to attend, and return the same to the clerk of the circuit court of
the county, who must enter the case on the docket, and such
proceedings may be had as in the case of defaulting witnesses
in such circuit court; the indorsement on the subpoena being
presumptive evidence of the default of such witness.

CHAPTER IV.

REFERENCES TO THE REGISTER.

Szc. Ssc.

2932. Proceedings before register on a,2935. Either party examined by the
reference. other as to particular items.

2933. Notice of day for hearing given 2936. Evidence in the cause used beby the register. fore the register.

2934. Authority of the register on are- 2937. Exceptions to the decisions of the
ference. register.

§ 2932. Whenever a reference is made to the register, the 1
party at whose instance, or for Whose beneiit the reference}
18 made, must cause such matter to be presented to the reg- <
ister within the time limited for the hearing; and if no time
is limited, within three months after the reference is made;
and if such party omit to do so, the adverse party may cause
proceedings to be had before the register, at the costs of the
party procuring the reference.
§ 2933. U 11 any such reference, the register must assign 1
a time and p ace for proceeding therein, and give reasonable I
notice to each of the parties, or their solicitors; and if eitherl
party fail to appear at the time and place appointed, the register may proceed exparte, or in his discretion adjourn the
examination to an other day, giving notice to the adverse
party or his counsel of such adjournment.
§ 2934. The register, in all matters referred, must proceed
with the least practicable delay, and has authority:
1. To examine the parties on oath, as to all the items of
reference not exceeding twenty dollars in amount.
2. To require the production of all books, papers, writings, vouchers, and documents in relation to such matters.

3. To examine on oath, viva voce, all witnesses produced
by the parties before him.

4. To hear the depositions of witnesses taken under a commission, as in other chancery cases.

5. To do all other acts, and direct all other inquiries and
proceedings in the matters before him, which may be necessary, subject at all times to the revision and control of the

chancellor.

§ 2935. On a reference before the register, either party
’ may examine the adverse party, as to any one or more items
' or matters, without making him a witness as to any other

items or matters.
§ 2936. All affidavits, de ositions, and documents, which

have been made or filed in t e cause, may be used on reference before the register.
§ 2937. Either party ma reserve, in writing, any question
arising on a reference for t e revision of the chancellor.

CHAPTER V.

DECREES PRO CONFESSO.

SIG. 81:0.

2938. Decree pro confesso on failure to 2946. Decree set aside on petition of
answer, plead, &c., for thirty such defendants, mthineight
days. een months, and defence on

2989. On such decree allegations of bill the merits permitted.
taken as admitted. 2947. The testimony on nle used by

2940. Case not to be heard on the day either 
of such decree. 2948. Rights and liabilities of parties

2941. Decree may be contested, or ap- without notice, extend to their
pearance made before register representatives
on reference. 2949. Execution againstpsrties by pub2942. Decree set aside on defendant's lication on decrees so obtained
tiling answer and pa ' costs. on giving refunding bond.

2948. Decree against defen t as to 2960. On service of copy, decree bewhom publication was made, comes conclnsiveinsixmonths,
set aside on answer and pay- if petition to set it aside is not
ment of costs. filed.

2944. Chancellor may allow answer at'- 2951. Preceding section not a ' e
ter publication of testimony. to infants or man-i women,

2945. Decree against defendants w1th- except as to their separate
out personal service, not ab- estates.
solute for eighteen months;
copy of decree to be sent him.

§ 2938. Decrees pro confesso may be taken before the register on the failure of a defendant to answer or plead to the
"bill, within thirty dags after service of the summons, or thirty days after the pu lication has been perfected, unless the
time for answering or leading has been extended; in which
case a decree pro con esso may be passed, at the expiration
of such time.

§ 2939. In all cases in which decrees pro confesso are lawfully taken, the allegations of the bill are to be regarded as
admitted, except in the case of infant defendants, lunatics,
executors, and administrators, and bills for divorce.

§ 2940. No cause in which a decree ro confesso is taken,
must be heard on the same day; but tEe cause may be set
for hearing on any subsequent day.

§ 2941. A defendant against whom a decree pro confmo
is taken, can appear and contest a decree on the merits of the
bill, or may appear before the register on a reference.

§ 2942. A defendant who has been served with a summons, may at any time before publication of the testimony,
on making a proper showing, obtain leave from the chancellor or register to set aside such decree, upon filing a full and
sufficient answer, and the payment of costs up to the time of
setting aside such decree.

§ 2943. A defendant brought into court by publication,
against whom a decree pro confesso has been rendered, may
also before publication of the testimony, set aside such decree on application to the chancellor or register, on filing a
full and sufficient answer, and such other terms, not extending beyond the payment of costs to the time of the application, as ma be imposed.

§ 2944. §‘he permission to file an answer after publication
of lthe testimony, rests in the sound discretion of the chance or.

§ 2945. A decree made against a defendant, without personal service, who does not appear, is not absolute for eighteen months from the rendition thereof; and in such case,
the court must direct a copy of the decree to be sent to such
defendant, or in case of infants, or lunatics, or married women,
(unless the suit or matter determined concerns their separate

estates,) to their guardians or husbands, if their residence can
be ascertained.

§ 2946. Such defendants may file a petition to set aside
such decree and to defend the suit on the merits, at any time
within such eighteen months; and upon suflicient cause
shown, the chancellor has full power to open the decree and
to hear the cause as if no decree had been rendered.
§ 2947. In the case provided for in the preceding section,
either party can use the testimony of witnesses on file in the
cause, who have died or removed from the state, after the
decree was rendered.
§ 2948. The ri hts and liabilities of any plaintiff or defendant on bills en pro confesso, without personal service,
extend to the personal representatives of any deceased plaintiff or defendant; and with reference to the altered state of
the parties, and any new interest acquired, the chancellor
may, on petition, upon due notice being given and sustained
by proof, permit any party to file such bills and adopt such
roceedings as the circumstances of the case may require, for
having the matter of the decree duly considered, and the
rights of the parties interested therein duly ascertained and
determined.
§ 2949. It is no objection to the execution of a decree
rendered against a defendant, that it was founded on a bill
taken pro confesso without personal service; but before the
execution of such decree, the plaintiff or party interested,
must give bond with two sureties, payable to and approved
by the register, in a penalty to be prescribed by the chancellor or such register, conditioned to ay the pecuniary value
of the personal property which may e disposed of, or placed

beyond the control of the court or party, by the execution
of the decree, and interest thereon from the time such property is so disposed of or placed beyond such control; and to
account for the value, rents and rofits of any real estate
transferred by the operation of sue decree; and further to
abide and perform such decree, as the court may render, if
the decree taken on the bill pro confesso is set aside; and
the chancellor may, if such decree is set aside, render a final
decree against all the parties to such bond.
» § 2950. Where personal service of a decree rendered under the provisions of this cha ter, is made by serving the
defendant with a copy of such ecree, the same is conclusive
and binding on him, if the petition to set aside such decree
‘is not made within six months from such service.

§ 2951. The provisions of the preceding section do not
apply to infants, lunatics, or marrie women, (unless the suit
or matter determined concerns their separate estate;) and
such persons are allowed twelve months from the termination of their respective disabilities, to show cause against
such decrees.

CHAPTER VI.

BILLS OF REVIEW, NE EXEAT, EQUITABLE ATTACHMENTS,
AND OTHER WRITS OF SEIZURE.

Sac. Sac.
2952. Decree may be suspended till 2961. Lien of such attachments.
bill of review heard. 2962. If property not delivered on the
2953. Application to file them, made decree, execution issuesontho
within three years. replevy bond.
2954. Ne exeat and equitable attach- 2968. Writs of ne exeat and attachments issued on equitable de- ment; by whom ianed.
, mands. 2964. Issued also in aid of any suit al2955. Answers in such cases examined ready commenced.
in vacation and levy or bail 2965. Affidavit to be made by the

discharged, on notice to complainant. 2966. Property restored on giving me2956. Attachments also issued on 1 l p evy bond.

demands to reach equita le 2967. If no bond is givenby defendlnt

assets. after nve days, it I delivered
2957. Equitable attachments issue be- to plaintiff on Ms 'vingbnad.

fore in ent. 2968. Writs, bonds. &c., tog: turned
2958. Such atta cuts to speci the to the register.

property to be subjec 2969. Decree when plaintif until
2959. Replevyo propert ,&c., attacb- his claim.

ed. 2970. Liability of  andhis sure2960. Replevy bond to be returned. ties if cast.

V § 2952. When a decree has been rendered, and a bill of
»review is presented, the chancellor may direct the proceed'ings on such decree to be suspended, until a decree is rendered on such bill of review, or until the further order of the
court; requiring such bond of the plaintif as will efectually

protect the interest of the parties interested in the decree
rendered; on which bond the chancellor may render a final
decree for any portion or the whole of the penalty.

§ 2953. Application to file bills of review, must be made
within three years after the rendition of the decree, except

in cases of infants, or married women, (unless the matter of i

the decree relates to their separate estate,) and lunatics, who
may apply within three years after the termination of their
res tive disabilities.

2954. Writs of ne exeat, and equitable attachments,
may issue on equitable debts and demands, under the same
circumstances, and courts must observe, in the issue of such
writs, the provisions of courts of law in relation to bail and
attachment writs, except so far as the same are altered by
this code.

§ 2955. Chancellors may in vacation examine all answers
in relation to writs of ne exeat, and attachments returnable
into chancery, and other writs of seizure, dischar e or reduce
any bail taken, or levy made, on application an reasonable
notice to the adverse party.

§ 2756. Courts of chancery may also issue writs of attachment on legal demands, founded on any judgment or contract, express or im lied, in such cases as attachments may
issue from courts o law; which attachments o crate only on
the effects of the defendant held by an equita le title or on
demands owing by other persons to which the defendant

ainst whom the attachment issues is in equity ezltitlecl,
w ether due or not.

§ 2957. To authorize the issue of equitable attachments,
it is not necessary that the demand of the plain-‘alff Should be ;
reduced to a judgment, but the court may render a decree-‘
for the amount proved, and execution may issue to enforce
the same as from courts of law.

§ 2958. Equitable attachments must specify the property,
effects or demands on which they are intended to Operate; A
and a copy of the bill must in such cases be served with the
summons. '

§ 2959. Any propert levied on by an equitable attach-,
ment, may be replevie by the defendant, or any one for:

' on gwing bond and security in double the value of the

_property levied on, to be approved by the sheriff, payable to

the plaintiff, and conditioned as replevy bonds on attachments from courts of law.

§ 2960. When property levied on by an equitable attach- :

ment is replevied, the bond must be returned with the attachment.

§ 2961. Equitable attachments are a lien upon the prop»
mg or debts attached, from the service of the attachment. ‘
2962. If a decree is rendered in a. case in which an ui-T

table attachment has been levied, and the property repleviedi
Is not forthcomin within such time as the court may direct, i
to be proven by t e atiidavit of the party before the register,

the replevin bond in such case has the force of a judgment,
and execution may issue thereon for the whole or any portion of the penalty, as the court may direct, against any or
all of the parties thereto.

§ 2963. Chancellors, circuit judges, and registers of the
court in which the bill is filed, may make all necessary orders
for the issuing of writs of ne exeat, and equitable attachments, and for the sale of personal property levied on, as in
like cases from courts of law; the money arising from such
sale to be aid to the register.

§ 2964. rits may also issue from the courts of chaneery
on an ori 'na1 bill, or in aid of a suit pending in such court,
by the or er of any chancellor, judge of the circuit court, or
register, for the seizure of personal property where the same
is claimed under an equitable title, or where a decree is
sought against the same, and it is in danger of being wasted,
carried beyond the jurisdiction of the court, or otherwise

dis (1 of.

2965. The plaintiff in such case must sustain his claim
by afiidavit, and give bond with security, payable to the
defendant, in double the value of the property, to be ap roved
by the register, conditioned to “pay all damages the efendant may sustain by the wrongf or vexatious suing out of
such writ.

5 2966. The oflicer executing such writ must restore the
property seized, to the defendant, on his giving bond in double
the value of the same, with securit , to be approved by such
oilicer, pa. able to the plaintiff, an conditioned to have such
property oxthcoming to answer the decree of the court.

j § 2967. If the defendants neglect for nve days after the

seizure of such property to give such bond, the sheriff must
deliver the Same to the plaintiff, on his givin bond and
security in double the value of such property, to e approved
by the Sheriff, payable to the defendant, conditioned, if
unsuccessful in his Suit, to return such property within 
days after its determination,

; § 2968. Such writs, with the proper return thereon, and

vthe bonds taken under the provisions of either of the two
last sections, ‘must be returned to the register of the court
from which the writ issues.

3 § 2969. If the claim of the plaintiff is sustained, the court
may direct that if its decree in relation to such property is
not ‘performed within a specified time, execution may issue
on e bond of the defendant for all, or such portion of its
penalty as the court may determine, under all the circumstances.

§ 2970. Ifthe laintiff is unsuccessful, and fails to deliver

,the property to t e defendant within thirty days after the

I determination of the suit, he and his sureties are liable to an
action, and in case of a recove , to damages not exceeding
fifty per centum on the value 0 the property.

CHAPTER VII.

OF INJUNCTIONS, AND THE APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVERS.

Sm. Sec.
2971. By whom granted. 2979. Damages for delay on dissolution
2972. Injunction of a judgment is a rc-‘ of injunction.

ease of errors. , 2980. The bond, on dissolution of an
2973. Bond and securit required on» injunction, has the force of a

injunction of ju ents. , judgment; execution issues.

2974. On grant of injunction alter re- 2981. Execution for costs.
M covery of land, bond and secu- 2982. If in'unction of a judgment is dis..g...,‘, rity required. so ved, nding the suit, a re2975. In other cases bond for the dam- funding nd is required
ages required I 2983. Motion to dissolve may be made
2976. Applicataign refused by op.ed<:l1')r- in vacation.
cuit 'u e not to be gran 12984. Appeal to the supreme court on
snotlier; it’ refused by chance -1 orders dissolving judgments,
lor, ma be examined by a I and heard at first term.
judge o the supreme court. I 2985. Notice of an injunction of a judg2977. Application not to be made to_ meat served on the attorney is
supreme court judge inthe first valid
imtance. a 2986. Receivers appointed only by the
2978. Refusal to grant injunction to be f chancellor.
indorsed on the blll. _i

§ 2971. Injunctions may be granted by the judges of the
su reme and circuit courts, chancellors, and no other oiiicers.
2972. An injunction obtained by a defendant to a judgment at law, to stay proceedings thereon, operates as a release of errors as to such defendant.
§ 2973. No injunction must issue to stay proceedings after
judgment, in a personal action, until the party at whose a
plication the writ issues, gives bond and security in double
the amount of such judgment, pa able to and approved by
the register, conditioned on the dissolution of such injunction, to pay the amount of the judgment enjoined, with interest, and also such damages and costs as may be decreed
against such arty.
§ 2974. Nb injunction must issue to stay proceedings at
law after judgment in any action for the recovery of lands,
unless the party give bond and security, ayable to and approved by the register, in such sum as t e oflicer granting
the application d1rects, conditioned for the ayment of the
damages in such judgment if enjoined, an also all damages and costs which the plaintiff in such judgment sustains,
by the suing out such injunction, if the same is dissolved.
§ 2975. In other cases, the party must give bond with
security in such sum as the officer granting the application
directs, payable to and approved by the register, and conditioned to pay all damages which any person ma sustain, by
the suing out of such injunction, if the same is dissolved.
§ 2976. If any application is made to a circuit judge for
an injunction, and refused, no other circuit jud e can act on
the application, but the application may be ma e to a chancellor or judge of the supreme court; if refused by a chancellor, it may be renewed to a judge of the supreme court,

but no other omcer; and if refused by a judge of the supreme
court, cannot be renewed.
§ 2977. N o replication must be made to a judge of the
supreme court, for an injunction or other equitable procem,
which ma be granted by any other judge or officer, unlm
the same as been made to such other judge or odicer and
refused by him.
§ 2978. When an application for an injunction is refused,
the ofiicer to whom the same is made, must indorse his refusal on the bill and sign his name thereto; and any one erasing such indorsement, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on
conviction thereof, must be fined not less than five hundred
dollars.
§ 2979. Whenever an injunction to stay roceedings in
an action is dissolved, on a final hearing, the c ancellor may
decree six per centum damages on the amount of money for
which such judgment was enjoined, if of opinion that the injunction was obtained for delay.
§ 2980. A bond to en'oin proceedings at law on a judgment for money, upon t e dissolution thereof; in whole or
in part, either upon an interlocutory or nnal decree, has the
force and effect of a judgment; and being certified by the
register to the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
rendered, execution may issue against any or all the obligors
thereto, for the amount of such judgment which has been
enjoined, interest and the damages decreed.
§ 2981. The register may also issue execution for costs, if
decreed against the part obtaining the injunction, against
any or all the parties to t e bond.
§ 2982. Whenever an interlocutory decree is made dissolving an injunction to stay proceedings on a judgment at
law, the chancellor must require of the defendant a refunding bond, in double the amount of the sum enjoined, payable to and to be approved by the register, conditioned to refund the money and interest he may collect on the judgment,
if the same is on the final hearing of the bill perpetually enjoined; and the court may render a final decree on such bond
against any or all the parties thereto.
§ 2983. A defendant may move to dissolve an injunction
in vacation, before the chancellor of the division in which
the bill is filed, either for want of e uity or on the comingin
of the answer, to be heard on cert’ ed copies of the bill and
answer; but ten da s’ notice of such application must be
given to the plaint' or his solicitor.
r § 2984. An appeal lies to the supreme court on all inter,locutory orders, in term time or vacation, dissolvin injunc‘ tions, which must be heard and determined at the t term
after the ap is taken.
§ 2985. otices of injunctions, or other restraining Erocess, staying proceedings in suits or on judgments at w,
_ served upon the attorney of the party on whom such injuncL tion or process is to operate, are valid.

32986. Receivers can only be appointed by the chancellor,
an when the application is made in vacation, reasonable
notice of the time of such application, and the person to
whom it will be submitted, must be given, or a good reason
shown to the chancellor for the failure to give the same.

CHAPTER VIII.

cannrroas’ BILLS.

S20. S20.
2987. Creditors’ bills, when and by 2989. Answers to such bills compelled
whom filed. 2990. Answers not evidence on an in2988. Bills for discovery of fraudulent dictmeut for fraud.
conveyances or collusive judgments. .

§ 2987. When an execution for money from any court
has been issued against a defendant, and is not satisfied, the
plaintiff, or the person for whose benefit such execution is
sued out, may file a bill in chancery against such defendant,
to com el the discovery of any property belonging to him,
or hel in trust for him; and to prevent the transfer, payment, or delivery thereof to such defendant, except when
the trust has been created by or proceeded from some other
person than the defendant himself; and the court may bring
any other party before it, and decree such property, or the
interest of the defendant therein, to the satisfaction of the
sum due the plaintiff.

§ 2988. A bill for discovery may be filed, and the defendant compelled to answer such bill, where the defendant is
charged with having confessed or suffered a jud ent, where
no portion, or a part only of such judgment is ue, with the
intent to hinder, delay, or defraud creditors, or with having
conveyed his roperty with the like intent.

§ 2989. A efendant may be compelled to answer a bill in
chancery, charging him with any fraud affecting the rights
or roperty of others.

g) 2990. No answer made to a bill under the provisions of
the two preceding sections can be read in evidence against

tlhe defendant, on an indictment for any fraud charged in
t e bill.

CHAPTER IX.

OF THE RESIGNATION, DEATH, AND REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.

Sac. S30.

2991. Trustee may resign on app1ica- points mother. Bond in such
tiou to the register. cases.

2992. Notice of the application by ad- 2997. Notice of the application to up
vertisement. point.

2993. Trustee to account and settlebe— 2998. Guardians for inhnts in such
fore resignation. cases.

2994. Payments are valid. but the ac 2999. Causes of removal of trustee, on
counts only conclusive against petition, &c., to the chaneery
the trustee. court.

2995. New trustee appointed. Bond, 8000. New trustee appointed by the
if necessary. court in such cases.

2996. On death of trustee, register ap§ 2991. When any express trust is created by will or
deed, the trustee ma resign on application to the register of
the district where t e trust property, or the most valuable
portion of the same, is, or of the district in which the trustee
resided when he was ap inted trustee.
. § 2992. Notice of suc application must be given in such
pa r as the register may direct, for six successive weeks.
2993. The trustee must render a. full account, and pa
over to the parties entitled to the same, or to the register,
moneys due by him. 7
§ 2994. N 0 account so taken, is conclusive on any of the
parties interested in the trust; but the trustee ma be required to account up to the time of granting the ap cation,
in the same manner as if no proceedings had been ad; except that he is entitled to the benefit of all payments made
by him under the provisions of the preceding section.
§ 2995. The register, on the granting of such application,
may appoint a trustee, and, if necessary to protect the parties interested in the trust property, may require the necesbond of such trustee.
‘ 2996. Upon the death of a. trustee of such express trust,
' the register of the district in which the trust property, or the
most valuable portion of the same, is, may, on the application of any party in interest, appoint a trustee, and may also
' require of him a bond, as under the preceding section.
§2997. All the parties interested in such trust property
must have ten days’ personal notice of such application, or
by publication for thirty days in such paper as the register
may direct.
§ 2998. In any proceeding to appoint a trustee before the
register, he has aut ority, where minors or lunatics are interested, to appoint guardians for their defence, and to protect
their interest.
. § 2999. Upon the petition or bill of an rson interested
in the execution of a trust, the court 0 dheancery may re,move any trustee who has violated or threatened to violate
his trust; who is insolvent, or whose insolvency there is

good reason to apprehend; who has removed from the state,
or who, for any other cause, is an unsuitable person to execute the trust; or the court may require such bonds as will
effectually rotect the interest of the parties.

§ 3000. uch court has authority to appoint a new trustee 1
in the place of a trustee removed, or may cause the trust to ’
be executed by one of its own officers.

CHAPTER X.

OF ISSUES OUT OF CHANG-ERY.

Sac. ‘Sec.

3001. Issues of fact tried by a jury 3003. Proceedings to summon a jury
before the chancellor or before - before the chancellor to try
any circuit court. _ such issues, cite.

3002. Evidence in such trials. Parties
examined. ;

§ 3001. Whenever it is necessary for any fact to be tried
by a jury, the court must direct an issue to be made up, setting forth clearl the true question of fact to be tried; and»
such issue may e tried before the chancellor in any county .
in his division, or may be sent to a circuit court in the district for trial.

§ 3002. Such issue must be tried upon the like evidence
as a suit at law, together with such pa rts of the bill, answers,
depositions, and other proceedings in the cause, as the court
may order; and the court may also order the examination
of the parties to the suit, allowing the other party to impeach or contradict such evidence.

§ 3003. If such issue is to be tried before the chancellor,
he may make the necessary order for a jury to be summoned,
and witnesses to be subpoenaed by the register of the district in which the trial is to be had; and render judgments
conditional, and absolute, as the law directs.

CHAPTER XI.

OF THE RENDITION, LIEN, EFFECT, AND ENFORCEMENT
OF DEGREES AND COSTS.

330- Sac.

3004. Rules as to liens and priorit of be executed by a commisdecrees same as those app ‘ed sioner.
to judgments. 3006. Decrees to be in writing, n.ndren3005. Decrees for conveyances, releas- dered during the term ; in difes, &c., operate as such, and ncult cases, decrees rendered

the court may order them to in vacation.

830. Ste.
8007. Costs at the discretion of the 3012. Decrees enforced b chancery
chancellor. ' . write or common 19' process.
8008. Decrees, d~.c., enforced by attach— 8013. Return day of such process.
ment or sequestration. 3014. Sheriff liable for failure to collect
8009. Decrees for performance of some mone , &c.
act to prescribe the time, dzc. 3015. Rules 0 the supreme court can30l0. Attachment on aiiidavit of failure firmed, and power to make
to perform. ! rules extended.
8011. If attachment not executed, se-1
questration follows. ,

 

§ 3004. Executions issued on decrees of a court of chan' cery for payment, or recovery of money, are liens upon real

' an personal property subject to execution, from their deliv'ery to the ofncer, in the same manner, and to the same extent; and the rules as to the priority of liens from such
court, are the same as in courts of law.

§ 3005. When a decree is made for aconveyance, release,

I or acquittance, and the party against whom the decree is made
does not execute the same by the time 2-elciiied in the decree,
such decree operates in all respects as y as if the conveyance, release, or acquittance was made. Or the court may

,decree, in default of the execution of such conveyance, re_ lease or acquittance, the same to be executed by a commissioner, in the name of the party; and the conveyance, release, or acquittance, when so executed, is as valid in all
res ts as if executed by the party.

3006. The chancellor must, when practicable, render

. his decrees in writing during the session of the court at which

. the cause is heard; he may, however, in difficult causes,

‘render a decree in vacation within six months after the
hearing.

!, § 3007. Costs may be apportioned at the discretion of the
chancellor; and in all cases where costs are decreed against
any party who has given security for the costs, execution
may issue against such security.

. § 3008. Courts of chancery may also enforce their decrees,
orders, and rules, by process of attachment, against the party

‘or officer in contempt, or by process of sequestration against
his property.

§ 3009. f a decree is for the execution of a conveyance,
the delivery of deeds, or any other specified act, the decree

’ must in all such cases prescribe the tune within which such
act is to be erformed.

§ 3010. pon an affidavit being filed with the register by
the party entitled to have such act done, his agent or soliciI tor, stating that the decree of the court has not been rformed, the register must issue an attachment a ainst e delinquent party, upon which he may be arreste and committed
to jail, until he performs such act, or he is discharged by a
special order of the chancellor, extending the time for the
performance; and if such act is not performed within the
time as extended, another attachment may issue on the ailidavit of the party, his agent or solicitor.

§ 8011. Upon the issue of an attachment, if the delinquent
cannot be found, a writ of sequestration may issue against
the estate of such party to compel obedience to the decree.

§ 3012. Courts of chancery are authorized to issue such
process, mesne and final, as has been used in such courts;
and all Writs for the collection of money, to obtain the possesmon of land or personal roperty, in use in the common
law courts, are to be adapted) to the execution of decrees in
the courts of chancery.

§ 3013. Writs from the court of chancery for the collection of money, or to obtain the possession of lands or personal property, may be made returnable on the first Mondays of
a month, to be specified in the writ. All other process as
the chancellor or register may direct, unless the return is fixed by law.
‘ § 3014. For failing to collect money on any execution
from the court of chancery, the sheriff and his securities, or
any or either of them, are liable to the same penalties, to be
recovered in the same manner as on milure to collect executions from the law courts. The motion to be made by the
plaintiff, in the circuit court of the county in which the court
from which the execution issues is held.

§ 3015. All the rules now’ in force, which have been
ado ted b the supreme court, not contrary to the provisions
of t ° tit e, are recognized; and power is granted to such
court to adopt such other rules to regulate the practice of the
court of chancery, or such modifications of the existing rules
as they may deem proper, and also to furnish forms of proceeding, to mould the process of the chancery court, an to
prescribe rules of evidence in the same, from time to time, as
experience may determine, that the existing rules do not fully meet the ends of public justice.

Mile 5.
CHAPTER I.

OF APPEALS.

SE0. SE0.

3016. Appeals allowed to supreme 3020. If decree before the performance
court on all final judgments, of an act other than the payas matter of right. ment of mone , the chancellor

3017. Appeals taken by the state ope- fixes the bond:
rates as supersedeas without 3021. Liability for ta ' insumcient
bond. security on appe bonds.

3018. Adverse arty to have notice of 3022. Appellant to have a transcri t

ap of the record. and a cert’ 3019. Appeal not to supersede execu- cate of the ap citation.

tion without bond taken and 3023. Penalty of bon on a peal of

approved. _ claimant in the tri of the

right of property.

Sue. Site.
3024. Damages when such judgmentis 3033. Damages in all cases of money

adirmed. Judgments.

3025. P appealing frlzm judgment 8034. Ju gmep): or decree if reve%
o recov of s ves, togive may rendered. orremand
bond for eir hire. by the court.

3026. On lnfgrmance execution for the 3035. Notace to appellee when non-res»

° on motion. i ent.

3027. Damages ondeamrmance ofjudg- 3036. Confession of judgment relies
ment in tinue. errors.

3028. Liability of the clerk for delay 3037. Clerical errors corrected at spin  a transcript, or ‘pellaut's cost.
for imperfection in the record. 3038. On death of either party cause

3029. Certiililcate of appeal given ap- revived as to his representape ee. tive, .

3030. Transcript to be filed in the su- 3039. Appeals barred if not taken in
preme oourtinthreeda sa1'- two years.
her court meets. y 3040. No appeal allowed without se3031. J udgmentd afiirmedfipn certificate curity for costs 1:81:31 nicbimd
i reco isnot ed. isgivento supe e,

3032. If a bond is filed, ten per cent.
damageson afiirmance.

‘ . § 3016. From an final judgment or decree of the chan-cery, circuit or pro ate courts, except in such cases as are
otherwise directed by law, an appeal lies to the supreme
court, for the examination thereof‘, as matter of right, on the
ap lication of either party, or their personal representatives,
an the clerk, register, or judge of probate, must certify the
fact, that such a peal was taken and the time when, as part

of the record, w ch gives the supreme court jurisdiction of

the case.

§ 3017. When judgment has been rendered  the
state, unless such judgment is final in favor of a citizen, the

solicitor shall, if he thinks it proper, take an ap to the

supreme court, which operates as a supersedeas o the judgment, without bond and surety; but no damages can be given
against the state on afiirmance.
§. 3018. The register, clerk of the circuit court, and judge
'of probate, must, on the application of either of the parties,
‘their agent or attorne , after final judgment or decree in any
cause, upon an appe being taken, issue a citation returnable to the next term of the supreme court, to the opposite
party, which must be served by the sheriff on him or his
attorney, ten days before court, to which the appeal is taken.
> § 3019. The a peal does not operate as a su rsedeas of
the judgment, un ess bond be given by the appel ant, in dou,ble the amount of the judgment, pa able to the appellee,
with suflicient sureties and with con 'tion to prosecute the
appeal to effect, and to satisfy such judgment as the supreme
court may render in the premises.
§ 3020. When the decree rendered is for the performance
of any other act than the payment of money, (except in case
otherwise provided by this code,) the party wishing to supersede the execution of such decree, must apply to the chancellor, or register, either in term time or vacation, who must
direct the amount and the condition of the appeal bond.

§ 3021. For taking insuiiicient securi the clerk, register,
or judge of probate, is liable to the apps ee for the damages
thereby sustained, unless the surety was generally reputed
good for the amount, when he was received; but the clerk,
register, or judge of probate is not required to receive matély
one as surety, who refuses to answer on oath as to his ciency.
§ 3022. The register, clerk, and judge of probate, must
also, on the application of the appellant or his attorney, make
and deliver to him, in time to be returned to the next term
of the supreme court, a full and complete transcri t of the
record and roceedings in the cause, together with ' certificate that the appeal was taken, and the time when, and the
citation and a copy of the appeal bond if any was given, with
his certificate, that it is a complete transcript of all the roceedings in the cause, and envelop and seal up the W ole
in a package directed to the clerk of the supreme court, or
deliver it to the attorney applying for the same.
§ 3023. When an appeal is sued out by the claimant on;
a judgment against him on trial of right of ro erty, and the 2
y desires to supersede the judgment, t e nd must be:
taken in double the amount of the plaintilf’s judgment, if ;
that with the interest is less than the valuation by the jury
of the roperty levied on, and in double the amount of the
assesse value, if less than the judgment of the plaintiff.
§ 3024. When an appeal is taken by the claimant on the
trial of the right of property, and the judgment superseded,:
if the appellate court ailirms the judgment of the court below, ‘
it must render judgment for ten per cent. on the assessed
value of such pro erty, if less than the amount of the execution against the efendant; if such value exceeds such execution, ten per cent. on the amount thereof against the
obligors in the appeal bond.
§ 3025. When a judgment is rendered for the recovery of 1
slaves in specie, or the alternate value, if the party prosecu-J
ting an appeal has possession of the slaves, he must, if he de-I
sires to supersede the jud ment, in addition to the condition}
of the bond required in ot er cases, stipulate to pay hire for
the slaves from the rendition of such judgment, and pending
the appeal, if he fail to prosecute the same to effect.
§ 3026. Upon the afiirmance of such judgment by the su- 1
preme court, the hire of such slaves may be recovered by}
motion in the circuit court, where the judgment was render- 1
ed, against all the obligors in the bond, three days’ notice being given thereof.
§ 3027. Upon the aflirmance of an appeal on a judgment for J
the recovery of chattels in specie, which has been superseded, J‘
the court must render judgment for ten per cent. damages up- 4
on the assessed value of the chattels, and upon the damages
on the detention thereof; but the damages on such assessed
value must not be collected if the chattels were slaves, and
delivered to the sheriff within thirty days after the receipt of
the certilicate of aiiirmance by the clerk.

§ 3028. If by reason of ne ligence, or delay of the clerk,
’the transcript be not delivered to the appellant or his attorney, in time to be iiled, or if the transcript be so defective
that the supreme court cannot proceed thereon, the clerk forfeits to the party aggrieved the sum of two hundred dollars,
‘and is further liable to him, in an action on the case, for all
damages sustained by his neglect or delay. ,
r § 3029. When an appeal is taken, the clerk, register, or
‘judge of probate, must, on the application of the appellee,
make and deliver to him a certificate of the judgment or decree upon which the appeal has been taken, specifying particularly the judgment or decree, the amount of the same if for
mone , the arties thereto, and when rendered, and that an
a pea has en taken thereon, with a statement of the
0 li ors in the bond to supersede the judgment or decree, if
one as been given.
’ § 3030. The transcri t of the record and the certificate
imust be filed with the c erk of the supreme court, on or before the third day of the term to which the appeal is taken,
and the cause must be tried at the first term, unless good
cause be shown for a continuance. If the citation has not
been executed on the appellee ten days before the commencement of the court, the cause will not stand for trial until the
next succeeding term.
§ 3031. If an appeal is taken, and the transcript of the
record is not filed within the first three days of the court, it
is the duty of the court, on the motion of the appellee, to
affirm the judgment or decree of the court below, upon the
production by him of the certificate of the register, clerk, or
judge of the probate court, that an appeal has been taken to
the supreme court. For good cause shown, the court may
reinstate the cause during the term, on ayment of costs.
§ 3032. When bond with surety has%een executed on an
appeal, and the judgment thereby suspended, if the supreme
court ailirms the judgment of the court below, it must also
render judgment against all or an of the obligors in the
bond, for the amount of the afnrmeg j udgment, ten per cent
damages thereon, and the costs of the supreme court.
§ 3033. The preceding section applies to all cases where a
jitgdgment or decree is rendered for money, whether debt or
mages.
§ 3034. The supreme court may, upon the reversal of an
judgment or decree, remand the same for further pnoceeg
ings, or render such judgment or decree as the court below
should have rendered, when the record enables them to do so.
§ 3035. When the appellee is a non-resident, and has no
attorney or agent within the state to receive notice of the appeal, oath in writing bein made of the fact, the supreme
court may direct notice to given by publication, which is
as effectual as actual notice.

§ 3036. A confession of judgment is in law a release of er
rors.

§ 3037. No cause must be reversed b the supreme court for any miscalculation of interest, or ot er clerical mistake I
in entering judgment, but on motion of, and at the costs of 1
the appellant.

§ 3038. Upon the death of either party to an appeal being<
suggested, if the cause cannot procwd without new parties, 7
the cause may be revived, either for or against such party, §
on the production of letters testamentary, or of  0
tion; but citation must issue from the appellate court to all
who are thus made defendants, unless they appear and
waive it.

§ 3039. When either party to a judgment or decree dies
alter judgment or decree rendered, and before appeal taken
thereon, an appeal may be prosecuted, in the name of, or
against the legal representative of the deceased, on producing
satisfactory evidence to the clerk, judge of probate, or register, of the death of the party, and grant of letters testamen, or of administration.

mg 3040. Appeals under this title, except in such cases as a
different time 18 prescribed, must be taken within two years
from the rendition of the judgment or decree; but the provisions of this section do not apply to existing judgments or

§ 3041. No appeal can be taken without giving bond to
supersede the execution of the judgment or decree, unless the
appellant give security for the costs of such appeal, to be approved by the clerk, register, or judge of probate; the names
of such securities to be certified with the record to the appellate court, and execution may issue against uch securities
for the costs in such court, and the costs of the transcript, if
decided  the appellant.

 *¢:_._;:—.

Qfitle G.

FEES IN CIVIL CASES.

CHAPTER I.

rsss or CLERKS or THE cmcurr mp surmmn COURTS,
JUDGES OE PROBATE,.REGISTERS IN CHANCERY, snnmrrs
AND conormns, ATTORNEYS AT LAW, JUSTICES or THE
PEACE AND CONSTABLES.

§3042. Clerks, sheriffs, and other oilicers hereinafter
named, are entitled to receive for the services hereinafter
mentioned, the fees thereto respectively annexed, and no

‘mare, to be aid, taxed, and collected in the manner herein1§ 3043. Clerks of circuit court:
For every summons and complaint . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
Each copy thereof . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
When t e complaint is over two hundred words, for

each copy, for each hundred words . . . . . . . . . . . .
Entering a sheriE’s return, or co y thereof . . . . . . . .
Docketing cause, to be charged but once . . . . . . . . .
Enterin appearance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _ . . . . . . . . . . . .
Filing p eas, demurrer, or other pleadm for each .
For every order made in court, not 0 erwlse provided for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For copy thereof . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For every jury trial, swearing jury and witnesses. .
For entering up judgment, or copy thereof . . . . . . . .
For scire facias, or notice in the nature thereof. . . . .
For every execution and recording return . . . . . . . . .
For copy thereof . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For recording the award of arbitrators, receivers,
auditors, &c., for every hundred words . . . . . . . . .
For issuing attachment thereon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For taking bond for certiorari, supersedeas, or appeal.
For copy thereof . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For filing such bond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For issuing subpoena for a witness or witnesses. . . .
For administering an oath in court, not relating to
the trial of a suit then pending, and certifying the
same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For filing attachment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For each summons for garnishee or garnishew on
such attachment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For swearing and taking the examination of garnishee, an entering the same of record . . . . . . . . .
Or for each hundred words . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For order to advertise, or order of survey, and copy
thereof . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For recording each survey in a surveyor’s report,
with its references . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For each copy thereof, for every hundred words. . .
For commiss1on to take depositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For copy of interrogatories accompanying such comIIliSS10l1, for every hundred words . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For filing each deposition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For writ of ad quod damnum, or writ in the nature
thereof . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For recordin the return, and inquest thereon, for
every hun ed words . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For writ of certiorari, prohibition, mandamus, or writ
in the nature thereof. .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For filing the same, and return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For making a complete record of a cause after final
judgment, with certiiicate, or copy thereof; for
every hundred words . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For copy of any plaper not herein otherwise provided

for, for every undred words . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ 0 15
For a search, out of term time, for any thin above a

year’s standing, when no cop is require . . . . . . . 15
For every certificate to which e seal of office is required, and affixing seal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
For taking any and every bond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
For necessary certificate, not otherwise provided for,

or a copy thereof . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
For every order, or continuance in court . . . . . . . . . . 5

For all other oflicial duties for which no express pro~
vision is made by law, to be paid from the county
treasury, such sum as may be allowed by the court
of county commissioners for such services, not exceeding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150 00
§ 3044. Registers in chancery:
For each subpoena on a bill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ 0 50
For any other subpoena . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
For entering each return thereof . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
For entering each decree . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
For cop of bill or answer, for every hundred words 15
For eac report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 50
For taking an account, swearing witnesses, &c., for
each day whilst engaged therein . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 00
For taking every bond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For appointing trustee, and recording resignation,
removal, or death . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For issuing each notice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
For making abstract of bill for publication, for every
hundred words in abstract . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
For each execution, or order of sale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
For making a com lete record, for every hundred
words, and cert' cate, or copy thereof . . . . . . . . . . 15
I*:0r making a deed to ro ert sold . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 00
For each certificate, an o cia seal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
For each pa er or record not included in the above,
for every undred words recorded or co ied . . . . 15

Commissions on sales: for the first hun ed dollars, two
per cent.; for all over one hundred dollars and under one
thousand dollars, one per cent.; for all over one thousand
dollars, one-half of one per cent.; which commissions must
be calculated upon the amount for which the property sold.

For services rendered in the settlement of estates for decedents, transferred under the provisions of section 1910, the
same fees as judges of probate.

For all other services for which no compensation is herein
Slleclfically rovided, such fees or compensation as the chancellor may irect.

$3045. Clerk of the supreme court:

The clerk of the supreme court is entitled to double the

fees allowed by law for like services to the clerk of
cuit cx)urt.*
§ 3046. Probate judges:
For all orders, on resenting a will for probate. . . .$
For examination 0? witnesses, and order admitting
will to record . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For presiding on the trial of a contested will, or other
jury trial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For granting letters testamentary, or of administration
For taking, approving, and recording bond, and entering order of appraisement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For granting order of appraisement or sale . . . . . . . .
For issuing copy of appraisement or sale . . . . . . . . . .
For o11'1der to record inventory, appraisement and sale,
eac . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Foil order removing executor, administrator or guaran . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For granting and issuing letters of guardianship, taking, approving, and recording bond . . . . . . . . . . . .
For order ap omting commissioners to divide real
or persona? estate, and for issuing writ to the
sheriif . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .< . . . . . . . . . . .
For ap roving and entering order thereon . . . . . . . .
For or er, on petition to sell real estate, appointing
a day for hearing, and orders for notices . . . . . . . .
For a pointing guardians ad litem for the sale of
Ian , and giving notice to such guardian . . . . . . . .
For eéamining testimony, and making decree to sell
lan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For order approving sale and recording same . . . . . .
For hearing application for dower, issuing writ, entering all necessary orders, and allotting dower . .
For examining, stating, and reporting the aocounm
of executors, administrators, and guardians, for settlement, order appointing guardians ad litem, day

for hearing, and copy for publication . . . . . . . . . . . $
For examining vouchers, allowing or rejecting, each
For making decrees on annual or partial settlements, and order to record . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For making all entries except decrees, on final settlements, and order to record . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For each decree . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For entering all necessary orders in relation to insolvent estates, each order . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For issuin all writs, citations, or notice required to
be issue in pursuance of law, and entering sheriii‘ ’s return thereon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For filing each claim in office, and giving receipt
therefor, to be paid by the person filing the claim

For approving every bond, except those of executors,
administrators, and guardians . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For taking bonds, except in cases hereinbefore provided for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For recording wills, inventories, appraisements, sale
bills, reports, decrees, &c., for every hundred
wor s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For recording conveyances, for every hundred words
For each certificate, with the seal of oiiice . . . . . . . .
For each certificate of acknowledgment of a deed,

or relinquishment of dower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For granting retail licenses, and iilin g oath . . . . . . .
For each other license, not otherwise provided for.

For order binding out an apprentice, and copy
thereof . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For each commission to take depositions . . . . . . . . . .
For administering and certifying oaths, not herein
provided for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For residing in the commissioners’ court, per day . .

But f the rate of fees allowed the judge of probate l
the estates of decedents, must be charged by him, whe:
estateis shown by appraisement, or on settlement, 1
of less value than two hundred dollars.

For all other ofiicial duties for the com ensation of
which no express rovision is made y law, such
sum as may be a owed by the court of county
commissioners for such services, to be paid out of

the country treasury, not exceeding . . . . . . . . . . . $15
§ 3047. Sherifis:

For levying an attachment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For summoning gamishee . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . .

F0_r selling roperty attached, the same as for selling on a eri faclas.

For serving a summons, or other mesne process . . .

For returning summons, or other mesne process, in
the sheriff s office . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For taking bail bond, and returning the same. . . . .
01' summoning_each witness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.For empanelling a jury, in each case where a jury

is sworn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 50
For executing a habere facias possessionem . . . . . . . . 2 00
For making a deed to purchase of real estate sold, or

executed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 00
For committing a prisoner to jail, or release . . . . . . . 50

For levying lieri facias, and making money thereon; for the
first hundred dollars, five per cent. ; for all sums over one
hundred dollars, and not exceeding two hundred dollars,
four per cent. ; for all sums over two hundred dollars, two
and one-half per cent. : but no commissions are to be
charged on costs. ,

For levying a fieri facias, when sale is sta ed after levy, by
an restraining order, one per cent. on t e amount of the
ju gment, to be aid by the person obtaining such order,
and to be taxe for his benefit if successful, against the
adverse party, on the determination of the suit.

For collecting execution for costs only . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 1 00

For taking defendant on ca. sa., and commitment. . 1 00

For making money on ca. sa., the same commissions as are allowed on fieri facias. ‘

For executing a condemned person, and all incidents thereto, to be paid by the county . . . . . . . .10 00

For summoning a jury for an inquisition in the
county, and attending on sai jury, and taking inquests, per day, when no other provision is made

by law . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 00
For serving subpoenas in chancery, for each defendant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
Returning the same . . . . . . . . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
For serving scire facias, or notice in nature thereof;

on each defendant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
For serving any summons not herein provided for. . 50
For serving an attachment for contempt, and returning the same, or rule to show cause . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For victualling a runaway slave in jail, per day . . . . 25
For advertisingsuch slave . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For taking bonds of every kind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

For empannelling grand juries, advertising, and attending all elections, servin all public orders, of
all courts in his county, an for all other public
services, not otherwise provided for by law, such
sum as may be allowed by the commissioners’
court, to be paid out of the county treasury, not to
exceed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150 00
No fee is allowed for the service of a scire facias, or
notice in nature of, against defaulting jurors or witnesses, when the same are excused by the court.
, §30—18. Attorneys at law: For prosecuting a suit in the
circuit court, when defence is made:

When judgment is rendered for two hundred dollars, or less . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 4 00

When jud ent is rendered for more than two hundred, an less than five hundred dollars . . . . . . . . $ 6 00
When judgment is rendered for five hundred dollars,

and less than one thousand dollars . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 00
When judgment is rendered for one thousand dollars, or more . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 00
To the defendant’s attorney, in each case when successful . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 00

For rosecuting or defending a mixed or real action,

wlgere the title or bounds of land are in question 20 00
For prosecuting or defending a suit in the supreme

court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 00
For like services in the chancery courts . . . . . . . . . . 15 00

The fees hereby allowed must be taxed against the party
in the suit, liable therefor, in favor of the other party, for
the beneiit of the attorney. But not more than one attorney’s fee must be taxed, in any cause, except in cases otherwise provided by this code, and suits in chancery, when defendants are improperly made parties.

§ 30-19. Justices of the peace: to be taxed against and collected out of the unsuccessful party:
For a summons in civil cases, and proceedings thereon to judgment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 0 50
For a warrant in qui tam cases, and proceedings

thereon to judgment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
For subpoena for a witness, or witnesses . . . . . . . . . . 15
For execution, and taxing costs thereon . . . . . . . . . . 40
For attachment, bond, and aiiidavit . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 25
For summons for arnishee, and taking examination 50
For judgment, am? order‘ of sale on attachment. . . . 25
For each appeal, or certiorari, including bond, and

certifying proceedings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For every other bond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
For administering an oath, and certifying the same. 15
For taking depositions under a commission, for every hundred words . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
For every necessary certificate, not otherwise provided for by law . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25
For docketing each cause . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
For each judgment on forthcoming, stay, or reple_vin

bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
For each judgment, on a summary proceeding. . . . . 50
For a transcript of proceedings, ot er than those sent

up on an appeal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25
For issuing a venire facias . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
For attending on the trial of right of property. . . . . 1 00
For each seire facias, or notice in the nature thereof 25
For making return of certiorari, other than in cases

of forcible entry and detainer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

In cases of forcible entry and detainer, and unlawful detainer:
For every summons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 50

For swearing the jury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 0 20

For administerin every oath, or afhrmation . . . . . . . 5

For entering ver 'ct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

For entering judgment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

For presiding on every trial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 00

For issuing writ of restitution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

For return on appeal, or certiorari . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
§ 3050. Constables:
For serving a summons in civil cases . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

For summoning each witness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

For levying an attachment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75

For le 'ng an execution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

For ing mone on each execution . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

For carrying a de tor to jail . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
For whipping a slave, by order of a justice of the
peace, to be paid by the owner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For serving notice, on each person therein named . . 25
For serving scire facias, or notice in nature of . . . . . . 50
For taking bail bond, bond for the forthcoming of
roperty, or other bond required by law . . . . . . . . 50
For keeping roperty levied on, such sum as the justice

believes just an reasonable, out of the money in the hands
of such constable, arising from the sale of such property, or
received b reason of such levy.

Any ot er services performed b any justice or constable, for which no fee is allowed by aw, must be considered
ex ollicio, and no fee demanded or received therefor.

CHAPTER II.

GENERAL RULES.

Sno. S20.

8051. Clerks‘ and sheriffs to keep fee 3060. Oh “no property” being returnboolts, and enter every item; ed as to defendant, execution
clerk’s fee book an omce book. against plaintiff for his costs;

3052. Fee books to have index. penalty for failure to collect

8058. N o fee to be charged not entered them over such costs.
inthefeebook. 3061. Oopyofcostsbill tobeannexed

8054. Fees not duetillbill of items pre- to execution
sented. 3062. No commissions charged on costs.

3055. Sherifs commissions not due till 3063. No fee to be charged unless ex.
levy actually made and mo- pressly authorized.
ney collected, and paid to 3064. FeebillsofoE;cersto bepogted
plaintiff, and then on the _ in their odicw.
amount so paid. 3065. Penalty for failure to post such

3056. On sta of execution awer levy, bills.

oommissi(£.rsJ)aid. 8006: Jr: of probate forteiu Sky

3057. Fees exce for record, not llars, byclm-goof em; fog,

due ' service performed. and indictable for extortion.

3058. Bill of fees to be made out on re- 3067. Ju e of probate to kee a book
' all fees received, as

quest; no charge for taxing
costs. _ 3068. Solicitor and grand jury to ex8059. Quadruple damages lbr excessive amine fee books and present
charge. offences.

§ 3051. The clerks and sheriffs must keep a fee book,
which must be considered in case of the clerk, one of the
books belonging to his ollice; he must enter therein in a regular account, to be opened for that p , every fee for
each and every distinct service rendere by him, charging

for ever particular item in the same manner as the fees
aforesai

§ 3052. There must be an index made to such book, pointing eta) the folio in which the respective accounts are contain .

§ 3053. No clerk or sheriff is allowed to take or demand
any fee for any service by him performed, which is not justified by the charge made, and entered in his fee book.

§ 3054. None of the foregoing fees are payable until the
person charged with the payment thereof, is furnished with
a bill in writing, setting out each item in the bill, and the
services for which the same is due, signed by the clerk.

§ 3055. Sheriffs and coroners are not entitled to full commissions, except in cases where the execution has been actually levied on the property of the defendant, and the money
made, or paid to the plaintiff in execution, and then only on
the amount actually collected or paid.

3 3056. Where the sheriff or coroner has levied execution,
an before sale, the same is stayed by order of the plaintiff,
they must receive half commissions only, on the amount of
the execution.

§ 3057. N o ollicer entitled to fees under this title, must
demand or receive the same, or any part thereof, until the
duty or service for which they are granted is performed, exeept making the final record.

§ 3058. The clerks of the circuit courts, probate judges,
registers in chancery, and all other officers, entitled to fees
under any law now in force, must on demand make out a
bill of fees and costs, stating each item distinctly, and in no
case must a fee be charged by any oilicer for taxing costs, or
a copy thereof.

§ 3059. If any of the officers herein mentioned, knowingly receive any other or higher fees than are prescribed by
law, he is liable to the part aggrieved for four fold the fees
so received, to be recovered’ in any court of competent jurisdiction.

§ 3060. The clerk of the supreme court, clerks of the circuit court, judges of robate, and justices of the peace, upon
the non- ayment of t e costs due by the defendant, upon the
return 0? an execution against such defendant by the sheriff
of the county in which the judgment was rendered, or if the
execution be from the su reme court, of the county from
which the case was broug 1:, “no property,” may issue execution in their own name against the plaintiff for the costs
actually created by such plaintiff, and no other; which execution must be collected and returned as other executions;
and for failing to return, collect with due diligence, or pay

I

B

I
I

P

l
>

over on demand to the clerk of the circuit court, or the
judge of probate issuing the same, judgment may be rendered on motion in the circuit court of the county, and in
the name of such clerk or judge of probate, against the
sheriff so failing, and his securities, or either of them, having
three days’ notice of the motion; for failing to return, twent
r cent. on the amount of the execution; for failing to co light, the amount of the execution and ten per cent. damages;
and for failing to pay over, the amount of said execution and
five per cent. damages, for each month after demand made.
§ 3061. To such execution must be annexed a copy of the
bill of costs, of the fees on which such execution issues; and
all executions issuing without such copy of the bill of costs,
must be deemed illegal, and no sheriff must serve or execute
the same.
§ 3062. It is not lawful for anv sherilf, coroner, or constable, to collect commissions on the costs taxed on an execution put in their hands, but must only demand an collect thed commissions allowed by law, on the principal, dames an interest.
ag§ 3063. The law of costs must be deemed and held a penal
liaig, and no fee must be taken but in cases expressly provie b law.
§ 3064. It is the duty of the several clerks of the circuit
courts, and judges of the probate courts, to have and keep
posted up in a conspicuous place in their respective oflices, a
complete list of all the fees allowed by law to them, and to
the sheri&'s; and must also keep a copy ready to be produced, on the application of any person wishing to see the same.
§ 3065. On failing to comp y with the preceding section,
such clerk or judge of probate so failing, is not authorized to
receive or collect any fee for any services rendered during
the time of such failure.
§ 3066. Any judge of probate receiving any other or
greater fees than are allowed by law, forfeits the sum of fifty
ollars, to be recovered in the name of the person paying the
same. And if recovered by any executor, administrator, or
guardian, is assets of the estate, and must be accounted foras
such; but this remedy is no bar to an indictment for extortion.
3 § 3067. The judges of probate must keep constantlyin
their office, free to the inspection of all persons, a book, in

-which must be entered all the fees they have received by

virtuei of their oifice, stating from whom and for what receive .

§ 3068. It is the duty of the solicitor and grand jury, at
every term of the circuit court, to examine such book and
ascertain if illegal fees have been corruptly received; and in
such case, such judge must be indicted therefor, and, on conviction, dned not less than one hundred, nor more than five
hundred dollars, and be dismissed from office.

(title 7.

SCHEDULE OF FORMS OF PLEADING IN CIVIL PROCEEDINGS.

CHAPTER I.

FORMS.
Complaints.

Endo1~see against acceptor of bill of exchange.
A. B., plaintiff, The laintiff claims of the defendant

vs. do lars, due on a bill of exchange,
C. D., defendant, which was drawn by one E. F., on the
day of , for dollars, upon the defendant, and accepted b him, payable to one G. H., on the day of ,
whic bill before maturity was indorsed to the plaintiff, and
with interest is still due, and unpaid.

   

I. J ., Att’y for Pl’if.

Endorsee against endorser.

A. B., plaintiff, The plaintiff claims of the defendant,

vs. dollars on a bill of exchange, drawn
C. D., defendant. by E. F., on the day of , upon
G. H. for the payment of dollars on the -—— day of
——to the defendant, by whom the said bill was indorsed to
the laintiff, and the said bill not being paid at maturity (or
not ing accepted, as the case may be,) was duly rotested,
of which the defendant had due notice. The said ill, with
damages, and interest due thereon, is still unpaid.

L. M., Att’y for P1’ff.

Endorsee against drawer.
A. B., plaintiff, s The laintilf claims of the defendant,
.9

v . ———do lars, due on a bill of exchange,
C. D., defendant. drawn by him on the da of ,
on E. F., for the payment of dollars to Gr. ., on the
*day of , by whom the said bill was indorsed to the
piaintiff, and the said bill not being paid at maturity, (or not
ing accepted, as the case may be,) was dul protested, of
which the defendant had due notice. The sai bill, with the

dalmges and interest due thereon, is still unpaid.

J. J ., Att’y for Pl’ff.

N0'rE.—If the bill sued on was a foreign bill of exchange,

the fact should be stated, and the place on which it was
drawn.

On prmnissory note by payee, against maker.

A. B., plaintiff, The laintiif claims of the defendant

vs. ———do lars, due by romisory note made
0- D., defendant. by him on the a of , and payable the —— day of —, with interest t ereon.

E. F., Att’y for Pl’ff.

   

On bill single or bond without penalty by obligee against 
A. B., plaintiff. } The laintiff claims of the defendant
vs

do lars, due by bond, executed by

C. D., defendant. him on the day of , payable on

the -—— day of —, with interest due thereon.
E. F., Att’y for Pl’if.

By assignee, against assignor, an assigned note or bond -without
penalty.
A. B., plaintiff, The plaintiif claims of the defendant
vs. the sum of dollars, as the assignee
C. D., defendant, of a note (or bond, as the case ma be,)
executed on the day of, by one E. F., paya le to
the defendant (or as the case may be) on the day of ,
and assigned to the plaintiff, upon which suit has been brought
according to law to charge the maker, judgment obtained
thereon, execution issued according to law, and returned “ no
property found,” which note with the interest thereon is still
un aid. G. H., Att’y for Pl’if.
§'o'rE.--If there is a sufficient excuse for not suing the
maker, the fact should be concisely stated.

On an account or verbal contract.

A. B., plaintiff, The plaintiff claims of the defendant,

vs. —— dollars, due from him by account,
0. D., defendant, on the day of , (or for money
loaned by the plaintiff to the defendant on the day of
, or on account stated between the plaintiff and defendant, on the day of , or for merchandise, goods and
chattels, sold by the plaintiff to the defendant on the
day of , or for money paid by the laintiif, for the defendant, at his request, or for work an labor done for the
defendant, by the plaintiff, on the day of , at his
request,) which several sums of money, (or sum of money)

with the interest thereon, are now due.
E. F., Att’y for Pl’E.

On an account or verbal contract by a transferee.

A. B., plaintiff, The plaintiff claims of the defendant,
vs. dollars, due by account, for money
0. D., defendant. loaned by one E. F., to the defendant, on
the -—— day of , (or on an account stated between the
defendant and one E. F., on the day of , or for
merchandise, goods and chattels sold by one E. F., to the
defendant, or for money paid by one E. F. for the defendand, or for work and labor done by one E. F. for the defendant, on the da of , at his re uest ;) which sum (or
sums of money, as t e case may be,) wilh the interest, is now

due, and is the property of the plaintiff.
G. H., Att’y for P1’&'.

For the recovery of clzattels in specie.

A. B., plaintili‘, s The plaintiff claims of the defendant,

vs. the following slaves, (or other personal
C. D., defendant. property, viz: &c., describing it,) with the

 

   

   

 

   

value of the hire or use thereof, during the detention, viz:

from the day of ——.
E. F., Att’y for Pl’ff.

On an independent covenant or agreement.

A. B., plaintiff, The plaintiff claims of the defendant,

-vs. 5 dollars, damages for the breach of a
C. D., defendant, covenant, (or agreement, as the case many
be,) entered into by him on the day of -——, by whi
he promised, (here set out the contract or agreement, and

the breach com lained of.
P ) E. F., Att’y for Pl’ff.

NO'l‘E.———If a demand is necessary to entitle the plaintiff to
his action, it must be averred.

On a dependent covenant or agreement.

A. B., plaintiff, The laintiif claims of the defendant,

vs. —— do ars, for the breach of a covenant
C. D., defendant. (or agreement, as the case ma be,) entered into by him on the day of , in sulistance as
follows: (here insert a co y or according to its legal eifect,)
yet although the plaintiff as com lied with ‘all its provisions
on his part, the defendant has faifed to compl with the following provisions thereof, viz: (here insert t e matter complained of.) E. F., Att’y for P1’ff.

On bonds with condition.
A. B., plaintiff, } The laintilf claims of the defendant

   

vs. do lars, for the breach of the condiC. D., defendant, tion of a bond (or agreement) made by
the defendant on the day of , payable to the plainH11; in the sum of —— dollars, with condition, (here state the
condition concisely.) And the plaintiff sa. s the condition of
said bond has been broken by the defen ant in this, (here
state concisely the breach or breaches complained of, first,
second, &c.,) to the damage of the plaintiff, as above stated.

E. F., Att’y for Pl’ff.

Against a common carrier.

A. B., plaintiff, The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. -—— dollars, as damages for the failure
C. D., defendant. to deliver certain goods, viz: (here set
them out,) received by him as a common carrier, to be delivered to the plaintiff at , for a reward, which he failed to
do. E. F., Att’y for P1’lf.
1_‘l0'1‘E.—If the injury complained of is the failure to
deliver the goods by the time stipulated, or Within a reasonable time, or for damage to the goods, it should be so stated.

Deceit in sale of chattels.

A.B.,p1aintia; The laintiff claims of the defendant

vs. do lars, as damages for a deceit in
C. D., defendant. i the sale of a horse, which the defendant,
at the time of the sale, knew to be unsound.

E. F., Att’y for Pl’if.

   

Action on a warranty.

A. B., plaintiff, The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. dollars as damages for a breach of
C. D., defendant. warrant in the sale of a slave b him to
the plaintiff} on t e —- ay of , which the efendant
warranted to be sound in bod and mind, when in fact the
said slave was, at the time of t e sale and warranty, unsound
in body, (the warranty and breach to be stated according to
the facts.) E. F., Att’y for Pl’lf.

On a policy of insurance.

A. B., plaintiff, The plaintiff claims of the defendant

vs. dollars, the value of certain oods,
C. D., defendant. which the defendant, on the gay 0
, insured against loss or injury, against rils of the
seas, and other perils in said he mentioned, mm the Iport
of New-York to the port of ob’ e, on board the ship eptune, which goods were wholly lost by the shipwreck of the

said vessel, on her voyage, of which the defendant has had
notice. E. F., Att’y for Pl’1lI

For the conversion of chattels.

A. B., plaintiff, The plaintiff claims of the defendant,
vs. dollars, as damages for the converC. D., defendant. sion by him, on the day of —, of
the following chattels, (describing them) the property of the
plaintiff. E. F., Att’y for P1’il'.

For assault and 

A. B., plaintiff, The plaintiff claims of the defendant

vs. —— dama es, for an assault and battery
0. D., defendant. committed y the defendant on the plaintiff, viz: on the day of .

 

 

   

E. F., Att’y for PPR.

For false imprisonment.
A. B., plaintiff, The laintiif claims of the defendant
vs. —— do lars, as damages for maliciously,
C. D., defendant. and without probable cause therefor, arresting and imprisoning, (or, if the case be so, causing the defendant to be arrested and imprisoned,) on a charge of larceny,

(or other felony, as the case may be,) for days, viz: on
day of —. E. F., Att’y for PPR

Verbal slander.
A. B.,p1aintilf, § The plaintiff claims of the defendant
s

v . —— dollars, as damages for falsely and
C. D., defendant. maliciously charging the plaintiff with
perjury, (larcen , or other crime, as the case may be,) by
speaking of andy concerning him, in the presence of divers
ersons, in substance as follows, (here set out the defamatory

anguage,) viz: on the day of .

E. F., Att’y for Pl’1£

   

Libel.

A. B., plaintiff, The plaintiff claims of the defendant

vs. -1 dollars, damages for falsely and
C. D., defendant. maliciously publishing, of and concerning
him, in a newspaper published, &'.c., called, &c., (or book or
writing, as the case may be? the following false and defamatory matter, with intent to efame the plaintiff, viz: (here set

out the language charged as libellous,) on the dalg of
—. E. F., Att’y for P’ .

For trespass in taking goods.

A. B., plaintiff, The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. dollars, as damages for wrongfully
C. D., defendant. taking the following goods and chattels,
the property of t e plaintiff, viz: (here state the oods, &c.)
E. F., Att’y or Pl’ff.

For the recovery of land, or possession thereof; complaint in
the nature of an action for ejectment.

A. B.,p1aintiff, The plaintiff sues to recover the followvs. ing tract of land, (describing it, or the
C. D., defendant. possession, as the case may be,) of which
he was possessed before the commencement of this suit, and
after such possession accrued, the defendant entered thereupon, and unlawfull withholds and detains the same,
together with do lars, for the detention thereof.

E. F., Att’y for P1’ff.

For rent, on demise.

A. B.,plaintiif, § The laintiif claims of the defendant
3

v . -——- do lars, the rent of a tract of land,
0. D., defendant. viz: (describing the land,) demised by the
plaintiff to the defendant, on the day of , said rent

commencin on the day of ——-, and ending on the
-—— day 0 . E. F., Att’y for P1’ff.

For use and occupation of land.
A. B. plaintiff, § The plaintiff claims of the defendant

   

 

 

vs. dollars, for the use and occupation
C. D., defendant. by him of the following tract of land, belonging to the plaintiff, viz: (here describe it), from the —day of —— to the day of .
E. F., Att’y for Pl’tf.

For trespass to land.

A. B. plaintiif, The plaintiff claims of the defendant

vs. —— dollars, as damages, for a. trespass by
C. D., defendant. the defendant on the following tract of
land, belonging (or in the possession of) the plaintiff, (describing it), and for cutting the timber, treading down the
grass, &c., on the day of —.

E. F., Att’y for Pl’ff.

   

PLEAS.

Ton estfactum.

A. B., plaintid, The defendant, for answer to the comvs. plaint, saith, that the note, or bond, as
C. D., defendant. the case may be), upon whi the action
is founded, was not executed by him, or by any one authorized to bind him in the premises; and he makes oath that
this ea is true. (If filed by an executor or administrator,
that e believes it to be true.)

E. F., Att'y for Def ’t.

Not guilty.
A. B., plaintiff, The defendant, for answer to the com?) plaint, saith he is not guilty of the matters alleged therein.
E. F., Att’y for Def’t.

.3.
C. D., defendant,
Payment.

A. B., p1ainti&', The defendant, for answer to the said
vs. complaint, saith that he has paid the debt

0. D., defendant. or demand for the recovery of which this

suit is brought, before the action was commenced.
E. F., Att’y for Def ’t.

Infancy.
A. B., plaintiff, The defendant, for answer to the said
vs. complaint, saith, that at the time of the
C. D., defendant. execution of the note, the foundation of
the suit, (or at the time of the creation of the debt, or making of the contract, as the case may be), he was a minor,

under the age of twenty-one years.
E. F., Att’y for Def ’t.

Statute of l2°mz'tatz°ons.
A. B., plaintiff, The defendant, for answer to said comvs. plaint, saith, that the (note, bond, or conC. D., defendant. tract, as the case may be), is barred by

the ‘statute of limitations of -——— years.
E. F., Att’y for Def ’t.

Usury.
A. B., plaintiff, The defendant, for answer to said comvs. plaint, saith, that the said (note, bond,_or
C. D., defendant. contract, as the case may be), upon which
the action is founded, is usurious and void for the interest

due thereon.
E. F., Att’y for Def’t.

l‘ToTE.—If the usurious interest has been included with th6
principal, the fact should be stated, and the amount.

Set-of

A. B., p1aintii£ The defendant, as a defence to the acvs. tion of the plaintiff, says, that at the time
0. D., defendant. the said summons was sued out, the
plaintiff was indebted to him in the sum of -—-——- dollars, by
note, (bond, li uidated, or unliquidated demand, as the case
mag’ be, and escribing it by its date, amount, and when
an to whom payable), which he hereby offers to set—o&'
against the demand of the laintiff, and he claims judgment
for the residue, (if the set-o exceeds the plaintiff‘ ’s demand.)

E. F., Att’y for Def ’t.

Tender.

A. B., plaintiff, The defendant, for answer to said comvs. g plaint, says, that he tendered to the plainC. D., defendant. tiff the amount due to him, to wit, ——
dollars, before the action was commenced; and now brings
the money into court, (if of ponderous articles, or other personal property), that he has always been ready and wil ing
to rform his contract with the plaintiff, and offered to do

so fore the action was commenced.
E. F., Att’y for Def ’t.

