Sec. 5601. Remedies in civil cases are divided into two classes:
First. Actions.
Second. Special proceedings.
Sec. 5602. A civil action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of justice
by one party against another for the enforcement or protection of a private right,
or the redress or prevention of a private wrong. It may also be brought for the
recovery of a penalty or forfeiture.
Sec. 5603. Every other remedy in a civil case is a special proceeding.
Civil Code, sees. 2-4, Preliminary Provisions.
Sec. 5604. The forms of all actions and suits heretofore existing are
abolished.
Sec. 5605. There shall be but one form of action for the enforcement or
protection of private rights, and the redress or prevention of private wrongs,
which shall be called a civil action.
Sec. 5606. In such action the party complaining shall be known as the
plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
Sec. 5607. The proceedings in a civil action may be of two kinds :
First. At law.
Second. In equity.
Sec. 5608. The plaintiff may prosecute his action by equitable proceedings
in all cases where courts of chancery, before the adoption of this code, had
jurisdiction, and must so proceed in all cases where such jurisdiction was exclusive.
(a) But as to Justices' courts, see Sec. 2329- And see Secs. 7223, 6710.
Sec. 5609. In all other cases the plaintiff must prosecute his action by
proceedings at law.
Sec. 5610. An action upon awritten obligation or judgment which has been
lost or destroyed may be prosecuted by proceedings at law. Civil Code, sees. 1-6.
Sec. 561 1. No action to obtain a discovery shall be brought except as
provided in the next section.
Sec. 5612. Where any person or corporation is liable, either jointly or
severally with others, by the same contract, an action may be brought against
any of the parties who are liable to obtain discovery of the names and residences
of the others who are also liable.
Sec. 5613. In such action the plaintiff shall state in his complaint, in
effect, that he has used due diligence, without success, to obtain the information
asked to be discovered, and that he does not believe the parties to the contract
who are known to him have property sufficient to satisfy his claims. The com
plaint shall be verified, and the cost of such action shall be paid by the plaintiff,
unless the discovery be resisted. Ib., sec. 788.
Sec. 5614. The writ of ne exeat as a remedy in a civil action is abolished.
Ib., sec. 790.
Sec. 5615. An error of the plaintiff as to the kind of proceedings adopted
shall not cause the abatement or dismissal of the action, but merely a change
into the proper proceedings by an amendment in the pleadings and a transfer
of the action to the proper docket (b).
Sec. 5616. The error mentioned in the last section may be corrected by the
plaintiff without motion at any time before the defendant has answered, or
afterward, on motion in court (c).
(b) See Sec. 5618.
Where there is an equitable issue in a suit at law, and there is no motion to transfer, the
issue must be disposed of according to the principles involved. Trulock v. Taylor, 26—54.
Purely equitable relief can not be granted in a suit properly brought at law. By. v. Perry,
87—185.
Objection that suit should have been brought at law can not be raised by demurrer. Ib.
Equitable relief can not be granted on an application for mandamus unless the pleading is
reformed and the cause transferred. Crawford v. Carson, 35—565. The court is not bound to
make the transfer unless asked. Berry v. Hardin, 28—458. And if no motion is make the
objection is waived. Moss v. Adams, 32—562; Talbot v. Wilkins, 31—411. Error in overruling
motion to transfer is waived unless excepted to at the time and saved in a motion for new trial,
Cogswell v. McKeogh, 46—524. A mere transfer to the equity side does not make the cause
one of equitable relief. Boberts v. Jacks, 31—598; Dorsey Co. v. Whitehead, 47—205.
When an equitable answer asks relief the cause should be transferred. Ivey v. Drake,
36—228.
The defendant must make all the defenses he has, both legal and equitable, when sued at
law, and if necessary cause a transfer to equity. Reeve v. Jackson, 46—272.
It is error to try a case in the wrong forum when objection is made, but the judgment so
rendered is not a nullity. Harris v. Townsend, 52—411.
It is not imperative upon the circuit court to transfer a case to equity except when the
answer presents some defenses exclusively cognizable in equity, or when all of the issues are
cognizable in equity but not exclusively so. Horsley v. Hilburn, 44—458.
The substantial difference between law and equity under the code, is that when the case,
stated in the complaint, would, under the former practice, have been maintainable at law,
either party is entitled to trial by jury, but if the cause would, under the old system, have
been distinctly equitable, then it is triable according to the method formerly observed in
chancery. Harris o. Townsend, 52—411.
See, also, on question of transfer from one forum to the other. Catchings v. Harcrovc,
49—20; Sogers v. Yarnell, 51—198; Organ v. By., 51—235; Ashley v. Little Bock, 56—392.
(c) See preceding note.
Sec. 5617. Such error is waived by failure to move for its correction at the
time and in the manner prescribed in this chapter, and all errors in the decis
ions of the court on any of the motions named in this chapter are waived unless
excepted to at the time, which may be done by the clerk noting at the end
of such decision words of the following import: "To which decision the plaintiff
(or defendant) excepts" (d).
Sec. 5618. The defendant shall be entitled to have the correction made in
the following cases:
First. When the action has been commenced by equitable proceedings the
defendant, by motion made at the time of filing his answer, may have them
changed into proceedings at law when it appears that, by the provisions of sec
tion 5609, the plaintiff should have adopted proceedings at law, unless his
answer presents an equitable defense.
Second. When the action has been commenced by proceedings at law the
defendant, by motion made at or before the time of filing his answer, may have
them changed into equitable proceedings when it appears that, by the provis
ions of section 560S, the plaintiff should have adopted proceedings in equity.
Sec. 5619. Where the action has been properly commenced by proceedings
at law, either party shall have the right, by motion, to have any issue which
heretofore was exclusively cognizable in chancery tried in the manner herein
after prescribed in cases of equitable proceedings (e) ; and if all the issues are
such as heretofore were cognizable in chancery, though none were exclusively
so, the defendant shall have the right to have them all tried as in cases of pro
ceedings in equity.
Sec. 5620. If the plaintiff's claim is for money due by contract, and the
defendant puts in a defense of exclusively equitable cognizance, upon the
plaintiff filing an affidavit that he verily believes that he will succeed in
the action, and that the collection of his claim after the judgment will be endan
gered by the delay arising from such defense being put in, the court shall
require the defendant to give security for the payment of any judgment that
the plaintiff may obtain in the action, and, upon his failure to give such secu
rity, shall order the defendant to pay into court an amount sufficient to dis
charge the plaintiff's claim and his probable costs; upon which order execution
may be issued as upon a judgment, and the amount collected upon execution
shall be brought into court and await the decision of the action, and be paid
to the plaintiff or defendant, according to such decision. But no security shall
be required if the trial of the equitable defense takes place during the term at
which it is put in, nor until all defenses to the action, other than those of
equitable cognizance, are tried or disposed of in favor of the plaintiff.
(d) For time and manner of taking exceptions, see Secs. 6845-5849.
An error in sustaining a demurrer to part of an answer is not waived because not excepted
to on the record. Collins v. Karatopsky, 36—323.
When there is no demurrer to a defective complaint and no objection to the evidence at
the trial, it will, after verdict, be considered amended to conform to the pleadings. Ry. v.
Harper, 44—524. A misjoinder of causes of "action is waived unless objected to before defense.
Organ v. Ry. 51—235.
The defendant does not waive his exceptions to ruling sustaining a demurrer to part of
his defenses by going to trial upon the others held good. Cohn v. Hoffman, 45—376.
(e) See Sec. 5795.
Sec. 5621. The provisions of this chapter concerning the prosecution of a
civil action apply to both kinds of proceedings, unless the contrary appears.
Sec. $622. A judgment obtained in an action by proceedings at law shall
not be annulled or modified by any order in any action by equitable proceed
ings, except for a defense which has arisen or been discovered since the judg
ment was rendered ; but such judgment does not prevent the recovery of any
claim, though such claim might have been used as a defense by way of set-off
or counter claim in the action on which the judgment was recovered (*). 16. t
sees. 7-14.
SEC. $62$. Every action must be prosecuted in the. name of the real party
in interest, except as provided in sections 5625, 5626 and 5628 (f).
SEC. 5624. Where the assignment of a thing in action is not authorized
by statute, the assignor must be a party, as plaintiff or defendant.
Sec. 5625. Where the right of the plaintiff is transferred or assigned dur
ing the pendency of the action, it may be continued in his name, or the court
may allow the person to whom the transfer or assignment is made to be substi
tuted in the action, proper orders being made as to security for the costs.
Sec. 5626. An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of an express
trust, a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit
of another, or the state, or any officer thereof, or any person expressly author
ized by the statute to do so, may bring an action without joining with him the
person for whose benefit it is prosecuted (g). Ib., sees. 25-2S.
Sec. 5627. Administrators and executors appointed in any of the states,
territories or districts of the United States, under the laws thereof, may sue in
any of the courts of this state, in their representative capacity, to the same and
(*) See Reeve v. Jackson, 46—272; Nichols v. Shearon, 49—75.
A party suing on a claim that might have been set off in a former suit recovers no cost.
See Sec. 5728.
(f) The state may sue on a bond given to a county school commissioner. Williams v.
State, 37—464. In suits by an administrator involving title to land, the heirs must be joined.
Sisk v. Almon, 34—391; Theurer v. Brogan, 41—88. A county treasurer may sue a collector on
his bond. Haynes v. Butler, 30—69. Defect of parties is waived by going to trial without
objection. Yonley v. Thompson, 30—399. A non-joinder of plaintiff's is waived by answering.
Clark v. Gramling, 54—525.
In a suit on a bond to A and B, both obligees should be joined, though the money sued
for is going to A only. McLeod v. Scott, 38—76. In a suit to reform a deed the grantor is a
necessary party. Knight v. Glasscock, 51—390.
Partners in a mill on an imperfected homestead entry of one of them may join in a suit
for trespass on the land. Ry. v. Tyler, 36—205. In a suit to foreclose a mortgage on land, the
heirs of a deceased mortgagor are necessary parties. Simms v. Richardson, 32—297. And so in
a suit by him relating to title to lands. Anderson v. Partee, 33—665. The administrator of a
deceased legatee, and not his heirs, should sue to set aside settlement of administrator of his
testator's estate ; and so in a suit relating to personalty of the estate, or to have lands bought
with the money of the estate declared to be held in trust for it; but the heirs may sue for
lands descended to them from the devisee. Collins v. Warner, 32—87.
As to parties to suits for specific performance, and adverse claimants in possession, see
Ashley v. Little Rock, 56—391.
The conviction in another state of a party for a capital offense does not prevent him
bringing an action in this state. Wilson v. King, 26 S. W. Rep., 18.
(g) As to counties, see Sec. 812.
See Ferguson v. McMahon, 52—433; State v. Baxter, 50—447.
like effect as if such administrators and executors had been qualified under the
laws of this state (h). Act February I, 1843.
Sec. 5628. All actions and suits for the recovery of the purchase money of
lands which have at any time, and from time to time, been granted to this state
by the United States, or may hereafter be granted, for any and all purposes,
except such grants as have been or may hereafter be made for railroad purposes,
and all actions to enforce the vendor's lien upon any such lands, and all actions
to recover the possession of, or for trespasses upon, any such lands, shall be
brought and prosecuted in the name of the State of Arkansas : and the fact that
any and all of said lands may have been set apart, or allotted, or granted, by the
state to any county, township or school district shall not be a defense to any action
brought under this section, and shall not affect the jurisdiction of the court in
which the action may be pending, but all questions as to the rights of such coun
ties, townships or school districts shall be reserved, and shall not be affected by
any proceeding under section 5626.
Sec. 5629. All persons having an interest in the subject of an action, and
in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs, except where it is
otherwise provided (i).
Sec. 5630. Any person may be made a defendant who has, or claims, an
interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a necessary party to
a complete determination and settlement of the questions involved in the
action (*).
Sec. 5631. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but when, for any cause, it may be
necessary, for the purpose of justice, a person who should have been joined as
plaintiff may be made a defendant, the reason therefor being stated in the com
plaint.
Sec. 5632. Where the question is one of a common or general interest of
many persons, or where the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to
bring them all before the court within a reasonable time, one or more may sue
or defend for the benefit of all.
Sec. 5633. Persons severally liable upon the same contract, including
parties to bills of exchange, promissory notes, common orders and checks, and
sureties on the same or separate instruments, may all, or any of them, or the
representatives of such as may have died, be included in the same action, at the
plaintiff's option (j).
(h) As to foreign guardians, see Sec. 3626.
(i) In a suit charging fraud in the accounts of an administrator, his sureties may be made
defendants. Reinhardt v. Gartrell, 33—727. In ejectment for mortgaged lands and for rents
by the mortgagee, the administrator is not a necessary party. Simms v. Richardson, 32—297.
In a foreclosure suit, a senior mortgagee need not be made a party. White v. Holman, lb., 753.
In a suit involving the validity of a will, all legatees are necessary parties. Janes v. Williams,
31—175. In a suit to subject assets descended, the heir is the only necessary party. Williams
v. Ewing, lb., 229. Ono or more parties to a contract may be sued. Bradford v. Toney, 30—763.
In equity all persons interested in the subject-matter should be made parties. Holland v.
Burris, 28—171; Taliaferro v. Barnett, 37—517.
(*) Misjoinder of defendants no ground of demurrer. Fry v. Street, 37—42. Nor for
arrest of judgment. Ry. v. Dyer, 35—363. Nor can it be taken advantage of at the trial. Ry.
v. Tyler, 36—205. As to parties to a suit to annul a fraudulent conveyance, see Hunt v.
Weiner, 39—70; IAttellv. Grady, 38—584; see, also, Standley v. Roberts, 59 Fed. Rep., 837.
(j) See, as to parties to bills and notes, Sec. 502. As to when judgment may be rendered
against part of defendants, see Seos. 5853, 5855.
Sec. 5634. Where two or more persons are jointly bound by contract, the
action thereon may be brought against all or any of thein, at the plaintiff's
option (k). Where any of the persons so bound are dead, the action may be
brought against any or all of the survivors, with the representatives of all or any
of the decedents (1), or against the latter or any of them. Where all the per
sons so bound are dead, the action may be brought against the representatives of
all, or of any of them. An action or judgment against any one or more of sev
eral persons jointly bound shall not be a bar to proceedings against the other.
Sec. 5635. The court may determine any controversy between parties
before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by
saving their rights. But when a determination of the controversy between the
parties before the court can not be made without the presence of other parties,
the court must order them to be brought in (m).
Sec. 5636. Where, in an action for the recovery of real or personal prop
erty, any person having an interest in the property applies to be made a party,
the court may order it to be done (n). Civil Code, sees. 29-37.
SEC. 5637. Upon affidavit of a defendant, before answer in any action
upon contract or for the recovery of personal property, that some third party,
without collusion with him, has or makes a claim to the subject of the action,
and that he is ready to pay or dispose thereof, as the court may direct, the court
may make an order for the safe-keeping, or for the payment or deposit in court,
or delivery of the subject of the action to such person as it may direct, and an
order requiring such third party to appear in a reasonable time and maintain or
relinquish his claim against the defendant, and in the meantime stay the pro
ceedings. Ib., sec. 38, as amended by act November 30, 1S75.
SEC. 5638. If such third party, being served with a copy of the order, fail
to appear, the .court may declare him barred of all claim in respect to the subject
of the action against the defendant therein. If he appear, he shall be allowed
to make himself defendant in the action, in lieu of the original defendant, who
shall be discharged from all liability to either of the other parties, in respect to
the subject of the action, upon his compliance with the order of the court for
the payment, deposit or delivery thereof.
(k) Joint obligations are taken as joint and several, and survive. Secs. 4185, 4188.
(1) To the same effect, see Sec. 4187.
The surviving maker of a promissory note, who is the administrator of his deceased
co-obligor, may be sued on the note in both his individual and representative capacity, at the
same time. Little Grocer Co. v. Johnson, 50—62.
(m) See Theurer v. Brogan, 41—88. Defendants in ejectment can not require persons not
In possession at beginning of suit to be made parties. Simmsv. Richardson, 32—297. Plaintiff
may amend by making new parties. Benjamin v. Loughborough, 31—210.
(n) When tenant is sued in ejectment, his lessor may be made a party. Jackson v. Allen,
30—111. But one claiming independently of both parties can not intervene. .Fifes v. Watt,
28—151. One made a party at his own instance can not demur to the complaint. Wright v.
Walker, 30—44. When assignee pendente lite may be made a party. Ivey v. Drake, 36—228.
It is obviously the intention of this and the preceding section to require ail persons to be
made parties to an action who will be necessarily and materially affected by its results, and
to forbid the court from determining any controversy between the parties before it, when it
can not be done without prejudice to the rights of others or by saving their rights. Smith r.
Moore, 49—100.
Sec. 5639. The provisions of the last two preceding sections shall be
applicable to an action brought against a sheriff, or other officer, for the recov
ery of personal property taken by him under an execution, or for the proceeds of
such property so taken or sold by him ; and the defendant In any such action
shall be entitled to the benefit of such provisions against the party in whose favor
the execution issued, upon exhibiting to the court the process under which he
acted, with his affidavit that the property, for the recovery of which, or its pro
ceeds, the action was brought, was taken under such process.
Sec. 5640. In an action against a sheriff, or other officer, for the recovery
of property taken under an execution, the court may, upon the application of
the defendant, and of the party in whose favor the execution issued, permit the
latter to be substituted as the defendant, security for the costs being given (o).
Ib.y sees. 38-40.
Sec. 5641. Where a married woman is a party, her husband must be
joined with her (p), except in the following cases:
First. She may be sued alone upon contracts made by her in respect to
her sole and separate property, or in respect to any trade or business carried on
by her under any statute of this state. Ib., sec. 42 and act April 28, 1873,
sees. 4 and 8.
Second. She may maintain an action in her own name for or on account
of her sole or separate estate or property, or for damages against any person or
body corporate for any injury to her person, character or property. Act April
28, 1873, sec. 9.
Third. Where the action is between herself and her husband, she may
sue and be sued alone (q). Civil Code, sec. 42.
Sec. 5642. If a husband and wife are sued together, the wife may defend
for her own right; and if the husband neglects to defend, for his also.
Sec. 5643. Where a husband, being a father, has deserted his family, the
wife, being a mother, may prosecute or defend in his name any action which
be might have prosecuted or defended, and shall have the same powers and
rights therein as he might have had.
Sec. 5644. When a female party to an action marries, the fact being
stated upon the record, the husband may be made a party with his wife, and
the action shall proceed.
INFANTS.
Sec. 5645. The action of an infant' must be brought by his guardian or
his next friend. Any person may bring the action of an infant as his next
friend ; but the court has power to dismiss it, if it is not for the benefit of the
(o) This power is discretionary. Ferguson v. Ehrenberg, 39—421.
(p) For complaint' against husband and against husband and wife for wife's torts, see
Kosminsky v. Goldberg, 44—401. For action by husband and wife for wife's injuries, see
Ry. v.. Amos, 64—169.
(q) She may sue alone for her separate property. Berlin v. Cantrell, 33—611. And on a
note which is her separate property. Beavers v. Baucum, lb., 722. And for her lands. Ry.
*. Parks, 32—132.
infant, or to substitute the guardian of the infant, or another person, as the
next friend.
Sec. 5646. The guardian or next friend is liable for the costs of the action
brought by him, and where he is insolvent, and it is made to appear that the
action is malicious, or that the next friend was selected because of his insolvency,
the court, in its discretion, may require him to give security for the costs.
Sec. 5647. The defense of an infant must be by his regular guardian, or
by a guardian appointed to defend for him, where no regular guardian appears,
or where the court directs a defense by a guardian appointed for that purpose.
No judgment can be rendered against an infant until after a defense by a
guardian (r).
Sec. 5648. The guardian to defend shall be appointed by the court, or by
the judge thereof. The appointment can not be made until after service of the
summons in the action (s). No party or attorney iu an action can be appointed
guardian to defend therein for an infant or person of unsound mind. During
the vacation of their courts, the clerks of circuit and chancery courts shall have
the same power of appointing guardians ad litem for infant defendants whohnve been summoned in the action that their respective courts or the judges
thereof have ; but the court or judge shall have power to change the guardians
so appointed by appointing others in their stead, whenever the interests of the
infant require such a change. The clerk shall indorse the name of the guardian
and the date of his appointment upon the complaint. Ib., sees. 43-49.
Sec. 5649. The appointment may be made upon the application of the
infant, if he is of the age of fourteen years, and applies within twenty days after
the service of the summons. If he is under the age of fourteen years, or does
not so apply, the appointment may be made upon the application of any friend
of the infant, or on that of the plaintiff in the action (t). Ib., sec. 50, as
amended 1871.
Sec. 5650. The action of a person judicially found to be of unsound mind
must be brought by his guardian, or, if he has none, by his next friend. When
(r) An attorney ad litem should not be appointed for an infant. Hodges v. Frazier, 31—58;
Williams v. Ewing, Ib., 229.
The defense of the guardian must be not merely formal, but real and earnest; he should
put in issue and require proof of every material allegation to the infant's prejudice, whether
it be true or not, and make no concessions on his own knowledge. Pinchback v. Graves, 42—
222. See Sec. 5731; Moore v. Woodall, 40—42; Freeman v. Russell, lb., 66.
It should be a full defense, specifically denying the material allegations of the complaint,
without regard to the truth of the denials as to anything which may be prejudicial to the
minor. Varner v. Rice, 44—236.
An infant is not prejudiced by admissions of his guardian or attorney. McCloy v. Trotter,
47-445.
It is error to render a judgment by default or decree pro confesso against an infant; a
guardian must be appointed and defense made. Morris v. Edmonds, 43—427; Woodall r.
Delatour, 43—521; State v. Atkins, 53—303.
But such judgment is not void. Boyd v. Roane, 49—398.
An executory contract of an infant is not binding, unless he has confirmed it since his
majority. Savage v. IAtchlyter, 26 S. W. Rep., 12.
(s) See Freeman v. Russell, 40—56.
(t) Where the number and names of infant heirs are unknown, a guardian ad litem can
not be appointed for them. Kountz v. Davis, 34—590.
brought by his next friend, the action is subject to the power of the court, in the
same manner as the action of an infant so brought.
Sec. 5651. The guardian or next friend is liable for the costs, and the
court, in its discretion, may require him to give security for costs.
Sec. 5652. The defense of an action against a person judicially found to
be of unsound mind must be by his regular guardian, or a guardian appointed
by the court to defend for him, where no regular guardian appears, or where the
court directs a defense by a guardian. No judgment can be rendered against
him until after a defense by his guardian, or by a guardian appointed for that
purpose (u). No appointment can be made until after service of the summons.
Sec. 5653. The guardian to defend may be appointed on the application
ot any friend of the defendant, or on that of the plaintiff.
Sec. 5654. Where a party is judicially found to be of unsound mind dur
ing the pendency of an action, the fact being stated on the record, if he is
plaintiff, his guardian may be joined with him in the action as such. If he is
defendant, the plaintiff may, upon ten days' notice thereof to his guardian, have
an order making the guardian a defendant, also.
Sec. 5655. No judgment can be rendered against a prisoner in the peni
tentiary until after a defense made for him by his attorney, or, if there is none,
by a person appointed by the court to defend for him.
Sec. 5656. A guardian or attorney, appointed on the application of the
plaintiff to defend for an infant, person of unsound mind, or prisoner, shall be
allowed a reasonable fee for his services, to be paid by the plaintiff, and taxed
in the costs.
commencement of a civil action.
Sec. 5657. A civil action is commenced by filing in the office of the clerk
of the proper court a complaint and causing a summons to be issued thereon (v).
summons (w).
Sec. 565S. The summons shall be directed to the sheriff of the county, and
command him to summon the defendant or defendants named therein to answer
the complaint filed by the plaintiff, giving his name, at the time stated therein,
under the penalty of the complaint being taken for confessed, or of the defend
ant being proceeded against for contempt of court on his failure to do so. The
summons shall be dated the day it is issued, and signed by the clerk.
Sec. 5659. A summons shall be issued at any time, to any county, against
any one or more of the defendants, at the plaintiff's request. IBut a summons
not served shall not be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the court.
Sec. 5660. With every summons, the clerk shall issue as many copies
thereof as there are defendants named therein, unless otherwise ordered by the
plaintiff.
(u) It is the duty of the court in every action in which an insane person is the defendant,
to see that he is represented on the record by a competent guardian ; and until there is such
representation it is error to proceed. Cox v. Gress, 51—224.
(v) Burleson r. McDermott, 57—229; Ry. v. Shelton, 57-^59.
(w) A summons is not subject to demurrer. If so fatally defective as not to be amend
able, it may be quashed on motion. Flynn v. State, 42—315.
A writ failing to run in the name of the state is amendable. Kahn v. Kuhn, 44—404.
Summons and attachment may be combined. Rice v. Dale, 45—34.
Sec. 5661. In actions by proceedings at law, the time fixed in the sum
mons for the defendant to answer shall be the day the summons is returnable;
in actions by equitable proceedings, it shall be twenty days after the service of
the summons.
Sec. 5662. The summons shall be made returnable the first day of the
next term of the court, unless the term begins within ten days .from the date of
the summons, when it shall be returnable the first day of the term following.
Sec. 5663. The summons and copies shall be delivered to the sheriff or
other officer authorized to execute it.
Sec. 5664. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, or one of his deputies, to
attend at the clerk's office daily (Sundays excepted), to receive any process that
may be issued, and the clerk shall deliver to him any process remaining in his
office. Ib., sees. 51-65.
service of summons.
Sec. 5665. The summons may be served :
First. By the officer to whom it is directed, unless he is a party to the
suit, or unless the plaintiff, or his agent or attorney, files with the clerk an affi
davit to the effect that the obtaining of a sheriff or deputy to serve the summons
will occasion such delay as to render it probable that the same can not be served
in time ; in which case the summons may be served by a jailer, coroner or con
stable. Provided, the clerk shall indorse upon such summons, that the same
may be served by such officer, and the return of such officer shall be evidence of
the service to the same extent as if made by the sheriff.
Second. By any person appointed by the officer to whom the same is
directed, by an indorsement on the summons, whose affidavit, indorsed thereon,
shall be proof of the time and manner of service.
Third. By any person not a party to the action, in all actions arising on
contract for the recovery of money only, whose affidavit, indorsed thereon, shall
be proof of the time and manner of service (x).
Sec. 5666. The service shall be :
First. By delivering to the defendant a copy of the summons; or,
Second. If he refuses to receive it, by offering a copy thereof to him ; or,
Third. By leaving a copy of such summons at the usual place of abode of
the defendant, with some person who is a member of his family over the age of
fifteen years. Ib., sees. 65 and 66, as amended 1S71 (y).
Sec. 5667. The return of service upon a summons must state the time and
manner of service (z) ; and, if a return of service by an officer is defective, he
may be fined by the court, not exceeding ten dollars, and shall be liable to anv
(x) Sheriffs must indorse time of receiving1 all process. Sec. 7161. And state at length
the time, place and mode of service. Secs. 5067, 6003. When process may issue and be exe
cuted on holidays. Sees. 5996, 5999.
An appearance is a waiver of a defective return. Martin v. Qodwin, 84—682. And of
defective service. Ry. v. Barnes, 35—95.
(y) Return need not follow the exact language of the statute. Duval r. Johnson, 39—191.
"At the residence" is equivalent to "The usual place of abode." Ib. But service on defend
ant's wife must show that she was over fifteen years old. Barnett v. State, 35—601.
(7.) The clerk must note on his docket the date of service. Sec.585. As to sheriff 's return,
see Sec. 6003. See, also, Eddy v. LaFayette, 49 Fed. Rep., 811.
person aggrieved by such defect. But the court may permit an amendment,
according to the truth of the case.
Sec. 5668. Service may be acknowledged by the defendant by an indorse
ment upon the summons, signed and dated by him, and attested by a witness.
The affidavit of the witness shall be prtfof of the service. Ib., sees. 67 and 68.
Sec. 5669. Where the defendant is a corporation, created by the laws of
this state, the service of the summons may be upon the president, mayor or
chairman of the board of trustees, and, in case of the absence of the above
officers, then it may be served upon the cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk or
agent of such corporation, and, in case of railroad corporations, upon any
station agent, or upon any person who has control of any of the business of said
corporation, either as clerk, agent or otherwise, who, as such agent or clerk,
has to report to the corporation who employed them ; and, in cases of railroad
corporations, a service of a copy of the summons upon the clerk or agent of any
station in the county where the same shall be issued shall be deemed and con
sidered as a good and valid service, and in case of foreign railroad corporation
who shall file its articles of incorporation with the secretary of state, process shall
be served on the agent or agents of such corporation in the same manner that*
process is authorized by law to be served on railroad corporations existing
under laws of this state. Ib., sec. 69, as amended by act March 9, 1877, as
amended by act March 13, 1889, sec. 2.
Sec. 5670. Where the defendant is an incorporated bank, and the action
is in a county in which there is a branch thereof, the service may be upon the
president or cashier of that branch.
Sec. 5671. Where the defendant is an incorporated insurance company,
and the action is in a county in which there is an agency thereof, the service
may be upon the chief officer of such agency (aa).
Sec. 567?. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, having an agent
in this state, the service may be upon such ?gent (bb).
Sec. 5673. Where the defendant is an infant under the age of fourteen
years, the service must be upon him, and upon his father or guardian, or, if
neither of these can be found, then upon his mother, or upon any other person
having the care or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. Where the
infant is over fourteen years of age, service on him shall be sufficient (cc).
Sec. 5674. Where the defendant is a person judicially found to be of
unsound mind, the service must be upon him and upon his guardian ; if there is
no guardian, upon his wife, or the person having the care of him, or with whom
he lives, or the keeper of the asylum in which he may be confined.
Sec. 5675. Where the defendant is a prisoner in the penitentiary, a copy
of the complaint must accompany the summons, and the service must be upon
the keeper of the penitentiary, who shall deliver the copies of the complaint and
summons to the defendant. And a copy of the summons must also be delivered
to the wife of the prisoner, or, if he has no wife, left at the place where he
(aa) As to foreign insurance companies, see Sec. 4137; as to additional provisions in
reference to service on insurance companies, see Secs. 4142, 4143-4146.
(bb) See note (aa) to Sec. 6671; see Eddy v. LaFayette, 49 Fed. Rep., 811.
(cc) It is a sufficient compliance with this section to serve each of the infant defendants
with a copy of the summons and to leave one copy with their mother without leaving one for
each of the infants. Huggins v. Dabbs, 57—628.
resided or claimed to reside, prior to his confinement, with some person of the
age of sixteen years.
Sec. 5676. When any action to recover judgment against the owners or
officers of any steamboat, or vessel, or other water-craft, for any debt or liability
created by them, or either of them, shall have been commenced in any county
in which said steamboat, vessel or water-craft was found, and, from any cause,
the summons or other process can not be served in such action in the county
where such action was commenced, a service in any other county in this state
shall have the same effect as if made in the county where the action was brought
<dd).
Sec. 5677. When a defendant is out of this state, the plaintiff may take a
copy of the complaint, certified by the clerk, with a summons annexed thereto,
warning such defendant to appear and answer the complaint within sixty days
after the same shall have been served on him, and cause a copy thereof to be
delivered to such defendant anywhere in the United States by some person to
whom he is personally known. Proof of the delivery shall be made by the
affidavit of the person making it, indorsed on or annexed to the certified copy
and summons, in which the time and place of the delivery, and the fact that
the defendant was personally known to the affiant, shall be stated. The officer
• before whom the affidavit is made shall certify that the affiant is personally
known to him to be worthy of credit.
Sec. 5678. The certified copy and summons, with the affidavit and certifi
cate, as provided in the last section, being returned and filed in the action, shall
be deemed an actual service of the summons in due time for trial at the first
term commencing not less than sixty days after such service.
CONSTRUCTIVE SERVICE (ee).
SEC. 5679. Where it appears by the affidavit of the plaintiff, filed in the
clerk's office at or after the commencement of the action, that the defendant is:
First. A foreign corporation, having no agent in this state; or,
Second. A non-resident of this state ; or,
Third. Has departed from this state with intent to delay or defraud hit
creditors; or,
Fourth. Has been absent from this state four months; or,
Fifth. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the service of a sum
mons; or,
Sixth. Conceals himself so that a summons can not be served upon
bim ; or,
Where either of the last two mentioned facts is stated in the return by the
proper officer of a summons against the defendant, the clerk shall make upon the
complaint an order warning such defendant to appear in the action within thirty
days from the time of making the order. Civil Code, sees. 70—79.
SEC. 5680. The court may make the warning order upon the requisite
facts being satisfactorily shown by affidavit or other proof. Warning orders
'dd) A judgment in justice court against the owner of a steamboat upon service of
process had in another county is void unless the record shows that the steamboat waa found
in the county in which the action was commenced. Ford v. Adams, 64—137.
(ee) See McLain v. Duncan, 67—19.
shall be published weekly for at least four weeks (ff). Ib., sec. So, as amended
1871.
Sec. 5681. Where, in an action against the heirs of a deceased person as
unknown heirs, or against other persons made defendants as unknown owners
of any property to be divided or disposed of in the action, it appears by the
complaint that the names of such heirs, or any of them, of such other persons
are unknown to the plaintiff, a warning order, as directed in the last section,
shall be made by the clerk against such unknown heirs or owners.
Sec. 5682. A defendant against whom a warning order has been made
and published shall be deemed to have been constructively summoned on the
thirtieth day after the making of the order, and the action may proceed accord
ing^ (gg)Sec. 5683. The plaintiff, may, at any time before judgment, have a sum
mons served on the defendant, if found in this state, although a warning order
may have been previously entered against him, and after such service the case
shall proceed as in other cases of actual service.
actions, where brought.
Sec. 5684. Actions for the following causes must be brought in the
county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated :
First. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein.
Second. For the partition of real property.
Third. For the sale of real property under a mortgage, lien or other
incumbrance or charge.
Fourth. For an injury to real property (hh).
Sec. 5685. Actions for the following causes must be brought in the county
"where the cause, or some part thereof, arose :
First. An action tor the recovery of a fine, penalty or forfeiture imposed
by a statute, except that where the offense for which the claim is made was
committed on a water-course or road which is the boundary of two counties, the
action may be brought in either of them.
Second. An action against a public officer for an act done by him in
-virtue or under color of his office, or for a neglect of official duty.
Third. An action upon the official bond of a public officer, except as pro-vided in section 5695.
Sec. 5686. An action to establish or set aside a will must be brought in
■the county in which the will, if valid, ought, according to law, to be recorded.
Sec. 5687- An action to settle the estate of a deceased person must be
brought in the county in which his personal representative was qualified.
Sec. 5688. An action for the distribution of the estate of a deceased per
son, or for its partition among his heirs, or for the sale of real property (ii) must
be brought in the county in which his personal representative was qualified.
(fl) For law as to publication of legal notices, see chap. XCVII; Pillow v. Sentelle, 39—61.
As to sufficiency of warning orders, see Williams v. Ewing, 31—229. The statute must be
strictly complied with. Lawrence v. State, 30—719.
(gg) For proceedings against parties constructively summoned, see Secs. 5875, 4191.
(hh) Consent can not give jurisdiction to a suit in another county. Jacks v. Moore,
33-31.
(ii) See Secs. 170, 175, 183, 200.
Sec. 56S9. An action by a ward against his guardian for a settlement of
his accounts, for additional security, or for his removal, must be brought in the
county in which the guardian was qualified. Ib., sees. Si-89.
Sec. 5690. An action, other than one of those mentioned in sections 56S4,
5685, against a person confined in the penitentiary or a lunatic asylum must be
brought in the county in which he resided, or claimed his residence, prior to his
confinement.
Sec. 5691. An action, other than those mentioned in sections 56S4, 56S5,
against a corporation created by the laws of this state may be brought in the
county in which it is situated or has its principal office or place of business, or in
which its chief officer resides; but, if such corporation is a bank or insurance
company, the action may be brought in the county in which there is a branch of
the bank or agency of the company, where it arises out of a transaction of such
branch or agency (jj).
Sec. 5692. An action against a railroad company, or an owner of a line of
mail-stages or other coaches, for an injury to person or property upon the road
or line of stages or coaches, of the defendant, or upon a liability as a carrier,
may be brought in any county through or into which the road or line of stages
or coaches of the defendant upon which the cause of action arose passes.
Sec. 5693. An action, other than one of those mentioned in sections 5684,
5685, against a turnpike-road company may be brought in any county in which
any part of the road of the defendant lies.
Sec. 5694. An action, other than one of those mentioned in sections 5684,
56S5, against a non-resident of this state, or a foreign corporation, may be
brought in any county in which there may be property of, or debts owing to, the
defendant (kk). Ib., sees. 91, 95.
Sec. 5695. All actions for debts due the State of Arkansas, and all actions
in favor of any state officer, state board or commissioner, in their official capac
ity, and all actions which are authorized by law to be brought in the name of
the state, and all actions against such board or commissioner or state officer, for
or on account of any official act done or omitted to be done, shall be brought and
prosecuted in the county where the defendant resides. Ib., sec. 484, as
amended 1871.
Sec. 5696. Every other action may be brought in any county in which the
defendant, or one of several defendants, resides, or is summoned (11).
Sec. .5697. Where any action embraced in the preceding section is against
a single defendant, the plaintiff shall not be entitled to judgment against him on
the service of a summons in any other county than that in which the action is
brought, unless he resided in that county at the commencement of the action, or
unless, having appeared therein, he fails to object, before the trial, to its pro
ceedings against him.
(jj) Actions against insurance companies, see Secs. 4141, 4142.
(kk) Actions in which attachments may be sued out may be prosecuted in any county
in which property may be attached. Sec. 332.
(11) An action for divorce shall be brought "in the county where the complainant resides."
Sec. 2507. A witness is not liable to be sued in a county in which he does not reside. Sec.
2950; See Wood v. Wood, 54—172.
Service of summons upon all of the defendants may be made in other counties than that
in which the action is brought, if at its commencement any of them resided in the county
where one of them resides. Fowler v. McKennon, 45—94.
Sec. 569S. Where any action embraced in section 5696 is against several
defendants, the plaintiff shall not be entitled to judgment against any of them
on the service of a summons in any other county than that in which the action is
brought, where no one of the defendants is summoned in that county or resided
therein at the commencement of the action, or where, if any of them resided, or
were summoned in that county, the action is discontinued or dismissed as to
them, or judgment therein is rendered in their favor, unless the defendant sum
moned in another county, having appeared in the action, failed to object before
the judgment to its proceeding against him.
Sec. 5699. The objection that one of several defendants was summoned
in another county, if he appears, shall be deemed to be waived, unless it is made
before judgment as to him.
SEC. 5700. If, after the commencement of an action in the county of the
defendant's residence, he removes therefrom, the service of a summons upon
him in any other county shall have the same effect as if it had been made in the
county from which he removed. Ib., sec. 96—100.
SEC. 5701. Any action required by law to be brought in the name of the
state against any corporation, or to vacate or repeal any charter, maybe brought
in any county in the state before any court having jurisdiction of such action.
SEC. 5702. Service of process in any such action may be made in any
county in the state upon any defendant to such action in like manner as is now
or may hereafter be provided by law in other cases, and any such defendant
shall be required to appear and defend such action in the county where the same
may be commenced. Act November 8, 1875.
joinder and consolidation of actions.
SEC. 5703. Several causes of action may be united in the same complaint,
where each affects all the parties to the action, may be brought in the same
county, be prosecuted by the same kind of proceedings, and all belong to one of
the following classes:
First.' Claims arising out of contract, express or implied.
Second. Claims for the recovery of specific real property, and the rents,
profits and damages for withholding the same.
Third. Claims for the recovery of specific personal property, and dam
ages for the taking or withholding the same.
Fourth. Claims for partition of real or personal property, or both.
Fifth. Claims arising from injuries to character.
Sixth. Claims arising from injuries to person and property.
Seventh. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract or by operation
of law (mm).
SEC. 5704. The plaintiff may strike from his complaint any cause of
action, at any time before the final submission of the case to the jury or to the
court, where the trial is by the court.
(mm) Former actions of case and trespass may be joined. Chrisman v. Carney, 33—316.
In a suit to enforce a mechanic's lien, plaintiff may have a judgment in personam. Brugman
v. McGuire, 32—733.
82
Sec. 5705. The court, at any time before the defense shall, on motion of
the defendant, strike out of the complaint any cause, or causes of action,
improperly joined with others (nn).
Sec. 5706. All objections to the misjoinder of causes of action shall be
deemed to be waived, unless made as provided in the last section; and all errors
in the decisions of the court thereon are waived, unless excepted to at the time
(00). Ib., sees. 101-104.
Sec. 5707. Whenever several suits shall be pending in the same court by
the same plaintiff against the same defendant, for causes of action which may
be joined, or where several suits are pending in the same court by the same
plaintiff against several defendants, which may be joined, the court in which the
same may be prosecuted may in its discretion, order such suits to be consolidated
into one action (pp).
Sec. 5708. When any plaintiff shall bring in the same court several suits
against the same defendant or defendants, for causes of action that may be
joined, the plaintiff shall recover only the costs of one action; and the costs of the
other actions shall be adjudged against him, unless sufficient reason appear to
the court for bringing several actions. Rev. Stat., chap. 116, sees. 132, 133.
PLEADINGS—GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 5709. The pleadings are the written statements, by the parties, of
the facts constituting their respective claims and defenses.
Sec. 5710. The forms of pleadings in civil actions and suits heretofore
existing are abolished ; and hereafter the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and
the rules by which their sufficiency is to be determined, are those prescribed in
the code.
Sec. 5711. The only pleadings allowed are :
First. The complaint by the plaintiff.
Second. The demurrer, or answer, by the defendant.
Third. The demurrer, or reply, by the plaintiff.
Sec. 5712. A defendant may file a cross-complaint against persons other
than the plaintiff, and have proceedings thereon, as follows:
First. When a defendant has a cause of action against a co-defendant, or
a person not a party to the action, and affecting the subject-matter of the action,
he may make his anwer a cross-complaint against the co-defendant or other
person.
Second. The defendant to such cross-complaint may be actually or con
structively summoned, and defense thereto shall be made in the time and
(nn) Multifariousness no ground of demurrer. Clements v. Lumkin, 34—598. If there is
no motion to strike out, the error is waived. Terry v. Rozell, 32—495; Riley v. Norman, 39—
158. A paragraph in a complaint introducing an unnecessary party may be stricken out.
Lyman v. Corwin, 27—582.
(00) See, Organ v. Ry., 51—235; Fort Smith v. Brogan, 49—306; Burgett v. Allen, 54—561;
Ashley v. IAttle Rock, 56—392.
For misjoinder in tort, see Ry. v. Stringfellow, 44—322; Fordyce v. Nix, 58—136.
(pp) Lindsay v. Wayland, 17—385.
Where two suits are for different objects, they may progress at the same time, although
they are between the same parties, and the t' ing with reference to which they are prose
cuted, is the same in each case. Garibaldi v. Wright, 52—416.
manner prescribed in regard to the original complaint, and with the same rights
of obtaining provisional remedies applicable to the case (qq).
Third. The filing and prosecution of the cross-complaint shall not delay
the trial and decision of the original action when a judgment can be rendered
therein that will not prejudice the rights of the parties to the cross-complaint
■(rr). Civil Code, sees. 105-108.
Sec. 5713. Issues arise upon the pleadings where a fact or conclusion of
law is maintained by the one party and controverted by the other.
They are of two kinds :
First. Of law.
Second. Of fact.
Sec. 5714. An issue of law arises:
First. Upon a demurrer to the comDlaint. answer or reolv, or to some
part thereof.
An issue of fact arises:
First. Upon a material allegation in the complaint denied by the answer.
Second. Upon a set-off or counter-claim presented in the answer, and
-denied by the reply.
Third. Upon material new matter in the answer or reply, which shall be
•considered as controverted by the opposite party without further pleading.
Issues both of law and fact may arise upon different parts of the pleadings
in the same action. In such cases the issues of law must be first tried, unless
the court otherwise direct. Ib., sees. 334, 335, as amended 1871. '
complaint.
Sec. 5715. The first pieading by the plaintiff is the complaint. The com
plaint must contain:
First. The style of the court in which the action is brought.
Second. The style of the action, consisting of the names of all the parties
■thereto, distinguishing them as plaintiffs and defendants, followed by the words
■"complaint at law," if the proceedings are at law, and by the words "complaint
in equity," if the proceedings are equitable (ss).
Third. A statement in ordinary and concise language, without repetition,
•of the facts constituting the plaintiff's cause of action (tt).
(qq) All ol the defendants must Deserved or appear, but it is not necessary to have serv
ice on the plaintiff. Pillow v. Sentelle, 49—430; Ringo v. Woodruff, 43—469.
As to cross-complaint against infants, see Pillow v. Sentelle, supra.
Allegations of cross-complaint not denied are taken pro confesso. Rudy v. Austin,
-56—73.
(rr) On overruling a demurrer to a cross-complaint the defendant in it should be allowed
to answer. Campbell v. Savage, 33—678. In a suit in equity a purely legal demand can not
be set up in a cross-complaint. Trapnall v. Hill, 31—345. A cross-complaint must relate to
matters in original complaint. Ib.
(ss) The character of a pleading is to be determined from its allegation not from ita
name. Merritt v. School Dist., 64—468.
Where a name clearly appears in the body of a complaint as that of party plaintiff, it is
Tiot essential that it should also appear in the caption. Collins v. Lightle, 50—97.
(tt) If the complaint states a good cause of action, but the allegations specifying the par
ticular manner are insufficient, the remedy is by motion to make more definite and certain,
and not by demurrer. Fordyce v. Merrill, 49—277; Rush v. Cella, 52—378.
Fourth. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff considers himself
entitled (uu).
Sec. 5716. Where the complaint contains more than one cause of action,
each shall be distinctly stated in a separate paragraph, and numbered.
SEC. 5717. The defendant may demur to the complaint where it appears
on its face, either:
First. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant,
or the subject of the action ; or,
Second. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue (vv) ; or,
Third. That there is another action pending between the same parties for
the same cause (ww) ; or,
Fourth. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant; or,
Fifth. That the complaint docs not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action (xx).
Fraud must be pleaded by distinctly charging it or by a clear statement of facta and cir
cumstances which unexplained would be fraudulent per te. Jackson v. Reeve, 44—196.
A deed exhibited with a complaint in ejectment is no part of the complaint. Walker r.
Taylor, 43—543.
Sufficiency of complaint in ejectment, see Fogg v. Martin, 53—449.
Sufficiency of complaint upon protested draft. Wards v. Sparks, 53—519.
Indictment in form construed as a complaint. By. v. State, 55—200.
(uu) Sufficiency of complaint can not be questioned for the first time on appeal. Cokn r.
Hager, 30—25. Defects in the complaint may be supplied by averments in the answer. Pindall v. Travor, 30—249. And in such case the complaint need not be amended. Webbt.
Davis, 37—555; Davis v. Hare, 32—386. The omission of the style of the court is no ground of
error. McLeran v. Morgan, 27—148. When the names of the parties are set out in the margin,
they need not be repeated in the body of the complaint. Ib.
The omission of the prayer for judgment Is not fatal to an action. Sannoner r. Jacobean,
47—81.
(vv) Objection to capacity to sue must be taken either by answer or demurrer. Pettigrer
v. Washington Co., 43—33.
(ww) See note (pp) under Sec. 5707.
(xx) Demurrer may be filed with answer in vacation. See Skcs. 6741, 5742. A general
demurrer does not raise the question of a defect of parties. Eagle v. Beard, 33—497. A demurrer
to several paragraphs should be overruled, unless all are bad. Ry. v. Parks, 32—131; Warner
v. Capps, 37—34. A demurrer to an answer relates back to the complaint. Bruce v. Benedict.
31—301. Neither a defective description of land, nor a failure to file a copy of a deed, is
ground of demurrer. Henry v. Blackburn, 32—446. Nor a defense defectively stated; the
party should move to make more specific. Bushey v. Reynolds, 31—657; BafJ v. Pulton Co..
Ib., 379. The sufficiency of a pleading must be raised by a demurrer, and not by a motion to
strike out. Goodwin v. Robinson, 30—536.
Multifariousness can not be corrected by demurrer, but only by motion to strike out
Dyer v. Jacoway, 42—186; Ashley v. Little Rock, 56—392.
A pleading which sets up only conclusions of law is demurrable. Keith v. Freeman.
43—296.
In an action at law an exhibit to a complaint or answer, not the foundation of the action
or defense, can not be considered on demurrer. Newton v. Askew, 53—476.
The defects in exhibits to a complaint in ejectment can not be reached by demurrer.
Walker v. Taylor, 43—543.
Pleading abandons ground of demurrer (Jones v. Terry, 43—230; Langley r. Langleu.
45—392; Tabor v. the Bank, 48—454) except for want of jurisdiction of the subject matter or
failure to disclose a cause of action, Chapline v. Robertson, 44—202; Fordyce V.Merrill, 49—277.
When demurrer to an answer is sustained the defendant does not abandon his exception
thereto by filing answer raising other issues. Mc Whorter v. Andrews, 53—307.
Where an answer requires no reply, the plaintiff does not by going to trial waive objec
tions to it which were raised oy demurrer. Clark v. Oramling, 54—625.
Sec. 5718. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objection
to the complaint ; unless it does so, it shall be regarded as objecting only that
the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Sec. 5719. If the court sustains the demurrer, the plaintiff may amend,
with or without costs, as the court may order.
Sec. 5720. When any of the matters enumerated in section 57 17.do not
appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer.
If no such objection is taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall
be deemed to have waived the same, except only the objection to the jurisdiction
of the court over the subject of the action, and the objection that the complaint
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Sec. 5721. The defendant may demur to one or more of the several causes
of action alleged in the complaint, and answer as to the residue. Ib., sees.
109-1 15.
ANSWER.
Sec. 5722. The answer shall contain:
First. The style of the court and the style of the action, followed by the
word "answer." But where there are several plaintiffs and defendants, it shall
only be necessary to give the one first named of each class, with the words "and
others."
Second. A denial of each allegation of the complaint controverted by the
defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to form a
belief.
*
Third. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense, counter
claim or set-off, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition (yy).
Fourth. The defendant may set forth in his answer as many grounds of
defense, counter-claim and setroff, whether legal or equitable, as he shall have.
Each shall be distinctly stated in a separate paragraph, and numbered. The
several defenses must refer to the causes of action which they are intended to
answer in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished (zz).
(yy) Equitable defenses in action at law, see Natlin v. Riley, 54—30; Reeve v. Jackson,
46—272; Nichols v. Shearon, 49—75.
Denials must be direct. Young v. Mitchell, 33—222. An answer averring fraudulent rep
resentations should state what they were. Catlin v. Home, 84—169. Pleas in abatement are
abolished. Grider v. Apperson, 32—332. Matters in abatement and bar may be pleaded
together. Erb v. Perkins, lb., 428. Each paragraph must state facts that will bar a recovery.
Ry. v Parks, 32—131; Norman v. Rogers, 29—365. If all the paragraphs taken together show a
defense, a demurrer to them should be overruled. Ib. So where demurrer is to whole answer,
and any paragraph is good. Ry. v. Parks, supra. An answer is not evidence. Gerson v.
Pool, 31—85; Conger v. Cotton, 37—295. Qeneral denials are not sufficient, but they are cured
by verdict. Tyner v. Hays, 37—603. As to effect of general denial, see Shirk v. Williamson,
50—562. But a plea of nil debit is a nullity. Lawrence v. Meyer, 35—105. But see Fain v. Goodurin, lb., 110. It is not sufficient to plead fraud generally. Mcllroy v. Buckner, lb., 555.
The general issue is not permissible in practice, but may be accepted by the parties as
tendering an issue and treated as a valid answer. Hecht v. Caughron, 46—132.
As to defense setting forth note and security given for the demand sued upon, see Pendergrass v. Hellman, 50—261. Sufficiency of answer in action on note, Clark v. Gramling, 54—525.
(zz) Though plaintiff dismiss defendant may proceed with his counter-claim. See Seo.
5854. Defendant can have no affirmative relief unless he files a counter-claim. Marr v. Lewis,
31—203. The counter-claim must grow out of the contract sued on. Bloom v. Lehman, 27—
489; Hudson v. Snipes, 40—75. Debts to be set off must be due to and from the same parties.
Sec. 5723. The counter-claim mentioned in this chapter must be a cause
of action in favor of the defendants, or some of them, against the plaintiffs, or
some of them, arising out of the contract or transactions set forth in the com
plaint, as the foundation of the plaintiff's claim or connected with the subject of
the action.
Sec. 5724. When it appears that a new party is necessary to a final
decision upon the counter-claim, the court may either permit the new party tobe made by a summons, to reply to the counter-claim in the answer, or may
direct that it be stricken out of the answer and made the subject of a separate
action. Ib., sees. 116— 118.
Sec. 5725. A set-off can only be pleaded in an action founded on con
tract, and must be a cause of action arising upon contract or ascertained by the
decision of a court. Ib., sec. 119,
Sec. 5726. In suits by executors or administrators, debts existing against
their testators or intestates, and owing to the defendant at the time of the death
of the testator or intestate, may be set off by the defendant in the same manner
as if the action had been brought by and in the name of the deceased.
Sec. 5727. Judgments, bills, bonds, notes or other writings assigned to
the defendant after suit has been commenced against him and the writ served,
shall not be allowed to be set off against the demands of the plaintiff.
Sec. 572S. When any plaintiff shall be indebted to a plaintiff in any
bond, bill, note, contract, book account, or other liquidated demand, and the
defendant shall fail to set off such debt against the plaintiff's demand, such
defendant shall be forever barred from recovering costs in any suit which he
may thereafter institute upon any such bond, bill, note, contract, book account,
or other liquidated demand. Rev. Stat., cha-p. 139, sees. 2, 3 and 7.
Sec. 5729. Where it appears that a new party is necessary to a final
decision upon the set-off, the court shall permit the new party to be made, if it
also appears that, owing to the insolvency or non-residence of the plaintiff, or
other cause, the defendant will be in danger of losing his claim, unless per
mitted to use it as a set-off.
Sec. 5730. Where the facts stated in the answer are not sufficient to con
stitute a defense, counter-claim or set-off, the plaintiff may demur.
Sec. 5731. It shall be the duty of the guardian of an infant or person of
unsound mind, or attorney appointed for a prisoner, to file an answer denying
the material allegations of the complaint prejudicial to such defendant. Civil
Code, sees. 120-122 (aaa).
Collier v. Dyer, 27—478. In a suit on a contract, damages can not be set off. Bloom v. Lehman,
supra; Gerson v. Slemmons, 30—50. A debt due from the plaintiff to one of several defend
ants may be set off. Leach v. Lambeth, 14—668. But not when one of several plaintiffs owes
the defendant. Collier v. Dyer, 27—478. A debt contracted by an intestate can not be set off
against one contracted by his administrator. Bizzell v. Stone, 12—378; Biscoe v. Moore, Ib.,
77. As to judgment in probate court being set off, see Higgs v. Warner, 14—192.
When suit is brought before maturity upon a note, that fact, if available, as a defense, i»
waived by a failure to take advantage of it on trial. Hickey v. Thompson, 52—234.
See, also, Baucum v. Cole, 56—259.
For set-off ; pleading indebtednesss of agent, see Quinn v. Sewell, 50—3S0.
For cross-complaint, see Goodrum v. Ayers, 56—93.
(aaa) See Skcs. 5647, 5649, 5652, 5656; Freeman v. Russell, 40—56; and note (r) to Seo. 5647.
Sec. 5732. There shall be no reply, except upon the allegation of a counter
claim or set-off in the answer.
Sec. 5733. When the answer contains new matter constituting a counter
claim or set-off. the plaintiff may reply to such new matter, denying each alle
gation controverted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof sufficient
to form a belief, and may allege, in concise language, any new matter not incon
sistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to the counter-claim or set-off
(bbb).
Sec. 5734. When the facts stated in the reply do not amount to a sufficient
defense, the defendant may demur. Ib., sees. 123-125.
time of pleading.
SEC. 5735. The defense to an action at law shall be filed on or before the
third day of the term :
First. When the summons has been served ten days before the commence
ment of the term in the county in which the action is brought, or in an adjoining
county.
Second. When it has been served twenty days elsewhere in the state, or
sixty days out of the state.
Third. Where the defendant has been constructively summoned thirty
days (ccc). Ib., sec. 126, as amended by act March 22, 1881.
Sec. 5736. The reply shall be filed on or before the calling of the cause
for trial.
SEC. 5737- In an action prosecuted by equitable proceedings," the defense
must be filed on the third day of the term :
First. Where the summons has been served twenty days before the com
mencement of the term, in the county in which the action is brought, or an
adjoining county.
Second. Where it has been served thirty days elsewhere in the state, or
sixty days out of the state ; or,
Third. Where the defendant has been constructively summoned thirty
days.
Sec. 5738. Where the service of the summons was before the commence
ment of the term, but not the length of time mentioned in the last section, the
defense shall be filed in thirty days after the service.
SEC. 5739- If the answer inequitable proceedings contains a counter-claim
or set-off, the plaintiff shall reply within twenty clays after the answer is filed,
or ninety days before the ensuing term.
SEC. 5740. The court may, for good cause shown, extend the time forfiling
an answer or reply to some subsequent day in that or the next succeeding term,
the party applying for the delay paying the costs occasioned thereby.
(bbb) A reply improperly filed should be stricken out. Cannon v. Davies, 33—56; Abbott
v. Rowan, lb., 693; when the answer does not contain a counter-claim or set-off, no reply is ad
missible, Ry. v. Higgins, 44—293; and if filed should be stricken out. Lusk v. Perkins, 48—238.
See, [also, Ins. Co. v. Miller, 60. Fed., Rep. 252. As to set-off and counter-claim, see note to Seo.
5722.
(ccc) The court may extend the time. Mayes v. Hendry, 33—240; Simms v. Richardson,
32—297. As to service out of the state, see Secs. 5677, 5678.
Sec. 5741- A party may rile a demurrer with his answer or reply (ddd).
Sec. 5742. The riling of a demurrer, answer or reply in the clerk's office
in vacation within the time allowed, with notice thereof to the opposite party or
his attorney, shall be equivalent to a filing in court as of that date.
Sec. 5743- When a party files a demurrer with his answer or reply, the
demurrer must be presented for the consideration of the court at or before the
first calling of the cause for trial after the filing of the same. If he fails to do
so, the demurrer shall be regarded as waived as to all points, except the jurisdic
tion of the court, and that the pleading demurred to does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action or a defense, counter-claim or set-off. Ib., sees.
127-134.
verification of pleadings (eee).
Sec. 5744- Every pleading must be subscribed by the party or his attorney,
and the complaint, answer and reply must each be verified by the affidavit of the
party to the effect that he believes the statements thereof to be true ; such verifi
cation shall not make other or greater proof necessary on the side of the adverse
party.
Sec. 5745. The verification of any pleading of a corporation may be by
any officer or agent on whom the summons in an action against the corporation
maybe served, or by its attorney in the action. Ib., sec. 135.
Sec. 5746. Where there are several plaintiffs the verification of the com
plaint or reply may be made by any of them, if he has personal knowledge of
the facts set forth therein ; and, when several defendants unite in the same answer
and defense, the verification may be by either of them, if the defendant
verifying the same shall, when he is materially interested, make oath that the
facts and statements contained in such answer and defense are true to his own
knowledge or belief.
Sec. 5747. In equitable actions the material allegations of the answer
must be verified by each defendant, unless the party rrraking the same shall
verify the answer or defense in the manner provided in the preceding section.
Ib., sec. 792, as amended 1873.
Sec. 5748. Verification shall not be required to the answer of a guardian
defending for an infant or person of unsound mind, or imprisoned ; nor in any
case where the admission of the truth of the allegations of the complaint or
answer might subject the party to a criminal or penal prosecution; nor to plead
ings affecting injuries to person or character; nor to complaints in actions founded
on a note, bond, bill of exchange, mortgage or other written obligation of the
defendant; nor to defenses founded on the written obligation, release or written
acknowledgment of the plaintiff, unless the writing on which the action or defense
is founded is lost, mutilated or destroyed ; nor to the petition or answer in cases
of proceedings for the partition of land or the allotment of dower. Ib., sees.
i36> 548(ddd) This is true, though the answer go to the whole complaint. Greenfield v. Carlton,
30—547.
(eee) As to dismissing for want of verification, see Sec. 5775. The state need not verify
her pleadings. BEOS. 7183, 7372. Want of verification can not be raised for the first time on
appeal. Payne v. Flournoy, 29—500. See Secs. 6775, 5776,
Sec. 5749. Whenever the affidavit of the plaintiff or defendant is required
to verify a pleading, to obtain a warning order, a provisional remedy, or any
other order in an action, or on a motion or proceeding therein, it may, unless
otherwise expressed, be made by the agent or attorney of the party, if the party
is absent from the county, or is mentally incapable of taking an oath, or is phys
ically unable to attend before the court or officer for the purpose of making the
affidavit, in which case the affidavit shall state the reason, and that the affiant is
the agent or attorney of the party. Ib. , sec. 603.
Sec. 5750. Whenever any such pleading shall be verified by the agent or
attorney of either party for any of the foregoing reasons, except the mental inca
pacity of the party, the opposing party may make an affidavit that he does not
believe that the party, whose agent or attorney verified such pleading or affidavit,
can truthfully verify the same with his own oath, and that the matters therein
alleged are within the personal knowledge of such party. Upon the filing of
such affidavit it shall be the duty of the court to compel such party to verify
said affidavit or pleading in person, reasonable time therefor being given. On
failure of such party to make such verification, it shall be the duty of the court
to dismiss the complaint, suppress the answer, reply or affidavit, and render
judgment accordingly, unless amended pleadings or affidavit shall be filed and
properly verified by the party in person. Ib. , sec. 604.
RULES FOR PLEADING.
Sec. 5751. Neither presumptions of law nor matter of which judicial notice
is taken need be stated in a pleading. Ib., sec. 137.
Sec. 5752. If the action, counter-claim or set-off is founded on a note,
bond, bill or other writing as evidence of indebtedness, the original, or a copy
thereof, must be filed as part of the pleading, if in the power of the party to
produce it. If not filed, the reason thereof must be stated in the pleading. If
upon an account, a copy thereof must, in like manner, be filed with the
pleading (fff). lb., sec. 138, as amended 1871.
Sec. 5753. If either party shall rely upon any deed or other writing, he
shall file with his pleading the original deed or writing, it in his power, or a copy
thereof. If he can not procure such deed or writing, or a copy thereof, he shall
so state in his pleading, together with the reasons therefor ; and, if such reasons
are sufficient, he may file the best evidence of the contents of such deed or writ
ing in his power. Original deeds and other writings, filed by either party, shall
remain on file for the inspection of the other party until allowed by the court to
be withdrawn, and in such cases copies, attested by the clerk, shall be substi
tuted by the parties withdrawing the original. Ib., sec. 14S, as amended 187 1.
(fff) As to when writing filed with the pleading- may be read, see Sec. 2929. A failure to file
■writing is no ground of demurrer. Nordman v. Craighead, 27—369; Surginer v. Paddock, 31—
529; Henry v. Blackburn, 32—446. The substance of the writing should be stated in the plead
ings. Ib. Where a copy has been filed the court may still compel the filing of the original.
Weaver v. Carnall, 35—203; Egan v. Tewkesbury, 32—43. In suit for personal property claimed
under mortgage, the mortgage is no part of the complaint, though filed with it. Chamblee v.
Stokes, 33—643. An instrument filed, not the foundation of the action, can not be noticed on
demurrer. Abbott v. Rowan, Ib., 693. See note (xx), ante. In chancery, an exhibit is a part
of the record, and, if it is the foundation of the suit, it will explain, and even control, the
averments in the complaint. Beavers v. Baucum, Ib., 722. Copies of deeds filed with the
pleadings are no part of the pleadings or of the evidence. Richardson v. Williams, 37—542.
Sec. 5754. Iu construing a pleading for the purpose of determining its
effects, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view to substantial jus
tice between the parties (ggg).
Sec. 5755. If irrelevant or redundant matter is inserted in a pleading, it
may be stricken out, on motion of any person aggrieved thereby, at the cost of
the party whose pleading contained it (hhh).
Sec. 5756. In pleading a judgment or other determination of the court, or
officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts confer
ring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be stated to have been
duly given or made. If such allegation is made in a complaint, and is not
controverted in the answer, or made in the answer in relation to a counter
claim or set-off, and is not controverted in the reply, it need not be proved on
the trial (iii).
Sec. 5757. In pleading the performance of a condition precedent in a con
tract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance, but
it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on
his part; and, if such an allegation is not controverted as stated in the last sec
tion in regard to judgments, it shall not be necessary to prove it on trial.
Sec. 5758. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to
state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the applica
tion to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause of action
arose ; but it shall be sufficient to state generally that the same was published or
spoken concerning the plaintiff; and if such allegation is not controverted as
stated in section 5756 in regard to judgments, it shall not be necessary to prove
it on trial.
Sec. 5759. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant
may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory
and any mitigating circumstances, legally admissible in evidence, to reduce the
amount of damages, and, whether he proves the justification or not, he may give
in evidence the mitigating circumstances.
Sec. 5760. In an action for the recovery of real property, it must be
described in the complaint with such convenient certainty as to enable an officer
holding an execution to identify it.
Sec. 5761. Every material allegation of a complaint not specifically con
troverted by the answer, and every material allegation of new matter in the
answer constituting a counter-claim or set-off not specifically controverted by
the reply, must, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true (jjj). But the
allegation of new matter in the answer not relating to a counter-claim or set-off,
(ggg) See Bushey v. Reynolds, 31—657.
(hhh) When a pleading is replete with irrelevant and scandalous matter, the court may
properly strike it from the flies. Hershey v. McOreevey, 46—499. When the court has sus
tained a demurrer to an answer, a second answer containing the same defense should be
stricken from the files. McWhorter v. Andrews, 53—307.
(iii) In pleading the judgment of a court of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary
to state facts conferring jurisdiction, but the judgment may be stated to have been duly
given or made, and if such allegation is not controverted, it need not be proved. Lazarus v.
Friedheim, 51—371; Jones v. Terry, 43—230. As to pleading action on foreign judgment, see
Williams v. Renwick, 52—160.
(jjj) See Stafford v. Watson, 41—17; Hecht v. Caughron, 46—132; Rosewater v. Schwab
Clothing Co., 25 S. W. Rep., 73; Ins. Co. v. Miller, 60 Fed. Rep., 254.
or of new matter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the adverse party
as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case may require. Allegations of
value, or of amount of damage, shall not be considered as true by the failure to
controvert them.
Sec. 5762. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim
or defense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving
it insufficient. Ib., sees. 139—147.
Sec. 5763. In actions founded upon a note, bond, bill of exchange,
mortgage or other written obligation of the defendants, or any of them,
the plaintiff may file with his complaint the affidavit of himself, or his
agent or attorney, to the effect that affiant verily believes that there is no good
and valid defense to said action upon the merits, and that if defense is made
thereto it will be made for the purpose of delay merely ; whereupon the court
shall not allow an answer to be filed in said action, or, if filed, shall strike out
the same, unless it be accompanied with an affidavit to the effect that the affiant
verily believes that there is a good and valid defense to said action upon the
merits thereof. Provided, such affidavit shall not dispense with any verification
required in other cases. And, provided, further, if such defendant should fail
to establish his defense to the merits of said case, the clerk shall tax against him
a docket fee for double the amount allowed in other like actions. Ib., sec.
HPamendments (kkk).
Sec. 5764. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof
is to be deemed material, unless it has actually misled the adverse party to his
prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. Whenever it
is alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact must be shown to the satis
faction of the court, and it must also be shown in what respect he has been
misled ; and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended upon
such terms as may be just.
Sec. 5765. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last
section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, and
may order an immediate amendment without costs.
(kkk) The court may permit a substituted answer to be filed during the trial. Jetton v.
Smead, 29—372. A mistake in the name of a party may be corrected. Beavers v. Baucum, 33
—722. A complaint may be amended after answer. Cross v. Johnson, 30—396. An answer
that is indefinite may be amended after verdict, so as to conform to proof. Trippe v. Duval,
33—811; see, also, Caldwell v. Meshew, 53—263; Sorrells v. Self, 43—451. A mistake in a verdict
should be corrected so as to conform to the real intent of the jury. Woodruff v. Webb, 32—613.
Failure to allege value is cured by verdict. Jefferson v. Hale, 31—286. A defective complaint,
showing merits, should not be dismissed without giving leave to amend. Palmer v. Raiikins,
30—771; Buckner v. Sessions, 27—225. Where no objection is made to evidence, the complaint
must be considered as if amended so as to conform to it. Hanks v. Harris, 29—323; Healy v.
Conner, 40—352. A suit should not be dismissed for want of parties, if plaintiff will amend.
Benjamin v. Loughborough, 31—210. A complaint and an amendment to it form but one
paper. Holland v. Rogers, 33—251. Permitting the amendment of issues is in the discretion of
the court. Atkinson v. Cox, 54—445. Save -where grossly abused, the discretion of the circuit
court as to amendments will not be controlled. Ford v. Ward, 26—360. One claiming to have
been misled by an amendment must show in what manner. King v. Caldwell, lb., 405. An
amendment inconsistent with original pleading should be accompanied with an explanatory
affidavit. Reynolds v. West, 32—244. After an answer has been held bad, an amended
answer raising the same issue may be stricken from the files. Goodwin v. Robinson, 30—525.
Where a complaint shows that the plaintiff has no cause of action, it can not be amended by
Sec. 5766. Where, however, the allegation of the claim or defense, to which
the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some particular or particulars only,
but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of variance
within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
Sec. 5767. The plaintiff may amend his complaint without leave at any
time before an answer is filed, and without prejudice to the proceedings already had.
Sec. 5768. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party demurring may
answer or reply.
Sec. 5769. The court may, at any time, in furtherance of justice, and on
such terms as may be proper, amend any pleadings or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any paity, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations mater
ial to the case ; or, when the amendment does not change substantially the
claim or defense, bv conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved
(111).
Sec. 5770. The court may likewise, in its discretion, allow an answer or
reply to be made after the time limited by law, or by an order enlarge such
time. And whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails to conform in any
respect to the requirements of the law, the court may permit an amendment of
such proceedings, so as to make it conformable thereto.
Sec. 5771. When the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncer
tain that the precise nature of the claim or defense is not apparent, the court
may require the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment (mrnm).
Sec. 5772. The court must, in every stage of an action, disregard any
error or defect in the proceedings which does not affect the substantial rights of
the adverse party ; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of
such error or defect (nun).
Sec. 5773. The plaintiff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed, on
motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer or reply, alleging facts
material to the case occurring after the filing of the former complaint, answer
or reply.
making others plaintiffs who have. State v. Rottakin, 34—144. A summons against a firm
may be amended by inserting the names of the partners. Martin v. Goodwin, 34—682. And a
summons may be amended by showing the representative character of the defendant.
Richardson v. Hickman, 32—406. A writ of forcible detainer may be amended by inserting
the names of the parties. Oalbreath v. Mitchell, 32—278. A return on a summons may be
amended even after an appeal. St Louis Ry. v. Yocum, 34—493.
Additional pleadings to correspond with the issues established by the evidence may be
filed after the case has been argued to the jury. Burk v. Snell, 42—57. See, also, Gatniu «.
Cannon, Tb., 603; see, also, McMurray v. Boyd, 25 S. W. Rep., 506.
A bill of exceptions may be amended after term time by a nuncpro tunc order. Martin t.
Ry. 63—250.
A schedule of exemptions may be amended on trial on appeal in circuit court. AfaytHutson, 54—226.
Amendments and new issues, excluding new causes of action and set-offs may be made is
circuit court on appeal from justice of the peace. Ry. v. Hall, 44—375. The plaintiff may
amend by adding claim not sued on in justice's court. Birmingham v. Rogers, 46—254.
(Ill) See Ry. v. James, 48 Fed. Rep., 148; McMurray v. Boyd, 25 S. W. Rep., 606; PrixzeU *.
Duffer, 25 S. W. Rep., 1011.
(mmm) The court may require a bill of particulars to be filed. Walker v. Fuller, 29—MS.
See Sweet v. Desha L. Co., 66—629; O'Connell v. Rosso, 56—603.
(nnn) See Sannoner v. Jacobson, 47—31; National L. C. v. Snell, 47—407; Ry. v. Baker,
46—253.
Sec. 5774. When either party shall amend any pleading or proceeding,
and the court shall be satisfied by affidavit or otherwise, that the adverse party
could not be ready for trial in consequence thereof, a continuance may be
granted to some day in the same term, or to another term of the court.
Sec. 5775- Where complaints are filed without verification, as required
by section 5744 the action shall not on that account be dismissed, if the verifica
tion be made on or before the calling of the action for trial (000).
Sec. 5776. No objection shall be taken after judgment to any pleading
for the want of, or defect in, the verification.
Sec. 5777. Courts may permit amendments to be made without being
verified, as prescribed in section 5744, unless a new and distinct cause of action
or defense is thereby produced (ppp). Ib., sees. 150-160.
interrogatories.
Sec. 5778. In actions by equitable proceedings either party may annex to
his complaint, answer or reply written interrogatories to any one or more of the
adverse parties concerning any of the material matters in issue in the action ;
the answers to which, on oath, may be read by either party, as a deposition
between the party interrogating and the party answering.
Sec. 5779. The party answering shall not be confined to responding
merely to the interrogatories, but may state any new matter concerning the
same cause of action, which shall likewise be read as a deposition. Ib., sees.
161, 162.
Sec. 57S0. In actions by equitable proceedings, if a party in answering
interrogatories states new matters not responsive to the inquiries, the party
interrogating may, before the trial, file his written statement, under oath, con
cerning such new matters, which shall be read as a deposition. Ib., sec. 665.
Sec. 5781. Where the interrogatories are annexed to the complaint, they
shall be answered at the same time the party is required to answer the com
plaint; where annexed to the answer or reply, then in twenty days after notice
shall be given thereof to the adverse party or his attorney ; but if answered
twenty days before the term at which the action stands regularly for trial, the
action shall not be postponed on account of their not being sooner answered.
Sec. 5782. In actions by proceedings at law either party may, in like man
ner, annex written interrogatories to his complaint, answer or reply, directed to
any one or more of the adverse parties concerning any material matter in issue
in the action in the following cases :
First. Where the party interrogated does not reside in the same or an
adjoining county.
Second. Where the party interrogated is unable to attend court on account
of age, infirmity or imprisonment, or is a female.
Sec. 57S3. Where the interrogatories in an action by proceedings at law
are annexed to the complaint, they shall be answered at the same time the com
plaint is required to be answered ; where annexed to the answer or reply, at or
(000) An answer can not be stricken from the files, or its contents refused consideration
for want of verification, unless the party refuses to verify after an order made so to do.
Jackson v. Reeve, 44—496.
(ppp) See Halliburton v. Nance, 40—161.
before the calling of the cause for trial, where the party interrogated had reason
able notice of their being filed.
Sec. 5784. The trial of an action by proceedings at law shall not be post
poned on account of the failure to answer the interrogatories, if the party inter
rogated is present in court at the trial, so that he may be orally examined; nor
in case of his absence, without an affidavit showing the facts the party believes
will be proved by the answers thereto, and that the party has not filed the
interrogatories, nor omitted to file them, for the purpose of delay. Whereupon,
if the party will consent that the facts stated in the affidavit shall be considered
as admitted by those interrogated, the trial shall not be postponed for that
cause.
Sec. 5785. The provisions of section 5779 shall apply to the answers to
interrogatories in actions by proceedings at law.
Sec. 5786. The party in answering such interrogatories shall distinguish
clearly between what is stated from his personal knowledge and what is stated
from information or belief merely. An unqualified statement of a fact shall be
considered as made of his personal knowledge.
Sec. 5787. The answer to the interrogatories shall be verified by the affi
davit of the party answering, to the effect that the statements in them made of
his own personal knowledge are true, and those made from the information of
others he believes to be true.
Sec. 5788. Where the party resides in the same or an adjoining county, he
may be summoned by the adverse party, and compelled to testify on the trial of
an action by proceedings at law as any other witness.
Sec. 5789. Where a party filing interrogatores shall also file an affidavit
that he verily believes the subject of the interrogatories, or any of them, is in
the personal knowledge of the opposite party, and that his answers thereto, if
truly made from such knowledge, will sustain the claim or defense, or any part
thereof, and the opposite party shall fail, after reasonable time allowed therefor
to answer them, the claim or defense, or the part thereof, according to such
affidavit, shall be deemed to be sustained and judgment given accordingly.
Sec. 5790. The court may compel answers to interrogatories by process
of contempt, and may on the failure of the party to answer them, after reason
able time allowed therefor, dismiss the complaint or quash the answer of the
party so failing. Ib., sees. 163-172.
ACTIONS MAY BE DISMISSED.'
Sec. 5791. An action may be dismissed without prejudice to a future
action :
First. By the plaintiff before the final submission of the case to the jury,
or to the court, where the trial is by the court.
Second. By the court where the plaintiff fails to appear on the trial.
Third. By the court for the want of necessary parties.
Fourth. By the court on application of some of the defendants, where
there are others whom the plaintiff fails to prosecute with diligence.
Fifth. By the court for disobedience by the plaintiff of an order concern
ing the proceedings in the action.
In all other cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision must be upon
the merits. Ib., sec. 402.
Sec. 5792. The plaintiff may dismiss any action in vacation, in the office
of the clerk, on the payment of all costs that may have accrued therein, except
an action to recover the possession of specific personal property, when the
property has been delivered to the plaintiff (qqq). Rev. Stat. chap. 116, sec. 134.
Sec. 5793. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues, whether of law
or of fact, in an action.
Sec. 5794. Issues of law must be tried by the court. Issues of fact,
arising in actions by proceedings at law for the recovery of money, or of specific
real or personal property, shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived.
Sec. 5795. All other issues of fact, whether arising in proceedings at law
or equitable proceedings, shall be tried by the court, subject to its power to
order any issue or issues to be tried by jury (rrr).
Sec. 5796. The trial in each action shall be in the order in which it
stands upon the docket. Civil Code, sees. 336-339.
continuance.
Sec. 5797. A motion to postpone a trial on account of the absence of
evidence shall, if required by the opposite party, be made only upon affidavit
showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due
diligence has been used to obtain it; and if it be for an absent witness, the
affidavit must show what facts the affiant believes the witness will prove, and
not merely the effect of such facts in evidence, that the affiant himself believes
them to be true, and that the witness is not absent by the consent, connivance,
or procurement of the party asking the postponement. If thereupon the
adverse party will admit that on the trial the absent witness, if present, would
testify to the statement contained in the application for a continuance, then the
trial shall not be postponed for that cause ; Provided, the opposite party may
controvert the statement so set forth in the said motion for continuance by evi
dence (sss). Act February 21, 1887.
Sec. 5798. When a case shall have been reversed and remanded by the
supreme court for further proceedings, it may be continued at the first term,
unless the mandate shall have been filed with the clerk of the court below and
reasonable notice given to the adverse party, or his attorney of record, before
(qqq) A non-suit taken before a clerk In vacation, on payment of costs, is authorized by
the statute. State Bank v. Gray, 12—760.
Though plaintiff dismiss his action, the defendant may proceed to the trial of his set-off
or counterclaim. Sec. 5854.
(rrr) In contested elections issues are to be tried by the court. Wise v. Martin, 36—306;
Goran r. Jackson, 32—553.
See Harris v. Townsend, 52—411, and note (b) to sec. 5615.
(sss). See Hibbard v. Kirby, 38—102. A motion for a continuance by a defendant should
not be made before filing answer. Winter v. Bandel, 30—362.
It is not within the power of the legislature to make this section applicable to motions for
continuance in criminal prosecutions, but there is no constitutional objections to it in civil
causes. Graham v. State, 50—161.
the commencement of the term, in which case it shall stand for trial, unless good
cause for a continuance be shown (ttt). Civil Code, sec. S84, as amended 1873.
Sec. 5799. No order of continuance shall take effect until the party upon
whose application it was granted shall have paid or secured the payment of all
costs of the action due for the term in which such continuance shall be granted.
Ib., sec. 775, as amended 1871.
Sec. 5800. The clerk shall keep three separate dockets, which shall be
called the "law docket," the "equity docket" and the "motion docket."
Sec. 5801. On the law docket shall be entered all actions prosecuted by
proceedings at law, in the order in which they were brought.
Sec. 5802. The law docket shall be made out for each term of the court,
and the actions shall be set for particular days, and so arranged by the clerk
that the cases set for each day shall be tried, as nearly as may be, on that day.
Sec. 5803. The trial of any issue of fact or assessment of damages by a
jury, in any case, shall be on or after the day which it is set on the docket.
Sec. 5804. On the equity docket shall be entered all actions prosecuted by
equitable proceedings in the order in which they were brought. Ib., sees.
378-382.
Sec. 5805. On the motion docket may be entered any motion relating to
proceedings in the court, and such entry shall be considered as making the
motion. Ib., sees. 383 and 393.
Sec. 5806. The entry on all the dockets shall give the names of the plain
tiff and defendant, or, if there be more than one, then of the first named in
the pleadings, with the words "and others" added thereto, and the names of
the attorneys.
Sec. 5S07. The entry on the law docket shall also show whether or not
the summons has been fully served in due time for trial, and whether or not the
issue has been formed (uuu).
Sec. 5808. The entry on the motion docket shall show the date of the
entry and the object of the motion.
Sec. 5809. The first hour of each day of the term shall be devoted to
hearing motions, in which the court shall first call the motion docket, and then
upon the attorneys present, for motions.
Sec. 5810. If the hour is not consumed in motions, the court may proceed,
during the remainder thereof, to call the equity docket.
Sec. 581 1. At the expiration of the motion hour the court, except on the
third day of the term, shall proceed to the call of the law docket and the trial
of the issues until the call is completed, and then to the call of the equity
docket.
TIME AND ORDER OF TRIAL.
Sec. 5812. On the fourth day of the term the court shall render judgment
by default in all actions at law wherein due service has been had as provided in
(ttt) See Sec. 4841.
(uuu) For further requirements in relation to such entry, see Sec. 585.
section 5735, and no defense has been filed (vvv); provided,- the court may,
for good cause, allow further time for filing a defense. Ib., sec. 390, as
amended by act March 22, 1SS1.
Sec. 5813. On the third day of each term the court shall call all cases on
the equity docket in which the summons has been served as provided in section
5737, and, upon failure to defend, may give judgment. Ib., sec. 391.
Sec. 5S14. Actions by proceedings at law shall stand for trial at the first
term after process has been served on the defendant as specified in section 5735.
Sec. 5815. An action upon contract, wherein the summons hasbeen served
in due time, as provided in section 5735, upon part only of the defendants,
shall stand for trial at the first term as to those so summoned, and may be con
tinued as to the others for further proceedings. In other actions by proceed
ings at law the plaintiff can only demand a trial at any term as to part of the
defendants, upon his discontinuing his action on the first day of such term-as
to the others.
Sec. 5816. Actions prosecuted by equitable proceedings shall stand for
trial at any term, where the pleadings have been, or, by the provisions of sections
^737, 5738 and 5739, should have been, completed ninety days before the com
mencement of such term. But where they have not been so completed, though
they should have been by those sections, the party in default, as to time, shall
not be entitled to demand a trial.
Sec. 5817. Where interrogatories have been annexed to a pleading in an
action by equitable proceedings, the party interrogated shall not be entitled to
demand a trial, unless he has answered the interrogatories either within twenty
days after they were filed, or twenty days before the term.
SEC. 5818. The plaintiff shall be entitled to a trial in actions by equitable
proceedings at the first term after the summons has been served on all the
defendants, as provided in section 5737, where no issue of fact is made by the
pleadings, or where the plaintiff consents that the statements of the answer may
be taken as true.
SEC. 5819. Where the summons in an action by equitable proceedings has
been served in due time on part only of the defendants, the plaintiff may dis
miss his action as to those not summoned, and proceed to trial as to the others,
in all cases where he could have maintained his action against them without
joining those not summoned (www). Ib., sees. 394-39S.
1
Sec. 5820. When the jury (xxx) has been sworn, the trial shall proceed
in the following order, unless the court, for special reasons, otherwise directs:
(vy-v) See Silver v. Luck, 42—268.
A default admits only the allegations of the complaint, and if they are insufficient to sup
port the judgment, it will be reversed. Chaffin v. McFadden, 41—42.(www) All indorsers and makers of any instrument in writing for the payment of money
may be sued together or separately. Sec. 502. And joint obligations have the same effect as
joint and several obligations, and may be sued on and recoveries had thereon in like manner.
Sec. 4186.
(xxx) For qualifications and exemption of jurors, see Secs. 4255-4261. For mode of
selecting and summoning, see Secs. 4273—4280.
For mode of impaneling, challenges to and oath of jury, see Secs. 4292—4305.
First. The plaintiff must briefly state his claim, and the evidence by
which he expects to sustain it.
Second. The defendant must then briefly state his defense, and the evi
dence he expects to offer in support of it.
Third. The party on whom rests the burden of proof (yyy) in the whole
action must first produce his evidence. The adverse party will . then produce
his evidence.
Fourth. The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence, unless
the court, for good reasons, in furtherance of justice, permits them to offer evi
dence in their original case.
Fifth. When the evidence is concluded, either party may request instruc
tions to the jury on points of law, which shall be given or refused by the court,
which instructions shall be reduced to writing if either party require it (zzz).
• Sixth. The parties may then submit or argue the case to the jury. In the
argument the party having the burden of proof shall have the opening and con
clusion ; and if, upon the demand of his adversary, he shall refuse to open and
fully state the grounds upon which he claims a verdict, he shall be refused the
conclusion. Ib., sec. 349, as amended by act Deccfnber 15, 1S75.
Sec. 5821. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper for the jury
to have a view of real property which is the subject of litigation, or of the place
in which any material fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted in a
body, under the charge of an officer, to the place, which shall be shown to them
by some person appointed by the court for that purpose. While the jury are
thus absent, no person other than the person so appointed shall speak to them on
any subject connected with the trial.
Sec. 5822. When the case is finally submitted to the jury, they may decide
in court or retire for deliberation (a4). If they retire, they must be kept
together in some convenient place, under the charge of an officer, until they
agree upon a verdict or are discharged by the court, subject to the discretion of
the court to permit them to separate temporarily at night and at their meals.
The officer having them under his charge shall not suffer any communication to
be made to them, or make any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed
(yyy) The party holding the affirmative of an issue must prove it. Sec. 2927. And as to
party on whom the burden of proof lies, see Sec. 2928.
The order of proof is in the discretion of the court. Lowenstein v. Finney, 54—124; when
such discretion is abused, see Ry. v. Fire Assn., 65—164. See Excelsior Mfg. Co. v. Owens, 25
8. W. Sep., 864.
(zzz) See art. VII, sec. 23, Const.
These provisions are mandatory, and it is error for the judge to fail to comply therewith.
Anderson v. State, 34—257; National Lumber Co. v. Snell, 47—407. Where a party demands
that instructions be in writing, it is error to make oral explanations of the charge; and unless
it affirmatively appear that such error is harmless it is ground for reversal. Mazzia v. State,
51—177; see Excelsior Mfg. Co. v. Owens, 25 S. W. Rep., 864.
Charge to the jury, how prepared, see Davis v. Ry., 53—117.
Instruction must not assume facts which are to be determined by the jury, see Boyd v.
McMurray 25 S. W. Rep., 505; Townsley v. Greenfield, 25 S. W. Rep., 282.
See, also, Ward v. Blackwood, 48—396.
(a4) The right to open and close abides with the plaintiff so long as he has anything to
prove to recover a verdict for more than nominal damages. Ry. v. Taylor, 57—137.
In condemnation proceedings the land owner has the opening and concluding argument.
Ry. v. Rhea, 44—258.
As to when verdiot should be directed by trial judge, see Cutlett v. Ry., 57—461.
upon their verdict, unless by order of the court ; and he shall not, before their
verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations or
the verdict agreed upon.
Sec. 5823. If the jury are permitted to separate, either during the trial or
after the case is submitted to them, they may be admonished by the court that
it is their duty not to converse with or suffer themselves to be addressed by any
other person on any subject of the trial, and, during the trial, that it is their
duty not to form or express an opinion thereon until the cause is finally sub
mitted to them.
SEC. 5824. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there is a
disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire to
be informed as to any point of law arising in the case, they may request the
officer to conduct them into court, where the information required shall be given
in the presence of or after notice to the parties or their counsel.
Sec. 5825. The jury may be discharged by the court on account of the
sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity requiring their discharge, or by
consent of both parties, or after they have been kept together until it satisfac
torily appears that there is no probability of their agreeing.
Sec. 5826. In all cases where the jury are discharged during the trial, or
after the cause is submitted to them, it may be tried again immediately or at a
future time, as the court may direct.
Sec. 5S27. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they must be
conducted into court, their names called by the clerk and the verdict rendered
by their foreman. When the verdict is announced either party may require the
jury to be polled, which is done by the clerk or court asking each juror if it is
his verdict. If any one answer in the negative, the jury must again be sent out
for further deliberation.
Sec. 5828. The verdict shall be written, signed by the foreman and read
by the court or clerk to the jury, and the inquiry made whether it is their
verdict. If any juror disagrees, the jury must be sent out again, but if no
disagreement is expressed, and neither party requires. the jury to be polled, the
verdict is complete and the jury discharged from the case (b4).
SEC. 5829. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general
verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues,
either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant.
Sec. 5830. A special verdict is that by which the jury finds the facts
only. It must present the facts as established by the evidence, and not the evi
dence to prove them, and they must be so presented as that nothing remains to
the court but to draw from them conclusions of law (C4.)
Sec. 5831. In all actions the jury, in their discretion, may render a
general or special verdict, but may be required by the court, in any case in
which they render a general verdict, to find specially upon particular questions
(b4) As to amendment of verdict, see Woodruffv. Webb, 32—613. As to defective verdict,
■see Hanks v. Harris, 29—324.
For verdict in replevin see Sec. 6397.
(c4) See Lanagin v. Nowland, 44—84.
of fact to be stated in writing. This special finding is to be recorded with the
verdict (d-f).
Sec. 5832. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent with the gen
eral verdict, the former controls the latter, and the court may give judgment
accordingly (e4).
Sec. 5833. When, by the verdict, either party is entitled to recover money
of the adverse party, the jury, in their verdict, must assess the amount of recov
ery. Ib., 360, 361.
Sec. 5834. If, after a verdict shall be rendered in any action, either party
die before judgment actually entered theron, the court may, at any time during
the term at which such verdict was rendered, enter final judgment (£4.) in the
names of the original parties. Rev. Stat., chap. I, sec. 11.
Sec. 5835. Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed to author
ize the entry of the judgment against any party who may have died before a ver
dict actually rendered against him, notwithstanding he may have died on the
first or any other day of the term at which such verdict may have been rendered :
but such verdict shall be void. Ib., sec. 12.
TRIAL BY THE COURT.
. Sec. 5836. The trial by jury may be waived by the parties in actions
arising on contract, and, with the assent of the court, in other actions in the fol
lowing manner :
First. By failing to appear at the trial.
Second. By written consent in person, or by attorney, filed with the clerk
(g4)Third. By oral consent in open court, entered on the record.
Sec. 5S37. Upon trials of questions of fact by the court, it shall state in
writing the conclusions of fact found separately from the conclusions of law
(h4).
Sec. 5838. The requirements respecting trials by jury apply, so far as
they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court. Civil Code, sees. 363,
364 and 377.
NEW TRIAL.
SEC. 5839. A new trial is a re-examination in the same court of an issue of
fact after a verdict by a jury or a decision by the court. The former verdict or
(d4) This is discretionary with the court. Ry. v. Pankhurst, 36—377. Bee Orimes v. Mal
colm, 58 Fed. Rep., 670.
(e4) See Ry. v. Miles, 40—298; McMurray v. Boyd, 25 S. W. Rep., 605.
(14) See sixth sub-division of Sec. 4197 and Sec. 6944.
Where a cause has been submitted in the supreme court, if either party die before final
judgment, the judgment may be rendered in the names of the original parties, as of a day
previous to such death; or, if the death of either party be suggested and proven, a nunc pro
tunc order may be made to extend back to a day between the submission and death. Pool r.
Loomis, 5—110
(g4) See Chapline v. Robertson, 44—202.
(h4) These findings may be reduced to writing after judgment. Nathan c. Sloan, 34—534.
If they are not special, a party may move to have them made so. Ib. They are conclusive a*
to the facts, unless the evidence is set out. Woodruff v. McDonald, 83—97. This section has
no application where judgment is rendered on demurrer. Ohrisman v. Roger*, 30—352. Dec
larations of law need not precede the finding of facts. Alexander v. State, use, etc., 42—41.
decision may be vacated and a new trial granted (i.|), on the application of
the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes, affecting materially the
substantial rights of such party:
First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or prevailing party,
or any order of court or abuse of discretion, by which the party was prevented
from having a fair trial.
Second. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.
Third. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against.
Fourth. Excessive damages appearing to have been given under the influ
ence of passion or prejudice (J4).
Fifth. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too
laige or too small, where the action is upon a contract or for the injury or
detention of property.
Sixth. The verdict or decision is not sustained by sufficient evidence, or is
contrary to law.
Seventh. Newly-discovered evidence, material for the party applying, which
he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the
trial (k4).
Eighth. Error of law occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party
making the application.
Sec. 5840. A new trial shall not be granted on account of the smallness of
damages in an action for an injury to the person or reputation, nor in any
other action where the damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sus
tained.
Sec. 5841. The application for a new trial must be made at the term the
verdict or decision is rendered, and, except for the cause mentioned in subdi
vision seven of section 5839, shall be within three days after the verdict or
decision was rendered, unless unavoidably prevented (I4).
Sec. 5S42. The application must be made by motion, upon written
grounds, filed at the time of making the motion. The grounds mentioned in
the second, third and seventh sub-divisions of section 5839 must be sustained
by affidavits showing their truth, and may be controverted by affidavits.
Sec. 5843. Where grounds for new trial are discovered after the term at
which the verdict or decision was rendered, the application may be made by
petition filed with the clerk not later than the second term after the discovery,
on which a summons shall issue, as on other complaints, requiring the adverse
party to appear and answer it on or before the first day of the next term. The
application shall stand for hearing at the term to which the summons is
(i4) For causes for which a court may grant a new trial, vacate or modify its own judg
ment after the expiration of the term, see Secs. 4197-4203.
(j4) See Ry. v. Eddy, 42—527; Kelly v. McDonald, 39—387; Ayliffv. Hardy, 25—49.
(k4) Newly discovered evidence merely to impeach a witness is no ground for new trial.
Foster v. State, 45-328.
(14) See Nichols v. Shearon, 49—75.
When motion new trial unnecessary. Gates v. School District, 57—370.
Presumptions as to motions for new trial filed out of time, see Fordyce v. Hardin, 64—554.
As to a response to motion for new trial, see Townsly, etc., v. Fuller, 68—181.
This section has no application to a motion to set aside a default judgment. Hall v.
Baughton, 60 Fed. Rep., 860.
returned executed, and shall be summarily decided by the court. The evidence
may either be by depositions or by witnesses examined in court. But no such
application shall be made more than three years after the final judgment was
rendered (1T14). Ib., sees. 371-375.
exceptions (n4).
Sec. 5844. An exception is an objection taken to a decision of the court
upon a matter of law.
Sec. 5845. The party objecting to the decision must except at the time the
decision is made, and time may be given to reduce the exception to writing, but
not beyond the succeeding term; but the parties may agree that exceptions to all
decisions made during the trial are saved without being especially mentioned at
the time the decision is made.
Skc. 5846. No particular form of exception is required. The objection
must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary to explain it and no
more, and the whole as briefly as possible.
Sec. 5847. Where the decision objected to is entered on the record, and
the grounds of objection appear in the entry, the exception may be taken by the
party causing to be noted, at the end of the decision, that he excepts.
Sec. 5S48. Where the decision is not entered on the record, or the grounds
of objection do not sufficiently appear in the entry, the party excepting must
reduce his exception to writing, and present it to the judge for his allowance and
signature. If true, it shall be the duty of the judge to allow and sign it; where
upon it shall be filed with the pleadings as part of the record, but not spread at
large on the order-book. If the writing is not true, the judge shall correct it, or
suggest the correction to be made, and, when corrected, sign it.
Sec. 5S49. If the party excepting is not satisfied with the correction, upon
his procuring the signatures of two bystanders attesting the truth of his exception
as by him prepared, the same shall be filed as part of the record (04) ; but the
truth of the exceptions may be controverted and maintained by affidavits,
not exceeding five in number on each side, to be filed with the clerk within
ten days after the filing of the exception, which affidavits shall be a part of the
record.
Sec. 5850. No exception shall be regarded, unless it is material and preju
dicial to the substantial rights of the party excepting. Ib., sec. 365-370.
(m4) The three years begin to run from the date of judgment, though an appeal has
been taken. Jacks v. Adair, 33—161. Bills of review are not abolished. Ib.; Turner v. Vaughan,
Ib., 454.
(n4) See note (q),cft<ip. XLI.
(o4) It is only where the judge refuses to certify in the bill of exceptions the facts com
plained of that a party can resort to the certificate of bystanders, supported by affidavits.
Vaughan v. State, 57—1; Fordyce v. Jackson, 56—594.
The bill of exceptions by the bystanders must show that the exceptions were presented to
the judge for allowance and were rejected. Fordyce v. Jackson, supra.
For practice in such cases, see Ib.
A bill of exceptions presented to the judge in apt time will not become part of the record
unless signed by him and filed with the clerk before the expiration of the time allowed.
Stinson v. Shafer, 58—110.
Sec. 5851. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the
parties in an action.
MAY BE GiVEN FOR OR AGAINST ONE OR MORE OF THE PLAINTIFFS OR
DEFENDANTS.
»
Sec. 5852. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several
plaintiffs and for or against one or more of several defendants.
Sec. 5853. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in its
discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to
proceed against the others whenever a several judgment is proper. Ib., sees.
399-401.
SEC. 5854. In any case where a set-off or counter-claim has been pre
sented, the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to the trial of his claim,
although the plaintiff may have dismissed his action or failed to appear.
Sec. 5855. Though all the defendants have been summoned, judgment
may be rendered against any of them severally, where the plaintiff would be
entitled to judgments against such defendants if the action had been against
them alone (p4).
UPON FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGE OR LIEN.
SEC. 5856. It shall not be necessary, in any action upon a mortgage or
lien, to enter an interlocutory judgment or give time for the payment of money,
or for doing any other act; but final judgment may in such cases be given in the
first instance.
Sec. 5857. In the foreclosure of a mortgage, a sale of the mortgaged
property shall in all cases be ordered (q4). Ib., sees. 403-406.
SEC. 5858. In an action on a mortgage or lien, the judgment may be
rendered for the sale of the property and for the recovery of the debt against
the defendant personally (r4). Ib., sec. 40S.
SEC. 5S59. Sales of personal property made by order of the court shall
be on a credit of three months; sales of real property on a credit of not less than
three nor more than six months, or on installments equivalent to not more than
four months' credit on the whole, to be determined by the court (S4). In all
sales on credit, the purchaser shall execute bond, with good surety, to be
approved by the person making the sale, which bond shall have the force of a
judgment, and, in sales of real property, a lien shall be retained on the property
for its price. Ib. , sec. 407.
SEC. 5S60. If the whole of the mortgaged property does not sell for a sum
sufficient to satisfy the amount due, an execution may be issued against the
defendant, as on ordinary judgments. Rev. Stat., chap. 101, sec. 17.
(p4) Joint obligations "have the same effect as joint and several obligations." Sec. 4186.
Where two or more persons are jointly bound by contract, action may be brought against all
or any of them. Sec. 5634. Persons severally liable upon the same contract, including
parties to bills of exchange, promissory notes, etc., may all or any of them or the heirs or
personal representatives of such as may have died, be included in the same action. Sec. 5633,
and see Sec. 502, as to parties to action on notes, etc.
(q4) See Mortgages.
(r4) In foreclosing a mortgage against the heir of the mortgagor, it is error to render a
personal decree against him for debt. Harbison v. Vaughan, 42—539.
Sec. 5861. Judgments for the recovery of money may be set off against
each other, having due regard to the legal and equitable rights of all persons
interested in both judgments. The set-off may be ordered, upon motion, after
reasonable notice to the adverse party, where both judgments are in the same
court, or in an action by equitable proceedings in the court in which the judgment
sought to be annulled by the set-off was rendered.
Sec. 5862. During the pendency of an action the judgment in which,
when recovered, could be used as a set-off against a judgment in favor of the
defendants, or either of them, the court, to prevent loss by insolvency, nonresidence or otherwise, may enjoin the collection of the judgment in favor of
such defendants, according to the provisions of chapter LXXXII, entitled
"Injunction." Civil Code, sees. 409, 410.
Sec. 5863. If the taking of an account, or the proof of a fact, or the assess
ment of damages, is necessary to enable the court to pronounce judg
ment upon a failure to answer, or after a decision of an issue of law, the
court may take the account, hear the proof, and, in actions founded on contract,
assess the damages, or may refer the same to a commissioner, or may direct the
same to be ascertained or assessed by a jury. If a jury is ordered, it shall be
on or after the day on which the action is set for trial.
Sec. 5S64. If only a part of the plaintiff's claim is controverted by the
defendant's answer, judgment may at any time be rendered for the part not con
troverted. Ib.t sees. 41 1, 412.
SEC. 5865. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment must be entered
by the clerk in conformity with the verdict, unless it is special, or the court
orders the case to be reserved for future argument or consideration (t4).
SEC. 5866. Where the verdict is special, or where there has been a special
finding on particular questions of fact, or where the court has ordered the case
to be reserved, it shall order what judgment shall be entered.
Sec. 5867. Where, upon the statements in the pleadings, one party is enti
tled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so entered by the
court, thought a verdict has been found against such party.
SEC. 5868. If a set-off established at the trial exceeds the plaintiff's claim
so established, judgment for the defendant must be given for the excess : or, it
it appears that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment
shall be given therefor. Ib. sees. 416-419.
SEC. 5869. Where special damages are given by statute, and it appears
by the verdict of the jury, or other decision of the action, that such special
(b4) All sales made by order of the court must be on credit. Welch v. Hicks, 27—292. And
gee note (t) to Sec. 3094.
As to sales of property in proceedings by attachment, see Sr.cs. 349, 364, 366.
(t4) The court has no power to add interest to the verdict of a Jury in rendering judgment.
Hallum v. Dickinson, 47—121.
For judgment in replevin, see Sec. 6398.
damages are due and recoverable by one of the parties against the other, the
court shall render judgment for them ; and if, in ascertaining the amount thereof,
it is necessary to assess the value of any property, or amount of any debt or claim,
the court, may hear the proof and assess such value or amount, or have the
same made by a jury.
Sec. 5870. The judgment must be entered on the order-book, and specify
clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the action.
Sec. 5871. It shall not be necessary to reserve, in a judgment or order, the
right of an infant to show cause against it after his attaining full age ; but in
any case in which, but for this section, such a reservation would have been
proper, the infant, within twelve months after arriving at the age of twentyone years, may show cause against such order or judgment (114). Ib., sees.
421-423.
Sec. 5S72. Any person indebted, or against whom a cause of action exists,
may personally appear in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, with the assent
of the creditor or person having such cause of action, confess judgment therefor,
whereupon judgment shall be entered accordingly (V4).
Sec. 5873. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly stated in the judg
ments, or in a writing, to be filed as pleadings in other actions.
Sec. 5874. Such judgment shall authorize the same proceedings for its
enforcement as judgments rendered in actions regularly brought and prosecuted,
and the confession shall operate as a release of errors. Ib., sees. 413-415.
IN CASES OF CONSTRUCTIVE SERVICE.
SEC. 5S75. A defendant constructively summoned shall be allowed, at
any time before judgment, to appear and defend the action ; and, upon a sub
stantial defense being disclosed, time may be given on reasonable terms to
prepare for trial.
Sec. 5876. The statements of the complaint, as against a defendant, con
structively summoned, and who has not appeared, except such as are for his
benefit, shall not be taken as true, but are to be established by proof. But
where the plaintiff files with the complaint his own affidavit, stating that any of
the allegations thereof recited in the affidavit are true, and known to be so by
the defendant, and that they can not be proved or shown otherwise than by his
answer, so far as affiant knows or believes such allegations, unless denied by the
answer, shall be taken as true. Civil Code, sees. 443, 444Sec. 5S77. Before judgment is rendered against a defendant constructively
summoned, and who has not appeared, it shall necessary:
First. An attorney be appointed at least thirty days before the judgment
is rendered to defend for the defendant and inform him of the action and of such
other matters as may be useful to him in preparing for his defense. He may
take any step in the progress of the action, except filing an answer, without it
having the effect of entering the appearance of such defendant. The attorney
may be appointed by the clerk when the warning order is made, or by the court,
(u4) As to procedure by infant in such cases, see Sec. 4199.
(v4) A judgment by confession in vacation is void. Blass v. Lee, 55—329.
See under this section Smith v. Finly, 52—373; Townsly v. Fuller 58—181.
and shall receive a reasonable compensation for his services, to be paid by the
plaintiff and taxed in the costs (W4). Act March 17, 1S91, amending Civil
Code, sec. 445.
Second. A bond be executed to such defendant by one or more sufficient
sureties of the plaintiff, to the effect that if the defendant, within the period pre
scribed by law, shall appear, make defense and set aside the judgment, the
plaintiff shall restore to him the property taken under any attachment in the
action, or under the judgment therein, the restoration of which may be adjudged,
and pay to the defendant such sums of money as the court may award to him.
Third. In suits brought by the personal repesentative or creditor of a
deceased person to have a settlement of his estate and a sale of his real estate
for the payment of his debts, and the heirs or devisees are non-residents, it shall
not be required of the personal representative, or any creditor, to execute the
bond required by this section.
Sec. 5S7S. The attorney appointed pursuant to the last section shall be a
regular practicing attorney of the court; and, before an order for his compensa
tion, is made, he must make a written statement of all that he has done in the
case, which shall be signed by him and filed with the papers of the action.
Sec. 5879. If the bond mentioned in section 5S77 is not given, the court
may enter a judgment ascertaining the rights of the parties, but shall retain
control over and preserve any property, or the proceeds thereof, which may
have been attached in the action, until the expiration of the period allowed to
the defendant to appear and make defense ; when, if no defense is made, such
money or property, or its proceeds, shall be delivered according to the judg
ment.
Sec. 5880. Before rendering judgment against a defendant constructively
summoned, and who has not appeared, the court may cause the plaintiff to
appear personally in court, or before a commissioner, and answer, under oath,
interrogatories concerning the matters in the complaint, or any matters of
defense thereto, including matters of set-off or counter-claim, and may order
the examination to be reduced to writing and filed with the papers of the action.
Sec. 5S81. If, upon the examination provided in the last section, any
matters of set-off or counter-claim are disclosed, the same may be adjusted and
allowed in the judgment. Civil Code, sees. 445-449.
Sec. 5SS2. Where a judgment has been rendered against a defendant or
defendants constructively summoned and who did not appear, such defendants
or any one or more of them may at any time within two years, and not there
after, after the rendition of the judgment appear in open court and move to have
the action retried ; and security for the costs being given, such defendant or
defendants shall be permitted to make defense, and thereupon the action shall
be tried anew as to such defendant or defendants as if there had been no judg
ment, and upon the new trial the court may confirm, modify or set aside the
former judgment and may order the plaintiff in the action to restore to any such
defendant or defendants any money of such defendant paid to them under such
(w4) Attorney ad litem may demur without entering defendant's appearance. Henry v.
Blackburn, 32—445.
It is error to render judgment when the attorney has not been appointed and the defend
ant has not appeared. Benjamin v. Birmingham, 60—433.
judgment, or any property of such defendants obtained by the plaintiff under it
and yet remaining in his possession and pay to the defendant the value of any
property which may have been taken under an attachment in the action or under
the judgment and not restored ; 'provided, the provisions of this section shall
not apply to judgments granting a divorce except so far as relates to alimony.
Act March 4, 18S7 (jq.).
Sec. 5883. The plaintiff may at any time after judgment cause a certified
copy thereof to be served on a defendant constructively summoned ; whereupon
the period in which such defendant is allowed to appear and have a new trial
shall be reduced to one year after such service.
Sec. 5884. The service of the copy of the judgment, if in this state, shall
be made and proved in the same manner as the service of a summons; and, if
out of this state, in the manner prescribed in section 5677 as to the service of a
copy of the complaint and summons and proof thereof.
Sec. 5885. The title of purchasers in good faith to any property sold under
an attachment or judgment shall not be affected by the new trial permitted by
section 5882, except the title of property obtained by the plaintiff and not
bought of him in good faith by others.
SEC. 58S6. No lien on the property of a defendant constructively sum
moned shall be created otherwise than by an attachment, as provided in chapter IX,
* 'Attachments," or by judgment. Nor shall any other defendant be restrained
from paying or delivering any money or property in his hands belonging or due
to such defendant, by notice indorsed on the summons, or otherwise than by
attachment or judgment.
SEC. 5S87. No personal judgment shall be rendered against a defendant
constructively summoned, or summoned out of this state, as provided in section
5677, and who has not appeared in the action (y4). Civil Code, sees. 451-455.
ORDER AND MOTION, DEFINITION OF.
SEC. 58S8. Every direction of a court or judge entered upon the orderbook, or made in writing, in a civil action, and not included in the judgment is
denominated an order.
SEC. 5889. An application for an order is a motion.
Sec. 5890. The notices mentioned in the code shall be in writing, and may
be served by a sheriff, constable, coroner or marshal of a town or city, whose
return thereon shall be proof of the service. Notices may also be served by
any person not a party or interested in the action or proceeding, whose affidavit
shall be proof of the service, or by acknowledgment thereon in writing by the
party upon whom served.
SEC. 5891. The service of a notice shall be by giving a copy thereof to the
person to whom it is directed, or, if he can not be found at his usual place of
abode, by leaving a copy there with a person over the age of sixteen years
residing in the same family with him, or, if no such person is there, then by
(x4) See Seo. 6123, chap. CXXVIII; and note (b) in regard to the probable repeal of this
section.
(y4) See Silver v. Luck, 42—268; Ford v. Adams, 54—137; McLain v. Duncan, 57—49.
affixing a copy to the front door of such place of abode. If the person to whom
the notice is directed can not be found, and has no known place of abode in this
state, the notice may be served by delivering a copy to his attorney. The return
of the officer, or the affidavit of the person who served the notice, shall state the
time and manner of the service ; and where a copy of the notice is not given to
the person to whom it is directed, the return or affidavit shall state the facts
authorizing the manner of service pursued.
Sec. 5893. Where the party has no known place of abode in this state,
and no attorney in the county where the action is pending, or where the parties,
plaintiffs or defendants, are numerous, the court may direct the mode of serving
notices, and to what persons they shall be given.
Sec. 5S93. A' notice to an infant or peison of unsound mind shall be
served on the guardian or next friend bringing or defending the action for him.
SEC. 5894. A notice to a corporation may be served in the same manner as
a summons in an action against it.
Sec. 5895. Where husband and wife unite in bringing or defending an
action, the service of a notice on the husband shall be deemed a service on the
wife.
Sec. 5896. A notice to a person constructively summoned, and not appear
ing, shall be served on the attorney appointed to defend for him.
Sec. 5S97. Where it is not otherwise specially provided, a notice to a
party in an action of any motion or proceeding to be made or taken therein in
court, or before a judge, may be served upon such party or his attorney ; but the
service upon the attorney in any such case must be by delivering to him a copy
of the notice.
Sec. 5898. Where a party to an action does not reside in the county in
which it is pending, a notice to him to take depositions may be served by deliv
ering a copy thereof to his attorney (24).
SEC. 5899. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, and of every constable, to
whom any notice in an action may be delivered for service within his county,
to serve and return such notice to the party who delivered it to him. A failure
to perform this duty may be punished as a disobedience of the process of the
court. Civil Code. sees. 704-715.
Sec. 5900. The defendant in an action for the recovery of money only
may, at any time before the trial, serve upon the plaintiff or his attorney an
offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum specified
therein. If the plaintiff accepts the offer, and gives notice thereof to the defend
ant or his attorney within five days after the offer was served, the offer, and an
affidavit that the notice of acceptance was delivered in the time limited, may be
filed by the plaintiff, or the defendant may file the acceptance, with a copy of
the offer, verified by affidavit; and in either case the offer and acceptance shall
be noted upon the record, and judgment shall be rendered accordingly. If the
notice of acceptance is not given in the period limited, the offer shall be deemed
withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence or mentioned on the trial. If the
(z4) See Sect. 2990-2999.
plaintiff fails to obtain judgment for more than was offered by the defendant, he
shall pay the defendant's costs from the time of the offer.
Sec. 5901. In an action for the recovery of money only, the defendant,
having answered, may serve upon the plaintiff or his attorney an offer in writ
ing that, if he fails in his defense, the amount of the recovery shall be assessedat a specified sum. If the plaintiff accepts the offer and gives notice thereof
to the defendant or his attorney within five days after it was served, and the
defendant fails in his defense, the judgment shall be for the amount so agreed
upon. If the plaintiff does not accept the offer, he shall prove the amount to
be recovered, as if the offer had not been made. The offer shall not be given
in evidence or mentioned on the trial. And if the amount recovered by the
plaintiff does not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall
recover his costs incurred in the defense in respect to the question of amount,
to be taxed under the direction of the court.
Sec. 5902. The making of any such offer shall not be a cause for a con
tinuance of an action or a postponement of a trial.
Sec. 5903. Parties to a question which might be the subject of a civil
action may, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon which
the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same to any court
which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought. But it must
appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in good
faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The court shall thereupon hear
and determine the case, and render judgment as if an action were pending.
Sec. 5904. The case, the submission and the judgment shall constitute
the record.
Sec. 5905. The judgment shall be with costs, may be enforced, and shall
be subject to reversal in the same manner as if if had been rendered in an action,
unless otherwise provided in the submission.
Sec. 5906. After an action for the recovery of money is brought, the
defendant may offer in court to confess judgment for part of the amount claimed,
or part of the causes involved in the action. Whereupon, if the plaintiff, being
present, refuse to accept such confession of judgment in full of his demands
against the defendant in the action, or, having had such notice that the offer
would be made, of its amount, and the time of making it, as the court shall
deem reasonable, fails to attend, and on the trial does not recover more than
was so offered to be confessed, such plaintiff shall pay all of the costs of the
defendant incurred alter the offer.
Sec. 5907. The offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause
of action, or amount to which the plaintiff is entitled, nor be given in evidence
upon the trial. Ib., sees. 716-722.
WHAT CAUSES OF ACTION SURVIVE.
SEC. 5908. For wrongs done to the person or property of another, an action
may be maintained against the wrong-doers, and such action may be brought by the person injured, or, after his death, by his executor or administrator against
such wrong-doer, or after his death, against his executor or administrator, in the
same manner and with like effect in all respects as actions founded on contracts
05)Sec. 5909. Nothing in the preceding section shall be so construed as to
extend its provisions to actions of slander or libel. Rev. Stat., chap. 4, sec.
59, 60.
Sec. 5910. When any adult person be killed by railroad trains running in
this state, the husband may sue fordamagesto a wife. If the adult be wounded
he may sue in his own name. Act February 3, 1S75, sec. 3 (b5).
SEC. 591 1. Whenever the death of a person shall be caused by wrongful
act, neglect or default, and the act, neglect or default is such as would, if death
had not ensued, have entitled the party injured to maintain an action and recover
damages in respect thereof, then, and in every such case, the person who, or
company or corporation which, would have been liable if death had not ensued,
shall be liable to an action for damages, notwithstanding the death of the person
injured, and although the death shall have been caused under such circumstances
as amount in law to a felony (C5).
Sec. 5912. Every such action shall be brought by, and in the name of, the
personal representatives of such deceased person, and if there be no personal
representatives, then the same may be brought by the heirs at law of such
deceased person ; and the amount recovered in every such action shall be for
the exclusive benefit of the widow and next of kin of such deceased person, and
shall be distributed to such widow and next of kin, in the proportion provided
by law in relation to the distribution of personal property left by persons dying
intestate ; and, in every such action, the jury may give such damages as they
shall deem a fair and just compensation, with reference to the pecuniary injuries
resulting from such death, to the wife and next of kin of such deceased person.
Provided, every such action shall be commenced within two years after the
death of such person. Act March 6, 1883.
successive actions on same contract, etc.
SEC. 5913. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract
or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new cause of action has
arisen therefrom. Civil Code, sec. 789.
ACTIONS FOR THE RECOVERY OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
SEC. 5914. All property obtained by larceny, robbery or burglary shall be
restored to the owner, and no sale, whether in good faith on the part of the
purchaser or not, shall divest the owner of his right to such property.
(a5) See Ward v. Blackwood, 41—295.
(b5) This portion of section 3, act of February 3, 1875, was not carried into the last Digest,
and as there is no express repeal of it, nor repeal by necessary implication, in the opinion of
the Digester, it is inserted. The question as to whether it is repealed is fully and ably argued
in the briefs of counsel in case of St. L. S. W. Ry. v. Henson, in U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals
for this circuit, reported in 58 Fed., but the case was determined upon another issue,
leavng this important question undecided. See also Davis v. Ry., 53—117. (The syllabus in
that case states the effect of the decision more broadly than the opinion does.)
(c5) See Davis v. Ry., 53—117, for construction of this and the succeeding section.
Sec. 5915. Any person losing property or any valuable thing by larceny,
robbery or burglary may maintain his action, not only against such felon, but
against any person whatsoever in whose hands or possession the same may be
found. Rev. Stat., chap. 44, art. 6, div. 4, sees. 3, 4.
Sec. 5916. In no case shall the right of action of any party injured by the
commission of a felony be deemed or adjudged to be merged in such felony,
but damages sustained thereby may be recovered in an action brought for that
purpose (d5). Rev. Stat., chap. 45, sec. 264.
SEC. 5917. When one or more joint tenants, tenants in common, or
coparceners in any real estate, or any interest therein, shall take, use or have
the profits and benefits thereof in greater proportion than his interest therein,
such person, or his executor or administrator, shall account therefor to his or
their co-tenant jointly or stverally.
SEC. 5918. Joint tenants, tenants in common and coparceners in any
estate, real or personal, may maintain actions of account against their
co-tenants who receive as bailiffs more than their due proportion of the benefits
of such estate. Rev. Stat., chap. 2, sees. 1, 2.
SEC. 5919. In suits to set aside fraudulent conveyances, and to obtain
equitable garnishments, it shall not be necessary for the plaintiff to obtain
judgment at law in order to prove insolvency, but in such cases insolvency may
be proved by any competent testimony, so that only one suit shall be necessary
in order to obtain the proper relief. Act March 13, 1887 (e5).
Sec. 5920. In all cases where suits may be instituted, and either plaintiff
or defendant may die pending the same, it shall be lawful for the court before
which such suit or suits may be pending, on the motion of any party inter
ested, to appoint a special administrator, in whose name the cause shall be
revived, and said suit or suits shall progress, in all respects, in his name with
like effect as if the plaintiff or defendant (as the case may be) had remained in
full life (f5).
Sec. 5921. The powers of such special administrator shall extend and be
confined alone to the mere prosecution or defense of the particular suit or suits
he may be appointed by the court to prosecute or defend.
Sec. 5922. No special administrator shall be appointed, as in this act
prescribed, where there is a general administrator (g5). No such special
administrator or executor shall be liable for costs of the suit, for the manage
ment whereof he may be appsinted. Act January 10, 1851.
SEC. 5923. Where there are several plaintiffs or defendants in an action,
and one of them dies, or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the
(d5) See Brunson v. Martin, 17—270.
(c5) See note (ee) under this section repeated as 3131.
(15) See Lawrence v. La Cade, 46—378.
(g5) See Grace v. Neel, 41—165.
right of action survives to or against the remaining parties, the action may pro
ceed, the death of the party or the cessation of his powers being stated on the
record;
Sec. 5924. Where one of several plaintiffs or defendants dies, or his powers
as a personal representative cease, if the cause of action does not admit of sur
vivorship, and the court is of opinion that the merits of the controversy can be
properly determined, and the principles applicable to the case fully settled, it
may proceed to try the cause as between the remaining parties; but the judg
ment shall not prejudice any who were not parties at the time of the trial,
Sec. 5925. Where one of the parties to an action dies, or his powers as a
personal representative cease, before the judgment, if the right of action survives
in favor of or against his representatives or successors, the action may be revived
and proceed in their names.
Sec. 5926. The revivor shall be by an order of the court, that the action
be revived in the names of the representatives or successor of the party who
died, or whose powers ceased, and proceed in favor of or against them (h5).
Sec. 5927. The order may be made on the motion of the adverse party,
or of the representatives or successor of the party who died, or whose powers
ceased, suggesting his death or the cessation of his powers, which, with the
names and capacities of his representatives or successor, shall be stated in the
order.
Sec. 5928. If the order is made by the consent of the parties, the action
shall forthwith stand revived ; and, if not made by consent, the order shall be
served in the same manner as a summons upon the party adverse to the one
making the motion. And at the first term, commencing not less than ten days
after such service, the party on whom it is made may show cause against the
revivor, and, if sufficient cause is not then shown, the cause shall stand revived.
Sec. 5929. If ten days' notice has been given to the representatives or
successor of the party who died, or whose powers ceased, of the motion by the
adverse party for an order to revive the action in their names, or to the adverse
party, where the motion is by such representative or successor, and due return is
made of the service of the notice, the court may, if sufficient cause is not shown
to the contrary, make an order reviving the action in the names of such parties,
whereupon the action shall stand revived (i5).
Sec. 5930. Where it appears to the court, by the affidavit of the plaintiff,
that the representatives of the defendant, or any of them, in whose name the
action is ordered to be revived, are non-residents of this state, or have left the
same to avoid the service of the order, or have been absent therefrom four
months, or so conceal themselves that the order can not be served upon them,
or that the names of the heirs of the defendant against whom the action is
ordered to he revived, or some of them, are unknown to the affiant, an order may
be made by the court warning such representatives or unknown heirs to appear
on the first day of its next term and show cause why the action should not be
revived against them. The parties so warned shall be deemed constructively
served with a copy of the order of revivor ten days before the term at which
(h5) An order of revivor must be served on a minor in the same way that a summons
must be served. Haley v. Taylor, 39—106.
(i5) For form of order and practice under this and succeeding sections, see McNutt 9.
State, 48—30.
they are warned to appear; and, if sufficient cause is not shown to the contrary,
the action shall, at that term, stand revived.
Sec. 5931. Upon the death of a plaintiff in an action, it may ' be revived
in the name of his representatives, to whom his right has passed. Where his
right has passed to his personal representative, the revivor shall be in his
name (35) ; where it has passed to his heirs, or to his devisees, who could sup
port the action if brought anew, the revivor may be in their names.
Sec. 5932. Upon the death of a defendant in an action wherein the right,
or any part thereof, survives against his personal representative, the revivor
shall be against him ; and it may also be against the heirs or devisees of the
defendant, or both ; and where one year has elapsed after the death of the
defendant, and no person has qualified as his personal representative, the action
may be revived, and proceed against his heirs or devisees, or both.
Sec. 5933. Upon the death of a defendant in an action for the recovery of
real property only, or which concerns only his rights or claims to such property,
the action may be revived against his heirs or devisees, or both, and an order
therefor may be forthwith made in the manner directed in the preceding sec
tions.
Sec. 5934. An order to revive an action against the personal representa
tives of a defendant, or against him and the heirs or devisees of the defendant,
can not be made, unless by consent, until after six months from the qualifica
tion of the personal representative (k5).
Sec. 5935- An order to revive an action against the representatives or
successor of a defendant shall not be made without the consent of such repre
sentatives or successor, unless in one year from the time it could have been first
made.
Sec. 5936. An order to revive an action in the names of the representa
tives or successor of a plaintiff may be made forthwith, but shall not be made
without the consent of the defendant after the expiration of one year from the
time the order might have been first made, except that, where the defendant
shall also have died or his powers have ceased in the meantime, the order of
revivor on both sides may be made in the period limited in the last section.
Sec. 5937; When it appears to the court by affidavit that either party to
an action has been dead, or, where he sues or is sued as a personal representa
tive, that his powers have ceased for a period so long that the action can not be
revived in the names of his representatives or successor without the consent of
both parties, it shall order the action to be stricken from the docket.
Sec. 5938. At any term of the court succeeding the death of the plaintiff,
whilst the action remains on the docket, the defendant having given to the
plaintiff's proper representatives, in whose names the action might be revived,
ten days' notice of the application therefor, may have an order to strike the
action from the docket, and for costs against the estate of the plaintiff, unless
the action is forthwith revived.
Sec. 5939. When, by the provisions of the preceding sections, an action
stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be postposed by reason of the revivor,
(j5) See Martin v. Tyree,41—314; see Crane v. Crane, 51—287.
(k5) This section refers to the final, not the conditional, order of revivor. McNutt v.
State, 48-30.
if the action would have stood for trial at the term the revivor is complete, had
no death or cessation of powers taken place. Civil Code, sees. 549-565.
SEC. 5940. Real property may be conveyed by a commissioner appointed
by the court:
First. Where, by the judgment in an action, a party is ordered to convey
such property to another.
Second. Where such property has been sold under a judgment or order of
the court, and the purchase money paid.
SEC. 5941. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer to the judgment,
orders and proceedings authorizing the conveyance as that the same may be
readily found.
SEC. 5942. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment shall pass to
the grantee the title of the parties ordered .to convey the land.
Sec. 5943. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale ordered by the
court shall pass to the grantee the title of all the parties to the action or pro
ceeding.
Sec. 5944. After a conveyance is ordered or adjudged, if any of the par
ties shall die, it shall not be necessary to revive the action, but the conveyance,
in pursuance of the judgment or order, shall be effectual to pass the title, not
withstanding the death of any of the parties.
Sec. 5945. A conveyance by a commissioner shall not pass any right
until it has been examined and approved by the court, which approval shall be
indorsed on the conveyance and recorded with it (I5).
Sec. 5946. It shall be necessary for the conveyance to be signed by the
commissioner only, without affixing the names of the parties whose title is con
veyed ; but the names of such parties shall be recited in the body of the convey
ance.
Sec. 5947. The conveyance shall be recorded in the office in which, by
law, it should have been recorded had it been made by the parties whose title is
conveyed by it. Civil Code, sees. 42S-435.
MASTERS IN CHANCERY (m5).
Sec. 5948. Each master in chancery shall have power to take testimony
and to administer oaths and to compel the attendance of witnesses in all matter*
referred to him, and to do and perform all such other ministerial acts as are
commonly performed by a master in chancery.
Sec. 5949. Every master, before entering on the duties of his appoint
ment, shall be sworn, in open court, faithfully and impartially to pertorm the
duties of his appointment, which shall be entered on the minutes.
Sec. 5950. All matters of account pending in chancery may be referred
by the court to the master, and he shall audit and adjust the same, and make
report thereof to the court (115).
(16) Until confirmed, the sale is not completed. Wells v. Rice, 34—346.
(m5) The circuit cleric is, ex officio, master. Sec. 572.
(n5) See Clark v. Ilershey, 62—473.
Sec. 595 1 . When any matter shall be referred to the master, or he is required
to take testimony in a cause, he shall appoint the time and place for proceeding
therein, and give notice thereof, in writing, to the parties or their solicitors, and
if either party, being notified, shall fail to appear, he may proceed ex -parte (05).
SEC. 5952. The master may adjourn his sittings from time to time,
and issue attachments to compel the attendance of witnesses who, being sum
moned, failed to attend.
Sec. 5953- ^e shall reduce to writing the testimony of all witnesses
examined by him, and shall have power to commit such witnesses as may refuse
to testify.
SEC. 5954. Depositions, regularly taken in a cause, may be read in evi
dence before the master, where the cause has been referred to him.
Sec. 5955. When accounts have been referred to the master, after having
heard the testimony adduced by the parties, he shall state them truly, according
to his opinion, and, if the parties require it, also according to the views of each
of them.
Sec. 5956. If either party shall except to the competency of any witness,
or to the admission or exclusion of any evidence, the master, if required, shall
state the particulars of the exceptions in his report.
SEC. 5957. The master shall report on all cases referred to him as speedily
as possible, reciting in his report the order of the court referring the cause to
him, the notice to the parties, the time and place of stating the account or taking
depositions, and all other proceedings had therein, and return the same, together
with the testimony, to the court. The report shall be in sheets, neatly and
securely stitched together (p5).
SEC. 5958. All exceptions to the master's report shall be in writing, and
shall be made within four days after the first day of the term of the court at which
the report is made, if the term so long continue, and, if not, before the end of
the term, and shall be disposed of without delay.
Sec. 5959. The report shall stand good, except such parts as are excepted
to, unless it shall appear on the face of the report or from the evidence in the
cause that it is erroneous.
SEC. 5960. Exceptions may be allowed to the master's report where he
admitted incompetent testimony, or where he excluded competent testimony, or
for any other cause which may be adjudged good by the court, or when it shall
be apparent from the face of the report that injustice has been done.
Sec. 5961. When exceptions are allowed, the court may refer the report
to the master again, with such instructions as may be necessary.
SEC. 5962. In all cases where no exceptions are filed to the master's report
within the time prescribed in this act, or where the exceptions have been over
ruled, a decree shall be entered up accordingly.
Sec. 5963. Where exceptions have been allowed to the master's report,
and the account shall have been restated by the court or the master, a decree
shall be entered accordingly. Rev. Stat., chap. 23, sees. 71-89, as ameuded by
act April 16, 1873.
(o5) As to who may serve notice, see Sec. 5890; mode of taking testimony before master,
see Johnson v. Meyer, No. 1, 51—437.
(p5) See note (q5).
Sec. 5964. Whenever it shall not be forbidden by law, and shall be deemed
fair and proper in any case in equity, the court, judge or chancellor shall appoint
some prudent and discreet person as receiver, who shall take an oath faithfully,
impartially, diligently and truly to execute the trust reposed in him, and
shall also give bond, with good and suffiicient security, to be approved by the
court or judge or chancellor, in such sum as may be deemed sufficient, to the
State of Arkansas, for the benefit of all persons in interest, conditioned that he
will faithfully discharge the duties^ incumbent on him, and faithfully account for
and pay into court, at such times as the court or law may prescribe, or according
to the order of the court, all moneys or assets which shall come to his hands as
such receiver in the case, which shall be filed, and a certified copy thereof shall
be received as evidence in all courts (r5).
SEC. 5965. Additional bonds may be required and taken at any time when
the same shall be necessary, and in such amounts as shall be sufficient to secure
a faithful performance of the trust ; and such receiver may be appointed either
before or after answer or after a decree, and affidavits to obtain such appoint
ment shall not be required when it appears by other means to the satisfaction of
the court, judge or chancellor that such appointment should be made.
SEC. 5966. If it shall be necessary, more receivers than one may be
appointed, who shall take an oath and give bond, and be subject to the duties,
liabilities, responsibilities and restrictions specified in this act.
Sec. 5967. After the receiver shall take the oath and give bond as required
by this act, he shall possesss all the powers which a receiver in a court of chan
cery can have or possess, unless otherwise provided in this act.
SEC. 5968. In all cases where it shall be necessary or proper for a receiver
to collect debts by suit, he may sue in his own name, but all moneys collected
by him shall be accounted for and paid into court, or be subject to the order
of the court, judge or chancellor; and said receiver shall have power to employ
attorneys and make to them a reasonable allowance for services, and to be paid
out of the funds collected by him.
Sec. 5969. -No receiver shall be required to give security in any appeal or
writ of error, or to obtain an injunction in any suit it may be his duty to prose
cute or defend, but an appeal taken or writ of error sued out by him shall, if>so
facto, operate as a supersedeas.
Sec. 5970. Whenever, in any case, a receiver shall be appointed for a'
corporation or the trustees thereof, or any co-partnership or joint stock company,
and the order or decree of the court, judge or chancellor shall be that the lands,
tenements, goods, chattels, funds, assets, moneys, credits, choses in action,
rights and interests of every kind, name and nature, either in law or equity, or
any part thereof, belonging to the same, shall be placed in the hands of such
receiver, he shall from thenceforward, until the further order or decree of the
court, judge or chancellor, have full possession, custody and control thereof, and
shall be vested with the title, so far as it shall be necessary to collect debts, pre
serve the assets and property for the benefit of creditors and all persons
(q5) See note (s5) post.
(r5) See Sec. 5978.
interested, and may and shall bring and prosecute and defend all suits in his
own name that may be necessary for that purpose.
Sec. 5971. In all suits that may be pending in any court, prosecuted by
or brought against such corporations, or trustees, or co-partnership, or joint stock
company, or in which either may be interested, such receiver may be substituted
as a party, on his own application, without process or revivor, and prosecute or
defend the same with like effect as the original parties might or could do, and
suits may progress against him by substitution in the same manner.
SEC. 5972. The provisions of the three preceding sections shall apply to
cases between individuals with like effect, as above declared.
Sec. 5973. Receivers may be removed at any time by the court, judge or
chancellor, when it shall satisfactorily appear that they have failed to discharge
any duty incumbent on them, or for other sufficient cause, and others appointed
who shall be subject to the provisions of this act, and this may be done upon the
motion of any person interested, either as party, creditor or otherwise.
SEC. 5974- Receivers shall make .report of their proceedings every six
months, or oftener, if required by the court, judge or chancellor, and the per
formance of this duty may be enforced by attachment, sequestration, or other
proper and effectual means, and they shall have credit for all taxes, expenses,
attorney's fees and necessary disbursements, in the execution of their trusts, and
such reasonable and proper compensation for their own services as the court,
judge or chancellor may allow, to be paid out of the trust fund as part of the
costs and expenses, and the court, judge or chancellor shall pass on their
accounts, and a confirmation thereof shall be conclusive against all persons what
soever, and not subject to be reinvestigated, except for actual fraud (S5). Act
yanuary 15, 1857.
SEC. 5975. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of
property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim, or between
partners or others jointly owning or interested in any property or fund, on the
application of plaintiff or of any party whose right to or interest in the property
or fund or the proceeds thereof is probable, and where it is shown that the prop
erty or fund is in danger of being lost, removed or materially injured, the court
may appoint a receiver to take charge thereof during the pendency of the action,
and may order and coerce the delivery of it to him (15).
SEC. 5976. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of his mortgage
and the sale of the mortgaged property, a receiver may in like manner be
appointed where it appears that the mortgaged property is in danger of being
lost, removed or materially injured, or that the condition of the mortgage has
not been performed, and that the property is probably insufficient to discharge
the mortgage debt.
SEC. 5977. No party or attorney, or person interested in an action, shall
be appointed receiver therein.
SEC. 5978. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn to
perform them faithfully, and, with one or more sureties approved by the court,
execute a bond to such person and in such sum as the court shall direct, to the
(86) This act was not repealed by the code. Franklin v. Meyer, 36—96.
(t6) A receiver may be appointed to take charge of choses in action or property attached
or in the hands of garnishee. Secs. 367, 368.
effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and
obey the orders of the court therein (U5).
Sec. 5979. The receiver has, under the control of the court, power to bring
and defend actions, to take and keep possession of the property, to receive rents,
collect debts, and generally do such acts respecting the property as the court
may authorize. Civil Code, sees. 323-327.
SEC. 5980. Where it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a
party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money, or other
thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by
him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to another party,
the court may order the same to be deposited in court, or delivered to such party,
with or without security, subject to the further direction of the court.
■ Sec. 5981. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court has ordered
the deposit or delivery of money or other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the
court, besides punishing the disobedience, may make an order requiring the
sheriff to take the money or thing, and deposit or deliver it in conformity with
its directions.
Sec. 5982. The court may direct the sheriff to keep safely any property
delivered pursuant to the foregoing provisions, and may allow him the necessary
expenses attending the same, to be paid by such party as the court shall direct
and taxed in the costs of the action.
SEC. 5983. It may confide to the sheriff money deposited or paid into
court, which shall be kept by him under the same requirements and responsibili
ties of himself and his sureties as are provided by law in respect to money
deposited in lieu of bail.
Sec. 59S4. A court sitting in a county in which, or in any county adjoin
ing which, there is a bank, or a branch of a bank, created by the laws of this
state or the United States, transacting regular banking business, may order
money paid into court to be deposited in such bank or branch to the credit of
the court, in the action or proceeding in which the money was paid. Money so
deposited shall be paid only upon the check of the clerk of the court annexed to
its certified order for the payment, and in favor of the person to whom the order
directs the payment to be made.
Sec. 59S5. Money deposited or paid into the court in any action shall not
be loaned out by the court, unless with the consent of all the parties having an
interest in or making claim to the same. Ib., sees. 32S-333.
Sec. 5986. When any bond provided for by law is adjudged to be
defective, a new and sufficient one may be executed in such reasonable time as
the court may fix, with the same effect as if originally executed.
SEC. 59S7. The ministerial officer whose duty it is to take a surety in any
bond provided for by law shall have the right to require the person offered as
surety to make affidavit of his qualification, which affidavit may be made before
(u5) See Sec. 5964.
such officer ; but any person interested may contest the sufficiency of such surety
upon the making of such affidavit. Provided, it is made to appear that such
surety is not sufficient, and an officer who, in good faith, complies with this
section shall be exempt from any liability to which he might otherwise be subject
for taking insufficient surety.
Sec. 5988. The surety in every bond provided for by law must be a resi
dent of this state, and worth double the sum to be secured beyond the amount
of his debts, and have property liable to execution in this state equal to the
sum to be secured. Where there are two or more sureties in the same bond
they must, in the aggregate, have the qualifications prescribed in this section
(v5). Ib., sees. 785-787.
Sec. 5989. No attorney, solicitor or counselor at law or in equity, clerk,
sheriff or other person concerned in the execution of any process shall become
bail in any civil or criminal case without leave of the court, which shall be
entered of record. Rev. Stat., chap. 116, sec. 23.
Sec. 5990. The. bond of no executor, administrator or guardian, nor any
prosecution, appeal, non-resident or attachment bond, nor any other statutory
bond of any party, plaintiff or defendant in any court, nor any recognizance in
any criminal cause, shall be declared null and void for the want of form. Pro
vided, the intent of the same can be plainly deducible from the body of such
bond or recognizance. Act January 15, 1857.
Sec. 5991. All writs and other judicial process shall run in the name of
the State of Arkansas, bear teste and be signed by the clerks of the respective
courts from which they issue. Art. VII, sec. 49, Const.
Sec. 5992. All such writs shall be sealed with the judicial seal of such court.
Sec. 5993. All writs and process issued by any judge or justice of the
peace, or other officer authorized to issue the same, shall run in the name of the
State of Arkansas, and be signed by the officer issuing the same.
Sec. 5994. When any writ or other process shall not be executed, the
clerk, on the application of the party suing out the same, shall issue an alias,
pluries or other proper process without an order of the court for that purpose.
Rev. Stat., chap. 159, sees. 2, 3, 8.
Sec. 5995. No summons or order for a provisional remedy shall be issued
by the clerk in any action before the plaintiff's complaint or petition therein is
filed in his office.
Sec. 5996. It shall be no objection to any process, writ, summons, affi
davit or order for a provisional remedy, that it was issued, made or is dated on a
holiday ; nor shall it be an objection to any bond given by or for any party to an
action, or taken by an officer in the course of the same, that it was made or is
dated on any such day.
Sec. 5997. A summons or order for a provisional remedy may be issued
on any holiday, except Sunday, and on Sunday where an affidavit of the plaintiff
(v6) Corporations may under certain conditions become such sureties. See chap.
LXXXVUI, div. V, sees. 4160-4164.
(w5) Courts always have control over their own process. Hinkle v. Ball, 34—177; King v.
Clay, lb., 291.
or some other person is made to the effect that, unless it is issued on that day,
there is reasonable cause to believe that it can not be executed.
Sec. 5998. An order of attachment, or for the delivery of property, may
be executed on any holiday except Sunday, and on Sunday when the officer hav
ing the process believes, or an affidavit of the pi .intiff or some other person is
made to the effect that the affiant believes, that the property is about to be con
cealed or removed, or that the process can not be executed after such holiday.
Sec. 5999. A summons, subpoena, notice, order of arrest or of injunction
may be executed on any holiday, except Sunday, and on Sunday where the
officer having the process believes, or an affidavit of the plaintiff or some other
person is made to the effect that affiant believes, that the process can not be exe
cuted after such holiday.
Sec. 6000. The defendant shall have no privilege of exemption from the
service of the process mentioned in the last section, except from an arrest by
reason of his attendance at any muster, election or order of survey, or as a wit
ness at any court or other place.
Sec. 6001. An order for a provisional remedy or any other process, in an
action wherein the sheriff is a party or is interested, shall be directed to the
coroner, or, if he is interested, to some constable.
Sec. 6002. The court, for good cause, may appoint a person to serve a
particular process or order, who shall have the same power to execute it which a
sheriff has. The person may be appointed on the motion of the party obtain
ing the process or order, and the return must be verified by his affidavit. He
shall be entitled to the fees allowed to the sheriff for similar services. Civil
Code, sees. 762-769.
Sec. 6003. Every officer to whom any writ shall be delivered to be exe
cuted shall indorse thereon the time when such writ came to his hands, and
shall make return thereof in writing, and shall sign his name to such return,
and set out how and in what manner he executed the same. Rev. Slat., chap.
1 16, sec. 20.
