
1. Power of officers to call upon, and on 2., Penalty for refusal or neglect to obey,
what persons.
and how recovered.
Sec. 1. In all cases where, by tbe common law or any statute of
this State, any officer is authorized to execute any process, he may call
to his aid all free, white male inhabitants above the age of twentyone
years, of the^county in which such officer is authorized to act.
Sec 2. , If any person shall refuse or neglect to obey the summons
of auy such officer, the person so neglecting or refusing shall be 6ned
in any sum not less than ten nor more than one hundred dollars, to be
recovered by indictment.
[Approved : November 18, 183?.]

CHAPTER 116.
PRACTICE AT LAW.
Sect(ON
Section
12. Clerk may issue alias, &c. without or
INSTITUTION OF' SUIT. WRIT ORIGINAL.
1. Suits where and how instituted.
der of court.
2. Declaration, &c. to be filed before writ
issued, but not to accompany writ.
SERVICE.
3. Hate and return day of writ.
13. Summons, how executed14. When offer of service sufficient.
4. Suits where brought.
5. Where against several defendants.
15. Capias how execute*!.
16. Defendant discharged on giving bond,
6. Local actions, where instituted, and
writ where to run.
and form thereof.
17. When officer to be made co defendant.
. 7. Summons when to issue, and form of.
IS. Endorsement of return, to be made hy
8. Capias to issue on order of court, judge
or clerk.
clerk. to sufficiency of bail or
19. Exceptions
9. No such order to be made except on
affidavit.
bail bond, when determined.
20. Endorsement and return to be made on
10. Amount due, how ascertained in affi
davit.
writ by officer executing.
1 1 . Form and endorsement of capias.
21. Notice?, by whom served.
Section
22. How and by whom served, and how re
turned,
BAIL.
23- What officers not to become bail, with
out leave of court on record.
24. When bail reduced or vacated.
25. Notice of application therefor to be
given.
26. Sci-fa. on bail bond forfeited, and pro
ceedings thereon,
27. Two rum cst$ equivalent to service.
28. Time allowed for surrender of princi
pal.
29. Surrender) when to be made.
30. Proceedings upon such surrender.
31. Proceedings against defendant after
sarrender. '
32. No suit or sci.fa. to be brought on the
bail bond, till after execution re
turned.
33. Pleadings by bail, in action against
> them.
34. Death of principal, when to exonerate
bail.
35. On surrender after commencement of
suit against bail, bail to pay costs.
36. Bail to have judgment against princi
pal for money paid by motion.
37. Remedy of officer when made co-de
fendant. MINOKS, SUITS BY ANP AGAIItST.
38. How commenced by and prosecuted.
39. Next friend how appointed.
40. Consent of next friend and order of
appointment to be filed.
41. Guardian or next friend responsible for
costs.42. Guardian io be appointed for minor de
fendant.
43. Appointment how made.
44. Guardian for defendant not liable for
coats.
y *
PLEADING, &C.
45. Writ executed thirty days before re
turn day, to.be tried at first term.
46. When tried in other cases.
47. Proceedings when some defendants are
served, and some not, served in due
time.
48. Effect of discontinuance in such case, ,
as to liability of defendant
49. Essoigne and wager of law abolished ,
and suit not delayed for nonage.
50. Parties lb appear in person or by attoraey, Warrant of attorney not re
quired,
'*.
51. Pleadings, how signed, endorsed and
filed.
02. Plea to merits, at what time to be filed.
53. At what time, when writ served less
than thirty and more than fifteen days
before return day. ' • '
54. Replications, when to be filed.
55.- Subsequent pleadings, "when" to be filed.
56. Copy of pleadings-filed in vacation to
' be served on adverse party or attor
ney.
ST. Similiters, find joinders in demurrer fil
ed at any time, and without copy,
53. Courts may extend time for pleading.
59. Ancient forms and terms of pleading
not necessary to be observed.
60. Judgment on, and what defects regard
ed upon.
61 . ' On demurrer, what delects &c. to be
amended by the court*.
62. May be joint and several.
€3. Dilatory pleas and demurrers, when to
be determined.
BECLABATIOIT.
64. May be against, alt or part, when plain tiff has, cause of action against sev
eral,
'■ - ■ '
85. Averments in, when brought on in
strument lost or destroyed.
- ,
€6. In debt of assumpsit on statute.
€7. In detinue or trover on statute.
68. Several pleas allowed.
G9. Liability of persons shed as executors,
administrators, or executors de son
tort.
• ■
70. Payment may be pleaded in bar of ac
tion "on specialty or judgment, or
of sci-fa. on judgment.
71. Pleading; in action against officer or
person assisting him,
i
72. Pleading in action against any person
for an act donesby authority of stat
ute.
103. How, when charged to have been ex
ecuted by testator or intestate.
104. Nil debet and non assumpsit may be
pleaded to actions on writings not
under seal, but execution thereof sot
put in issue.
105. Payment ad and post diem may be
pleaded.
EXCEPTIONS.
106. Judge to sign hills of, or certify the
cause of his refusal.
107. On refusal of judge, to be signed by
three bystandrse.
108. Judge refusing to permit bill of excep
tions to be filed, parlies to take affi
davits,
&c< court to admit bills
-> of
• 109. When supreme
exceptions as part of the record, and
truth of, how tested.
110. Nonsuit not allowed, after jury retir
ing, or submission of cause to the
court. party may be examined as to
111. Adverse
loss of instrument of writing, when.
AMENDMENT.
86. Affidavit for continuance, form of.
U2. General power of, given to court.
87. Either party continuing at second term, 113.
If
made
in
matterofsubstance, time to
to be ready for trial at third.
be
given
to answer.
PRODUCTION OF BOOKS, PAPERS, &C.
(14. What process
not amended as to return
88. May be compelled from parties to suit.
day.defects
•. amended afterjudgment.
(
89. Petition therefor, and order thereupon. 115. What
90. When such order may be vacated.
116. Returns, how amended.
,
91. Proceedings when party refuses t6 obey 117.
Defects in awardingvenire, how amend
such order.
ed.
92. Limitation of power of court in this 118. What.defects
cured by verdict.
behalf.
119. And
amended.
DISCOVERY.
120.
Clerkwhere
or officer
of court not to amend
93. Allowed*, where it would be granted in
without
order
of court.
equity. ' \
121. Application of these provisions for a
94. Petition therefor, and interrogatories.
mendments.
95. Order thereupon.
NEW TRIALS, AND ARRESTS OF JUDGMENT.
96. Proceedings thereon.
97. Answer or petition, when and how to 122. Motions for, when lo be made,and rea
sons for, to be in writing.
be evidence.
123. Order of making them.
TBJAL.
124. How many new trials,allowed.
98- Issues of fact, how tried.
Costs of new trial, how paid.
99. Three peremptory challenges allowed 125.
126. Amendments after arrest of judgment,
to each party.
and costs
100. What persons shall not be jurors.
127. Verdict
goodhow
whenpaid.
entiredamagesgiT101. Imperfect counts, when stricken out, on
en on several courts, one being de
.motion of plaintiff.
fective.
102. Execution of instrument or note, when , IS8. Effect
of verdict in detinue not finding
foundation of action, how put in
all that is claimed.

SECTION
73. Replication to plea in such case, issue
and evidence thereon.
74. Consideration ofnote under seal maybe
impeached by special plea.
75. Such plea to be verified by affidavit.
76. Several replications or rejoinders may
be allowed by the court.
77. Effect of failure to plead in due time.
78. Effect of failure to reply in due time.
7/9. Practice when of several defendants
some plead and ethers make default.
80. When court to assess damages upon
judgment by default or on demurrer.
81. When to be assessed by a jury:
62. Issues of law to be first determined.
CONTINUANCES.
83. Suits not disposed of, to be continued
at first term, and disposed>of at sec
ond.
84. Allowed at first term for good cause
shown, and costs thereof, how paid.
85. No suit to be twice continued for same.

- 129. Motion to set aside judgment, in what
and when by attorney, warrant to
time to be made.
be filed.
130. Motions under this caption, when to 133. Affidavit required.
be determined.
139. Judgment by, to be a release of errors.
JUDGMENTS.
MO. Powers of clerks as to, and generally
131. To be a Hen, and how I. mil:
as judicial officers.
133. Consolidation of sails, when allowed.
APPEALS*
133. When several suits < unnecessarily 141. To whom allowed.
brought, costs how adjudged.
142. Requisites to allowance of.
134. Dismissal uf suits, now allowed.
143. When to be a slay of execution.
INTERPRETERS.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
135. Courts may appoint—and to be sworn. 144. Docket to be made out, and listof cases
136. Papers read in evidence may be carried
put up by clerkfrom bar by jury.
145. Duty of clerk to issue subposnas, and
CONFESSIONpenalty for any neglect of duty un
137. Or judgment allowed without process
der this caption.
Sec. 1. Suits at Jaw may be commenced in any of the circuit
courts of this State, by filing in the office of the clerk of such court a
declaration, petition, or statement in writing,, setting fortbthe plaintiff's
cause of action, and by the voluntary appearance of the defendant, or
by filing such declaration, petition or statement in such office and suing
out thereon a writ of summons or capias ad respondendum against the
person, or of attachment against the property of the defendant.
Sec. 2. No original writ shall be issued until the declaration, pe
tition or statement be filed in the clerk's office ; and the writ when is
sued shall be delivered toYthe officer charged with the execution there
of; but in no case shall the declaration, petition or statement accom
pany the writ. It shall remain on file in the clerk's office, subject to
the examination and inspection of all parties.
Sec. 3. Every original writ shall be dated on the day it issues,
and shall be made returnable to the first term of the court thereafter ;
but if the first day of such term be. within fifteen days thereafter, then
such writ shall be made returnable on the.first day of the second term.
Sec 4. Suits instituted either by suratpons or capias shall be
brought, where the defendant is a resident of this State, either in the
county in which the defendant resides, or in the county in which the
plaintiff resides, and the defendant may be found : but no person who
is a resident of this State, and who has not absconded from bis usual
place of abode, shall be arrested on a capias in any county other than
that of which he is a resident ; and suits commenced by attachment
against the property of any person, shall be brought in the county in
which such property may be found.
Sec. 5. Where there are several defendants in a suit instituted by
summons or capias, and they reside in different1 counties, the suit may
be brought in either of such counties, and a separate writ may be is
sued to each county against such of the defendants as reside therein ;
and when a defendant in a suit instituted by attachment, has property
in several counties, separate writs of attachment may be issued to each
county ; and where there are several defendants in a suit, a capias
may be issued against any one or more of them that are liable thereto,
and a summons may be issued against the others.
Sec. 6. In all actions for trespass committed on lands, and all
other actions deemed local at common law, the original writ may be
issued from the county where the injury was committed, to any other
county of this State where the defendant may be found ; but in de
claring in any such action, the plaintiff shall not set forth any thing or
matter which would be the subject of a transitory action.
Sec. 7. The original writ, in all cases where it is not otherwise
directed by law, shall be a summons,, which shall charge the officer
having charge of the execution thereof, to summon the defendant to be
and appear in court on the return of such writ, and at a,place to be
specified in such writ, to answer the complaint of the plaintiff.
Sec. 8. A tapias ad respondendum may be issued when it is al
lowed by the court out of which it is to be issued, or by any judge or
clerk thereof in vacation, by an order in writing gtanting such writ ;
which order shall be endorsed on the declaration, petition or state
ment. .. ". . i '

Sec. 9. No such order shall be made unless the court or officer
be satisfied by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or some other person for
him, that the plaintiff has a subsisting and unsatisfied cause of action
against the defendant, and that the defendant has absconded from his
usual place of abode, or that he is about to remove out of the State,
or that the..defendant is about to defraud him of his just demands, or
that the plaintiff will be .in danger of losing his debuuoJess the defend
ant is held to bail.
>
I, '• .
Sec. 10. When the amount of the plaintiff's demand is liquidated,
the amount must be specified in the affidavit ; and in all other cases
the facts and circumstances of the case must be stated in the affidavit,
so as to enable the court or officer to determine the amount in which
bail ought to be given.
Sec. 11. A capias ad respondendum shall command the officer
charged with the execution thereof, to take and safely keep the de
fendant, so that he may have, his body before the court on the return
day of the writ, and at a place, to be specified in such writ, to answer
the complaint of the plaintiff; and the officer issuing such writ of
capias shall endorse thereon the amount in which the defendant shall
be required to give- bail.
Sec. 12. If in any suit the original process shall not be returned
executed on the return day thereof, the clerk may issue an alias, pluries, or other process, without an order of the court.' .
Sec 13. A summons may be executed either by reading the writ
to the defendant, or by delivering him a copy- thereof, or by leaving a
copy thereof at his usual place of abode with some white person of the
family over fifteen years of dge.
Sec. 14. In all cases where the defendant shall refuse to hear
such writ read, or to receive a copy, thereof, the offer of the officer to
read the same, or to deliver a copy thereof, shall be a sufficient service
of the writ.
• >. „
<; •
Sec 15. The officer charged with the execution of a capias shall
execute the same by arresting the defendant, and reading the writ to
him ; or by delivering him a copy thereof, and committing him to the
common jail of the county, thereto remain until discharged according
to law.
. ■■ ■( , y .
■ >,
Sec 16. Every defendant so arrested, shall be discharged from
' such arrest upon his entering into bond to the plaintiff with sufficient
security in a sum equal to tjie sum endorsed on the writ ; and for the
purpose of avoiding errors in taking the same, the condition of such
bond shall be substantially in the following form : " The condition of
the above obligation is such, that whereas, A. B. has lately sued out
of the circuit court of the countyof — , a certain writ of capias ad
respondendum in a eertain action of
against C. D. returnable to
■the next term of said court, to be holdeo at
, in said county on
the
day of
next ensuing the date hereof ; now, if the said
C. D. shall be and appear at the said court to be holden at ——, on
the said
day of
next ensuing the date hereof ; and if judg
ment be given against him at that or any subsequent term of said<:ourt,
shall pay the debt and damages (or damages alone) and costs of suit
or surrender himself in execution, or his securities shall do it for him ;
then the above obligation to be void and of no effect, otherwise to re
main in full force and virtue ;" and such bond shall be returned with
the writ.
, Sec 17. Every officer charged with the execution of any writ of
capias ad respondendum, may be made a co-defendant in the suit in
which such writ issned, and may defend the same, and shall be liable
to the like judgment therein with the original defendant, in either of
the following cases : First, when he shall return the writ executed, and
shall not have taken, nor shall have the defendant according to the de
mand of the writ; or, second, where he fails to return the writ and
the bail bond as requited by this act; or, third, where the bail or the
bond taken by him shall be adjudged insufficient, and the defendant
being ruled thereto, fails to perfect the same.
Sec 18. The clerk shall endorse on aH writs of capias, and on all
bail bonds, the time when they are returned by the officer charged
with the execution of such writ.'
Sec. 19. AH exceptions to the sufficiency of bail or bail bonds,
shall be determined at the term of the court to which the writ on which
bail is taken is returnable.
Sec. 20. Every officer to whom any writ shall be delivered to be
executed shall endorse thereon the time when such writ came to his
hands, and shall make return thereof in writing, and shall sign his name
to such return, and set out how and in "what manner he executed the
same. ■ <• •.
Sec. 21. Whenever in the commencement or progress of any suit
it shall be necessary to serve any notice on either party to such suit,
such notice may be served either, first, by an officer authorized by law
■to serve original process of the court in which such suit is to be brought
or may be pending; or, second, by any person who would Be acompetent witness upon the trial of such suit.
Sec 22. Every such notice may be served in like manner as a
writ of summons, and the return of such notice, when made by an offi
cer, or wlien made by any other person, and verified by the affidavit
of such person, shall be received as evidence of the facts therein sta
ted, subject to be repelled by contrary proof ; and such notice may
be served either on the party, or his attorney of record.
Sec 23. No attorney, solicitor or counsellor at law or in equity,
clerk, sheriff or other person, concerned in the execution of any pro
cess, shall become bail in any civil or criminal case without leave of
the court, which shall be entered of record.
Sec. 24. The court out of which any writ of capias ad respon
dendum may have been issued, or any judge thereof in vacation may re
duce the amount for which bail may have been required ; and the court
at any time during the pendency of the writ, if satisfied that bail ought not to have been required, may vacate the order allowing the capias,
and -may direct the bail bond to be cancelled, or the defendant to b«
discharged from imprisonment ; and in every such case shall order his
appearance to be accepted, and the case proceeded in in all things as
if the original writ had been a summons.
Sec 25. No application for relief under the provisions of the pre
ceding section shall be allowed unless reasonable notice in writing, of
such application, shall have been given to the plaintiff or his attorney.
Sec. 26. If the bail bond be forfeited, tbe plaintiff may have a
scire faqias thereon, which shall be directed to the proper officer in
the county where the bail bond was taken, or to any county in which
the defendant may be found, and shall be executed in the same man
ner as a writ of summons ; and upon such writ being returned execu
ted, such proceedings shall be had thereon, to final judgment, as in
other civil cases.
Sec. 27. If two such writs be sued out in succession in the coun
ty in which the bail bond was taken, and both returned that the defen
dant cannot be found, such return to such second writ shall be equiva
lent to an actual service thereof.
Sec 28. The bail of any defendant may surrender him, or such
defendant may surrender himself, in discharge of his bail at any time
before the return day of the process in an original action on the bail
bond', and the writ returned executed, or before the return of a scire
facias thereon, Returned executed, or before the return day of a second
scire facias thereon, so returned as to be equivalent to an actual ser
vice.
Sec 29. Such surrender shall be made before the following court
or officer; First, if the surrender is made during the pendency of the
original suit, it shall be made before the court where such suit wa*
brought, or before the.judge or clerk thereof; second, if the surrender
is made after finai judgment has been given in the original suit, it may
be made before the court in which judgment was given, or before the
judge or clerk thereof.
Sec 30. The proceedings to affect such judgment shall be as fol
lows : First, there shall be produced to the court or officer author
ized to accept such surrender, a certified copy of the bail bond, upon
which the court or officer shall endorse an order that the defendant be
committed to the custody of the sheriff of the county in.which the suit
is pending or the judgment rendered, in discharge of his hail, which
order shall authorize the sheriff to commit and detain such defendant
until he be duly discharged. Second, upon producing to such court
or officer the certificate of the sheriff, endorsed on the copy of the
bail bond, that the defendant has been committed to and is in his custody,
by virtue of such order of commitment, an order shall be made re1
quiring the plaintiff to show cause before such court or officer, why the
bail of such defendant should not be discharged from their liability.
Third, upon proof of the service of such order, on the plaintiff or
his attorney of record, such court or officer shall hear the allegations
and proofs of the parties, and -if no good cause be shown to the con
trary, shall make an order that the bail of such defendant be discharged
from their liability, as such bail, in the suit in which such bail bond
was taken. Fourth, the copy of the bail bond, with the order of
commitment made by the court or officer, the 'certificate of the sher
iff, the rule to show cause, and the order of discharge, shall be filed in
the office of the clerk of the circuit court, and until filed, the liability
of such bail shall continue.
Sec. 31. If such surrender in discharge of bail be made before
final judgment be given in the suit in which bail was taken, the siieriff
may take new bail, in the same manner, and with like effect, as in the
first instance ; and if such surrender be made after final judgment, and
the plaintiff shall not charge the defendant in execution, within twenty
days after the filing the order of discharge in the clerk's office, as pro
vided in this act, the defendant shall be discharged from imprison
ment. Notwithstanding such discharge from imprisonment, after final
judgment, tire judgment shall continue in force against the property of
the defendant, and execution against his property may be had in the
same manner as if he had not been imprisoned.
Sec. 32. The plaintiff in the original suit shall not be entitled to
bring any action or scire facias on the bail bond, until an execution
against the property and body of the defendant shall have been issued
to the county in which the bail was taken, and the same shall have
been returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, and that the defendant
could not be found within the county.
Sec 33. In an action against the bail, either by an original sum
mons or scire facias, they may plead that an exeoution against the
body and property of the defendant in the original snit was not issued,
as in this act required, or that it was not isued iit time to be executed
by the officer' to whom it was directedj or that fraudulent or collusive
means were used to prevent the service of such execotion ; and if
such defence be established, it shall entitle the defendant to a verdict
and judgment.
Sec 34. When the defendant in the original suit shall die, at any
time before the return day of any process served on the bail, or before
the return day of a second writ of scire facias so returned as to be
equivalent to an actual service, the court shall relieve the bail on the
same terms as if they had surrendered their principal at the time of his
death.
Sec- 35. When the principal shall be surrendered after the com
mencement of any suit against the bail, such bail shall pay all costs
which shall have been incurred therein before the surrender.
Sec. 36. When any judgment shall be given against the bail, and
they shall pay the whole or any part of such judgment, they shall be
entitled, on motion, to judgment in the same court against the princi
pal, for the amount so paid and costs ; and, on such motion, and in all
suits for the recovery of such money, the bail shall recover interest
thereon, at the rate of ten per centum per annum, from the time of
such payment.
v.
Sec. 37. When any officer shall be made co-defendant as in this
act provided, and judgment shall be given against him, and he shall
pay the amount of such judgment or any part thereof, such officer shall
have the same remedy against the principal, as the bail may have in
like cases ; and when such officer shall have been made co-defendant
on account of the insufficiency of the bail by him taken, and judgment
shall have been given against him, he may proceed against the bail on
the bail bond, in the name of the plaintiff, to his own use.
Sec. 38. Suits by minors may be commenced and prosecuted
either by the guardian of such minor, or by a next friend, appointed
for him in such suit. ,
.
Sec 39. The appointment of such next friend may be made by
the court in which suit is intended to be brought, or by the judge or
clerk thereof, and shall be made on the application of such minor, and
the written consent of the person proposed to be next friend to such
minor.
Sec 40. The written consent of the person proposed as such
next friend, and the order of appointment, shall be filed in the office
of the clerk of the court where such suit is proposed to be brought,
before any proceeding shall be had in the case.
Sec 41. The guardian or next friend of any minor, who may
commence or prosecute a suit, shall be responsible for the costs thereof.
Sec 42. After the commencement of any suit against a minor
defendant, and the service of process upon him, the suit shall not be
prosecuted any farther until a guardian be appointed for such minor.
Sec. 43. Such appointment may be made by the court, either on
the application of the defendant or plaintiff, and the written consent of
any competent person proposed as guardian.
Sec. 44. No person appointed guardian for the purpose of defending a suit against a minor, shall be responsible or liable for the costs
of such suit, unless specially charged by the order of the court, for
some personal misconduct in such suit.
Sec. 45. All suits brought in any of the circuit courts of this
State, when the writ shall have been executed thirty days previous to
the return day of such writ, shall be tried at the return terra of such
writ, unless good cause be shown for a continuance.
Sec. 46. Every defendant served with process fifteen days before
the return day thereof, shall appear at the term to which such process
is made returnable, and plead to the action ; and when any process
shall be served less than fifteen days before the return day thereof, he
shall appear and plead, and the cause be tried at the next term after
the return of such process.
Sec. 47. Where there are several defendants in a suit, and some
of them are served with process thirty days before the return term
thereof, and others of them are not served in due time, the plan*
may either discontinue as to those not served, or not served in time,
and proceed against those that are bound to appear ; or he, may continue the suit until the next term of the court, and take new process
against those not served ; and at such second term, the suit shall pro
ceed against all the defendants who may have been served with process
in due time, and no further delay shall be allowed, unless for goo
cause shown.
Sec. 48. No defendant against whom any suit may be discontinued in accordance with the provisions of the preceding section, shal
be thereby exonerated from any liability in such suit, but may at any
time be proceeded against, as if no such suit had been brought, and no
such discontinuance entered as to such defendant. ■
Seo. 49. No essoigne or wager of law shall be allowed, nor shall
any suit be delayed on account of the nonage of any of the parties.
Sec 50. The parties to a suit may prosecute and defend the same
in proper person, and by attorney, and it shall not be necessary for any
warrant of attorney to be filed to authorize an attorney to appear in any
court for either party, to an action brought therein, except in cases
where it may be specially required by law.
Sec. 51. Every declaration, statement, or other pleading, shall
be signed by the party filing the same, or his attorney ; and the clerk
shall endorse thereon the day on which it was filed, and if filed in term
time, shall make an entry thereof on the minutes.
Sec. 52. Every plea to the merits shall be filed, where the writ has
been served thirty days previous tothe return day thereof, at or before
the calling of the cause in its regular order on the docket, unless far
ther time be given by the court for pleading, which shall in no case
extend beyond the term. '
Sec 53. In all cases where the writ shall have been served less
than thirty and more than fifteen days before the return day thereof, the
defendant shall file his plea to the merits, on or before the third day of
the term at which he is bound to appear, if the term so long continue ;
if not, then on or before the last business day of the term.
Sec. 54. Replications, in all cases where the original writ shall
have been served thirty days before the return day thereof, and where
the defendant shall have filed his plea to the merits at or before the
calling of the cause in its regular order, shall be filed immediately,
unless the court give further time for filing such replication.
Sec. 55. All subsequent pleadings shall be filed within such time,
and in such manner as may be prescribed by the rules of practice of
the court.
1
Sec 56. A copy of every replication and subsequent pleading
filed in vacation, shall be served on the adverse party or his attorney
within fifteen days after the filing thereof.
Sec. 57. Similiters and joinders in demurrer, may be filed at any
time, and without serving a copy thereof on the adverse party or his
attorney.
Sec. 58. Courts upon good cause shown, and for the furtherance
of justice, may extend the time prescribed in this act for filing any
pleading, on such terms as shall seem just.
Sec 59. No person shall be prejudiced by neglect of the ancient
forms and terms in pleading, so that the matter fully appear in the pro
cess, declaration, petition, statement or other pleading.
Sec 60. When any demurrer shall be filed in any action, and
issue joined thereon, the court shall proceed and give judgment ac
cording as the very right of the cause and matter in law shall appear,
without regarding any defect or other imperfection in any process or
pleading, so that sufficient appear in the pleadings to enable the court
to give judgment according to the very right of the cause, unless such
defect or imperfection be specially expressed in the demurrer ; but no
defect or imperfection shall be set out in any demurrer, that would
only be cause of special demurrer at common law.
Sec 61. If a demurrer be filed in any action, the court shall
amend every such defect or other imperfection in any process or plead
ing in the preceding section mentioned, other than those which the
party demurring shall express in his demurrer.
Sec. 62. Demurrers may he joint and several, and may be sus
tained as to part of the pleadings demurred to, and overruled as to the
residue, according to the circumstances of the case, with like effect in
all respects, as if a separate demurrer had been filed to each pleading
demurred to.
Sec 63, All pleas in abatement and all other dilatory pleas not
involving the merits of the cause, and all demurrers shall be deter
mined during the term at which they are filed.
Sec 64. Every person who may have cause of action against
several persons, and entided by law to but one satisfaction therefor,
may bring suit jointly against all, or as many of them as he may think
proper.
Sec 65. -An action at law may be maintained on any instrument
of writing whether under seal or not, notwithstanding it may be lost or
destroyed, and in every such action, no profert of such instrument
shall be required, but the party shall allege the loss or destruction, as
an excuse for the want of profert ; and every such allegation shall be
considered a material averment in the cause.
Sec 66. In actions of debt or assumpsit to recover any money
received contrary to the provisions of any statute of this State, it shall
be sufficient for the plaintiff, without setting forth the special matter,
to allege in his declaration, that the defendant is, or that his testator
or intestate was indebted to the plaintiff according to the provisions of
such statute, naming the subject matter, or referring to the statute in
some general terms.
Sec: 67. If any action of trover or detinue be brought for the
recovery of any property received contrary to the provisions of any
statute, it shall be sufficient for the plaintiff to set forth in his declara
tion that such property was converted by the defendant, or by his tes
tator or intestate, or is unlawfully detained by the defendant, contrary
to the provisions of such statute, referring to the same as prescribed in
in the preceding section.
Sec 68. The plaintiff in replevin, and the defendant in all otber
actions, may plead as many several matters, whether of law or fact,
as he may think necessary for his defence.
Sec. 69. Persons sued as executors or administrators shall not be
made personally liable in any action, nor shall persons sued as1 execu
tors of their own wrong be made liable to a greater extent than they
otherwise would be, by reason of any such person having pleaded any
false plea.
Sec. 70. When any action shall be brought on any specialty or
judgment, or where a scire facias is brought upon a judgment, the de
fendant may plead payment of the amount due on such specialty or
judgment, in bar of such action or writ.
Sec 71. In every action brought against any public officer of this
State, or against any person specially appointed according to law, to
execute the duties of any such office, for or concerning any act done
by such officer or person, by virtue or reason of his office ; and in an
action against any other person, who, by the command of such officer
or person, or in aiding or assisting him, may do any thing touching
the duties of such office or appointment, the defendant may plead the
general issue, and give the special matter in evidence, giving the ad
verse party notice in writing of the special matter intended to be offer
ed in evidence.
Sec 72. In every action brought against any person for an act
done by authority of any statute of this State, the defendant may plead
not guilty, or make avowry or justification of the act done, alleging
therein that the act was done by authority of such statute, naming the
subject matter thereof, or referring thereto in some other manner, with
certainty to a common intent, without expressing any matter expressed
in such statute.
Sec. 73. To such plea the plaintiff may reply that the defendant
did the act complained of without authority of any statute of this State,
and upon the issue so joined, the whole matter may be given in evi
dence by both parties.
Sec 74. In any suit founded on any instrument or note in writing,
under the seal of the person charged therewith, the defendant may,
by special plea, impeach, or go into the consideration of such writing,
in the same manner as if such writing had not been sealed.
Sec. 75. All pleas impeaching the consideration of any such in
strument or note in writing, whether sealed or not, shall be supported
by the affidavit of the defendant, or some other person for him, stating
that the facts set forth in such plea are true, as far as detailed as such,
from bis own knowledge, and that he believes them to be true as far
as related from the information of others.
Sec. 76. Whenever it shall become necessary to the attainment
of justice to allow a plaintiff to reply several matters to the plea of a
defendant, or allow a defendant to rejoin several matters to the repli
cation of the plaintiff, the court in -which the action may be pending,
on the application of the party desiring so to reply or rejoin, may allow
the same to be done.
Sec 77. If the defendant shall fail to file his plea, or other plead
ing within the time prescribed by this act, or the rules of practice of
the court, an interlocutory judgment shall be given against him by
default ; but such judgment may be set aside for good cause shown, at
any time before the damages shall be assessed, and on such terms as
may be just.
Sec 78. If the plaintiff shall fail to file his replication within the
time prescribed by this act, or the rules of practice of the court, and
to serve (he adverse party with a copy thereof when the same is re
quired, judgment of non pros, shall be entered against him ; but such
judgment may for good cause shown, be set aside at the term at which
it may be entered, upon such terras as may be just.
Sec. 79. Where there are several defendants in a suit, and some
of them appear and plead, and others make default, an interlocutory
judgment by default may be entered against such as make default, and
the cause may proceed against the others, but only one final judgment
shall be given in the action.
Sec. 80. Whenever an interlocutory judgment shall be rendered
for the plaintiff by default, or upon demurrer, in any suit founded on
any instrument of writing, and the demand is ascertained by such in
strument, the court shall assess the damages, and final judgment shall
be given thereon.
Sec 81. In all other cases of such interlocutory judgments, the
damages shall be assessed by a jury empanelled in the court for that pur
pose, and every such inquiry of damages shall be made at the term
next after the term at which such interlocutory judgment shall be ren
dered, unless the court direct it to be made at the same term.
Sec 82. When there are several issues of law and of fact in any
suit, the issues of law shall be first determined.
Sec 83. Every suit that shall not be otherwise disposed of ac
cording to law, shall be continued at the term at which the defendant
is bound to appear, until tins next term thereafter ; and at such second
term, every such suit shall be determined, unless for good cause
shown.
Sec. 84. Every court of record in which any suit may be pending,
may at the first term, for good cause shown, continue such suit until
the next term of such court ; and every continuance granted shall be at
the cost of the party applying for such continuance, unless otherwise
brdered by the court.
Sec. 85. No suit shall be twice continued for the same cause.
Sec. 86. Every ' application for the continuance of a cause by
either party, shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the applicant, or
some other person for him, setting forth that a material witness is absent,
(naming him,) and stating what he expects to prove by such absent
witness, and what exertions have been made to procure the attendance
of such witness, and that the same facts cannot be established by any
other witness, and that he has reason to believe that he can procure the
attendance of such witness by the next term of the court, or that his
testimony can be procured by that time, and that the application is not
made for delay, but that justice may be done.
Sec 87. If either party continue a cause at the second term of
the court after the return of the writ, the party continuing shall be
bound to be ready for trial when the cause is called, at the term to
which it may be continued.
Sec 88. Every court of record shall have power to compel any
party to a suit pending therein, to produce any books, papers and
documents in his possession or under his control relating to the merits
of such suit, or to any defence therein.
Sac. "89. To entitle the party to the production of any such books,
papers and documents, he shall present a petition verified by the affi
davit of Himself or some other person, to the court, or the judge thereof
in vacation, upon which an order may be made by such court, or judge,
for the production of such books, papers and documents, or that the
party show cause why the prayer of the petition should not be granted.
Sec 90. Every such order may be vacated by the court or judge
granting the same ; first, upon satisfactory evidence that it ought not
to have been granted ; second, upon the party required to produce
such books, papers and documents, denying on oath the possession or
control thereof.
Sec. 91. If the party neglect to obey such order for the produc
tion of books, papers and docurnents within such time as the court or
judge shall prescribe for that purpose, the court may nonsuit him, or
strike out any plea or notice of set-off, or debar him from any particular
defence in relation to which, such books, papers and documents were
required to be produced.
Sec. 92. The power of the court to compel such production of
books, papers and documents, shall be confined to the remedies in this
act provided ; and shall not authorize any other proceeding against the
person or property of the party refusing to comply with the order of
the court or judge.
Sec. 93. Either party to a suit in any court of record' shall be
entitled to a discovery from the other party of all matters material to
the issue in such suit, in all cases where the same party would, by the
rules of equity, be entitled to a discovery in a court of equity, in aid
of such suit.
Sec. 94. In order to entitle a party to a discovery, lie shall pre
sent a petition verified by the affidavit of himself, or some other per
son, to the court, or the judge thereof in vaoation, setting forth the
matter upon which his claim to a discovery is founded, the facts sought
to be discovered, and such interrogatories in relation thereto, as he
may think necessary to exhibit,,in order to attain a full discover)'.
Sec. 95. The court, or the judge thereof in vacation, may grant
an order, endorsed on such petition, requiring the party from whom
the discovery is sought, to answer the interrogatories exhibited in the
petition, or such of them as shall appear to the judge or court ought to
be answered, or that he show good cause why be should not answer
the same, and may order the trial of the suit to be stayed until the or
der be complied with or vacated.
Sec. 96. The petition and order to answer shall be filed in the
office of the clerk of the court, and a copy thereof served on the party
whose answer is sought, and the same proceedings shall be had on the
petition, and the court may exercise the same powers therein, as would
be had or might be exercised in a court of equity, on a bill of discov
ery, in aid of a suit at law. . ■
Sec 97. The answer of the party to the interrogatories shall be
evidence in the trial of the suit in the same manner and with like effect
as an answer to a bill in equity for a discovery; and if the party shall
neglect or refuse to answer the interrogatories, and the petition shall
according to proceedings in equity, be finally taken as confessed,
the facts stated in the petition, and therein sought to be discovered,
may be given in evidence on the trial, as facts admitted by the party
from whom the discovery is sought.
Sec. 98. All issues of fact joined in any suit at Jaw, in any court
of record, shall be tried either by the. court, by Jury, or by arbitrators.
First, the trial shall be by the court, when neither party shall demand
a trial by jury ; second, the trial shall be by a jury, when either party
shall demand such trial ; third, it shall he tried by arbitrators, on the
agreement of the parties to. refer the matter in dispute to arbitrators.
Sec. 99. , In all trials by jury each party shall be entitled to three
peremptory challenges.
Sec. 100. No witness, or person summoned as a witness in any
civil cause, and no person wljo has formed and expressed an opinion
concerning the matter in controversy in any, such suit, which may in
fluence the judgment of such person, shall be sworn in the same cause
as a juror.
Sep. 101. When there are several counts in the declaration, and
one' or more of them imperfect, the plaintiff at any time before the
jury is sworn, or the trial submitted to the court,- may move the court
to strike out such imperfect counts.
Sec. 10^. When any declaration, petition, statement or other
pleading, shall be founded pn any instrument or note in writing, whether
the same be under seal or not, charged to .have been executed by the
other party, and not alleged therein to be lost or destroyed, such iflt
strument shaU be received in evidence, unless the party charged with
having executed lhe<same, deny the execution of such writing by plea,
supported by the affidavit of the party pleading ; which affidavit shall
be filed with the plea. 
Sec. 103. When such instrument or note in writing is charged to
have been executed by any testator or intestate, it sjiall be received in
evidence, and the party shall not be required }o prove its execution,
unless some suspicion be cast on it by the affidavit of the executor or
administrator of such testator or intestate. 
Sec, 104. The pleas of nil dtbet and non assumpsit may be filed
in all actions of debt or assumpsit founded on any instrument of wri
ting, not under seal ; but such.pleas shall not put in issue the execu
tion of such writing, unless the same shall be. verified by affidavit. . r.
Sjec 105. In all actions of debt founded on any note or instru
ment in writing, the defendant shall be permitted to plead payment at
or after the day on which the debt became due and payable, or both.
Sec. 106,. Whenever in the progress .of.any trial in any. of the cir
cuit courts, in a civil suit, either party shall except to the opinion of
the court, and shall reduce his exceptions to.writing, and pray the court to -allow and sign the same, the judge of the court, if such bill be true,
shall sign the same ; and if such judge refuse to sign any bill of excep
tions, he shall certify thereon the cause of such refusal.
Sec 107. If any judge shall refuse to sign a bill of exceptions,
such bill may be signed by three bystanders, who are reputable inhab
itants of the State, and the court shall permit such bill to be filed ; and
every bill of exceptions signed by the judge or bystanders, and filed in
the court, shall form a part of the record in the cause in which the
same may be filed.
' ,
Sec 108. When any judge shall refuse to permit a bill of excep*
tions signed by bystanders to be. filed,,and shall .have certified such bill
to be untrue, either party in the suit may take affidavits, giving the ad
verse party notice of the time and place of taking such affidavits, not
.exceeding five in number, in relation to its truth ; and such affidavits
when taken, shall be filed in the clerk's office, within 'five days after the
trial of the cause ; and on appeal and writ of error1, copies of such af
fidavits shall be annexed to, and form a part of the record in thefause.
Sec 109. The supreme court shall admit as a part of the record
of the cause, every bill of exceptions taken therein, upon its appearing
to the satisfaction of the court, that the truth of the case is fairly sta
ted in such bill, that the same was taken according to law, and that the
court refused to permit 'such bill tobe filed ; and the truth of every
such bill of exceptions shall be? tried by the affidavits required by this
act to be taken and filed in the clerk's office.
Sec 110. No plaintiff shall be permitted to suffer a nonsuit on
trial after the jury have retired from, the bar, or the cause has been
submitted to the court: « '
Sec. 111. Whenever a party to any suit shall have been permit
ted to prove by his own oath, the loss of any instrument of writing, »
order to admit of other proof of its contents, the adverse party may
also be examined by the court on oath, to disprove its loss, and ac
count for such instrument.
Sec 112. The court in which any action may be pending, shall
have power to amend any process, pleading or proceeding in such ac
tion, either in form or substance, for the furtherance of jastice, on such
terms as fnay be just, at any time beibre final judgment rendered
therein.
Sec 113. If such amendment be made to any pleading in matter
of substance, the adverse party' shall be allowed an opportunity, ac
cording to the rules of practice of the Court, to answer the pleading so
amended.
Sec. 114. Process by which an. .action sh^ll have been com
menced, and on which the, defendant may have been arrested, shall not
be amended in the return day thereof.
Sec. 115. After judgment rendered in any cause, any defect^ and
imperfections in matter of form contained in the record, pleadings,
process, entries, returns, or other proceedings in such cause may be
amended and rectified by the oourt in affirmance of thejudgment, and
the judgment shall not be reversed or. annulled therefor ; and any va
riance in the record from any process, pleading or proceeding had in
such cause, shall be. reformed and amended according- to such original
process, pleading or proceeding.
Sec. 116. All returns made by any sheriff or other officer, or
by aqy court or subordinate tribunal, Jo any court, may be amended in
matter of form by the court to which such returns may be made, in
their discretion, as well before as after judgment.
Sec. 1 17. Any imperfection or defect in the award of any venire,
or any omission to award such venire on the record, may be amended
or supplied by the court in which such record is.
Sec. M8. When a verdict shall have been rendered in any cause,
the judgment thereon shalL not be arrested or stayed, nor shall any
judgment by confession be reversed, impaired or in any way affected
by reason of any of the following imperfections, omissions, defects,
matters or things in the pleadings, process or record: First, for the want
of any writ original or judicial. Second, for any default or defect of
process, or for misconceiving any process, or directing the same to
the wrong officer, or for want of any suggestion for awarding process,
or for any insufficient suggestion. Third, for any imperfect or insuffi
cient return of the sheriff or, other officer, or that the nairte of such
officer is not actually ^igned to any return made by him. Fourth, for
any variance between the original writ,, plaint, and declaration, or either
of them. Fifth, for any mispleading, miscontinuance, discontinuance,
insufficient pleading or misjoinder of issue. Sixth, fqr want of a war
rant of attorney by either party, except in. judgments of confession by
attorney, or where the same may be expressly required by law. Sev
enth, for any party under twentyone years of age having appeared by
attorney, where the judgment is in his favor. Eighth, for want of any
allegation or averment, on account of which a special demurrer would
have been sustained at common jaw. Ninth, for omitting any allega
tion or -averment, without which the jury ought not to have given a
verdict. Tenth, for any mistake in the name of any party or person,
of in any sum of money, or in the description of any property, or in
reciting or stating any day, month or year where the correct name,
time, sum or description shall have been once rightfully alleged in any
of the pleadings or proceedings. Eleventh, for the mistake of the
name of"any officer or juror. Twelfth, for the want of a venue or the
right venue, if the cause was tried by a jury of the proper county.
Thirteenth, any informality in entering judgment or making up the re
cord thereof, of in any continuance, 6r other entry upon such record.
Fourteenth, for any other default or negligence of any clerk or officer
of the court, or ofthe parties, their counsellors or attorneys, by which
neither- party shall have been prejudiced.
Sec 119. The omissions, imperfections, defects and variances,
in the preceding section enumerated, and all others of a like nature,
not being against the right and justice of the matter of the suit, and not
altering the issue between the parties on the trial, shall be supplied
and amended by the court when the judgment shall be given, or by the
court into which such judgment may be removed by' writ of error or
appeal.
Sec. 120. No process, pleading or record shall be amended or in
any manner impaired, by the clerk or other officer of the court, or by
any other person, without the order of the court having the control of
such process, pleading or. record.
• Sec. 121. The provisions of the preceding nine sections shall ex
tend to all actions in courts of law, and to all suits for the recovery of
any debt due the State, or for any debt, duty or revenue, belonging
to the State, and also to all actions for penalties Under any statute, to
all writs of mandamus and prohibition, to all informations in the nature
of a quo warranto, to writs of scire facias, and the proceedings there
on ; but shall not extend to indictments, or informations for any crimi
nal matter, and the proceedings thereon.
Sec: 122. All motions for new trials, and in arrest of judgment,
shall be made within four days after the trial, if the term of the court
shall so long continue ; and if not, then before the end of the term ;
and every such motion shall be accompanied by a written specification
of the reasons upon which it is founded.
Sec.' 123. No motion for a new trial shall be allowed after a mo
tion in arrest of judgment.
Sec. 124. Not more than two new trials shall be allowed to either
party, except the jury shall have erred in matter of law, or where the
jury have been guilty of some misconduct.
"Sec. 12<>. The costs of all new trials mayj/either abide the event
oi the suit, or shall be paid by the party to wboqn such new trial may
be granted, according to the order of the court, to be made at the
time of granting such new. trial.
Sec. 126. When any judgment shall be arrested, the court shall
allow the proceedings in which the error was, to be amended, in all
cases where the same amendment might hatfe been made before trial,
and the cause shall again proceed according to the practice of the
court ; but the party in whose proceedings the first error was commit
ted, shall pay the costs incurred thereby.
Sec. 127. When there are several counts in a, declaration, and en
tire damages be given, the verdict shall' be good, notwithstanding one
or more of such counts may be defective.
Sec 128. If, on an issue concerning, several things in one count
in an action of detinue, no verdict be found for part of them, it shall
not be error, but the plaintiff shall be debVred of his title to the things
omitted.
Sec 129. No judgment' shall be set aside in any of the conrts
of this State on motion, unless such motion shall be made within four
■days after the rendition of such judgment, if the term of the court so
long continue ; if not, then before the end of the term.
Sec. 130. All motions for new trials, in arrest of judgment, and to
set' aside a judgment, shall be determined at the term of the court at
which any such motion may be, made. ,
Sec 131. All judgments rendered in any. of the circuit Courts of
this State, shall be a lien on the lauds' and tenements of the •defendant,
or the party against whom any judgment may be rendered, for the term
of five years from the rendition of such judgment, and no longer.
Sec 132. Whenever several suits shall be pending in the same
court, by the same plaintiff, against the same defendant, for causes of
action which may be joined, or where several suits are pending in the
same court, by the same plaintiff, against several defendants, which
may be joined, the court in. which the samefliay be , prosecuted, may,
in its discretion, order such suits to be consolidated into one action.
Sec. 133. When any plaintiff shall bring in the same court, sev
eral suits against the same defendant or defendants for causes of action
that may be joined, the plaintiff shall recover only the costs of one ac
tion ; 'and the costs of the other actions shall be adjudged against him,
unless sufficient reason appear to the court for bringing several actions.
Sec. 134. The plaintiff or his attorney, may dismiss any suit
pending in any of the courts of this State, except actions of replevin,
in vacation, in the office of tile clerk, on.the payment of all costs that
may have accrued therein.
Sec 135. The several courts in this State may appoint interpre
ters when necessary, and cause them to be. sworn truly to interpret.
Sec 136. Papers read in evidence, although not under seal, may
be carried from the bar by the jury.
Sec 137. Any person, for a bona fide debt, may, without pro
cess, confess judgment by himself xxr attorney ; and, in all cases of
confession of judgment by an attorney, the warrant of attorney shall be
filed.
Sec 138. The party in whose favor the judgment may be con
fessed, or some other person for him, shall file . in the office of the
clerk of the circuit court an affidavit that the debt is jusdy due, and
that there is no fraud in the transaction, previous to entering the con
fession.
Sec 139. Every judgment by confession, either with or without
process, shall operate as a release of errors in entering up the judg
ment, and making a record thereof. ■
Sec. 14.0. The several clerks of the circuit courts of this State,
shall have full power and authority to take and enter up judgments by
confession, in vacation, made either by the party to be charged, or his
attorney, and may issue execution thereon without the intervention of
the court, and for that purpose, and for all other purposes in this or any
other act mentioned, where clerks of courts are required or authorized
to do any judicial act, they shall be considered and regarded as judicial
offipers.
Sec, 141. The party aggrieved by any final judgment or decision
of any circuit court in any civil case, may make his appeal to the su
preme court.
Sec 142. But ho such appeal shall be allowed, unless, first, it be
made during the term at which the judgment or decision complained
of was given ; and, second, the appellant or. his agent shall during the
same term, file in the court an affidavit, stating that such appeal is not
made for vexation or delay, but because the affiant verily believes, that
the appellant is aggrieved by the decision orjudgment of the court.
Sec 143. Upon the appeal being applied for according lo the
foregoing provisions, the court shall make an order allowing it, and
such allowance thereof shall stay the execution in the following cases
and no other : First, when the appellant shall be an executor or ad
ministrator, and the action is by or against him as such ; second, when
the appellant, or some other person for him, together with two sufficient
securities, to be approved by the court, shalf, during the term at which
the judgment appealed from was rendered, enter into a recognizance to
the opposite party, in a penalty sufficient to secure whatever of.debt,
damages and costs have been recovered by such judgment, together
with the interest that may accrue thereon, and the costs and damages
that may be recovered in the supreme court upon the appeal, condi
tioned that the appellant will prosecute his appeal with due diligence to
a decision in the supreme court, and that if the judgment appealed
from is affirmed, or his appeal dismissed, he will pay whatever of debt,
damages and costs have been recovered against him by the judgment
of the circuit court, together with the interest that shall accrue thereon,
or that he will otherwise perform the judgment of the circuit court and
that he will also pay the costs and damages that may be adjudged against
him, in the supreme court upon his appeal.
Sec. 144. The several clerks of the circuit courts shall, within
twenty days before the commencement of each term of the court,
make out a docket of all causes, both civil and criminal, in' which an
issue of fact is to be tried, an inquiry of damages to be made, a special
verdict, agreed case, demurrer or other matter of law, to be argued at
such term1; and shall arrange such causes or indictments, upon the
docket, in the same order in which the original process was issued,
except that all criminal matters shall be first set down ; and a proper
portion of the causes shall be set for each day the term is supposed to
continue ; and every clerk shall, within the time, before specified, put
up in some convenient place m his office a list of all causes specified
in this section, distinguishing therein the day on which each cause is to
be tried, and shall keep such list so affixed, until the end of such term,
for the inspection of the parties litigant, and their attorneys.
Sec. 145. Every clerk of the circuit court, upon the demand of
any party or his attprhey, and upon the payment of the legal fee theref6r, shall issue subpoenas for witnesses to appear and testify on the day,
for which the cause is set, in which the subpoenas are demanded ; and
every clerk who shall neglect or refuse to make out such docket, or to
set and keep up such list of causes, or to issue subpoenas according to
the provisions of this act, shall on motion be fined by the court in any
sum not exceeding one hundred dollars.
Sec 1. Writs of error upon any final judgment or decision of any
circuit court, shall issue of course, in all cases, out of the supreme
court in vacation as well as in term rime, subject to the regulations
prescribed by law.
Sec 2. All writs of error upoD any judgment or decision of any
of the circuit courts of this State, shall be brought within three years
after the rendering of such judgment, or making of such decision, and
not after.
Sec. 3. If any person who may be entitled to a writ of error,
shall be within the age of twentyone years, a married woman, of un
sound mind, imprisoned, or absent from the United States, such per
son may sue out such writ of error at any time within three years af
ter such disability is removed.
Sec. 4. Writs of error may be brought by any of the attorneys for
the State, in the name and on the behalf of the State, in like manner
as by individuals, except when it may be otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 5. If a judgment shall be rendered against several persons,
and one of them die, a writ of error may be brought thereon by the
survivors.
Sec 6. If there be several persons against whom any judgment
may have been rendered, and who are entitled to bring a writ of error
there on, living at the time of bringing such writ, they shall all join in
the writ, except where it may be otherwise provided by law ; and if
any are omitted, the writ shall be quashed on motion of the defendant
in error, made at any time before joinder in error, upon due proof of
the facts, unless one or more of such persons be allowed by the court
to proceed.
Sec. 7. To the allegalion that there are other persons living, who
otrght to join in such writ of error, if it be established or admitted,' the
party prosecuting such writ of error may answer, by due proof on af
fidavit, that any of such persons hot joined, are incapable of consent
ing to join in such writ, by -reason 'of insanity or imbecility of mind, or
that their consent could not be had by reason of their absence from
this State : -and if the court shall be satisfied of the truth of such an
swer, such party shall be allowed to prosecute such writ of error with
out joining such persons, in the same manner as if they were joined.
Sec 8. To such allegation, the party prosecuting the writ may
also answer by due proof on affidavit, that application has been made
to the persons not named in the writ, to join therein, and that they
refused, and in such case the court shall stay further proceedings on
snch writ on motion to quash the same, until an order shall have been
duly served on the person so refusing as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 9. The court shall thereupon cause an order to be entered
on its record, directing the person so refusing to join in such writ to
appear in such court within such time as shall be prescribed therein,
and join in such writ of error and the proceedings thereon, or to be
forever precluded from bringing another writ of error on the same
judgment.
Sec. 10. A copy of such order shall be served on the parties
named therein, at least ten days previous to the time of appearance
therein specified, in like manner as an original summons.
Sec. 11. Upon the application of any person named in such or
der, he may be permitted to join in such writ of error and the proceed
ings thereon, upon the payment of the costs of the proceedings to
bring him into court, including the motion to quash the writ of error, if
it shall appear that he refused to join in such writ and without just
cause ; and the writ and the proceedings shall be amended by insert
ing the name of such person.
Sec. 12. If any person named in such order do not appear by the
time therein specified and join in such writ of error, on due proofof the
service of such order the default of such person shall'be entered, and he
shall thereby be forever precluded from bringing any writ of error on the
same judgment, and the cause shall proceed in the same manner as if
such person had been named in such writ and the proceedings thereon.
Sec. 13. When the name of any person out of this State, or in
capable of giving consent to the bringing of a writ of error, shall be
omitted in any such writ, and the cause shall proceed without such
name, the rights of such person shall not be impaired by the judgment
on such writ, but he may bring his .writ of error in the same manner
separately as if no such former writ had been brought.
Sec 14. Any person who ought to join in any writ of error, may
be permitted to .do so on his application, on such terms as the court
shall impose, and the writ and proceedings shall be amended by insert
ing his name, and the cause shall be proceeded in as in other cases.
- Sec. 15. No writ of error shall stay the execution, unless the su
preme court or some judge thereof in vacation shall make an order al
lowing such writ of error to stay the execution ; and no such order
shall be made by the clerk of said court in vacation, after the expira
tion of ninety days from the rendering of the judgment or decision
complained of.
Sec. 16. No order allowing a writ of error to stay the execution,
shall be made by the supreme court, or any judge, or the clerk there
of in vacation, except in the following cases: First, where the plaintiff
in error was in the original action an executor or administrator, and
such action was by or against him as such; or, second,, where the
plaintiff in error, or some other responsible person for him, together
with sufficient security to be approved by the judge or clerk, shall en
ter into recognizance before such court, judge or clerk to the adverse
party in a penalty sufficient to secure whatever debt, damages and
costs have been recovered by the judgment complained of, together
with the costs and damages that may be recovered in -the supreme
court, conditioned that the plaintiff in error will prosecute such writ
with effect, and pay the money that may therein be adjudged against
him by the supreme court, or otherwise abide the judgment of such
court therein.
Sec 17. The court or officer allowing a writ of error to stay the
execution, shall cause an order to that effect to be endorsed on the
writ, pnder the hand of the clerk, when the same is made in term time,
or under the hand of the judge or clerk making the same, when it is
made in vacation. ■ ,
Sec. 18. If ho execution be issued, the exhibiting of such writ of
error so endorsed, to the adverse party or his attorney of record, or
the clerk of the circuit court where the judgment or decision complain
ed of was rendered, shall stay the issuing of any writ of execution on
such judgment or decision.
Sec. 19. If any execution shall have been issued and not fully ex
ecuted, upon the exhibition of such writ of error to the officer having
such execution in charge, such officer shall proceed no further in the
execution thereof, and shall return the writ together with the reason of
his not proceeding to the final execution thereof.
Sec: 20. Every person suing out a writ of error, shall cause a no
tice thereof in writing to.be served on the adverse party or his attor
ney of record ten days before the return day of such writ, and if suoh
notice be not served, the judgment of the circuit court shall be affirm
ed, unless good cause for such failure be shown.
Sec. 21. All writs of error shall be returned by the clerk of the
circuit court, to which the same may be addressed, and the return shall
be signed by him, and be under the seal of such court.
8 ec. 22. If any clerk shall fail to make return of any writ of error
to the supreme court, he shall be deemed guilty of a contempt of such
court, and may be punished accordingly.
Sec 23. All appeals which may have been taken thirty days be
fore the first day of the next term of the supreme court, shall be re
turnable to such term ; and all appeals which may be taken less than
thirty days before the first day of such next term, shall be returnable
to the second term thereafter.
Sec. 24. The appellant shall cause to be filed in the office of the
clerk of the supreme court, at least ten days before the first day of
such court, a transcript of the record and proceedings in the . cause,
and if he fail to do so and the appelle produce in court the certificate
of the clerk of the circuit court that an appeal has been entered and a
recognizance given as required by law, the court shall affirm the judg
ment of the circuit court, unless good cause to the contrary be shown.
Sec. 25. On appeals and writs of error the appellant and plaintiff
in error shall assign errors on or before the fourth day of the term to
which such appeal or writ of error is returnable ; and in default of
such assignment of errors, the appeal or writ of error shall be dismissed
or the judgment affirmed, unless good cause for such failure be
shown.
Sec. 26. Joinders in error shall be filed within three days after
the assignment of errors.
-: . -,
Sec. 27. If there be several appellants or plaintiffs in error, and
one or more of them die hefore errors are assigned, such death
shall be suggested by the survivor, and the errors shall be as
signed by him ; and if one or more defendants die before joinder in
error, such death shall in like manner be suggested by the survivor,
and he shall plead to the assignment of errors. ■ ...
Sec 28. If there be two or more appellants or plaintiffs and one or
more of them die after the assignment of errors, or one or more of sev
eral appellees or defendants in error, the appeal or writ of error shall
not thereby abate, but in either of such cases, such death shall be sug
gested on the record, and the cause shall proceed at the suit of the
surviving appellant or plaintiff in error, or against the surviving appel
lee or defendant in error.
' '
Sec 29. If all the appellants or plaintiffs in errbr die after the
appeal taken or writ of error brought, and before judgment rendered
thereon, the executor or administrator of the last surviving appellant
or plaintiff, or the heirs or devisees of the appellant or plaintiff, in cases
where they would be entitled to bring writs of error or prosecute an
appeal, may be substituted for such appellant or plaintiff, and the cause
shall proceed at their suit. • . ,
........
Sec. 30- If all the appellees or sole appellee, or if all the defend
ants, or sole defendants in a writ of error die after-an appeal is entered
or writ of error brought, and before judgment thereon, the executors
op administrators of such appellees- or defendants may be compelled to
become parties and join in error in like manner as in an original suit.
Sec. 31. If a female appellant or plaintiff marry after appeal taken
or writ of error brought, her husband may be joined with her on his
application, and his name shall be. entered on the proceedings. .
Sec 32. If a female appellee or defendant in error marry after the
appeal taken or writ brought, and before judgment, her husband may
be made a co-defendant on his application, or on the application of the
adverse -party.
Sec 33: In all appeals and writs of error, each party shall before
the argument of the cause, make out and furnish each judge with a
clear and concise statement of the case, and the points intended, to be
insisted upon in the argument.
.
Sec..34. No exception shall be taken in an appeal or writ of er
ror to. any proceedings in the circuit court, except such as shall have
been decided by such court, or such as shall appear on the face of the
record. ,■
- . *'
Sec. 35. No judgment shall be reversed, impaired or affected for
any defect of form contained in the. record, pleadings, process, en
tries, returns, or other proceedings therein, which by law might be
amended by the court in which such judgment was rendered ; , but. such
defects and imperfections shall be supplied, and amended by the su
preme court or shall be deemed to have been supplied and amended.
Sec. 36. In all appeals and writs of error, the supreme court
shall examine the record, award a new trial, reverse or affirm the
judgment or decision of the circuit court, or give such judgment as
such court ought to have given, as may seem most agreeable to law.
Sec 37. When the facts in a special verdict are insufficiently
found, the supreme court may remand the cause, and order another
trial to ascertain the facts.
Sec 38. Upon the affirmance of any judgment or decision, the
supreme court may award the appellee or defendant in error such dam
ages, not exceeding ten per centum on the amount of the judgment
complained of, as may be just and proper. .
Sec 39. The supreme court upon the determination of any appeal or writ of error, may award exeeution to carry the same into ef
fect or may remand the record with the decision of such court thereon
to the circuit court in which the cause originated, and order such de
cision to be carried into effect.
Sec. 40. Whenever by the decision of any circuit court a con
struction may be given to any penal or other statute, every act done
in good faith in conformity with such construction, after the making of
such decision, and'before the reversal thereof by the supreme court,
shall be so far valid that the party doing such act shall not be liable to
any penalty or forfeiture for any such act, that shall have been adjudged
lawful by such decision of the circuit court.
Sec. 41 . All the provisions of this act relative to appeals and par
ties thereto, shall extend to all appeals from decrees and decisions m
chancery cases in all respects, the same as from judgments and deci
sions in suits at law.
Sec. 42. If any judgment of the circuit court shall be reversed by
the supreme cqurt on writ of error or appeal, and such judgment may
have, been carried into effect before the reversal thereof, such defen
dant may recover from the plaintiff in' such judgment the full amount
paid thereon, including costs, by an action of debt or on the case for
so much money had and received to his use.
Sec 43. It shall be the duty of the judges of the supreme court
in all cases, to reduce their opinions to. writing, and deliver the same
to the clerk of said court, whose duty it shall be to enter such opinions
at large in a book to be by him kept for that purpose.
Sec. 44. When any judge of the supreme court shall dissent from
the opinion of the court' in any case, such judge shall reduce his rea
sons for so dissenting to writing, and the same shall be recorded with
the opinion of the court.