TITLE XV.
Code of Civil Procedure.

COURTS, DISTRICT -- PRACTICE IN.

[APPROVED FEBRUARY 14, 1887.]

CHAPTER ONE.
COMMENCEMENT OF SUITS.

649. (Sec. 1.) All civil suits in courts of record shall be commenced by
complaint filed in the otilce of the clerk of such court.

650. (SEC. 2.) When a complaint is filed with the clerk, it shall be his
duty to indorse thereon the day and hour on which it was filed, and the number of the suit and he shall enter the suit in a docket to be kept by him for
that purpose.

651. (SEC. 3.) The docket shall be so kept as to show in aconvenient form
the number of the suit, the names of the attorneys, the names of the several
parties to the suit, and the object thereof, and in a brief form the return on
the process made by the sheriff, or constable and all the subsequent proceedings had in the case, specifying the time when they were had.

652. (SEC. 4.) No civil suit shall be commenced, nor shall any process be

issued or served on Sunday, or on any legal holiday, except in cases of injunction, attachment or claim any delivery.

CHAPTER TWO.
PLEADINGS IN GENERAL.

653. (SEC. 5.) The pleadings in all civil suits in courts of record shall be
by complaint and answer. —

654. (SEC. 6.) The pleadings shall be in writing, and signed by the
party, or by his attorney. and filed with the clerk of the court.

655. (SEC. 7.) The pleadings shall consist of a concise statement of the
facts constituting the plaintiff ’s cause of action or the defendant's ground of
defense. ’

656. (SEC. 8.) Any person who has an interest in the subject-matter of
the suit which can be affected by the judgment may, on leave of the court or
judge, intervene in such suit or proceeding at any time before the trial.

657. (SEC. 9.) The pleadings of an intervenor shall conform to the requirements of pleadings on the part of the plaintiff and defendant respectively, so far as they may be applicable.

658. (SEC. 10.) In addition to the requirements of the several sections of

this act relating to pleadings, the pleadings of the parties respectively shall
contain any other matter not included in the preceding section, which may
be required by any law authorizing or regulating any particular action or
defense.

659. (Size. 11.) The complaint may contain several different causes of
action, and the answer may contain several different defenses.

660. (SEC. 12.) In pleading the charter or act of incorporation of any
corporation public or private, it shall be sufficient to state that the corporation was duly organized, and that it is a corporation. ‘

661. (SEC. 13.) In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court
or oflicer of special jurisdiction it shall not be necessary to state the facts
conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be stated to
have been duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading shall be bound to establish in the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.

662. (SEC._ 14.) In pleading the performance of condition precedent in
a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance; but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all
the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading shall establish on the trial the facts showing such performance.

663. (SEC. 15.) In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be suilicient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of
its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

664. (SEC. 16.) In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary
to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the
application to the plaintiff or the defamatory matter out of which the cause
of action arose; but it shall be suilicient to state generally that the same was
published or spoken concerning the plaintiff and if such allegation be controverted the plaintiff shall establish on the trial that it was so publishedor spoken.

665. (SEC. 17.) In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may in his answer allege both the truth.of the matter charged as defamatory. and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of damages;
and, whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the
mitigating circumstances.

666. (-SEC. 18.) It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he shall deliver to the adverse
party within five days after a demand thereof in writing, a copy of the
account or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court or a judge
thereof may order a further account when the one delivered is too general or
is defective in any particular.

667. (SEC. 19.) All pleadings or proceedings may upon leave of the
court be amended at any stage of the action upon _such time as the court
may prescribe, or they may be amended before trial without such leave upon
serving the adverse party’ with a copy of such amended pleading or proceedlngs.

CHAPTER THREE.

PLEADINGS OF PLAINTIFF.

668. (SEC. 20.) The complaint shall set forth clearly the names of the
parties and their residence, if known, with a full and clear statement of the
cause of action, without any distinction between suits at law and in equity,
and shall also state the nature of the relief which he requests of the court.

669. (SEC. 21.) When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant,

such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name;
and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be

amended accordingly.
670. (Sec. 22.) Only such causes of action may be joined as are capable

of the same character of relief. But actions ea: contractu shall not be joined
with actions ea: delicto. In actions ea: delicto there shall not be joined actions
to recover for injuries to the person, to property, or to character; but they

shall be sued for separately.
671. (SEO. 23.) When the defendant sets up a counter-claim against the

plaintiff, the plaintiff may plead thereto under the rules prescribed for the

pleadings of defensive matter by the defendant, so far as the same may be I

applicable; and whenever under such rules the defendant is required to plead
any matter of defense under oath, the plaintiff shall in like manner be required to plead such matter under oath when relied on by him.

672. (SEC. 24.) It shall not be necessary for the plaintiff to deny any

.special matter of defense pleaded by the defendant, but the same shall be

regarded as denied unless expressly admitted.
673. (SEC. 25.) The court shall in every stage of an action disregard ‘any
error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not affect the substantial rights of the parties, and no judgment shall be reversed or adected
by reason of such error or defect.

CHAPTER FOUR.
VENUE OF SUITS.

674. (SEC. 26.) No person shall be sued out of the county in which he resides, except in the following cases: 1. Where the defendant or all of several defendants, reside out of the territory, or their residence is unknown, the suit may be brought in the county

where the plaintiff resides.
2. Where the defendant is a married woman, she may be sued in the county

where her husband resides, unless she be living separate and apart from him,
in which case she must be sued in the county where she resides or may be

found.
3. Where the defendant is a transient person he may be sued in any county

where he may be found. a
4. ‘Where a person has contracted in writing to perform an obligation in

any particular county, the suit may be brought either; in such county, or

where the defendant resides.
5. Where there are two or more defendants residing in different counties,

the suit may be brought in any county where any one of the defendants resides.
6. Where the suit is against an executor, administrator or guardian, as

such to establish a money demand against the estate which he represents, the
suit must be brgught in the county in which such estate is administered.

7. In all cases of fraud, and in cases of defalcation of public officers, suit
may be brought in the county in which the fraud was committed, or where the
defalcation occurred, or where the defendant resides or may be found.

8. Where the foundation of the suit is some crime, or offense, or trespass
for which a civil suit in damages may lie, the suit may be brought in the

county where the crime, offense or trespass was committed, or where the defendant resides or may be found.

9. Where the suit is for the recovery of any personal property, the suit
may be brought in the county.in which the property may be or in which the
defendant resides or may be found.

10. Where the defendant has inherited an estate, suits concerning thesame may be brought in the county where such estate principally lies.

1]. Where a suit is for the foreclosure of a mortgage or other lien, thesuit may be brought in the county in which the property subject to such lien
or a portion thereof may be situated.

12. Suit for the partition of lands or other property may be brought in the
county where such lands or other property, or a part thereof may be, or in
the county in which one or more of the defendants reside.

13. Suits for the recovery of lands or damages thereto, suits to remove in-cumbrances upon the title to land, and suits to quiet the title to land, and
suits to prevent or stay waste on lands, must be brought in the county in
which the land or a part thereof may lie.

14. Suits for divorce shall be brought in the county in which the plaintiff‘
shall have resided for six months next preceding the bringing of the suit.

15. When the suit is brought to enjoin the execution of a judgment or to
stay proceedings in any suit in which case the suit shall be brought in
the county in which such judgment was rendered, or in which such suit ispending.

16. Suits against any county shall be commenced in some court of competent jurisdiction within such county.

17. Suits for mandamus against any public officer shall be brought in the
county where such officer holds his office.

18. All suits in behalf of the territory for the forfeiture of the charter of
private corporations, chartered by act of legislature, or in which the territory
alone is interested, must be brought in the county in which the seat of government may be.

19. Suits against any private corporatiomassociation or joint stock company,
may be commenced in any county in which the cause of action or a part thereof
arose, or in which such corporation, association or company has an agent or
representative, or in which its principal oflice is situated, and suits against a
railroad corporation, or against any assignee, trustee or receiver operating its
railway, may also be brought in any county through which or into which the
railroad of such corporation extends or is operated.

20. Suits against fire, marine or inland insurance companies may be commenced in any countyin which any part of the insured property was situated,
and suits against life and accident insurance companies or associations, may
be commenced in the county in which the person insured or any of them resided at the time of the death or injury.

675. (SEC. 27 .) Whenever in any law authorizing or regulating any particular character of action, the venue is expressly prescribed, the suit shall
be commenced in the county to which jurisdiction may be so expressly

ven.
g1 676. (SEC. 28.) In all cases where any part of a river, water-course, highway, road or street shall be the boundary line between two counties, the several courts of each of said counties shall have concurrent jurisdiction in all
cases over such parts of said river, water-course, highway, road or street as
shall be the boundary of such county, in the same manneras if such parts of

said river, water-course, highway, road or street were within the body of
such county.

CHAPTER FIVE.
PARTIES TO SUITS.

677. (SEC. 29.) All suits brought by or against any of the counties or
incorporated cities, towns or villages shall be by or against it in its corporate
name.

678. (SEC. 30.) Suits for the recovery of personal property, debts or
damages, and suits for title or for the possession or lands, or for any right
attached, or growing out of the same, or for any injury or damage done

thereto, may be instituted by executors, administrators or guardians ap- _

pointed in this territory, in like manner as they could have been by their
testator or intestate; and judgment in such cases shall be as conclusive as
if rendered in favor of or against such testator or intestate; but such judgment may be set aside by any person interested for fraud or collusion on the
part of such executor or administrator.

679. (SEC. 31.) In every suit against the estate of a decedent involving
the title to real estate, the executor or administrator, if any, and the heirs,
shall be made parties defendant.

680. (SEC. 32) Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise prescribed.

681. (SEC. 33.) In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other defense
existing at the time of, or before notice of the assignment; but this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange,
transferred in good faith and upon good consideration before due.

682. (SEC. 34.) When hereafter an action is called for trial by the court,
such proceedings shall be had in impaneling the trial jury, as are prescribed
by law.

683. (SEC. 35.) When a married woman is a party her husband shall be
joined with her except that——

1. Where the action concerns her separate property she may sue or be
sued alone.

2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue or
be sued alone.

684. (Sec. 36.) If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may
defend for her own right.

685. (SEC. 37.) The husband and wife shall be jointly sued for all debts 1

contracted by the wife for necessaries furnished herself or children.

686. (SEC. 38.) A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family,
the mother, may maintain an action for the injury or death of a child, and a
guardian for the injury or death of his ward.

687. (SEC. 39.) The acceptor of any bill of exchange or any other principal obligor in any contract, may be sued either alone or jointly with any
other party who may be liable thereon; but no judgment shall be rendered
against such other party not primarily liable on such bill or other contract
unless judgment shall have been previously or shall be at the same time rendered against such acceptor or other principal obligor, except where the
plaintiff may discontinue his suit against such principal obligor as hereinafter provided. .

688. (SEC. 40.) The assignor, indorser, guarantor and surety upon any
contract. and the drawer of any bill, which has been accepted, may be sued
without the necessity of previously or at the same time suing the maker,
acceptor, or other principal obligor, when he resides beyond the limits of the

territory, or in such part of the same that he cannot be reached by the ordinary process of law, or when his residence is unknown and cannot be ascertained by the use of reasonable diligence, or when he is dead, or actually or
notoriously insolvent.

689. (SEC. 41.) Additional parties may be brought in by proper process
either by plaintiff or defendant upon such terms as the court may prescribe.

690. (SEC. 42.) Any party to a suit may appear and prosecute or defend
his rights therein, either in person or by an attorney of the court.

691. (SEC. 43.) In all cases where a minor may be a defendant to a suit
and it shall be shown to the court that such minor has no guardian within
the territory, it shall be the duty of the court to appoint a guardian ad
litem for such minor, for the purpose of defending such suit, and to allow

him a reasonable compensation for his services to be taxed as part of the‘

costs of the suit.

692. (SEC. 44.) Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
shall be joined as plaintiffs or defendants, but if the consent of any one who
should have been joined as plaintiff cannot be obtained, he may be made a
defendant, the reason therefor being stated in the complaint; and where the
question is one of a common or general interest of many persons, or when the
parties are numerous and it is impracticable to_ bring them all before the
court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all.

CHAPTER SIX.

PROCESS AND RETURNS.

693. (SEC. 45.) When the complaint shall be filed with the clerk and the
other regulations hereinafter prescribed shall be complied with, it shall be his
duty to issue forthwith a summons directed to the defendant. If there be
several defendants residing in different counties a summons may be issued
for each of said counties.

694. (SEC. 46.) When the defendant is to be served without the county
in which the suit is pending a copy of the plaintiff's complaint shall accompany the summons, and should there be more than one defendant to be served
without the county a copy of the complaint shall be made out for each of

' them.

695. (SEC. 47.) The summons shall state the parties to the action, the
court in which it is brought, the county in which the complaint is filed, and
require the defendant to appear and answer the complaint within the time
mentioned in the next section after the service of summons, exclusive of the
day of service; or that judgment by default will be taken against him.

696. (SEC. 48.) The time in which summons shall require the defendant
to answer the complaint shall be as follows: —

1. If the defendant is served within the county in which the action is
brought, ten days.

2. If the defendant is served out of the county, but in the district in which
the action is brought, twenty days.

3. In all other cases, tlz-my days.

697. (SEC. 49.) In an action affecting the title to real property the plaintiff
at the time of filing the complaint. or at any time thereafter, and the defendant at the time of filing his answer when aflirmatrive relief is claimed in such
answer, or at any time thereafter, may file in the office of the recorder of the
county in which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the

action or defense, containing the names of the parties, the object of the action, or the matter constituting defendant's claim for affirmative relief, the
relief demanded by the defendant, and a description of the property mected
thereby. The recorder shall file said notice and record the same in a. book
to be provided for that purpose, and index the same in the names of the
parties to the action, and shall receive for such filing, recording and indexing
the sum of one dollar ($1.00). From the -time of filing such notice only,
shall a purchaser or inctiinbrancer of the property affected thereby be deemed
to have constructive notice of the pendency of the action, and only of its
pendency against parties designated by their proper names.

698. (SEC. 50.) Where it appears from the complaint that the sheriff is
a party to the suit or is interested therein, the summons shall be served by
any constable of his county.

699. (SEC. 51.) It shall be the duty of the sheriff or constable to whom
any summons shall be delivered to indorse thereon the day and hour on which
he received it and to execute and return the same without delay.

700. (SEC. 52.) Unless the process should otherwise direct, the summons
shall be served, if within the county, in which the suit is pending, by the
officer executing it, delivering to the defendant, or if there be more than one,
then to each defendantin person a true copy of the summons.

701. (SEC. 53). If served without the county in which the suit is pending, the officer shall also deliver to the defendant and each of them in person
the copy of the complaint accompanying the summons.

702. (SEC. 54.) In suits against any county the summons shall be served
on the chairman of the board of supervisors of such county, and in his
absence on any member of said board.

703. (SEO. 55.) In suits against any incorporated city, town or village,
the summons may be served on the mayor, clerk, secretary or treasurer
thereof.

704. (SEC. 56.) In suits against any incorporated company or joint stock
association the summons may be served on the president, secretary or treasurer of such company or association, or upon the localagent representing
such company or association, in the county in which suit is brought, or by
leaving a copy of the same, at the principal otilce of the company during
oflice hours, service may be had upon any railroad, telegraph or express
company by serving the summons on any agent of such company, who resides
in or may be foundin the county where suit is brought.

705. (SEC. 57.) In suits against partners the summons may be served upon
one of the tirm, and such service shall be sufficient to authorize a judgment
against the firm and against the partner actually served.

706. (SEC. 58.) The return of the officer executing the summons shall be
indorsed on or attached to the same; it shall state when the summons was
served and the manner of service, and shall he signed by him officially.

707. (SEC. 59.) The summons may he served by any disinterested person
competent to make oath of the fact. 708. (SEC. 60.) Service in such cases shall be made by the person executing the same, delivering to the defendant in person a copy of the summon or copy of the summon and complaint as may he required by the

preceding sections.
709. (SEC. 61.) The return of service in such cases shall be indorsed or

attached to the original summon. It shall state when the same was served
and the manner of its service and be signed and sworn to by the party making such service before some oflicer authorized by the laws of this territory
to take affidavits, and such affidavit shall be certified to under the hand and
ollicial seal of such officer. .

710. (SEC. 62.) When the summons has not been served the return shall

show the diligence used by the officer to execute the same and the cause of’
failure to execute it, and where the defendant is to be found in so far as hehas been able to ascertain.

711. (SEC. 63.) When any process has not been returned or has been returned without service, or has been improperly served, it shall be the duty
of the clerk upon the application of any party to the suit, his agent or attorney, to issue other process to the same or any other county, as the party applying may direct. '

712. (SEC. 64.) When any party to the suit, his agent or attorney shall

make affidavit at the time of instituting the suit or at any time during its progress that the defendant is a non-resident of the territory, or that he is
absent from the territory or that he is a transient person, or that his residence
is unknown to the atliant, or is a corporation incorporated under the laws of
any other state or territory, or foreign country and doing business in this
territory or having property therein but having no legally appointed and
constitued agent in this territory, or that such defendant conceals himself to
avoid the service of summon ; the clerk shall issue a summons directed to the
defendant as in other cases, and shall deliver the same to the sheriff of the
county in which the suit is pending, and said sheriff shall serve the same by

making publication thereof in some newspaper published in his county if ‘

there be any newspaper published therein, but if not then in any newspaper
published in the nearest county to the county where the suit is pending.
Such summons shall be published at least once in each week for four successive weeks.

713. (SEC. 65.) When the residence of the defendant in the cases mentioned in the preceding section is known to the atiiant the same shall be
stated in the affidavit and if such residence is not known that fact shall be
stated. When the residence of defendant is known, the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney shall forthwith deposit a copy of the summons and complaint in
the post-othce, postage prepaid, directed to the defendant at his place of
residence.

714. (SEC. 66.) When it is necessary to commence suit for the foreclosure
of a mortgage or for the complete determination of the title of real property
against the unknown heirs of any deceased person, which heirs reside out of
the territory they may be sued as the unknown heirs of the deceased, and
service of the summons may be made on them in the manner provided in the
two preceding sections.

715. (SEC. 67.) Personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint
out of the territory shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the p stoflice. In either case the service of the summons shall be deemed complete

at the expiration of the time prescribed for publication.
716. (Sec. 68.) Where personal service of a copy of the summons and

complaint is made out of the territory, or service by publication is made as.

provided in the preceding sections, the defendant is required to appear and
answer within twenty days after the completion thereof, in the same manner
and under the same penalties as if he had been personally served with a summons within the county in which the suit is pending.

717. (SEC. 69.) When the summons is served by publication, the return
of the officer serving the same shall be indorsed or attached to said summons
and shall show when it was served and the manner thereof, specifying the
dates of such publication. and shall be accompanied bya printed copy of such
publication and shall be signed by him oflicially.

718. (Sec. 70.) Any mistake or informality in a return may be corrected
by the officer at any time, under the direction of the court.

719. (SEC. 71.) The defendant may accept service of any process. or
waive the issuance or service thereof, by a written memorandum, signed by

him or by his duly authorized agent or attorney, and filed among the papers
of the cause; and such waiver or acceptance shall have the same force and
effect as if the summons had been issued and served as provided by law.

720. (Sec. 72.) The defendant may, in person or by attorney, or by his
duly authorized agent, enter an appearance in open court, and such appearance shall be noted by the judge upon the docket and entered in the minutes,
and shall have the same force and effect as if summons had been duly issued
and served as provided by law.

721. (Sec. 73.) The filing of an answer shall constitute an appearance of
the defendant so as to dispense with the necessity for the issuance or service ofsummons upon him.

722. (Sec. 74.) Where the summons or service thereof is quashed on
motion of the defendant the case may be continued for the term, but the defendant shall be deemed to have entered his appearance to the succeeding
term of the court.

723. (Sec. 75.) Where the judgment is reversed on appeal or writ of error
taken by the defendant for the want of service, or because of defective service of process, no new summons shall be issued or served, but the defendant
shall be presumed to have entered his appearance to the term of the court at
which the mandate shall be filed.

724. (SEC. 76.) No judgment shall in any case be rendered against any
defendant unless upon service, or acceptance, or waiver of process, or upon
an appearance by the defendant, as prescribed in this act, except where otherwise expressly provided by law.

 

CHAPTER SEVEN.

ABATEMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF SUIT.

725. (SEC. 77.) An action shall not abate by the death or other disability
of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action
survive or continue. In case of the death or disability of a party, the court
on motion, may allow the action to be continued by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the
action may be continued in the name of the original party, or the court may
allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be sustituted in the action.

726. (SEC. 78.) If such death or other disability of a party or transfer of
interest occur in vacation, any party to the suit desiring to make new parties
occasioned thereby, may make and file with the clerk an affidavit of such
death, disability, or transfer and suggest the names and residences of the
persons he desires to make new parties, and thereupon the clerk shall issue a
summons to said persons, which shall be served and returned as in other
cases. If the persons served fail to appear and answer by the first day of
the term of court next after they are served, the court shall enter such judgment or order in the cause as may be proper.

727. (Sec. 79.) The court may determine any controversy between
parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice tothe rights of others
or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the court shall
order them to be brought in.

728. (Sec. 80.) The plaintm may enter a discontinuance on the docket
in vacation, in any suit wherein the defendant has not answered on the payment of all costs that have accured thereon.

729. (SEC. 81.) When a suit is discontinued as to a principal obligor, no
judgment can be rendered therein against an indorser, guarantor, surety or
drawer of an accepted bill who is jointly sued unless it is alleged and proven
that such principal resides beyond the limits of the territory or in such part
of the same that he cannot be reached by the ordinary process of law, or that
his residence is unknown and cannot be ascertained by the use of reasonable
diligence, or that he is dead or actually or notoriously insolvent.

730. (SEC. 82.) The court may permit the plaintiff to discontinue the
suit as to one or more of several defendants who have been served with process or who may have answered when such discontinuance would not operate
to the prejudice of the other defendants, but no such discontinuance shall in
any case be allowed as to a principal obligor except as provided in the preceding section.

731. (SEC. 83.) When the defendant has filed a counter-claim seeking
adlrmative relief, the plaintiff shall not be permitted by a discontinuance of
his suit to prejudice the right of the defendant to be heard on such counterclaim.

732. (SEC. 84.) When in any suit either party shall die between verdict
and judgment the judgment shall be entered as if both parties were living.

733. (SEC. 85.) When there are several defendants in a suit, and some
of them are served with process and ‘others are not so served, the plaintiff?
may proceed against those that are served and continue the suit and take
new process against those not served, or he may at his option continue the
suit and take new process against those not served.

 

- _A.—. _

CHAPTER EIGHT.
PLEADINGS OF THE DEFENDANT.

734. (SEC. 86.) The defendant in his answer may plead as many several
matters, whether of law or fact, as may be necessary for his defense, and
which may be pertinent to the cause, but such pleas shall be stated in the
following order and filed at the same time: —

1. Matters denying the jurisdiction of the court.

2. Matters in the abatement of the suit.

3. Matters denying the sufliciency of the complaint or of any cause of action therein by demurrer, general or special.

4. Matters in bar of the action.

5. Matters of counter-claim and set-off.

735. (SEC. 87.) Any answer setting up any of the following matters, unless the truth of the pleadings appear of record, shall be verified by aflidavit :—

1. That the suit is not commenced in the proper county.

2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue.

3. That the plainti& is not entitled to recover in the capacity in which he
sues.

4. That there is another suit pending in this territory between the same
parties for the same cause of action. 5. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant.

6. A denial of partnership as alleged in the complaint, whether the same
be on the part of the plaintiff or defendant.

7. That the plaintiff or the defendant alleged in the complaint to be duly
incorporated, is duly incorporated as alleged.

8. A denial of the execution by himself or by his authority of any instrument in writing upon which any pleading is founded, in whole or in part, and
charged to have been executed by him or by his authority, and not alleged to
be lost or destroyed. Where such instrument in writing is charged to have
been executed bv a person then deceased, the affidavit will be sufficient if it
state that the amant has reason to believe, and does believe, that such instrument was not executed by the decedent or by his authority.

9. A plea denying the genuineness of the indorsemeut or assignment of any

written instrument.
10. That a written instrument upon which a pleading is founded, is without consideration, or that the consideration of the same has failed in whole or

in part.
11. That an account which is the foundation of the plaintiff's action, and

supported by an ailidavit, is not just, and in such case the answer shall set.

forth the items and particulars which are unjust.

736. (SEC. 88.) Whenever _any suit shall be brought for the recovery of
any debt due by judgment, bond, bill or otherwise, the defendant shall be
permitted to plead therein any counter-claim which he may have against the
plaintiff, subject to such limitation as may be prescribed by law.

737. (Size. 89.) The plea setting up such counter-claim shall state dis-_

tinctly the nature and the several items thereof and shall conform to the ordinary rules of pleading.

738. (Sec. 90.) On the trial of such issue, if the defendant shall establish
a demand against the plaintiff exceeding that established against him by the
plaintiff, the court. shall render judgment for the defendant for such excess.

739. (SEC. 91.) \Vhenever a counter-claim is pleaded under the provisions
of this act, the party in whose favor final judgment is rendered shall also recover his costs, unless it should be made to appear on the trial that the counter-claim of the defendant was acquired after the commencement of the suit,

in which case, if the plaintiff establishes a cause of action existing at thecommencement of the suit, he shall recover his costs.

740. (SEC. 92.) If the plaintiff’s cause of action be a claim for unliquidated or uncertain damages, founded on a tort or breach of covenant, the defendant shall not be permitted to set off any debt due him by the plaintiE;
and if the suit be founded on a certain demand, the defendant shall not be
permitted to set o& unliquidated or uncertain damages founded on a tort or
breach of covenant on the part of the plaintiff.

741. (SEC. 93.) Nothing in the preceding section shall be so construed as
to prohibit the defendant from pleading in set-off any counter-claim founded
on a cause of action arising out of, or incident to, or connected with the
plaintiffs cause of action. _

742. (SEC. 94.) In every action in which the defendant shall desire to
prove any payment, counter-claim or seto-ff, he shall file with his plea an account stating distinctly the nature of such payment, counter-claim or set om
and the several items thereof; and on failure to do so, he shall not be entitled to prove the same, unless it be so plainly and particularly described in
the plea as to give the plaintiR full notice of the character thereof.

743. (Sec. 95.) Where the defendant has pleaded the general denial, and
the plaintiff shall afterward amend his pleading, it shall not be necessary for
the defendant to plead such denial a second time, but such original denial shall
be presumed to extend to all matters subsequently set up by the plaintiff.

744. (SEC. 96.) Pleas shall be heard and determined in due order of pleading under the direction of the court.

745. (SEC. 97.) Pleas to the jurisdiction, pleas in abatement and other
dilatory pleas and demurrers not involving the merits of the case, shall be determined during the term at which they are filed, if the business of the court

will permit.

CHAPTER NINE.
CHANGE OF VENUE.

746. (SEC. 98.) The court may, upon the written consent of the parties
thereto, or their attorneys, filed with the papers of the cause by an order entered on the minutes, transfer the same for trial to the court of any other
county having jurisdiction of the subject-matter of such suit.

747. (SEC. 99.) A change of venue may be granted in any civil cause upon
application of either party, supported by his own affidavit and the affidavit of

' at least three credible persons, residents of the county in which the suit is

pending, for any of the following causes: — 1. That there exists in the county where the suit is pending so great a
prejudice against him that he cannot obtain afair and impartial trial.

2. That there is a combination against him instigated by influential persons, by reason of which he cannot expect a fair and impartial trial.

3. For other good and sufficient cause, to be determined by the court.

748. (SEC. 100.) Where application for a change of venue is made in
conformity to the requirements of the preceding sections, the same shall be
granted unless it appear to the satisfaction of the judge, upon proof made
before him, that the cause alleged is not true.

749. (SEC. 101.) Upon the grant of a change of venue, as provided in the
preceding sections, the cause shall be removed to some adjoining county,
the court house of which is nearest to the court house of the county in which
the suit is pending unless it be made to appear in the application that such
nearest county is subject to some objection sufficient to authorize a change of
venue therefrom in the first instance; but the parties may by consent agree
that it shall be changed to some other county, and the order of court shall
conform to such agreement.

750. (SEC. 102.) When an order for a change of venue has been granted
by the court, the clerk shall immediately make out a correct transcript of all
orders made in said cause, certifying thereto officially under the seal of the

«court, and transmit the same with the original papers in the cause to the clerk
-of the court to which the venue has been changed.

. CHAPTER TEN.

CONTINUANCE.
751. (SEC. 103.) N 0 application for continuance shall ‘be heard before the

-defendant files his defense, nor shall any continuance be granted except for

sumcient cause supported by atlldavit, or by consent of the parties, or by

» operation of law.

752. (Sec. 104.) On any application for continuance if the ground for
such application be the want of testimony, the party applying therefor shall
make affidavit that such testimony is material, showing the materiality thereof,
and that he has used due diligence to procure such testimony, stating such
diligence and the cause of failure, if known, that such testimony cannot be
obtained from any other source; and if it be for the absence of a witness,
he shall state the name and residence of the witness, and what he expects to
prove by him; and he shall also state that the continuance is not sought for
delay only, but that justice may be done. But if the adverse party will

admit that such evidence would be given and that it will be considered as
actually given on the trial or offered and overruled as improper the trial shall
not be continued. Such evidence may be controverted the same as if the
witness were personally present.

753. (SEC. 105.) The party obtaining a continuance of a trial, shall also,
if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness
of such adverse party who is in attendance be taken by deposition before a
judge or clerk of a court, or stenographer or notary public. to be named by
the court, which shall accordingly be done; and the testimony so taken may
be read on the trial by either party with the same effect and subject to the
same objections as if the witnesses were produced.

754. (SEC. 106.) If from any cause the court shall not be held at the time
prescribed by law, or if the business before the court be not determined before the adjournment thereof, such business of whatsoever nature remaining
undetermined shall stand continued until the next succeeding term of court.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.
TRIAL OF CAUSE.

755. (Sec. 107.) Where there are several defendants some of whom have
answered and others have made default, judgment may be entered
against those who have not answered, and the cause may proceed against the
others.

756. (SEC. 108.) Causes shall be called and tried in, their order on the
docket unless otherwise ordered by the court.

757. (Sec. 109.) On the first day of the term or on such day as may be
fixed by the court, the docket shall be called and if a jury is demanded by
either party such demand shall then be made and if not then made, the
right to a trial by jury shall be regarded as waived and the cause shall be
tried by the court unless the court by its own motion shall thereafter otherwise order. The party who demands a jury shall then and there deposit
with the clerk the amount of per diem of such jury for one day, with and as
a part of his demand.

758. (Sec. 110.) When a case is called for trial, the issues of law
arising on the pleadings and all pleas in abatement, and other dilatory pleas
remaining undisposed of shall be determined, and it shall be no cause for the
postponement of a trial of the issues of law that a party is not prepared to
try the issues of fact-, when juries are demanded all issues of law and all
pleas which do not go to the merits of the case shall be disposed of by the
court before the case is called for trial on the merits. The rules hereinafter
prescribed for the trial of causes before the jury shall govern in trials by the
court so far as may be applicable. _

759. (Sec. 111.) The parties may in any case submit the matter in controversy between them to the court upon an agreed statement of facts made
out and signed by them or counsel, and tiled with the clerk upon which judgment shall be rendered as in other cases, and in such case the statement so
agreed to and signed and certified by the court to be correct, and the judgment rendered thereon shall constitute the record of the cause.

760. (SEC. 112.) In all cases brought up from inferior courts whether
by appeal or certiow-ari the case shall be tried de novo.

761. (SEC. 113.) In suits tried by a jury the trial shall proceed in the

12

following order, unless the court should for good cause to be stated in the
, record otherwise direct :— ,

1. The plaintiff or his con use! shall read his complaint to the .jury.

2. The defendant or his counsel shall read his answer.

3. If there be any intervenor, he or his counsel shall read his pleadings.

4. The plaintiff shall then introduce his evidence.

5. The defendant shall then introduce his evidence.

6. The intervenor, if any, shall then introduce his evidence.

7. The parties shall then be confined to rebutting testimony on each side.

762. (SEC. 114.) The court may at its discretion at any time before the
conclusion of the argument, where it appears to be necessary to the due administration of justice, allow a party to supply an omission in the testimony,
on such terms and under such limitations as the court may prescribe.

763. (SEC. 115.) After the evidence is concluded, the parties may submit the case to the jury in argument, the party having under the pleadings the burden of proof on the whole case shall be entitled to open and
conclude the argument; where there are several other parties, having several
claims or defenses, and represented by different counsel, the court shall prescribe the order of argument between them. ,

764. (SEC. 116.) After the conclusion of the argument the court shall
charge the jury. At any time before the jury have retired the plaintiff may
take a nonsuit, but he shall not thereby prejudice the right of an adverse
party to be heard on his own claim for affirmative relief ; when the case is tried
by the judge, such nonsuit may be taken at any time before the decision is

‘ announced.
. 765. (Sec. 117.) The jury may either decide the case in court or retire

for deliberation. If they retire, they shall be kept together in some convenient place. under the charge of an officer, until they agree upon a verdict,
or are discharged by the court; but the court may in its discretion permit
them to separate temporarily for the night and at their meals and for other
proper causes.

766. (SEC. 118.) The officer having the jury under his charge shall not

_. suffer any communication to be made to them, or make any himself, except

to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the
court. And he shall not, before the verdict is rendered, communicate to
any person the state of their deliberations or the verdict agreed upon.
767. (SEC. 119.) If the jury are permitted to separate, either during the
trial or after the case is submitted to them, they shall be admonished by the
court that it is their duty not to converse with, or suffer themselves to be
addressed by any other person on any subject connected with the trial.

, 768. (Sec. 120.) When the jury wish to communicate with the court they
shall make their wish known to the officer having them in charge, who shall
inform the court thereof, and they may be brought into open court and
through their foreman shall state to the court either verbally or in writing
what they desire to communicate

769. (SEC. 121.) The jury may after the cause is submitted to them, be
discharged by the court when they cannot agree and both parties consent to
their discharge, or when they have been kept together for such time as to
render it altogether improbable that they can agree.

-. 770. (Sec. 122.) They may also be discharged by the court when any
calamity or accident may, in the opinion of the court, require it, and they
shall be so discharged when by sickness or other cause their number is reduced below nine.

771. (SEC. 123.) The final adjournment of the court before the jury have

. agreed upon a verdict, discharges them.

772. (Sec. 124.) Where a jury has been discharged as herein provided,

without having rendered a verdict, the cause may again be tried at the same
or another term. A

773. (SEC. 125.) The court may during the retirement of a jury proceed
to other business and adjourn from time to time, but shall be deemed open
for all purposes connected with the case before the jury.

CHAPTER TWELVE.
CHARGES AND INSTRUCTIONS TO THE JURY

774. (SEC. 126.) After the argument of a cause the judge may in open
court deliver a charge to the jury on the law of the case, the charge shall be
in writing unless that be waived, and signed by the judge. If a stenographer
takes down the charge the writing may be dispensed with; but the same shall
at the request of either party be written out and filed in the case, and shall be

signed by the judge when so written out.

775. (Sec. 127.) The charge shall not comment on the weight of evidence, but shall instruct the jury as to the law arising on the facts, and the
-charge shall submit all controverted questions of fact solely to the decision of

the jury.

776. (SEC. 128.) Either party may before the argument closes present
to the judge in writing such instructions as he desires to be givento the jury,
and the court shall pass on the same, and give, refuse or modify the same as
he shall see proper; and he shall read to the jury such of them as he may
give. He shall on the margin of such instructions over his name mark it
“ given” or “ refused” or “ given as modified,” as the case may be.

777. (Sec. 129.) The charge of the court and all instructions asked by
either party shall be filed by the clerk and shall constitute a part of the
record and shall be regarded as excepted to and subject to revision for error,
without the necessity of taking exceptions thereto. ’

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.
THE VERDICT.

778. (SEC. 130.) When the jury have agreed upon their verdict they
shall be conducted into court by the ofilcer having them in charge, and their
names shall be called by the clerk, and they shall deliver their verdict to the

clerk.
779. (Sec. 131.) The verdict shall be in writing and signed by the foreman, and where pending a trial, any juror may die or be disabled from setting

and be relieved from duty by the court, the verdict may be rendered by the
remaining jurors.

780. (Sec. 132.) The clerk or the court shall read the verdict aloud and
the court shall inquire of the jury if such is their verdict. If any juror disagrees to the verdict they shall again be sent out to further consider the
case, but if not the court shall receive the same and order the same to be
entered in the minutes, and the jury shall be discharged.

781. (SEC. 133.) When the verdict is announced either party may require the jury to be polled, which is done by the clerk or judge asking

each juror separately if such is his verdict. If any juror answers in the
negative, the jury shall again be sent out for further deliberation; but if
each juror concurs in the verdict the same shall be received and noted in the
docket, except in the cases provided for in the two succeeding sections and
the jury shall be discharged.

782. (SEC. 134.) If the verdict is informal or defective the court may direct it to be reformed at the bar, and where there has been a manifest miscalculation of interest, the court may direct a computation thereof at the bar,
and the verdict may, if the jury assent thereto, be reformed in accordance
with such computation.

783. (SEC. 135.) If the verdict is not responsive to the issue submitted to
the jury, the court shall call their attention thereto, and send them back for
further deliberation.

784. (SEC. 136.) The verdict of the jury is either general or special. A
general verdict is one whereby the jury pronounces generally in favor of
one or more parties to the suit upon all or any of the issues submitted
to them. A special verdict is one wherein the jury find the facts only on
issues submitted to them under the direction of the court.

785. (SEC. 137.) The special verdict must find the facts as established by
the evidence, and not the evidence by which they are established, and the
findings must be such as that nothing remains for the court but to draw from
such facts the conclusions of law.

786. (SEC. 138.) A special verdict so found shall as between the parties
be conclusive as to the facts found.

787. (SEC. 139.) Where the court does not instruct "the jury to find a
special verdict, the verdict shall be general. .

788. (SEC. 140.) The verdict shall comprehend the whole issue, or all the
issues su bmitted to them.

789. (SEC. 141.) When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in an action for
the recovery of money or for the defendant, when a counter-claim for the
recovery of money is established, exceeding the amount of the plaintiff ’s claim as established, the j ury shall also find the amount of the recovery.

790. (81-30. 142.) In an action for the recovery of a specific personal property, if the property has not been delivered to the plaintiff, or the defendant
by his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in favor
of the plaintiff, or if, being in favor of the defendant, they also find that he is
entitled to a return thereof, shall find the value of the property, and may at
the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or
answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of the taking or
detention of such property. 791. (Size. 143.) No special form of verdict is required, and where there
has been a substantial compliance with the requirements of the law in rendering a verdict. the judgment shall not be arrested or reversed for mere want of
form therein.

792. (SEC. 144.) The court may direct the jury to bring in a sealed verdict at the opening of the court in case of an agreement during a recess or
adjournment for the day.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

JUDGMENTS.

793. (Sec. 145.) The judgment of the court shall conform to the pleadings, the nature of the case proved, and the verdict, if any, and shall be so
framed as to give the party all the relief to which he may be entitled either
in law or equity.

794. (Sec. 146.) Judgment may in a proper case be given for or against
one or more of several plaintiffs, or against or for one or more of several defendants or intervenors.

795. (Sec. 147.) When the judgment is for the conveyance of real estate,or for the delivery of personal property, the decree may pass the title to such
property without any act to be done on the part of the party against whom
the judgment is rendered.

796. (Sec. 148.) The court shall cause its judgment and decree to be
carried into execution, and when the judgment is for personal property, and
it is shown by the pleadings and evidence and verdict, if any, that such
property has an especial value to the plaintm, the court may award a special
writ for the seizure and delivery of such property to the plaintiff, and the
court may, in addition to the other relief granted in such case, enforce its
judgment by attachment, tine and imprisonment.

797. (SEC. 149.) Judgments for the foreclosure of mortgages and other
liens shall be that the plaintiff recover his debt, damages and costs, with a
foreclosure of the plaintiff's lien on the property subject thereto, and (except
in judgments against executors, administrators and guardians) that an order
of sale shall issue to the sheriff or any constable of the county where such
property may be, directing him to seize and sell the same as under execution,
in satisfaction of the judgment; and if the property cannot be found, or if
the proceeds of such sale be insufficient to satisfy the judgment. then to
make the money, or any balance thereof remaining unpaid, out of any other
property of the defendant, as in case of ordinary executions.

798. (SEC. 150.) If the debt for which the mortgage, lien or incumbrance
is held be not all due, so soon as sumcient of the property has been sold to
pay the amount due, with costs, the sale shall cease, and afterward, as often
as more becomes due for principal or interest, the court may. on motion,
order more to be sold. But if the property cannot be sold in portions without
injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered to be sold in the first instance
and the entire debt and costs paid, there being a rebate of interest where
such rebate is proper.

799. (SEC. 151.) When a recovery of money is had against an executor,
administrator or guardian, as such, the judgment shall state that it is to be
paid in the due course of administration, and no execution shall issue. Such
judgment shall not be alien on the real proper y of a decedent.

800. (SEC. 152.) Where service of process has been made by publication
and no answer has been filed within the time prescribed by law, judgment

shall be rendered as in other cases; but in every such case a statement of the ,

evidence, approved and signed by the judge, shall be filed with the papers of
the cause as a part of the record thereof, except in cases where the clerk is
authorized to enter final judgment for money ordamages only.

801. (Sec. 153.) Where suit is against several partners, jointly indebted
upon contract, and the summons has been served upon some of such partners,
but not upon all, judgment may be rendered therein against such partnership,
and against the partners actually served, but no personal judgment or execution shall be awarded against those not served.

802. (Sec. 154.) Any person indebted, or against whom a cause of action exists, may without process appear, in person, or by attorney, and
confess judgment therefor in open court; but in such case a complaint shall
be tiled and the justness of the debt or cause of action be sworn to by the
person in whose favor the judgment is confessed.

803. (SEC. 155.) When the judgment is confessed by attorney, the power
of attorney shall be filed, and a recital of contents of the same be made in the

‘judgment.

804. (SEC. 156.) Every judgment by confession duly made shall operate

as a release of all errors in the record thereof, but such judgment may beimpeached for fraud or other equitable cause. '
805. (S110. 157.) The court may render such other judgments and in

- such form as may be authorized by law.

806. (SEC. 158.) If an action be brought against a sheriff for an act
done by virtue of his otiice, and he give written notice thereof to the sureties.
on any bond of indemnity received by him. the judgment recovered therein
shall be conclusive evidence of his right to recover against such sureties, and
the court or judge in vacation, may on motion upon notice of five days, order
judgment to be entered up against them for the amount so recovered, including costs.

807. (SEC. 159.) In actions arising upon contract for the recovery of
money or damages only, if no answer has been filed within the time specified.

in the summons, the clerk upon the application of the plaintiff, shall enter‘

the default of the defendants served, and if the action be against defendants

jointly liable, he shall immediately thereafter enter judgment in the amount.

sued for in the complaint, including the costs, against all the defendants
thus jointly liable, and such judgment’may be enforced against the joint
property of all, and the separate property of the defendants served. If the

action be against the defendants severally liable, he shall enter judgment.

against all the defendants served in the same manner as if they were the only
defendants.

808. (SEC. 160.) In other actions if no answer has been filed within the

time specified in the summons, the clerk shall enter the default of the defendant, and thereafter the plaintiff may apply at the first or any subsequent
term of the court for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of
an account or the proof of any part be necessary to enable the court to give
judgment or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may take the
account or hear the proof, or may in its discretion, order a reference for that
purpose, and where the action is for the recovery of damages in whole or in
part, the court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury, or if, to

determine the amount of damages, the examination of along account benecessary, by a reference as above provided. _

809. (SEC. 161.) A judgment may be entered in term time or vacation.

810. (SEC. 162.) Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk
shall attach together and file the following papers, which shall constitute the
judgment roll :—

lst. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons
with the return of service and the complaint with a memorandum indorsed on
the complaint that the default of the defendant in not answering was entered,
and a copy of the judgment.

2nd. In all other cases the summons, pleading and a copy of the judgment and any orders relating to a change of the parties.

CFIAPTER FIFTEEN.
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS.

811. (SEC. 163.) When a judgment is recovered against any one or moreof several persons by proceedings, as provided in this act, those who were
not originally served with the summons and did not appear to the action, may

be summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by the judgment.

in the same manner as though they had been originally served with the summons.

812. (SEC. 164.) The summons, as provided in the last section, shall describe the judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause why he
should not be bound by it, and shall be served in the same manner and returnable within the same time, as the original summons. It shall not be necessary to file a new complaint.

813. (SEC. 165.) The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of
the plaintiff, his agent, representative or attorney, that the judgment or some
part thereof remains unsatisfied, and shall specify the amount due thereon.

814. (SEC. 166.) Upon such summons the defendant may answer within
the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up any defense
which may have arisen subsequently; or he may deny his liability on the
obligation upon which the judgment was recovered. except a discharge from
such liability by the statute of limitation.

815. (SEC. 167.) If the defendant in his answer deny the judgment, or
set up any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the summons, with
the amdavit annexed, and the answer, shall constitute the written allegations
in the case. If he deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and judgment, the
summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall constitute such
written allegations.

816. (SEC. 168.) The issue found may be tried as in other cases; but
when the defendant denies in his answer any liability on the obligation upon
which the judgment was rendered, if a verdict be found against him, it shall
be for the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original judgment, with interest thereon.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

REMITTER AND AMENDMENT OF JUDGMENT.

817. (SEC. 169.) Any party in whose favor a verdict or judgment has
been rendered may in open court remit any part of such verdict or judgment
and such remitter shall be noted on the docket and entered in the minutes and
execution shall thereafter issue for the balance only of such judgment after
deducting the amount remitted.

818. (SEC. 170.) Any party may make such remitter in vacation by executing and filing with the clerk a release in writing signed by him or his
attorney of record and attested by the clerk with the seal of his oilice, such
release shall constitute a part of the record of the cause and any execution
thereafter issued shall be for the balance only of the judgment after deducting the amount remitted.

819. (SEC. 171.) Where there shall be a mistake in the record of any
judgment or decree, the judge may in open court, and after notice of the
application therefor has been given to the parties interested in such judgment or decree, amend the same according to the truth and justice of the
case and thereafter the execution. shall conform to the judgment as amended.

820. (SEC. 172.) Where in the record of any judgment or decree of any
court there shall be any mistake, miscalculation or misrecital of any sum or
sums of money or of any name or names and there shall be among the records
of the cause any verdict or instrument of writing whereby such judgment or;
decree may be safely amended, it shall be the duty of the court, in which
such judgment or decree shall be rendered and the judge thereof in vacation,
on application of either party, to amend such judgment or decree thereby,

according to th'e truth and justice of the case; but the opposite party shall
have reasonable notice of the application for such amendment.

821. (Sec. 173.) The judge making such correction in vacation shall
embody the same in a judgment and shall certify thereto and deliver the same
to the clerk who shall enter the same in the minutes. Such judgment shall
constitute a part of the record of the cause, and any execution thereafter
issued shall conform to the judgment as corrected.

822. (Sec. 174.) A remitter or correction made as provided in any of the
preceding sections shall from the making thereof, cure any error in the verdict or judgment by reason of such excess.

CH APTER SEVENTEEN.

BILL OF EXCEPTIONS.

823. (Sec. 175.) Whenever in the progress of a cause either party is
dissatisfied with any ruling, opinion, or other action of the court, he may
except thereto at the time the same is made or announced and at his request
time shall be given to embody such exception in a written bill.

824. (Sec. 176.) No particular form of words shall be required in a bill
of exceptions, but the objection to the ruling or action of the court shall be
stated with such circumstances, or so much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain it and no more, and the whole as briefly as possible.

825. (Sec. 177.) Where the statement of facts contain all the evidence
requisite to explain the bill of exceptions, it shall not be necessary to set out
the evidence in the bill of exceptions, but it shall be sutlicient to refer to the
same as it appears in the statement of facts.

826. (See. 178.) The ruling or other action of the court in the giving, refusing or qualifying of instructions to the jury shall be regarded as excepted
to in all cases.

827. (Sec. 179.) Where the ruling or other action of the court appears
otherwise of record, no bill of exceptions shall be necessary to reserve an exception thereto. ,

828. (See. 180.) It shall be the duty of the party taking any bill of exceptions to reduce the same to writing and present the same to the judge for
allowance during the term and within ten days after the conclusion of the

trial.
829. (SEC. 181.) It. shall be the duty of the judge to submit such bill of

exceptions to the opposite party or his counsel, if in attendance on the court,
and if the same is found to be correct. it shall be signed by the judge without
delay and filed with the clerk during the term.

830. (SEC 182.) Should the judge find such bill of exceptions to be incorrect, he shall suggest to the party or his counsel who drew it, such corrections as he may deem necessary therein and if they are agreed to, he shall
make such corrections and sign the same and file it as provided in the
preceding section.

831. (Sec. 183.) Should the party not agree to such corrections the judge
shall return the bill of exceptions to him with his refusal indorsed thereon,
and shall make out, sign and file with the clerk such a hill of exceptions as
will in his opinion present the ruling of the court in that behalf as it actually
occurred.

832. (SEC. 184.) Should the partv he dissatisfied with the bill of exceptions filed by the judge, as provided in the preceding section, he may, upon

procuring the signatures of three respectable bystanders, citizens of this territory, attesting the correctness of the bill of exceptions as presented by him,
have the same filed as a part of the record of the cause, and the truth of the
matter in reference thereto may be controverted and maintained by affidavits,
not exceeding five in number on each side, to be filed with the papers of the
cause within ten days after the filing of such bill of exceptions, and to be
considered as a part of the record relating thereto.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

NEW TRIALS AND ARREST OF JUDGMENT.

. 833. (SEC. 185.) New trials may be granted and judgments may be set
aside, or arrested on motion for good cause on such terms and conditions
as the court shall direct.

834. (SEC. 186.) Every such motion shall be in writing and signed by the
party or his attorney, and shall specifythe grounds upon which it is founded,
and no grounds other than those specified shall be heard or considered.

835. (SEC. 187.) Not more than two new trials shall be granted to either
party in the same cause, except when the jury have been guilty of some
misconduct or have erred in matters of law.

836. (SEC. 188.) All motions for new trials in arrest of judgment or to
set aside a judgment shall be made within two days after the rendition of
verdict or judgment if the term of court shall continue so long; if not, then
before the end of the term.

-1837. (SEC. 189.) All motions for new trials in arrest of judgment or to
set aside a judgment shall be determined at the term of the court at which
the motion shall be made.

838. (SEC. 190.) In cases in which judgment has been rendered on service of process by publication, where the defendant has not appeared in
person or by an attorney of his own selection, a new trial may be granted by
the court upon _the application of the defendant for good cause shown, supported by amdavit filed within two years after rendition of such judgment.

839. (SEC. 191.) In the cases mentioned in the preceding section a complaint shall be filed and service of process made upoif the parties adversely
in the judgment. as in other cases.
E-€840. (SEC. 192.) In the cases mentioned in the two preceding sections
process on such judgment shall not be suspended unless the defendant or
party applying therefor shall give bond with two or more good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the clerk in double the amount of the
judgment or value of the property adjudged, payable to the plaintm in
the judgment, conditioned that the party will prosecute his complaint for
new trial to enect, and will perform such judgment as may be rendered by
the court should its decision be against him.

841. (SEC. 193.) Where in such case as is mentioned in the three preceding sections property has been sold under the judgment and execution
before the process was suspended, the defendant, should he defeat the plaintiff’s action, shall not recover the property so sold, but shall have judgment against the plaintiff in the judgment of the proceeds of such sale.

842. (SEC. 194). When a motion for a new trial is overruled, the party
who files the motion may except to such ruling and embody the same in a
bill of exceptions, as is provided by law in other cases, and the same shall be
filed and become a part of the record of the cause, and the supreme court
shall review such ruling on appeal or writ of error.

',_C HAPTER N INETEEN.

STATEMENT OF FACTS.

843. (Sec. 195.) After the trial of any cause either party may make out.

a written statement of the facts given in evidence on the trial and submit the
same to the opposite party or his attorney for inspection. If the parties or
their attorneys agree upon such statement of facts, they shall sign the same
and it shall then be submitted to the judge, who shall, if he find it correct,
approve and sign it and the same shall be filed with the clerk during the
term.

844. (SEC. 196.) If the parties do not agree upon such statement of facts,
or if the judge do not approve or sign it, the parties may submit their
respective statements to the judge, who shall from his own knowledge with
the aid of such statements, during the term, make out and sign and tile with
the clerk a correct statement of facts proven on the trial and such statement
shall constitute a part of the record. .

845. (SEC. 197.) The court may, by an order entered upon the record‘
during the term, authorize the statement of facts to be made up and signed
and filed in vacation, at any time not exceeding thirty days after theadjournment of the term.

CHAPTER TVVENTY._
APPEALS AND WRITS OF ERROR.

846. (Sec. 198.) An appeal or writ of error may be takenito the supremecourt from any final judgment of the district court rendered in civil cases.

847. (SEC. 199.) The party taking the appeal is called the appellant, the»
adverse party the appellee.

848. (SEC. 200.) The party suing out a writ of error is called the
“ plaintiff in error ” the adverse party the “ defendent in error.”

849. (Sec. 201.) An appeal may in cases where an appeal is allowed be
taken during the term of the court at which the final judgment is rendered
by the appellants giving notice of appeal in open court which shall be noted
on the docket and entered of record, and by filing with the clerk an appeal
bond or affidavit in lieu thereof, as hereinafter provided, Within twenty daysafter the expiration of the term. ,

850. (SEC. 202.) In cases where the appellant is not required by law to
give bond on appeal, the appeal is perfected by the notice provided for in
the preceding section.

851. (Sec. 203.) The writ of error may in cases where the same is allowed
be sued out‘at any time within one year after the final judgment was rendered, and not thereafter, except in the case of infants and persons of unsound mind, who shall have one year after the removal of their respectiv
disabilities within which to sue out such writ. ‘ ‘

852. (SEC. 204.) The party desiring to sue out a writ of error shall file‘
with the clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered a petition
in writing signed by him and addressed to such clerk.

853. (SEC. 205.) The petition shall state the names and residences of the
parties adversely interested, shall describe the judgment with sufllcient cer-—

tainty to identify it and shall state that he desires to remove the same to the

supreme court for revision and correction.
854. (Sec. 206.) The plaintiff shall also at the time of filing such petition~
file with the clerk a writ of error, bond or affidavit in lieu thereof as hereinafter provided.
855. (SEC. 207.) Upon the filing of the petition and bond mentioned in.«

the three preceding sections it shall be the duty of the clerk to issue forthwith a summons for the defendant in error, and if there be several defendants
residing in different counties one summons shall issue to each of such.

counties.
856. (SEC. 208.) Such summons shall be styled, dated and listed by the

clerk as other writs, and the date of its issuance shall be noted thereon. Itshall state the date of the filing of the petition in error, the names and residences of the parties as alleged in the petition, the description of the judgment as therein given, and that the writ of error has been granted and shall
require the defendant in error to appear and defend such writ before the supreme court at the next term thereof. Such writ shall be made returnable
within sixty days from the issuance of the same.

857. (SEC. 209.) Such summons shall be served and returned as in other
cases, and if on the return it appears that the defendant has not been found
an alias or pluries writ shall issue. .

858. (SEC. 210.) Where it appears from the allegations in the petition
that the defendant is a non-resident, or is absent from the territory, or where
it appears from the return of the officer that he cannot be found in the county
of his residence, the summons may be served on his attorney of record.
Service may also be made by publication as in other cases.

859. (SEC. 211.) The appellant or plaintiff in error, as the case may be,
shall execute a bond with two or more good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the clerk, payable to the appellee or defendant. in error, in a sum
at least double the probable amount of the costs of the suit of both the appellate court and the court below, to be fixed by the clerk, conditioned that such
appellant or plaintiff in error, shall prosecute his appeal or writ of error with
effect, and shall pay all the costs which have accrued in the court below, or
which may accrue in the appellate court.

860. (SEC. 212-) Where the appellant or plaintiff in erroris unable to pay
the costs of appeal, or give security therefor, he shall nevertheless be entitled
to prosecute his appeal; but in order to do so, he shall be required to make
strict proof of his inability to pay the costs, or any part thereof. Such proof’
shall be made before the probate judge of the county where such party resides
or before the court trying the case, and shall consist of the affidavit of said.
party stating his inability to pay the costs, which affidavit may be contested
by any officer of the court or party to the suit. whereupon it shall be the duty
of the court trying the case, if in session, or the probate judge of the county
in which the suit is pending, to hear evidence, and to determine the right of
the party under this act to his appeal.

861. (SEC. 213.) When the bond, or affidavit in lieu thereof, provided in
the preceding sections, has been filed and the previous requirements of this
act have been complied with, the appeal or writ of error, as the case may he,
shall be held to be perfected.

862. (SEC. 214.) The bond or affidavit in lieu thereof provided in the
three preceding sections, shall not have the effect to suspend the judgment,
but execution shall issue thereon as if no such appeal or writ of error had
been taken.

863. (SEC. 215.) Should the appellant or plaintiff in error, as the case
may be, desire to suspend the execution of the judgment, he may do so by
giving instead of the bond or aflidavit in lieu thereof mentioned in the four

preceding sections or in addition to such bond, a bond, with two or more
good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the clerk, payable to appellee
or defendant in error in a sum at least double the amount of the judgment
and costs, conditioned that such appellant or plaintiff in error shall prosecute his appeal or writ of error with effect, and in case the judgment of
the appellate court shall be against him, that he shall perform its judgment,
sentence or decree, and pay all such damages as may be awarded against
him upon the appeal.

864. (SEC. 216.) Where the judgment is for the recovery of land or other
property the bond shall be further conditioned, that the appellant or plaintiff
in error shall, in case the judgment is affirmed, pay to appellee or defendant
in error the value of the rent or hire of such property in any suit which may
be brought therefor.

865. (SEC. 217.) Upon the filing of the bonds mentioned in the two preceding sections the appeal or writ of error shall be held to be perfected, and
the executnn of the judgment shall be stayed, and should execution have
been issued thereon the clerk shall forthwith issue a supersedeas.

866. (SEC. 218.) The territory of Arizona shall not be required to give
bond on any appeal or writ of error taken by it in any civil case.

867. (Sec. 219.) Executors, administrators and guardians appointed by
the courts of this territory shall not be required to give bond in any appeal or
writ of error taken by them in their fiduciary capacity.

868. (SEC. 220.) A bond on appeal or writ of error shall be of no effect
unless accompanied by the aiiidavit of each of the surcties that he is worth
the amount for which he has signed over and above his just debts and liabilities exclusive of property exempt from execution. The adverse party may
except to the suliiciency of the surcties within live days after the filing of the
bond, and unless they or their sureties justify before a judge of the court
below or the district clerk within five days thereafter (upon notice to the adverse party) the appeal shall be regarded as if no such bond had been given.

869. (Sec. 221.) In case of the death of any party entitled to an appeal or
writ of error, the same may be taken by his executor, administrator or heir.

870. (SEC. 222.) When an appeal or writ of error has been perfected, the
clerk of the court shall, upon application of either party, make out and
deliver to him a transcript of the record of the cause.

871. (SEC. 223.) The transcript shall, except in the cases hereinafter provided, contain a full and correct copy of all the proceedings had in the cause.

872. (SEC. 224.) If the pleadings or the judgment show an appearance of
the defendant in person or by attorney, the summons and returns shall not be
copied into the transcript.

873 (Sec. 225.) The parties may, by an agreement in writing, with the
approval of the judge, direct the clerk in making up the transcript for the
appellate court, to omit therefrom any designated portion of the proceedings
not deemed material to the disposition of the case in such appellate court,
and in such case the transcript shall not embrace such portions of the proceedings.

874. (Sec. 226.) The parties may, without the necessity of setting out all
the proceedings at length, agree upon such a brief statement of the case and
of the fact proven with or without copies of any part of the proceedings as
shall, in their opinion, enable the appellate court to determine whether there
has been any error in the judgment, and if the judge shall approve and sign
such statement, the same shall be filed among the papers of the cause and
shall constitute part of the record, and on appeal or writ of error, shall be
copied into the transcript in lieu of such proceedings themselves.

875. (Sec. 227.) The transcript shall in all cases contain a copy of the
final judgment, notice of appeal, petition for writ of error and summonsin

error with return of service thereon, bond on appeal, or writ of error or
aflidavit in lieu thereof, an assignment of errors or such of them as there
may be and a statement of the costs that have accrued in the cause.

876. (Sec. 228.) The clerk shall certify to the correctness of the transcript and sign the same oflicially with the seal of the court attached -— such.

certificate shall state whether the same be a transcript of all the proceedings
in the cause, or the transcript provided for in sections two hundred and
twenty-four, live and six. He shall indorse on the transcript the day on
which it was demanded and by whom, and the day on which it was delivered
and to whom, and shall sign his name otlicially thereto.

877. (SEC. 229.) Where a cause shall be moved by appeal or writ of
error to the appellate court, the cause shall remain or be replaced on the
docket to await the mandate of the appellate court.

878. (SEC. 230.) Upon the return of the mandate if the judgment of
the court below be reversed by the appellate court, the cause shall stand for
trial in its order on the docket.

879. (SEC. 231.) If the judgment of the court below be atlirmed in the
appellate court, the court below shall make such orders as may be necessary
to carry out the judgment of the appellate court, and the same shall be
dropped from the docket.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE.

DEPOSIT IN COURT.

880. (SEC. 232.) When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of
a party that he has in his possession, or under his control any money or
other things capable of delivery which being the subject of litigation, is held
by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to another
party, the court may order the same —— upon motion ——to be deposited in
court or delivered to such party upon such conditions as may be just, subject to the further directions of the court.

881. (Sec. 233.) Whenever any money, debt, instrument of writing or
other article is paid or deposited in court to abide the result of any legal
proceedings, the officer having custody thereof shall seal up the identical
article received by him in a secure package, and deposit it in some safe or
bank vault, keeping it always accessible and subject to the control of the
court, and shall also enter in the minutes of the court, and as part of the
records of the cause a correct statement, showing each and every item of
money and property so received by him, on what account received and what
disposition has been made of the same.

882. (SEC. 234.) On the expiration of his term of otlice such ofllcer shall
turn over to his successor all such trust funds and other property and shall
take his receipt therefor.

883. (SEC. 235.) The provisions of the two preceding sections shall not
exempt any oflicer or his sureties from liability on his otticial bond, for any
neglect or other default in regard to the funds therein mentioned.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO .

APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVERS.

884. (SEC. 236.) Judges of the district courts, in term time or in vacation, may appoint a receiver in suits pending in said courts, when no other
adequate remedy is given by law for the protection and preservation of property, or the rights of parties therein, pending litigation in respect thereto.

885. (SEC. 237.) The application for the appointment of a receiver shall
be in writing, supported by atlidavit. The adverse party shall be permitted
to file counter affidavits, and the same with such other testimony as the court
may desire to admit shall be considered on the hearing of the application.

886. (SEC. 238.) Before appointing a receiver, the court or judge shall
require reasonable notice of the application to be given to the adverse party,
and in the meantime may restrain such adverse party from removing, secreting or otherwise disposing of the property to the injury of the applicant.

887. (SEC. 239.) The order for the appointment of a receiver shall fix the
amount of the obligation to be filed by him in a sum not less than double the
value of the property stated in the complaint.

888. (Sec. 240.) No party, attorney or person interested in a suit shall
be appointed receiver therein.

889. (SEC. 241.) Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must be
sworn to perform them faithfully and file a bond, with two or more good and
suilicient sureties, to be approved by the clerk, in the amount fixed by the
order of appointment, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties
of receiver in the suit and obey the orders of the court therein.

890. (SEC. 242.) When the bond of the receiver has been approved and
he has taken the oath faithfully to perform his duties, which oath shall be indorsed on the bond, the clerk shall deliver to him a certificate of his appointment, which shall contain a description of the property.

891. (SEC. 243.) The receiver shall have power, subject to the control of
the court, to bring and defend suits, to take and keep possession of the property, to receive rents, to collect debts and generally to do such acts respecting the property as may be authorized by the court.

892 (SEC. 244.) The court may at any time, with or without an application therefor and with or without notice, remove the receiver and appoint another.

893. (Sec. 245.) In all matters relating to the appointment of receivers,
and to their powers, duties and liabilities, and to the powers of the court in
relation thereto, the rules of equity shall govern, whenever the same are
not inconsistent with the provisions of this act.

3

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE.

COSTS.

894. (SEC. 246.) Each party to any suit shall be responsible for the
costs incurred by him.

895. (SEC. 247.) The successful party to a suit shall recover of his
adversary, all the costs expended or incurred therein, except where it is, or
may be otherwise provided by law.

896. (SEC. 248.) On all motions the court may give or refuse costs at its
discretion, except where it is otherwise provided by law.

897. (SEC. 249). Where any plaintiff shall bring in the same court
several suits against the same defendant for causes of action, which should
have been joined, he shall recover the costs of one action only, and the costs
of the other actions shall be adjudged against him unless sufficient reasons
appear to the court for instituting several actions.

898. (SEC. 250.) The costs of all new trials may either abide the event of
the suit or may be taxed against the party to whom the new trial is
granted, as may be adjudged by the court at the time of granting such new
trial. .

899. (SEC. 251.) When the judgment is arrested or the verdict set aside
because of the insumciency of the pleadings of the party in whose favor the
verdict or judgment is rendered, the costs thereof shall be taxed against the
party whose pleadings shall have been so adjudged insumcient.

900. (SEC. 252.) In cases of appeal or certiorari taken by the party
against whom the judgment was rendered in the court below, if the judgment
of the court above be against him, but for a less amount, such party shall recover the costs of the court above, but shall be adjudged to pay the costs of
the court below; if the judgment be against him for the same or a greater
amount than in the court below, the adverse party shall recover the costs of
both courts.

901. (SEC. 253.) In cases of appeal or certiorari taken by the party in
whose favor the judgment was rendered in the court below, if the judgment
of the court above be in his favor for a greater amount, such party shall
recover the costs of both courts; if the judgment be in his favor but for the
same or less amount than in the court below, he shall recover the costs of the
court below and pay the costs of the court above.

902. (SEC. 254.) The court may for good cause, to be stated on the record,
adjudge the costs otherwise than as provided in the preceding sections of
of this act.

903. (SEC. 255.) Where by law any publication is required to be made by
any omcer of any writ, process, notice, order or other paper, the costs of such
publication shall be first tendered by the party for whom such process or order is to be published before the officer shall be compelled to make publicacation thereof.

904. (Sec. 256.) All costs shall be payable at the time when the service
is rendered, except where otherwise provided by law, and any officer may refuse to perform any service in any suit or proceeding, criminal proceedings
excepted, until such fees are paid. ‘

905. (SEC. 257.) If any clerk, sheriff, justice of the peace, or constable, ‘

shall not have received any fees which may be due him for services rendered
in any suit or proceeding, he may have execution thereof in his own name
against the party from whom they are due, to be issued from the court in
which the action is pending, and the removal of a case by appeal or writ of

error shall not prevent such officer from issuing execution therefor.

906. (SEC. 258.) The plaintiff in any civil suit may at any time before
final judgment upon motion of the defendant be ruled to give security for
the costs, and_ if such rule be entered against the plaintiff, and he fail to
comply therewith within ten days thereafter, the suit shall be dismissed.

907. (SEC. 259.) All bonds given in security for costs shall authorize
judgment against all the obligors in such bond for the said costs, to be entered in the final judgment of the cause.

908. (SEC. 260.) Executors, administrators and guardians appointed by
the courts of this territory shall not be required to give security for costs in
any suit brought by them in their fiduciary character.

909. (SEC. 261.) 'I‘he territory shall not in any case be required to give
security for costs.

910. (SEC. 262.) The provisions of this act relating to security for costs
by the plaintiff shall also apply to an intervenor, and to a defendant who
seeks a judgment against the plaintiff on a counter-claim after the plaintiff
shall have discontinued his suit under the provisions of this act relating to discontinuance.

911. (SEC. 263.) Where the costs are secured by the provisions of an
attachment or other bond filed by the party required to give security for costs,
no further security shall be required.

912. (SEC. 264.) The party in whose favor judgment is rendered, and
who claims his costs, shall deliver to the clerk of the court a memorandum of
the items of the costs to which he is entitled. He may include in the costs
all the necessary disbursments in the action or proceeding, including the
fees of otlicers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses, the necessary expenses,
taking depositions by commission or otherwise, the compensation of referees,
and the fees paid on the commencement or during the progress of the action.
The memorandum shall be accompanied by the affidavits of the party, his
attorney or agent that the items are correct, to the best of his knowledge and
belief, and that the disbursements have been necessarily incurred in the
action. The memorandum and affidavit shall be delivered to the clerk within
three days after the rendition of the verdict.

913. (SEC. 265.) The clerk shall include in the judgment entered up by
him the costs, and any interest on the verdict from the time it was rendered.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

914. (SEC. 266.) Words used in this act in the present tense shall be
deemed to include the future as well as the present; words used in the
singular number shall be deemed to include the plural, and the plural the
singular; writing shall be deemed to include printing or printed paper; oath
to include atlirmation or declaration; signature or subscription to include
mark when the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and
witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness.

915. (Sec. 267.) Subpoena shall be issued without the seal of the court,
and may he made returnable forthwith, or for any future day of the term of
court. .

916. (Sec. 268.) New trials may be granted as well when the damages are
manifestly too small as when they are too large.

917. (SEC. 269.) Where there are several counts in the complaint and
entire damages are given, the verdict or judgment, as the case may be, shall
be good notwithstanding one or more of such counts may be defective.

918. (Sec. 270.) Whenever several suits may be pending in the same
court by the same plaintiff against the same defendant for causes of action
which may be joined, or where several suits are pending in the same court by
the same plaintiff against several defendants which may be joined, the court
in which the same are pending may in its discretion order such suits to be
consolidated.

919. (Size. 271.) Every otiicer neglecting or refusing to perform any duty
required of him under the provisions of this act, shall, in addition to the

punishment prescribed by the penal laws of this territory, be punished as forcontempt and shall also be liable to damages at the suit of any person injured.

920. (SEC. 272.) The time in which any act provided by law is to be done
is to be computed by excluding the first day and including the last day, unless
the last day is a holiday, and then it is also excluded.

MOTIONS.

921. (Sec. 273.) The clerk shall keep a motion docket in which he shall
enter every motion filed in his court, and number of the suit in which it is
made, if it relate to a suit pending the names of the parties or their attorneys
with a brief statement of the nature thereof.

92. (Sec. 274.) Whenever in the commencement or progress of any
suit it shall be necessary to serve any notice on any party to such suit such
notice may be served either by an officer authorized by law to serve original
process of the court in which suit is brought, or may be pending, or by any
person who would be a competent witness upon the trial of such suit, every
such notice may be served as an original writ either on the party or his
attorney of record and the return of such notice when made by an officer or
when made by any other person and verified by the affidavit of such person,
shall be received as evidence of the fact of service subject to be repelled by
contrary proof.

923. (SEC. 275.) Notice of motions in alauit pending is given by the filing
of the motions and _entry thereof in the motion docket during the session of
the court.

924. (SEC. 276.) All motions relating to a suit pending which do not go
to the merits of the case may be disposed of at any time before the trial of a
cause.‘ 2

925. (SEC. 277.) Where a motion does not relate to a pending suit and
where the time of service is not otherwise prescribed, the adverse party is entitled to three days’ notice of the motion. '

926. (SEC. 278.) All motions not relating to a suit pending shall be taken
up and disposed of in their order as other suits are required to be.

I

AUDITORS.

927. (Sec. 279.) Whenever in any suit it shall appear that an investigation of accounts or examination of vouchers is necessary for the purpose of
justice between the parties, the court shall appoint one or more auditors, not
exceeding three, to state the accounts between the parties and to make report thereof to the court as soon as may be. i

928. (Sec. 280.) The report of the auditor shall be verified by his affidavit
stating that he has examined carefully the state of the account between
the parties and that his report contains a true statement thereof so far as the
same has come to his knowledge.

929. (SEC. 281.) The report of the auditor shall be admitted in evidence,
but may be contradicted by evidence from either party when exception to the
same or any of the items thereof are made before the trial.

930. (SEC. 282.) The court shall award reasonable compensation to such
auditor, which shall be allowed and taxed in the bill of costs as in other
cases.

SUBSTITUTION or LOST RECORDS AND PAPERS.

931. (SEC. 283.) Whenever the records and papers of a cause or any part
thereof may be lost or destroyed, either before or after the trial, the same
may be supplied by either party on motion before the court, on three days’
notice to the adverse party or his attorney.

932. (SEC. 284.) Such motion shall be in writing and signed by the party
or his attorney, and shall be verified by atlidavit. It shall state the loss or
destruction of such records or papers, and shall be accompanied by certified
copies of the originals, if they can be had, and if not, then substantial copies
thereof as near as may be. '

933. (Sec. 285.) If the adverse party admit the correctness of such copies and the court be satisfied that they are correct copies in substance of the
original, an order shall be made substituting such copies for the originals.

934. (SEC. 286.) If their correctness is denied, or if the court do not find
them to be correct, the parties shall submit their respective statements to the
judge, and he shall bear proofs as to the contents of such lost records and
papers, and correct copies thereof shall be made up under the direction of the
judge.

935. (SEC. 287.) The adverse party may in the same proceedings supply
any other portions of such records and papers desired by him.

936. (SEC. 288.) The parties may, by consent in writing, with the approval of the judge, agree on a brief statement of the matters containedvin
such lost records and papers, and the court may, by an order, substitute such
statement for the lost originals. Such substituted copies or brief statement
of their contents, as the case may he, shall be filed with the clerk and shall

constitute a part of the record in the cause, and shall have all the force and
effect of the originals.

I

TITLE XVI.

Code of Civil Procedure.
COURTS—SUPREME — PRACTICE IN

[APPROVED FEBRUARY 14, 1887.]

CHAPTER ONE.

PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES.

937. (Site. 289.) In all cases of appeal or writ of error to the supreme
court, the trial shall be on a statement of facts, as agreed upon by the parties or their attorneys, certified to by the judge of the court below; or should
the parties fail to agree, then the judge of the court below shall certify the
facts, or on a bill of exceptions to the opinion of the judge, or on a special
verdict, or on an error in law, either assigned or apparent on the face of the
record; and in the absence of all these, the case shall be dismissed with costs
alone, or with costs and damages, at the discretion of the court, and the court
shall admit as part of the record to be examined by them in the trial of a cause
every bill of exception not signed by the judge trying the case below, upon it
appearing to the satisfaction of the court that the facts are fairly stated
therein, that said bill was prepared in accordance with the law governing the
preparation of such bills, and that the judge trying the cause refused to sign
the same, and the truth of any such bill of exceptions shall be determined by
the court on the copies of the aflldavits required by law to be made in such
cases, such copies to be contained in, and to form a part of the record transmitted to the supreme court.

938. (SEC. 290.) When an appeal from any final judgment of a district
court has been taken and an appeal bond has been filed, or when an appeal
has been taken in cases where no appeal bond is required, or when a summons has been served on a petition for a writ of error, it shall be the duty of
the appellant or plaintiff in error to tile a transcript of the record with the
clerk of the supreme court on or before the first day of the next succeeding
term held after the appeal was perfected, or the summons for writ of error
was served; provided, however, that if such appeal was perfected, or such
summons in error was served less than thirty days before the first day of the
term next succeeding the taking thereof, then such transcript shall be tiled
-at the next succeeding term thereafter in the same manner; and, provided,
also, that where a party is unable to file such transcript in the time limited by
this section from any unavoidable cause, the court shall, upon satisfactory
proof thereof, permit such transcript to be tiled at a later period.

939. (Sec. 291.) In case the appellant or plaintiff in error shall fail to file
a transcript of the record as directed in the preceding section, then it shall be
lawful for the appellee or defendant in error, to file with the clerk of the
supreme court a certificate of the clerk of the district court in which any such
appeal or writ of error may have been taken, attested by the seal of his court,

stating the time when such appeal was perfected, or such summons was
served; whereupon, it shall he the duty of the supreme court to atlirm the
judgment of the court below unless good cause be shown why such transcript was not filed by the appellant or plaintiff in error; and in cases where a
bond has been given by the appellant or plaintiff in error, if a copy of such
bond accompanies such certificate of the clerk of the district court, the judgment shall, in like manner, he aflirmed against the sureties in such bond.

940. (SEC. 292.) In all cases where the supreme court shall have affirmed
the judgment of the court below, under the provisions of the preceding section, said court may, at any time during the term at which any such judgment
was so aflirmed, permit the transcript to be tiled by the appellant or plaintiff
in error, and the case to be tried on its merits; prorv-ided, the appellant or
plaintiff in error shall show to the court good cause why the transcript was
not filed by him in accordance with the provisions of section two hundred and
ninety. and shall also show to said court that he has given the appellee or
defendant in error notice of his intention to apply for such permission to file
said transcript. The appellant, or plaintiff in error, shall, in all cases, tile
with the clerk of the court below, an assignment of errors, distinctly specifying the grounds on which he relies, before he takes the transcript of the
record from the clerk’s oflice, and a copy of such assignment of errors shall
be attached to and form a part of the record ; and all errors not so distinctly
specified shall be considered by the supreme court as waived.

941. (SEC. 293.) The appellee or defendant in error shall not be required
to file any answer to such assignment of errors, or defects as may he insisted
on by the appellant or plaintiff in error, but he shall furnish the court with a
brief of his argument, and the authorities on which he relies; and when the
appellant or plainti& in error does not appear or furnish the court with a
brief of the cause, the appeal may be dismissed or the appellee or defendant
in error may in his option proceed ea: parte.

942. (SEC. 294.) When any cause or suit may be taken up from any inferior court. to the supreme court, whether by appeal, writ of error or otherwise, it shall be lawful for the attorney, both for plaintiff and defendant, to
file in the papers of said suit or cause, his written brief or argument; and
the judges of said court shall be required to notice the same as if it were the
personal appearance of such attorney, and shall not dismiss any suit or
cause, where such brief or argument of counsel is filed with the papers, for
want of other or further prosecution. '

CHAPTER TWO.

HEARING CAUSES.

943. (SEC. 295.) No judge of the supreme court shall sit in any cause
wherein he may be interested in the question to be determined, or where either
of the parties may be connected with him by affinity or consanguinity within
the third degree, or where he shall have been of counsel in the cause.

944. (SEC. 296.) Causes on the docket of said courts may be tried by districts, or in such order as to the judges of said court may seem best calculated to promote the interest and convenience of the parties or their attorneys.

945. (SEC. 297.) There shall be no reversal on an appeal or writ of error,
nor shall the same be dismissed for want of form, provided sufficient matter
or substance be contained in the record to enable the court to decide the
cause upon its merits: and when the court shall be of opinion that an appeal‘

-or writ of error has been taken for delay, and that there was no sumcient
cause for taking such appeal, then, and in that case, the appellant or plaintiff in error, if he be the defendant in the court below, shall pay ten per cent
on the amount in dispute, as damages, together with the judgment, interest
and costs of suit thereon accruing. If in any judgment rendered in the district. court there shall be an excess of damages rendered, and before the
plaintiff has entered a release of the same in such court in the manner provided by law, such judgment shall be removed to the supreme court; it shall
be lawful for the party in whose favor such excess of damages has been rendered to make such release in the supreme court in the same manner as such
release is required to be made in the district court; and upon such release
being filed in said supreme court, the said court after revising said judgment,
shall proceed to give such judgment as the court below ought to have given
if the release had been made and filed therein.

946. '(SEc. 298.) If any party to the record, in any cause now pending in
or hereafter taken to the supreme court, by appeal or writ of error, shall have
died heretofore, or shall hereafter die, after the appeal or writ of error bond
has been filed and approved, or after the writ of error has been served and
before such cause has been decided by the supreme court, such cause shall
not abate by such death. but the court shall proceed to adjudicate such cause,
and render judgment therein as if all the parties thereto were still living, and
such judgment shall have the same force and effect as if rendered in the life
time of all the parties thereto; provided, however, that this act shall not apply to any suit or action in which the cause of action does not survive in
favor of or against the legal representatives of a deceased person.

947. (SEC. 299.) The said court may take any cause under advisement,
and when the same shall be decided, may send the judgment and opinion
thereon to the clerk of said court at the place from which said cause was
‘taken, who shall enter such judgment in vacation as if the term from which
the cause was so taken.

CHAPTER THREE.

JUDGMENT OF THE COURT.

948. (SEC. 300.) In all cases decided by the supreme court, the judgment or decree of the court may be rendered in term time or in vacation, and
the opinion of the court shall be reduced to writing in those cases which the
-court in its discretion may deem of sufficient importance to be reported, and
such opinion shall be recorded by the clerk of the court in a book kept by
him for that purpose; provided. the opinion in all cases which are reversed
and remanded for new trial shall be in writing.

949. (SEC. 301.) When the judgment or decree of the court below shall
be reversed, the supreme court shall proceed to render such judgment or de-cree as the court below should have rendered except when it is necessary
that some matter of fact be ascertained, or the damages to be assessed, or
the matter to be decreed is uncertain, in either of which cases the cause shall
be remanded for a new trial in the court below. _ 950. (SEC. 302.) Whenever the supreme court on the trial of a cause
brought from any inferior court, shall affirm the judgment or decree of such
inferior court, or when said court shall proceed to render such judgment or
decree as should have been rendered by the court below, and such judgment
-shall for the same or a greater amount, or of the same nature as rendered in
-the court below, said court shall render judgment against the appellant or

plainti& in error, and his sureties on the appeal bond, a copyof which shall
always accompany the transcript of the record; and said supreme court shall,
in their discretion, also include in their judgment or decree such damages, not exceeding ten per cent on the amount of the original judgment as.
the court may deem proper; land the judgment or decree of said court rendered as contemplated in this section shall be linal. 951. (SEC. 303.) All judgments rendered by the supreme court shall be
fina1,'and the clerk shall issue the mandate thereon within nfteen days afterthe judgment is rendered; but a mandate may issue on any judgment before
the expiration of said fifteen days, by an order on the minutes of the court,
upon good cause shown therefor, on a written application supported by proof
satisfactory to said court.

952. (SEC. 304.) When a motion for a rehearing is made the mandate
shall not issue until the same is disposed of.

953. (SEC. 305.) When judgment is rendered on appeal or writ error it
shall be certilied by the clerk of the supreme court to the clerk with whom
the judgment roll is filed. The clerk shall attach the certificate to the
judgment roll and enter a minute of the judgment of the supreme court on
the docket against the original entry.

CHAPTER FOUR.
REHEARING.

954. (SEC. 306.) Any party desiring a rehearing of any matter deter-»
mined by said courts, may within fifteen days after the date of entry of the
judgment or decision of the court, file with the clerk of said court his motion in writing for a rehearing thereof, in which motion the grounds relied
upon for the rehearing shall be distinctly specified, and the name and residence of the counsel of the opposing party if known, and if not known
then the name and residence of the opposing party as shown in the record;
provided, that should the court adjourn within less time than the fifteen days
after the rendition of the judgment it may make such rules and regulations
in reference to the filing of the motion as to it may seem best for the promotion of the interest of all the parties concerned. '

955. (SEC. 307.) Upon the filing of such motion with the clerk of said
court he shall make out a certified copy of such motion and transmit the
same by mail to the sheriff or any constable of the county in which the

attorney or opposing party, as the case may be, is alleged in said motion to

reside, together with a precept commanding him to deliver the copy of the
motion to the person named in such precept.

956. (SEC. 308.) Upon the receipt of such precept and copy of motion by
the officer it shall be his duty to deliver the copy of the motion to the person
named in said precept, if found in his county, and to return said precept to.
the court from which it issued, by mail, stating thereon at what time and to
whom he delivered the copy of the motion, or that the party named in the
precept is not to be found in his county, as the case may be.

957. (SEC. 309.) Service of said motion on any one of several parties, or‘

their attorneys to a cause, shall be sutlicient service on all.
958. (SEC. 310.) At any time after ten days from the return of such precept served, it shall be lawful for said supreme court to hear and determinesuch motion for rehearing and not sooner.

CHAPTER FIVE.

EXECUTION OF JUDGMENT.

959. (SEC. 311.) All writs and process issuing from the supreme court
shall bear the test of the chief justice or presiding judge of said court, and be
under the seal of said court, and signed by the clerk thereof, and may be directed to the sheriff or any constable of any county in the territory, and shall
be by such oflicer executed according to the command thereof, and returned
to the court from which they emanated, and whenever such writ or process
shall not be executed, the clerk of said court is hereby authorized and required to issue another like process or writ upon the application of the party
suing out the former writ or process to the same or any other county.

960. (SEC. 312.) Upon the rendition by the supreme court of any such
judgment or decree as is contemplated by section three hundred and two,
it shall not be necessary for the lower court from which the cause was removed to make any further order or decree therein, but the clerk of said
lower court on the receipt of the mandate of the supreme court shall proceed to issue execution thereon as in other cases.

961. (SEC. 313.) On the rendition of any final judgment or decree by the
supreme court the clerk of said court shall not be compelled to issue and deliver the mandate of the court, or certify the proceedings to the proper
court until all of the costs accruing in the cause in the supreme court
shall have been paid; but in case said clerk shall elect to issue and deliver the
mandate of the court or certify the proceedings to the proper court without such costs having been paid, then he shall make out a correct list of allthe costs accruing in said cause in his court. and shall issue execution therefor against the party and his sureties, adjudged to pay the same, directed to
the sheriff or any constable of the proper county from which the original
cause was removed, or to any county where the person or persons liable under such execution may have property, and it shall be the duty of every
sheriff or constable on receipt of such execution to execute the same under
the same rules, regulations and liabilities as provided for in executions of
cases in district courts.

962. (SEC. 314.) All executions for costs of the supreme court, as
authorized by law, shall be returned by the sheriff or constable to whom they
are directed within four months from the date thereof.

963. (SEC. 315.) In case any officer shall fail or refuse to make such
return, with the amount of such costs, if he has collected the same within the
time prescribed herein, or shall make a false or fraudulent return of any
such execution, the clerk of said supreme court may issue summons returnable forthwith to such ofhcer to appear before said supreme court, and show
cause if any he can, why he has not collected and returned such costs and
execution, and failing to show cause, said court may enter judgment against
such omoer and the sureties on his oflicial bond for the amount of said costs,
together with the costs of such proceeding.

REPEAL PROVISIONS.

964. (SEC. 316.) No statute, law or rule is continued in force because it
is consistent with the provisions of this code on the same subject, but in all

TITLE XVII. 0

Courts Probate. Practice in

[Arrnovnn MARCH 10, 1887.]

CHAPTER ONE.

JURISDICTION.

965. (SEC. 1.) The probate court of each county shall be a court of
record, and shall have a clerk and a seal. The said probate court shall have
the jurisdiction conferred in this act, and such other jurisdiction as shall be
conferred by law. The proceedings of said courts of probate within the
jurisdiction conferred on them by the laws shall be construed in the same
manner and with like intendment as the proceedings of court of general
jurisdiction; and that the records, orders, judgments and decrees of said
probate courts shall have accorded to them like force and effect and legal
presumptions as the record, orders, judgments and decrees of the district
court.

A probate judge shall not have any partner who is permitted to practice
before him in the probate court, nor shall he be interested in any fee to be
paid to any lawyer practicing before him, and any contract for any such fee
shall be void.

966. (Sec. 2.) Wills must be proved, and letters testamentary or of administration granted —

1. In the county of which the decedent was a resident at the time of his
death, in whatever place he.may have died.

2. In the county in which the decedent may have died leaving estate therein,
he not being a resident of the territory. .

3. In the county in which any part of the estate may be, the decedent having died out of the territory and not resident thereof at the time of his death.

4. In the countyin which any part of the estate may be, the decedent not
being a resident of the territory and not leaving estate in the county in which

he died.

5. In all other cases, in the county where application for letters is first ‘

made.
967. (SEC. 3.) When the estate of the decedent is in more than one

county, he having died out of the territory and not having been a resident
thereof at the time of his death, or being such non -resident and dying within
the territory and not leaving estate in the county where he died, the probate
court of that county in which application is first made for letters testamentary
or of administration, has exclusive jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate.

CHAPTER TWO.

OF THE PROBATE OF WlLLé.

ARTICLE I.

PETITION, NOTICE AND PROOF.

968. (SEC. 4.) Every custodian of a will, within thirty days after receiptof information that the maker thereof is dead, must deliver the same to the
probate court having jurisdiction of the estate, or to the executor named
therein. A failure to comply with the provisions of this section makes the
person failing responsible for all damages sustained by any one injured‘
thereby.

969. (SEC. 5.) Any executor, devisee or legatee named in any will,
or any other person interested in the estate, may, at any time after the
death of the testator, petition the court having jurisdiction to have the will
proved, whether the same be in writing in his possession or not, or is lost or
destroyed, or beyond the jurisdiction of the territory or a nuncupative will.

970. (SEC. 6.) Apetition for the probate of a will must show: —

1. The jurisdictional facts.

2. Whether the person named as executor consents to act, or renounces hisright to letters testamentary.

3. The names, ages and residence of the heirs and devisees of the decedent,.
so far as known to the petitioner.

4. The probable value and character of the property of the estate.

6. The name of the person for whom letters testamentary are prayed.

No defect of form or in the statement of jurisdictional facts actually existing shall malze void the probate of a will.

971. (SEC. 7.) If the person named in a will as executor, for thirty days.

after he has knowledge of the death of the testator, and that he is named as
executor, fails to petition the proper court for the probate of the will, and
that letters testamentary he issued to him, he has renounced his right to
letters, and the court may appoint any other competent person administrator,
unless good cause for delay is shown.

972. (SEC. 8.) If it is alleged in any petition that any will is in the possession of a third person, and the court is satisfied that the allegation is correct, an order must be issued and served upon the person having possession
of the will, requiring him to produce it at a time named in the order. If he
has possession of the will and neglects or refuses to produce it in obedience

to the order, he may, by warrant from the court, be committed to the jailof the county, and he kept in close confinement, until he produces it.

973. (SEC. 9.) When the petition is tiled and the will produced, the probate judge must fix a day for hearing the petition, not less than ten nor more
than thirty days from the production of the will. Notice of the hearing
shall be given by the clerk of the court, by publishing the same in a newspaper of the county; if there be none, then by three written or printed
notices posted at three of the most public places in the county. If the notice
is published in a weekly newspaper, it must appear therein on at least three
different days of publication, and if in a newspaper published oftener than

once a week, it shall be so published that there must be at least ten days.

from the first to the last day of publication, both the first and the last day

being included. If the notice is by posting it must be given at least ten days
before the hearing.

974. (SEC. 10.) Copies of the notice of the time appointed for the probateof the will must be addressed to the heirs of the testator resident in the territory, at their places of residence, if known to the petitioner, and deposited
in the post-oflice, with the postage thereon prepaid, at least ten days beforethe hearing. If their places of residence be not known, the copies of notice
may be addressed to them, and deposited in the post-oflice at the county seat
of the county where the proceedings are pending. A copy of the same
notice must in like manner be mailed to the person named as executor, if he
be not the petitioner; also, to any person named as co-executor not petitioning, if their places of residence be known. Proof of mailing the copies of
the notice must be made at the hearing. Personal service of copies of the
notice at least ten days before the day of hearing is equivalent to mailing.

975. (SEC. 11.) The probate judge may, out of term time or at chambers,
receive petitions for the probate of wills, and make and issue all necessary
orders and writs to enforce the production of wills and the attendance of
witnesses, and may appoint special terms of his court for hearing the petitions, trials of issues, and admitting wills to probate.

976. (Sec. 12.) At the time appointed for the hearing, or the time to
which the hearing may have been postponed, the court, unless the parties
appear, must require proof that the notice has been given, which being
made, the court must hear testimony in proof of the will.

977. (SEC. 13.) Any person interested may appear and contest the will.
Devisees. legatees, or heirs of an estate may contest the will through their
guardians or attorneys, appointed by themselves or by the court, for that
purpose; but a contest made by an attorney appointed by the court
does not bar a contest after probate by the party so represented, if commenced within the time provided in article IV. of this chapter; nor does the
nonappointment of an attorney by the court of itself invalidate the probate
of a will.

978. (Sec. 14.) If no person appears to contest the probate of a will, the
court may admit it to probate on the testimony of one of the subscribing witnesses only, if he testifies that the will was executed in all particulars as required by law, and that the testator was of sound mind at the time of its
execution.

979. (SEC. 15.) An olographic will may be proved in the same manner
that other private writings are proved.

ARTICLE II .

CONTESTING PROBATE WILLS.

980. (SEC. 16.) If any one appears to contest the will, he must file written grounds of opposition to the probate thereof, and serve a copy on the
petitioner and other residents of the county interested in the estate, any one
or more of whom may demur thereto to any of the grounds of demurrer provided for in the code of procedure in civil cases. If the demurrer is sustained, the court must allow the contestant a reasonable time, not exceeding
ten days, within which to amend his written opposition. If the demurrer is
overruled, the petitioner and others interested may jointly or separately answer the contestant’s grounds, traversing or otherwise obviating or avoiding
the objections. Any issues of fact thus raised, involving1. The competency of the decedent to make a last will and testament.

2. The freedom of the decedent at the time of the execution of the will from
duress, menace, fraud or undue influence

3. The due execution and attestation of the will by the decedent or subscribing witnesses; or,

4. Any other substantial grounds affecting the validity of the will Must, on request of either party in writing (tiled three days prior to the

day set for the hearing), be tried by a jury. If no jury is demanded, the
court must try and determine the issues joined. On the trial, the contestant
is plaintiff and the petitioner is defendant.

981. (SEC. 17.) When a jury is demanded, the probate court must summon and impanel a jury to try the case, in the manner provided for summoning and impaneling trial juries in courts of record, and the trial must be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of the code of procedure in civil
cases. A trial by the court must be conducted as provided in the code of
procedure in civil cases.

982. (Sec. 18.) The jury, after hearing the case, must return a special
verdict upon the issues submitted to them by the court; upon which the
judgment of the court must be rendered. either admitting the will to probate
or rejecting it. In either case, the proofs of the subscribing witnesses must
be reduced to writing. If the will is admitted to probate the judgment, will
and proofs must be recorded.

983. (SEC. 19.) If the will is contested, all the subscribing witnesses who
are present in the county, and who are of sound mind, must be produced
and examined, and the death, absence or insanity of any of them must be
satisfactorily shown to the court. If none of the subscribing witnesses reside
in the county at the time appointed for proving the will, the court may admit the testimony of other witnesses to prove the sanity of the testator, and
the execution of the will; and as evidence of the execution, it may admit
proof of the handwriting of the testator, and of the subscribing witnesses, or
any of them.

984. (SEC. 20.) The testimony of each witness, reduced to writing and
signed by him, shall be good evidence in any subsequent contests concerning
the validity of the will, or the sufficiency of the proof thereof, if the witness
be dead or has permanently removed from this territory.

985. (SEC. 21.) If the court is satisfied, upon the proof taken or from
the facts found by the jury, that the will was duly executed, and that the
testator at the time of its execution was of sound and disposing mind, and
not acting under duress, menace, fraud, or undue iniiuence, a certificate
of the proof and the facts found, signed by the probate judge and attested
by the seal of the court, must be attached to the will.

986. (Sec. 22.) The will and a certificate of the proof thereof, together
with all the testimony taken, must be filed by the clerk, and recorded by him
in a book to be provided for the purpose.

ARTICLE III.

PROBATE OF FOREIGN WILLS.

987. (SEC. 23.) Every will duly proved and allowed in any other of the
United States or in any foreign country or state, may be allowed and recorded
in the probate court of any county in which the testator shall have left any
estate.

988. (SEC. 24.) When a copy of the will and the probate thereof, duly
authenticated, shall be produced by the executor, or by any other person interested in the will, with a petition for letters, the same must be tiled, and
the court or judge must appoint a time for the hearing; notice whereof
must be given as hereinbefore provided for an original petition for the
probate of a will.

989. (SEC. 25.) If, on the hearing, it appears upon the face of the record
that the will has been proved, allowed, and admitted to probate in any other
of the United States, or in any foreign country, and that it was executed
according to the law of the place in which the same was made, or in which
the testator was at the time domiciled, or in conformity with the laws of this

territory, it must be admitted to probate and have the same force and effect
as a will first admitted to probate in this territory, and letters testamentary
or of administration issued thereon.

ARTICLE IV.

CONTESTING WILL AFTER PROBATE.

990. (SEO. 26.) When a will has been admitted to probate, any person
interested may, at any time within one year after such probate, contest the
same or the validity of the will. For that purpose he must file in the court in
which the will was proved, a petition in writing, containing his allegations
against the validity of the will or against the sutiiciency of the proof, and
praying that the probate may be revoked. 

991. (SEC. 27.) Upon tiling the petition, a citation must be issue?lTto the
executors of the will, or to the administrators with the will annexed, and to
all the legatees and devisees mentioned in the will, and heirs residing in the
territory, so far as known to the petitioner; or to their guardians, if any of
them are minors; or to their personal representatives, if any of them are
dead; requiring them to appear before the court on some day of a regular
term, therein specified, to show cause why the probate of the will should not
be revoked.

992» (SEC. 28.) At the time appointed for showing cause, or at any time
to which the hearing is postponed, personal service of the citations having
been made upon any persons named therein, the court must proceed to try
the issues of fact joined in the same manner as in an original contest of a
will. 993. (SEC. 29.) In all cases of petitions to revoke the probate of a will,
wherein the original probate was granted Witheut a cmtest, on written de-’
mand of either party, filed three days prior to the hearing, a trial by jury
must be had as in cases of the contest of an original petition to admit a will
to probate. If, upon hearing the proofs of the parties, the jury shall find, or
if nojury is bad, the court shall decide, that the will is for any reason invalid,
or thatit is not sufficiently proved to be the last will of the testator, the probate
must be annulled and revoked. _

994. (SEC. 30.) Upon the revocation being made, the. powers of the executor or administrator with the will annexed must cease; but such executor
or administrator shall not be liable for any act done in good faith previous to

the revocation.

995. (SEC. 31.) The fees and expenses must be paid by the party contesting the validity or probate of the will, if the will in probate is confirmed. If
the probate is revoked, the costs must be paid by the party who resisted the
revocation, or out of the property of the decedent, as the court directs.

996. (SEC. 32.) If no person, within one year after the probate of a will,
contest the same or the validity thereof, the probate of the will is conclusive;
saving to infants and persons of unsound mind, a like period of one year after
their respective disabilities are removed.

ARTICLE V.

PROBATE OF LOST OR DESTROYED WILLS.

997. (SEC. 33.) Whenever any will is lost or destroyed, the probate court

‘must take proof of the execution and validity thereof and establish the same;

notice to all persons interested being first given, as prescribed in regard to
proofs of wills in other cases. All the testimony given must be reduced to

writing and signed by the witnesses.

998. (SEC. 34.) No will shall be proved as a lost or destroyed will unless
the same is proved to have been in existence at the time of the death of the
testator, or is shown to have been fraudulently destroyed in the lifetime of
the testator, nor unless its provisions are clearly and distinctly proved by

at least two credible witnesses.

999. (Sec. 35.) When a lost will is established, the provisions thereof
must be distinctly stated and certified by the probate judge, under his hand
and the seal of the court, and the certificate must be filed and recorded as

«other wills are filed and recorded, and letters testamentary.or of administration, with the will annexed, must be issued thereon, in the same manner as

upon wills‘ produced and duly proved. The testimony must be reduced to
writing, signed, certified and filed as in other cases, and shall have the same

«e&ect as evidence, as provided in section twenty.

1000. (SEC. 36.) If, before or during the pendency of an application to prove

a lost or destroyed will, letters of administration are granted on the estate of

the testator, or letters testamentary of any previous will of the testator are

granted, the court may restrain the administrators or executors so appointed

from any acts or proceedings which would be injurious to the legatees or devisees claiming under the lost or destroyed will.

ARTICLE VI.

PROBATE OF NUNCUPATIVE WILLS.

1001. (SEC. 37.) N uncupative wills may at any time, within six months
after the testamentary words are spoken by the decedent, be admitted to
probate, on petition and notice as provided in article one, chapter two, of
this title. The petition, in addition to the jurisdictional facts, must allege
that the testamentary words or the substance thereof were reduced to writing
within six days after they were spoken, which writing must accompany the
petition.

1002. (SEC. 38.) The probate court must not receive or entertain a petition for the probate of a nuncupative will, until the lapse of fourteen days
from the death of the testator, nor must such petition at any time be acted
on until the testamentary words are, or their substance is, reduced to writing
and filed with the petition, nor until the surviving husband or wife (if any)
and all other persons resident in the territory or county, interested in the
estate, are notified as hereinbefore provided.

1003. (S120. 39.) Contests of the probate of nuncupative wills and appointments of executors and administrators of the estate devised thereby must be

had, conducted and made as hereinbefore provided in cases of the probate of
"written wills.

CHAPTER THREE.

EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS, THEIR LETTERS, BONDS,
REMOVALS AND SUSPENSIONS.

ARTICLE I.

LETTERS TESTAMENTARY AND OF ADMINISTRATION WITH THE WILL ANNEXED,
HOW AND TO WHOM ISSUED.

1004. (Sec. 40.) The court admitting a will to probate, after the same is
proved and allowed, must issue letters thereon to the persons named therein
,-as executors who are competent to discharge the trust, who must appear and
-qualify, unless objection is made as provided in section forty-two.

1005. (SEC. 41.) No person is competent to serve as executor, who, at
the time the will is admitted to probate is1. Under the age of majority.

2. Convicted of an infamous crime.

3. Adjudged by the court incompetent to execute the duties of the trust by
reason of drunkenness, improvidence or want of understanding or integrity.

If the sole executor or all the executors are incompetent, or renounce or
fail to apply for letters, or to appear and qualify, letters of administration
with the will annexed must be issued.

1006. (SEC. 42.) Any person interested in a will may file objections in
writing, to granting letters testamentary to the persons named as executors,
or any of them, and the objections must be heard and determined by the
court; a petition may at the same time be filed for letters of administration
with the will annexed.

1007. (SEC. 43.) When an unmarried woman, appointed executrix, marries, her authority is extinguished. When a married woman is named as
executrix, she may be appointed and serve in every respect as a feme sale.

1008. (Sac. 44.) N o executor of an executor shall, as such, be authorized
to administer on the estate of the first testator, but on the death of the sole
or surviving executor of any last will, letters of administration with the will
annexed, of the estate of the first testator, left unadministered, must be
issued.

1009. (SEC. 45.) Where a person absent from the territory or a minor is
named executor — if there is another executor who accepts the trust and qualities -—the latter may have letters testamentary and administer the estate until
the return of the absentee, or the majority of the minor, who may then be
admitted as joint executor. If there is no other executor, letters of administration with the will annexed must be granted ; but the court may, in its discretion, revoke them on the return of the absent executor, or the arrival of
the minor at the age of majority.

1010. (SEC. 46.) When all the executors named are not appointed by the
court, those appointed have the same authority to perform all acts and discharge the trust, required by the will, as effectually for every purpose, as if
all.were appointed and should act together; where there are two executors or
administrators, the act of one alone shall be effectual, if the other is absent
from the territory, or laboring under any legal disability from serving, or if
he has given his co-executor or co-administrator authority in writing to act
for both; and where there are more than two executors or administrators, the

act of a majority is valid. .

1011. (SEC. 47.) Administrators, with the will annexed, have the same
authority over the estates which executors named in the will would have, and
their acts are as effectual for all purposes. Their letters must be signed by
the clerk of the court and bear the seal thereof.

ARTICLE II.

roam or LETTERS.

1012. (SEC. 48.) Letters testamentary must be substantially in the following form: Territory of Arizona, county of  The last will of A.
B., deceased, a copy of which is hereto annexed, having been proved and
recorded in the probate court of _the county of ........ .., C. D., who is
named therein, is hereby appointed executor. Witness, G. H., clerk of the
probate court of the county of  , with the seal of the court affixed,

the ....... .. day of . . . . . ., A. n. 18... (seal). By order of the court. G. H.,
clerk.

1013. (Sac. 49.) Letters of administration with the will annexed must be

substantially in the following form: Territory of Arizona, county of .. . . . ..
The last will of A. B., deceased, a copy of which is hereto annexed, having
been proved and recorded in the probate court of the county of  ...,
and there being no executor named in the will (or as the case may be), C. D.
is hereby appointed administrator with the will annexed. Witness, G. ‘H.,
clerk ofthe probate court of the county of ...... ..., with the seal of the court
affixed, the . . . . . . day of . . . . . . , A. 1). 18... (seal). By order of the court.
G. H., clerk. » ' '

1014. (SEC. 50.) Letters of administration must be signed by the clerk,
under the seal of the court, and substantially in the following form: Territory of Arizona, county of ....  C. D. is hereby appointed administrator
of the estate of A. B., deceased. (Seal.) Witness, G. H., clerk of the
probate court of the county of . . . ..., with the seal thereof affixed, the
. . . . . . day of . . . . . ., A. D. 18... By order of the court. G. H., clerk.

ARTICLE III.

LETTERS OF ADMINISTRATION, TO WHOM AND THE ORDER IN WHICH THEY ARE
GRANTED.

1015. (SEC. 51.) Administration of the estate of a person dying intestate
must be granted to some one or more of the persons hereinafter mentioned,
and they are respectively entitled thereto in the following order: -1. The surviving husband and wife, or some competent person whom he or
she may request to have appointed.

2. The children. .

3. The father or mother.

4. The brothers.

5. The sisters.

6. The grandchildren.

7. The next of kin entitled to share in the distribution of the estate.

8. The creditors.

9. Any person legally competent.

If the decedent was a member of a partnership at the time of his decease,
the surviving partner must in no case be appointed administrator of his estate.

1016. (SEC. 52.) Of several persons claiming and equally entitled to administer, males must be preferred to females, and relatives of the whole to
those of the half blood.

1017. (SEC. 53.) When there are several persons equally entitled to the
administration, the court may grant letters to one or more of them; and
when a creditor is claiming letters, the court may, in its discretion, at the
request of another creditor, grant. letters to any other person legally competeut.

1018. (SEC. 54.) If any person entitled to administration is a minor,
letters must be granted to his or her guardian, or any other person entitled
to letters of administration, in the discretion of the court.

1019. (SEC. 55.) No person is competent to serve as administrator or
administratrix who, when appointed, is

1. Under the age of majority.

2. Convicted of an infamous crime.

3. Adjudged by the court incompetent to execute the duties of the trust
by reason of drunkenness, improvideucé, or want of understanding or integrity.

1020. (SEC. 56.) A married woman must not be appointed administratrix.
VVheu an unmarried woman appointed administ-ratrix marries, her authority
is extinguished.

' ARTICLE 1v.

PETITION FOR LETTERS. AND ACTION THEREON.

1021. (Sec. 57.) Petitions for letters of administration must be in writing,
signed by the applicant or his counsel, and filed with the clerk of the court,
stating the facts essential to give the court jurisdiction of the case, and when
known to the applicant, he must state the names, ages and residence of the
heirs of the decedent, and the value and character of the property. If the
jurisdictional facts existed, but are not fully set forth in the petition, and
afterwards proved in the course of administration, the decree or order of
administration and subsequent proceedings are not void on account of such
want of jurisdictional averments.

1022. (SEC. 58.) Letters of administration may be grantedat a regular
term of the court, or at a special term appointed by the judge for the hearing
of the application. 1023. (Sec. 59.) When a petition, praying for letters of administration,is filed, the clerk must give notice thereof by causing notice to be posted in
at least three public places in the county, one of which must be at the place
where the court is held, containing the name of the decedent, the name of
the applicant and the term of the court at which the application will be heard.
Such notice must be given at least ten days before the hearing.

1024. (SEC. 60.) Any person interested may contest the petition. by filing
written opposition thereto, on the ground of the incompetency of the applicant, or may assert his own rights to the administration and pray that letters.
be issued to himself. In the latter case the contestant must file a petition
and give the notice required for an original petition, and the court must hear
the two petitions together.

1025. (SEC. 61.) On the hearing, it being first proved that notice has been,
given as herein required, the court must bear the allegations and proofs of
the parties, and order the issuing of letters of administration to the party bestentitled thereto.

1026. (Sec. 62.) An entry in the minutes of the court, that the required
proof was made and notice given, shall be conclusive evidence of the fact of’
such notice. ‘

1027. (Sec. 63.) Letters of administration must be granted to any applicant, though it appears that there are other persons having better rights to
the administration, when such persons fail to appear and claim the issuing of
letters to themselves.

1028. (Sec. 64.) Before letters of administration are granted on the es
tate of any person who is represented to have died intestate, the fact of his
dying intestate must be proved by the testimony of the applicant or others,
and the court may also examine any other person concerning the time, place
and manner of his death, the place of his residence at the time, the value and
character of his property, and whether or not _the decedent left any will, and
may compel any person to attend as a witness for that purpose.

1029. (SEC. 65.) Administration may be granted to one or more competent persons, although not entitled to the same, at the written request of the
person entitled, tiled in the court. When the person entitled is a non-resident
of the territory, atillavits or depositions, taken ea: ,2r.t.r/e before anv officer
authorized by the laws of this territory to take acknowledgments and administer oaths out of this territory, may be received as primary evidence of the

identity of the party, if free from suspicion, and the fact is established to the
satisfaction of the court.

ARTICLE V.

REVOCATION OF LETTERS AND PROCEEDINGS THEREFOR.

1C 30. (SEC. 66.) When letters of administration have been granted to
any person other than the surviving husband or wife, child, father, mother,
brother or sister of the intestate, any one of them may obtain the revocation
of the letters, and be entitled to the administration, by presenting to the probate court a petition praying the revocation, and that letters of administration may be issued to him.

1031. (SEC. 67.) When such petition is filed, the clerk must, in addition
to the notice provided in section fifty-nine, issue a citation to the administrator to appear and answer the same at the time appointed for the hearing.

1032. (SEC. 68.) At the time appointed, the citation having been duly
served and returned, the court must proceed to hear the allegations and
proofs of the parties; and if the right of the applicant is established, and he
is competent, letters of administration must be granted to him, and the letters
of the former administrator revoked.

1033. (SEC. 69.) The surviving husband or wife, when letters of administration have been granted to a child, father, brother or sister of the intestate:
or any of such relatives, when letters have been granted to any other of them,
may assert his prior right, and obtain letters of administration, and have the
letters before granted revoked in the manner prescribed in the three preceding sections. But where letters have been granted to a person other than- the
one entitled upon the written request of the person entitled to letters, the
person so appointed at the request of the person entitled, shall not be removed except for cause as other administrators are removed for cause.

ARTICLE VI.

OATHS AND BONDS OF EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATOB8.

1034. (See. 70.) Before letters testamentary or of administration are
issued to the executor or administrator, he must take and subscribe an oath
before some otlicer authorized to administer oaths, that he will perform,
according to law, the duties of executor or administrator, which oath must be
attached to the letters. All letters testamentary and of administration issued
to, and all bonds executed by, executors or administrators, with the aflidavits
and certificates thereon, must be forthwith recorded by the clerk of the court
having jurisdiction of the estates, in books to be kept by him in his otlice for
that purpose.

1035. (SEC. 71;) Every person to whom letters testamentary or of administration are directed to issue, must, before receiving them, execute a bond
to the territory of Arizona, with two or more sumcient sureties, to be approved
by the probate judge. In form, the bond must be joint and several, and the
penalty must not be less than twice the value of the personal property and
twice the probable value of the annual rents, profits and issues of the real
property belonging to the estate, which values must be ascertained by the
probate judge, by examining on oath ‘the party applying, and any other

rsons. pe1036. (SEC. 72.) The probate judge must require an additional bond
whenever the sale of any real estate belonging to an estate is ordered by him;
but no such additional bond must be required when it satisfactorily appears
to the court that the penalty of the bond given before receiving letters, or of
any bond given in place thereof, is equal to twice the value of the personal
property remaining in, or that will come into, the possession of the executor

or administrator, including the annual rents, profits and issues of real estate,
and twice the probable amount to be realized on the sale of the real estate
ordered to be sold.

1037. (SEC. 73.) The bond must be conditioned, that the executor or
administrator shall faithfully execute the duties of the trust according to law.

1038. (SEC. 74.) When two or more persons are appointed executors or
administrators, the probate judge must require and take a separate bond from
each of them.

1039. (Sec. 75.) The bond shall not be void upon the first recovery, but
may be sued and recovered upon from time to time, by any person aggrieved,
in his own name, until the whole penalty is exhausted.

1040. (Sec. 76.) In all cases where bonds or undertakings are required to
«be given, under this title, the sureties must justify thereon in the same manner
and in like amounts as required by section four hundred and eighteen of this
.act, and the certificate thereof must be attached to, and filed and recorded
with the bond or undertaking. All such bonds and undertakings must be
approved by the probate judge before being filed or recorded.

1041. (SEC. 77.) Before the probate judge approves any bond required
under this title,_ and after its approval, he may, of his own motion, or upon
the motion of any person interested in the estate, supported by aflidavit that
the sureties, or some one or more of them, are not worth as much as they
have justiiied to, order a citation to issue, requiring such sureties to appear
before him, at a designated time and place, to be examined touching their
property and its value; and the judge must, at the same time, cause a notice
to be issued to the executor or administrator, requiring his appearance on
the return of the citation, and on its return he may examine the sureties and
such witnesses as may be produced, touching the property of the sureties
and its value; and if upon such examination he is satisfied that the bond is insufiicient, he must require sufficient additional security. ~

1042. (Sec. 78.) If sufficient security is not given within the time fixed
by the judge's order, the right of such executor or administrator to the
administration shall cease, and the person next entitled to the administration
-on the estate who will execute a sufficient bond, must be appointed to the
administration.

1043. (Sec. 79.) When it is expressly provided in the will that no bond
shall be required of the executor, letters testamentary may issue, and sales
of real estate be made and confirmed without any bond, unless the court, for
good cause, require one to be executed; but the executor may at any time
afterwards, if it appear from any cause necessary or proper, be required to
file a bond, as in other cases. '

1044. (Sec. 80.) Any person interested in an estate may, by verified petition, represent to the probate judge, that the sureties of the executor or
administrator thereof have become or are becoming insolvent, or that they
have removed, or are about to remove from the territory, or from any other
cause that the bond is insufiicient, and ask that further security be required.

1045. (Sec. 81.) If the probate judge is satisfied that the matter requires investigation, a citation must be issued to the executor or administrator, requiring him to appear, at a time and place to be therein specified, to
-show cause why he should not give further security. The citation must be
served personally on the executor or administrator, at least live days before
the return day. If he has absconded, or cannot be found, it may be served
by leaving a copy of it at his place of residence, or by such publication as
the court or judge may order.

1046. (Sec. 82.) On the return of the citation, or at such other time as
the judge may appoint, he must proceed to hear the proofs and allegations of

the parties. If it satisfactorily appears that the security is, from any cause,
insufiicient, he may make an order requiring the executor or administrator to
give further security, or to file a new bond in the usual form,‘ within a reasonable time, not less than five days. 1047. (SEC. 83.) If the executor or administrator neglects to comply with
the order within the time prescribed, the judge must, by order, revoke his
letters, and his authority must thereupon cease.

1048. (SEC. 84.) When a petition is presented, praying that an executor‘
or» administrator be required to give further security, or to give bond, if by
the terms of the will no bond was originally required, and it is alleged. on.
oath, that the executor or administrator is wasting the property of the estate,
the judge may, by order, suspend his powers until the matter can be heard
and determined.

1049. (SEC. 85.) When it comes to his knowledge that the bond of any
executor or administrator is, from any cause, insufficient, the probate judge,
without any application, must cause him to be cited to appear and show
cause why he should not give further security, and must proceed thereon as
upon the application of any person interested.

1050. (Sec. 86.) When a surety of any executor or administrator desiresto be released from responsibility on account of future acts, he may make
application to the probate court or judge for relief. The court or judge
must cause a citation to the executor or administrator to be issued, and
served personally, requiring him to appear at a time and place to be therein
specified, and to give other security; if he has absconded, left or removed
from the territory or if he cannot be found, after due diligence and inquiry,
service may be made as provided in section eighty-one.

1051. (SEC. 87.) If new sureties be given to the satisfaction of the judge,
he may thereupon make an order that the sureties who applied for relief shall
not be liable on their bond for any subsequent act, default "or misconduct of
the executor or administrator. ‘ ..

1052. (SEC. 88.) If the executor or administrator neglects or refuses to
give new sureties, to the satisfaction of the judge, on the return of the
citation, or within such reasonable time as the judge shall allow, unless the
surety making the application shall consent to a longer ‘extension of time, the
court or judge must, by order, revoke his letters.

1053. (SEC. '89.) 'l‘he application authorized by the nine preceding sections of this chapter may be heard and determined out of term time. All
orders made therein must be entered upon the minutes of the court.

1054. (SEC. 90.) The liability of principal and sureties upon the bond of
any executor, administrator, or guardian, is in all cases,tQ..pay in the kind of
money or currency in which the principal is legally liable.

ARTICLE VII]

SPECIAL ADMINISTRATORS, TIIEIR POWERS AND DUTIES.

1055. (Sec. 91.) When there is delay in granting letters testamentary or
of administration, from any cause, or when such letters are granted irregularly, or no sufficient bond is filed as required, orwhen no application is made
for such letters, or when an administrator or executor dies or is suspended or
removed, the probate judge must appoint a special administrator to collect
and take charge of the estate of the decedent, in whatever county or counties
the same may he found, and to exercise such other powers as may be- necessary for the preservation of the estate: or he may direct the public administratnr of his county to take charge of the estate. ,

1056. (Sec. 92.) The appointment may be made out of term time, and

without notice, and must be made by entry upon the minutes of the court,
specifying the powers to be exercised by the administrator. Upon such order
being entered, and after the person appointed has given bond, the clerk must
ssue letters of administration to such person, in conformity with the order.

1057. (Sec. 93.) In making the appointment of a special administrator, the
probate judge must give preference to the person entitled to letters testamentary or of administration, but no appeal must be allowed from the appointment.

1058. (SEC. 94.) Before any letters issue to any special administrator, he
must give bond in such sum as the probate judge may direct, with sureties to
the satisfaction of the judge, conditioned for the faithful performance of his
duties; and he must take the usual oath and have the same indorsed on
his letters.

1059. (SEC. 95.) The special administrator must collect and preserve for
the executor or administrator, all the goods, chattels, debts and effects of the
decedent, all incomes, rents, issues and profits, claims and demands, of the
estate; must take the charge and management of, enter upon and preserve
from damage, waste and injury, the real estate, and for any such and all
necessary purposes, may commence and maintain, or defend, suits and other
legal proceedings, as an administrator; he may sell such perishable property
as the probate court may order. to be sold, and exercise such other powers as
are conferred upon him by his appointment, but in no case is he liable to an
action by any creditor on a claim against the decedent.

1060. (SEC. 96.) When letters testamentary or of administration on the
estate of the decedent have been granted, the powers of the special administrator cease, and he must forthwith deliver to the executor or administrator
all the property and effects of the decedent in his hands; and the executor or
administrator may prosecute to final judgment any suit commenced by the
special administrator. 1061. (SEC. 97.) The special administrator must render an account, on

oath, of his proceedings, in like manner as other administrators are required
to do.

ARTICLE VIII.

WILLS FOUND AFTER LETTERS OF ADMINISTRATION GRANTED, AND MISCELLANEOUS
PROVISIONS.

1062. (SEC. 98.) If, after granting letters of administration on the ground
of intestacy, a will of the decedent is duly proved and allowed by the court,
the letters of administration must be revoked, and the power of the administrator ceases, and he must render an account of his administration within
such time as the court shall direct.

1063. (SEC. 99.) In such case, the executor or administrator with the
v’ill annexed is entitled to demand. sue for, recover and collect all the rights,
goods, chattels, debts, and effects of the decedent remaining unadministered,
and may prosecute to final judgment any suit commence l by the administrator before the revocation of his letters of administration.

1064. (SEC. 100.) In case any of the several executors or administrators
to whom letters are granted, dies, becomes lunatic, is convicted of an infamous crime, or otherwise becomes incapable of executing the trust, or in case
the letters testamentary or of administration are revoked or annulled, with
respect to any one executor or administrator, the remaining executor or administrator must proceed to complete the execution of the will or administration.

1065. (Sec. 101.) If all such executors or administrators die or become
incapable, or the power and authority of all of them is revoked, the probate

court must issue letters of administration with the will annexed, or otherwise,
to the widow or next of kin, or others, in the same order and manner as
is directed in relation to original letters of administration. The administrators so appointed must give bond in the like penalty, with like sureties
and conditions, as hereinbefore required of administrators, and shall have
the like power and authority.

1066. (SEC. 102). Any executor or administrator may, at any time, by
writing, filed in the probate court, resign his appointment, having first settled his accounts and delivered up all the estate to the person whom the court
shall appoint to receive the same. If, however, by reason of any delays in
such settlement and delivery up of the estate, or for any other cause, the
circumstances of the estate or the rights of those interested therein required it, the court may at any time before the settlement of accounts and
delivering up of the estate is completed, revoke the letters of such executor
or administrator and appoint in his stead an administrator, extra, special
or general, in the same manner as is directed in relation to original letters of
administration. The liability of the outgoing executor or administrator, or
of the sureties on his bond, shall not be in any manner discharged, released,
or affected, by such appointment or resignation.

1067. (SEC. 103.) All acts of an executor or administrator, as such, before the revocation of his letters testamentary or of administration, are as
valid, to all intents and purposes, as if such executor or administrator had
continued lawfully to execute the duties of his trust. 1068. (SEC. 104.) A transcript from the minutes of the court, showing
the appointment of any person as executor or administrator, together with
the certificate of the clerk, under his hand and the seal of his court, that
such person has given bond and been qualified, and that letters testamentary
or of administration have been issued to him, and have not been revoked,
shall have the same effect in evidence as the letters themselves.

ARTICLE IX.

DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGES AND TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATION.

1069. (SEC. 105.) No probate court shall admit to probate any will, or
grant letters testamentary or of administration, in any case where the judge
thereof is interested as next of kin to the decedent, or as a legatee or devisee
under the will, or when he is named as executor or trustee in the will, or is
a witness thereto, or is in any other manner interested or disqualified from
acting.

1070. (SEC. 106.) When a petition is filed in the probate court, praying
for admission to probate of a will, or for granting letters testamentary or of
administration, or when proceedings are pending in the probate court for t
settlement of an estate, and the presiding judge of the court is disqualiiie
to act from any cause, upon his own or the motion of any person interested
in the estate. he must make an order transferring the proceeding to the probate court of an adjoining county; and the clerk of the court ordering the
transfer, must transmit to the clerk of the court to which the proceeding is
ordered to be transferred, a certified copy of the order, and all the papers on
file in his oflice in the proceeding; and thereafter the probate court to which
the proceeding is transferred, shall exercise the same authority and jurisdiction over the estate, and all matters relating to the administration thereof,
as if it had original jurisdiction of the estate.

1071. (SEC. 107). The transfer of a proceeding from one court to another,
as provided for in the preceding section, shall not affect the right of any
person to letters testamentary or of administration on the estate transferred,

but the same persons are entitled to letters testamentary or of administration
on the estate, in the order hereinbefore provided. If, before the administration is closed of any estate so transferred, as herein provided, another person is elected or appointed, and qualified, as probate judge of the county
wherein such proceeding was originally commenced, who is not disqualified
to act in the settlement of the estate, and the causes for which the proceeding
was transferred no longer exist, any person interested in the estate may have
the proceeding returned to the court from which it was originally transferred,
by filing a petition setting forth these facts, and moving the court therefor.

1072. (SEC. 108.) On hearing the motion, if the facts required by the
preceding section to be set out in the petition are satisfactorily shown,
and it further appears to the court that the convenience of parties interested
would be promoted by such change, the judge must make an order transferring the proceeding back to the probate court where it was originally
commenced; and the clerk of the court ordering the transfer must transmit
to the clerk of the court in which the proceeding was originally commenced
a certified copy of the order, and all the original papers on tile in his otllce in
the proceeding; and the court where the proceeding was originally commenced
shall thereafter have jurisdiction and power to make all necessary orders and
decrees to close up the administration of the estate.

ARTICLE X.

REMOVALS AND SUSPENSIONS IN CERTAIN CASES.

1073. (SEC. 109.) Whenever the probate judge has reason to believe,
from his own knowledge or from credible information, that any executor or
administrator has wasted, embezzled or mismanaged, or is about to waste or
embezzle the property of the estate committed to his charge, or has committed
or is about to commit a fraud upon the estate, or is incompetent to act, or
has permanently removed from the territory, or has wrongfully neglected the
estate, or has long neglected to perform any act as such executor or administrator, he must, by an order entered upon the minutes of the court, suspend
the powers of such executor or administrator, until the matter is investigated.

1074. (SEC. 110.) When such suspension is made, notice thereof must be
given to the executor or administrator, and he must be cited to appear and
show cause why his letters should not be revoked. If he fail to appear in
obedience to the citation, or, if appearing, the court is satisfied that there
exists cause for his removal, his letters must be revoked, and letters of administration- granted anew, as the case may require.

1075. (Sec. 111.) At the hearing, any person interested in the estate may
appear and file his allegations in writing, showing that the executor or administrator should be removed; to which the executor or administrator may
demur or answer, as hereinbefore provided. The issues raised must be heard
and determined by the court.

1076. (SEC. 112.) If the executor or administrator has absconded or conceals himself, or has removed or absented himself from the territory, notice
may be given him of the pendency of the proceedings by publication, in such
manner as the court may direct, and the court may proceed upon such notice
as if the citation had been personally served.

1077. (SEC. 113.) In the proceedings authorized by the preceding sections of this article, for the removal of an executor or administrator. the
court may compel his attendance by attachment, and may compel him to
answer questions, on oath, touching his administration, and, upon his refusal
soto do, may commit him until he obey, or may revoke his letters, or both.

CHAPTER FOUR.

INVENTORY AND COLLECTION OF THE EFFECTS OF DECEDENTS.

ARTICLE I.

INVENTORY, APPRAISEMENT, AND POSSESSION OF ESTATE.

1078. (SEC. 114.) Every executor or administrator must make and return
to the court, at its first term after his appointment, a true inventory and appraisement of all the estate of the decedent, including the homestead, if any,
which has come to his possession or knowledge.

1079. (SEC. 115.) To make the appraisement, the probate judge or court
must appoint three disinterested persons (any two of whom may act), who
are entitled to receive a reasonable compensation for their services. not to
exceed three dollars .per day, to be allowed by the court or judge. The appraisers must with the inventory his a verified account of their services and
disbursements. If only one day's services are charged, the bill need not be
sworn to. If any part of the estate is in any other county than that in which
letters issued, appraisers thereof may be appointed, either by the probate
judge having jurisdiction of the estate or by the probate judge of such other
county, on request of the judge having jurisdiction.

1080. (SEC. 116.) Before proceeding to the execution of their duty, the
appraisers, before any oiiicer authorized to administer oaths, must take and
subscribe an oath, to be attached to the inventory, that they will truly, honestly and impartially appraise the property which is exhibited to them, according to the best of their knowledge and ability. They must then
proceed to estimate and appraise the property; each article must be set down
separately, with the value thereof in dollars and cents, in iigures, opposite
to the articles, respectively; the inventory must contain all the estate of the
decedent, real and personal, a statement of all debts, partnerships and other
interests, bonds, mortgages, notes and other securities for the payment of
money belonging to the decedent, specifying the name of the debtor in
each security, the date, the sum originally payable, the indorsements thereon (if any), with their dates, and the sum which, in the judgment of the appraiser, may be collected on each debt, interest or security; the inventory
must show, so far as the same can be ascertained by the executor or the administrator, what portion of the property is community property and what
portion is the separate property of the decedent.

1081. (SEC. 117.) The inventory must also contain an account of all
moneys belonging to the decedent which have come to the hands of the executor or administrator; and if none, the fact must be so stated in the
inventory. If the whole estate consists of money, there need not be an
appraisement, but an inventory must be made and returned as in other
cases.

1082. (SEC. 118.) The naming of a person as executor does not thereby
discharge him from any just claim which the testator has against him, but the
claim must be included in the inventory, and the executor is liable for the
same, as for so much money in his hands, when the debt or demand becomes
due.

1083. (SEC. 119.) The discharge or bequest in a will, of any debt or demand of the testator against the executor named, or any other person, is not
valid against the creditors of the decedent, but is a specific bequest of the
debt or demand. It must be included in the inventory, and, if necessary,

applied in the payment of his debts. If not necessary for that purpose, it
must be paid in the same manner and proportion as other specific legacies.

1084. (Sec. 120.) The inventory must be signed by the appraisers, and
the executor or administrator must take and subscribe an oath before an
oiiicer authorized to administer oaths, that the inventory contains a true
statement of all the estate of the decedent which has come to his knowledge
and possession, and particularly of all money belonging to the decedent, and
of all just claims of the decedent against the amant. The oath must be
indorsed upon or annexed to the inventory.

1085. (Sec. 121.) If an executor or administrator neglects or refuses to
return the inventory within the time prescribed, or within such further time,
not exceeding two months, which the court or judge shall, for reasonable
cause, allow; the court may, upon notice, revoke the letters testamentary or
of administration, and the executor or administrator is liable on his bond for
any injury to the estate, or any person interested therein. arising from such
failure.

1086. (SEC. 122.) Whenever property not mentioned in an inventory
that is made and filed, comes to the possession or knowledge of an executor
or administrator, he must cause the same to be appraised in the manner prescribed in this article, and an inventory thereof to be returned within two
months after the discovery; and the making of such inventory may be enforced, after notice, by attachment or removal from office.

1087. (Sec. 123.) The executor or administrator is entitled to the possession of all the real and personal estate of the decedent, and to receive
the rents and profits of the real estate, until the estate is settled, or until delivered over by order of the probate court to the heirs or devisees; and must
keep in good tenantable repair all houses, buildings and fixtures thereon,
which are under his control. The heirs or devisees may themselves, or jointly
with the executor or administrator, maintain an action for the possession of
the real estate, or for the purpose of quieting the title to the same, against
any one except the executor or administrator. 1088. (SEC. 124.) Unless it satisfactorily appears to the probate court,
that the rents, issues and profits of the real estate for a longer period are
necessary to be received by the executor or administrator, wherewith to pay
the debts of the decedent; or that it will probably be necessary to sell the
real estate for the payment of such debts; at the end of ten months from
the first publication of the notice to creditors, the court must direct the
executor or administrator to deliver possession of all the real estate to the
heirs at law or devisees.

ARTICLE II.

EMBEZZLEMENT AND SURRENDER OF PROPERTY OF ESTATE.

1089. (SEC. 125.) If any person, before the granting of letters testamentary or of administration, embezzles or alienates any of the moneys, goods,
chattels-or effects of a decedent, he is chargeable therewith and liable to an
action by the executor or administrator of the estate, for double the value of
the property so embezzled or alienated, to be recovered for the benefit of the
estate.

1090 (SEC. 126.) If any executor, administrator or any other person interested in the estate of a decedent complains to the probate judge, on oath,
that any person is suspected to have concealed, embezzled, smuggled, conveyed away or disposed of any moneys, goods or chattels of the decedent, or
has in his possession or knowledge, any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts
-or other writings, which contain evidences of, or tend to disclose the right,
title, interest or claim of the decedent to any real or personal estate, or ‘any

claim or demand, or any last will, the judge may cite such person to appear
before the probate court, and may examine him on oath upon the matter of
such complaint. If such person is not in the county where letters have been
granted, he may be cited and examined, either before the probate court of
the county where he is found, or before the court issuing the citation. But
if in the latter case he appears and is found innocent, his necessary expensesmust be allowed him out of the estate.

1091. (SEC. 127.) If the person so cited refuses to appear and submit to
an examination, or to answer such interrogatories as may be put to him,
touching the matter of the complaint, the court may, by warrant for that
purpose, commit him to the county jail, there to remain in close custody
until he submits to the order of the court, or is discharged according to law.
If, upon such examination, it appears that he has concealed, embezzled,
smuggled, conveyed away, or disposed of any moneys, goods, or chattels of
the decedent, or that he has in his possession or knowledge, any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts, or other writings, tending to disclose the right,
title, interest, or claim of the decedent to any real or personal estate, claim,
or demand, or any lost will of the decedent, the probate court may make an.
order requiring such person to disclose his knowledge thereof to the executor
or administrator, and may commit him to the county jail, there to remain
until the order is complied with, or he is discharged according to law; and
all such interrogatories and answers must be in writing, signed by the party
examined, and tiled in the probate court. The order for such disclosure,
made upon such examination, is prima. facie evidence of the right of such
administrator to such property in any action brought for the recovery thereof; and any judgment recovered therein must be for double the value of the

property as assessed by the court or jury, or for return of the property, and .

damages in addition thereto, equal to the value of such property. In addition to the examination of the party, witnesses may be produced and examined on either side.

1092. (SEC. 128.) The probate judge, upon the complaint, on oath, of any‘
executor or administrator, may cite any person who has been entrusted with
any part of the estate of the decedent, to appear before such court, and require him to render a full account, on oath, of any moneys, goods, chattels,
bonds, accounts or other property or papers belonging to the estate, which
have come to his possession in trust for the executor or administrator, and of
his proceedings thereon; and if the person so cited refuses to appear and

render such account, the court may proceed against him as provided in the
preceding section.

CHAPTER FIVE.

PROVISIONS FOR THE SUPPORT OF FAMILY, AND OF THE HOMESTEAD.

ARTICLE I.

PROVISIONS FOR THE SUPPORT OF FAMILY.

1093. (SEC. 129.) When a person dies leaving a widow or minor children, the widow or children, until letters are granted and the inventory is returned, are entitled to remain in possession of the homestead, of all the
wearing apparel of the family, and of all the household furniture of the decedent, and are also entitled to a reasonable provision for their support, to
be allowed by the probate judge.

1094. (SEC. 130.) Upon the return of the inventory, or at any subsequent
time during the administration, the court or the probate judge may, on his
own motion or on petition therefor, set apart for the use of the surviving husband or wife, or the minor children of the ‘decedent, all property exempt from
execution, including the homestead selected, designated and recorded. If none
has been selected, designated and recorded, the judge of the court must select, designate, set apart and cause to be recorded a homestead for the use of
the persons hereinbefore named, in the manner provided in article two of
this chapter, out of the real estate belonging to the decedent.

1095. (SEC. 131.) If the amount set apart be insufiicient for the support of
the widow and children, or either, the probate court or judge must make such
reasonable allowance out of the estate as shall be necessary for the maintenance
of the family according to their circumstances, during the progress of the settlement of the estate; which, in case of an insolvent estate, must not be
longer than one year after granting letters testamentary or of administration.

1096. (SEC. 132.) Any allowance made by the court or judge, in accordance with the provisions of this article, must be paid in preference to all other
charges, except funeral charges and expenses of administration; and any
such allowance whenever made, may, in the discretion of the court or judge
take effect from the death of the decedent.

1097. (SEC. 133.) When property is set apart for the use of the family,
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, if the decedent left a widow
or surviving husband, and no minor child, such property is the property of
the widow or surviving husband. If the decedent left also a minor child or
children, the one-half of such property shall belong to the widow or surviving husband, and the remainder to the child, or in equal shares to the children, if there be more than one. If there be no widow or surviving husband
the whole belongs to the minor child or children.

1098. (SEC. 134.) If, upon the return of the inventory of the estate of an
intestate, it appears that the value of the whole estate does not exceed the
sum of two thousand dollars, the probate court must appoint a day for the
hearing, and cause notice to be given and proceedings had, in the same manner as provided in sections 260, 262 and 265, of article two, of chapter ten,
of this act, relating to the settlement of accounts. If, upon the hearing, the
court finds that the value of the estate does not exceed the sum of two thousand dollars, the probate judge, by a decree for that purpose, must assign for
the use and support of the widow and minor child or children, if there be a
widow or minor child; and if no widow, then for the children, if there be
any, the whole of the estate, after the payment of the expenses of his last illness, funeral charges and expenses of administration. And there must be no
further proceedings in the administration unless further estate be discovered ;
and when it appears, on the return of the inventory, that the value of the
whole estate does not exceed the sum of three thousand dollars, it is in the
discretion of the probate court to dispense with the regular proceedings, or
any part thereof, prescribed in this title, except as herein provided, and there
must be had a summary administration of the estate, and an order of distribntion thereof at the end of six months after the issuing of letters. The
notice to creditors must be given to present their claims within four months
after the first publication of such notice, and those not so presented are barred
as in other cases.

1099. (SEC. 135.) If the widow has a maintenance derived from her own
property equal to the portion set apart to her by the preceding sections of
this article, the whole property so set apart, other than her half of the homestead, must go to the minor children.

ARTICLE II.

OF THE HOMESTEAD.

1100. (SEC. 136.) If the homestead selected by the husband and wife, or
either of them, during their coverture, and recorded while both were living,
was selected from the community property, it vests, on the death of the
husband or wife, absolutely in the survivor. If the homestead was selected
from the separate property of either husband or wife, it vests, on the death
of the person from whose property it was selected, in his or her heirs, subject to the power of the probate court to assign it for a limited period to the
family of the decedent. In either case it is not subject to the payment of
any debt or liability contracted by or existing against the husband and wife,
or either of them, previous to or at the time of the death of such husband or
wife, except as provided in this code.

1101. (SEC. 137.) If the homestead selected and recorded prior to the
death of the decedent be returned in the inventory appraised at not exceeding
four thousand dollars in value, or was previously appraised as provided in
this code, and such appraised value did not exceed that sum, the probate
court must, by order, set it off to the persons in whom title is vested by the
preceding section. If there be subsistingliens or incumbrances on the homestead, the claims secured thereby must be presented and allowed as other
claims against the estate. If the funds of the estate be adequate to pay all
claims allowed against the estate, the claims so secured must be paid out of
such funds. If the funds of the estate be not sutiicieut for that purpose, the
claims so secured shall be paid proportionally with other claims allowed, and
the liens or incumbrances on the homestead shall only be enforced against
the homestead for any deficiency remaining after such payment.

1102. (Sec. 138.) If the homestead, as selected and recorded, be returned in the inventory appraised at more than five thousand dollars, the
appraisers must, before they make their return, ascertain and appraise the
value of the homestead at the time the same was selected, and if such value
exceeded five thousand dollars, or if the homestead was appraised as provided
in this code, and such appraised value exceeded that sum, the appraisers
must determine whether the premises can be divided without material injury,
and if they find that they can be thus divided, they must admeasure and set
apart to the parties entitled thereto, such portion of the premises, including
the dwelling house, as will amount in value to the sum of four thousand
dollars, and make report thereof, giving the metes, bounds and full description of the portion set apart as a homestead. If the appraisers iind that the
premises exceeded in value, at the time of their selection, the sum of four
thousand dollars, and that they cannot be divided without material injury,
they must report such finding, and thereafter the court may make an order
for the sale of the premises and the distribution of the proceeds to the parties
entitled thereto.

1103. (SEC. 139.) Any two of the appraisers concurring may discharge
the duties imposed upon the three, and make the report. A dissenting report
may be made by the third appraiser. The report must state fully the acts
of the appraisers. Both reports may be heard and considered,by the court
in determining a confirmation or rejection of the majority report, but the minority report must in no case be confirmed.

1104. (Sec. 140.) When the report of the appraisers is filed, the court
must set a day for hearing any objections thereto, from any one interested
in the estate. Notice of the hearing must be given for such time, and in such
manner as the court may direct. If the court be satisfied that the report

is correct, it must be connrmed, otherwise rejected. In case the report is rejected, the court may appoint new appraisers to examine and report upon
the homestead, and similar proceedings may be had for the confirmation or
rejection of their report as upon the first report. ,

1105. (Sec. 141.) The costs of all proceedings in the probate court, provided for in this chapter, must be paid by the estate, as expenses of administration. Persons succeeding by purchase or otherwise to theinterests, rights
and title of successors 'to homesteads, or to the right to have homesteads set
apart to them, as in this chapter provided, have all the rights and benefits
conferred by law on the persons whose interests and rights they acquire.

1106. (SEC. 142). A certitied copy of every final order made in pursuance of this article, by which a report is confirmed, property assigned or
sale confirmed, must be recorded in the office of the recorder of the county
where the homestead property is situated.

UHAPTER SIX.
CLAIMS AGAINST ESTATE.

1107. (SEC. 143.) Every executor or administrator must, immediately
after his appointment, cause to be published in some newspaper of the
county, if there be one, if not, then in such newspaper as may be designated
by the court, a notice to the creditors of the decedent, requiring all persons
having claims against him to exhibit them, with necessary vouchers, to
the executor or administrator, at the place of his residence or business, to be
specified in the notice; such notice must be published as often as the judge
or court shall direct, but not less than once a week for four weeks; the court
or judge may also direct additional notice by publication or posting. In
case such executor or administrator resigns, or is removed before the time
expressed in the notice, his successor must give notice only for the unexpired time allowed for such presentation. .

1108. (SEC. 144.) The time expressed in the notice must be ten months
after its iirst publication, when the estate exceeds in value the sum of three
thousand dollars, and four months when it does not. 1109. (SEC. 145.) After the notice is given, as required by the preceding
section, a copy thereof, with the aflldavit of due publication, or of publication and posting, must be filed, and upon such affidavit or other testimony to
the satisfaction of the court, an order or decree showing that due notice to
creditors has been given, and directing that such order or decree be entered
in the minutes and recorded, must be made by the court.

1110. (SEC. 146.) If a claim arising upon a contract heretofore made, be
not presented within the time limited in the notice, it is barred forever, except as follows: If it be not then due, or if it be contingent; it may be presented within one month after it becomes due or absolute; if it be made to
appear by the aiiidavit of the claimant, to the satisfaction of the executor or
administrator, and the probate judge, that the claimant had no notice, as
provided in this chapter, by reason of being out of the territory, it may be
presented any time before a decree of distribution is entered. A claim for a
deficiency remaining unpaid after a sale of property of the estate mortgaged
or pledged, must be presented within one month after such deficiency is ascertained. All claims arising upon contracts hereafter made, whether the
same be due, not due, or contingent, must be presented within the time
limited in the notice; and any claim not so presented, is barred forever;

2a%6l

provided, however, that when it is made to appear by the ailidavit of the
-claimant, to the satisfaction of the executor or administrator, and the probate judge, that the claimant had no notice as provided in this chapter, by
reason of being out of the territory, it may be presented at any time before
a decree of distribution is entered.

1111. (SEC. 147.) Every claim which is due when presented to the administrator, must be supported by the aflldavit of the claimant, or some one in
his behalf, that the amount is justly due, that no payments have been made
‘thereon which are not credited, and that there are no offsets to the same, to
the knowledge of the claimant or atllant. If the claim be not due when presented, or be contingent, the particulars of such claim must be stated. When
the atiidavit is made by a person other than the claimant, he must set forth
in the affidavit the reasons why it is not made by the claimant. The oath may
be taken before any officer authorized to administer oaths. The executor or
administrator may also require satisfactory vouchers or proofs to be produced
in support of the claim. If the estate be insolvent, no greater rate of interest shall be allowed upon any claim, after the first publication of notice to
-creditors, than is allowed on judgments obtained in the district court.
When it shall appear, upon the settlement of the accounts of any executor or
administrator, that debts against the deceased have been paid without the
affidavit and allowance prescribed in this section, and it shall be proven by
competent evidence to the satisfaction of the probate court that such debts
were justly due, were paid in good faith, that the amount paid was the true
amount of such indebtedness over and above all payments or set-offs, and
that the estate is solvent, it shall be the duty of the said court to allow the
said sums so paid in the settlement of said accounts. '

1112. (SEC. 148.) Any probate judge may present a claimagainst the
estate of a decedent, for allowance, to the executor or administrator thereof;
-and if the executor or administrator allows the claim, he must, in writing,
designate some probate judge of an adjoining county, who, upon the presentation of such claim to him, is vested with the same power to allow or reject
it as he would have if the will had been proved or administration granted in
his own county; and the probate judge presenting such claim, in case of its
rejection by the executor or administrator, or by such probate judge as shall
have acted upon it, has‘ the same right to sue in a proper court for its re-covery as other persons have when their claims against an estate are re_jected.

1113. (Sec. 149.) When a claim, accompanied by the aflidavit required in

‘this chapter, is presented to the executor or administrator, he must indorse

thereon his allowance or rejection, with the day and date thereof. If he
allows the claim, it must be presented to the probate judge, for his approval,
who must, in the same manner, indorse upon it his allowance or rejection.
If the executor or administrator, or the judge, refuse or neglect to indorse
such allowance or rejection for ten days after the claim has been presented
to him, such refusal or neglect is equivalent to a rejection on the tenth day;
and if the presentation be made by a notary, the certificate of such notary,
under seal, is prima facie evidence of such presentation and rejection. If
the claim he presented to the executor or administrator before the expiration
of the time limited for the presentation of claims, the same is presented in
time, though acted upon by the executor or administrator, and by the judge
after the expiration of such time. If the claim be payable in a particular
kind of money or currency, it shall, if allowed, be payable only in such
money or currency. 1

1114. (Sec. 150.) Every claim allowed by the executor or administrator,
and approved by the probate judge, or a copy thereof, as hereinafter pro'vided, must within thirty days thereafter be filed in the probate court, and

‘be ranked among the acknowledged debts of the estate, to be paid in due
course of administration. If the claim is founded on a bond, bill, note or
any other instrument, a copy of such instrument must accompany the claim,
and the original instrument must be exhibited if demanded, unless it is lost
or destroyed; in which case, the claimant must accompany his claim by his
aflidavit, containing a copy or particular description of such instrument, and
stating its loss or destruction; if the claim or any part thereof is secured by
a mortgage or other lien, which has been recorded in the office of the re' 'corder of the county in which the land affected by it lies, in which case it is

sufficient to describe the mortgage or lien, and refer to the date, volume
and page of its record. If in any case the claimant has left any original
voucher in the hands of the executor or administrator, or suffered the same
to be filed in court, he may withdraw the same when a copy thereof has been
already, or is then attached to his claim. A brief description of every claim
tiled must be entered by the clerk in the register, showing the name of the
-claimant, the amount and character of the claim, rate of interest and date of
allowance.

1115. (SEC. 151.) When a claim is rejected, either by the executor or. administrator, or the probate judge, the holder must bring suit in the proper
-court against theexecutor or administrator, within three months after date of
its rejection, if it be then due, or within two months after it becomes due,
otherwise the claim is forever barred.

1116. (SEC. 152.) No claim must be allowed by the executor or administrator, or by the probate judge, which is barred by the statute of limitations. When a claim is presented to the probate judge for his allowance, he
‘may, in his discretion, examine the claimant and others, on oath, and hear
any other legal evidence touching the validity of,the claim.

1117. (Ste. 153.) No holder of any claim against an estateshall maintain
any action thereon, unless the claim is first presented to the executor or administrator, except in the following case: an action may be brought by any
holder of a mortgage or lien to enforce the same against the property of the
estate subject thereto, where all recourse against any other property of the
«estate is expressly waived in the complaint; but no counsel fees shall be recovered in such action unless such claim be so presented.

1118. (SEC. 154.) The time during which there shall be a vacancy in
the administration must not be included in any limitations herein prescribed.

1119. (Sec. 155.) If an action is pending against the decedent at the
time of his death, the plaintiff must in like manner present his claim to the
executor or administrator for allowance or rejection, authenticated as required in other cases; and as recovery shall be had in the action unless proof
be made of the presentations required.

1120. (Sec. 156.) Whenever any claim is presented to an executor or administrator, or to the probate judge, and he is willing to allow the same in
part, he must state in his indorsement the amount he is willing to allow. If
the creditor refuse to accept the amount allowed in satisfaction of his claim.
he shall recover no costs in any action therefor, brought against the executor
or administrator, unless he recovers a greater amount than that offered to be
allowed.

1121. (Sec. 157.) A judgment rendered against an executor or administrator, upon any claim for money against the estate of his testator or intestate, only establishes the claim in the samemanner as if it had been allowed by
the executor or administrator and the probate judge, and the judgment must
be, that the executor or administrator pay in due course of adn£nistration
the amount ascertained to be due. A certified transcript of the judgment
-must be filed in- the probate oourt. N o execution must issue upon such judgment, nor shall it create any lien upon the property of the estate or give to
the judgment creditor any priority of payment.

1122. (SEC. 158.) When any judgment has been rendered for or against
the testator intestate in his lifetime, no execution shall issue thereon after his
death, except as provided in this code. A judgment against the decedent
for the recovery of money must be presented to the executor or administrator
like any other claim. If execution is actually levied upon any property of
the decedent before his death, the same may be sold for the satisfaction»
thereof; and the officer making the sale must account to the executor or ad-'
-ministrator for any surplus in his hands. A judgment creditor having a
judgment which was rendered against the testator or intestate in his lifetime,
may redeem any real estate of the decedent from any sale under foreclosure
or execution in like manner, and with like effect, as if the judgment debtor
were still living. _

1123. (SEC. 159.) A judgment rendered against a decedent, dying after
verdict or decision on an issue of fact, but before judgment is rendered
thereon, is not a lien on the real property of the decedent, but is payable in
due.course of administration. 2

112-}. (SEC. 160.) If the executor or administrator doubts the correctness.
of any claim presented to him he may enter into an agreement, in writing,
with the claimant, to refer the matter in controversy to some disinterested
person, to be approved by the probate judge. Upon filing the agreement
and approval of the probate judge in the oflice of the clerk of the district
court for the county in which the letters testamentary or of administration
were granted, the clerk must, either in vacation or in term, enter a minute of
the order referring the matter in controversy to the person so selected; or,
of the parties consent, a reference may be had in the probate court; and the
report of the_ referee, if confirmed, establishes or rejects the claim the
same as if it had been allowed or rejected by the executor or administrator
and the probate judge. _

1125. (SEC. 161.) The referee must bear and determine the matter, and
make his report thereon to the court in which his appointmentis entered.
The same proceedings shall be had in all respects, and the referee shall
have the same powers, be entitledto the same compensation and subject to
the same control, as in other cases of reference. The court may remove the
referee, appoint another in his place, set aside or confirm his report, and adjudge costs, as in actions against executors or administrators, and the judgment of the court thereon shall be as valid and effectual, in all respects, as
if the same had been rendered in a suit commenced by ordinary process.

1126. (SEC. 162.) When a judgment is recovered, with costs, against any
executor or administrator, he shall be individually liable for such costs but
they must be allowed him in his administration accounts, unless it appears
that the suit or proceeding in which the costs were taxed, was prosecuted or
defended without just cause.

1127. (SEC. 163.) If the executor or administrator is a creditor of the decedent, his claim, duly authenticated by affidavits, must be presented for allowance or rejection to the probate judge, and its allowance by the judge is
suflicient evidence of its correctness, and it must be paid as other claims, in
due course of administration. If, however, the probate judge rejects the’
claim, action thereon may be had against the estate by the claimant, and
summons must be served upon the probate judge, who may appointan attorney at the expense of the estate to defend the action. If the claimant recovers no judgment, he must pay all costs, including defendant’s attorney's
fees. ”

1128. (SEC. 164.) If an executor or administrator neglects for two
months after his appointment to give notice to creditors, as prescribed by

this chapter the court must revoke his letters, and appoint some other person
in his stead, equally or the next in order entitled to the appointment.

1129. (Sec. 165.) At the same term at which he is required to return
his inventory, the executor or administrator must also return a statement of
all claims against the estate which have been presented to him, if so required
by the court; and from term to term thereafter he must present a statement.
of claims subsequently presented to him. In all such statements he must
designate the names of the creditors, the nature of each claim, when it became due or will become due, and whether it was allowed or rejected by“
him. ‘

1130. (Sec. 166.) If there be any debt of the decedent bearing interest,
whether presented or not, the executor or administrator may, by order of the
court, pay the amount then accumulated and unpaid. or any part thereof, at
any time_when there are sufficient funds properly applicable thereto, whether
said claim he then due or not; and interest shall thereupon cease to accrue
upon the amount so paid. This section does not apply to‘ existing debts,
unless the creditor consent to accept the amount.

CHAPTER SEVEN.
SALES AND CONVEYANCES OF PROPERTY OF DECEDENTS.

ARTICLE I.

SALES IN GENERAL.

1131. (Sec. 167.‘) All the property of a decedent shall be chargeable
with the payment of the debts of the deceased, the expenses of administration, and the allowance to the family, except as otherwise provided in this
code. And the said property, personal and real, may be sold as the court
may direct, in the manner prescribed in this chapter. There shall be no
priority as between personal and real property for the above purposes. 1

1132. (Sec. 168.) No sale of any property of an estate of a decedent is
valid, unless made underorder of the probate court, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter. All sales must be reported under oath, and confirmed by the probate court before the title to the property sold passes.

1133. (Sec. 169.) All petitions for orders of sale must be in writing, set1 ting forth the facts showing the sale to be necessary, and, upon the hearing,

any person interested in the estate may file his written objections, which must
be heard and determined. A failure to set forth the facts showing the sale
to be necessary will not invalidate the subsequent proceedings, if the defect
be supplied by the proofs at the hearing, and the general facts showing the
necessity be stated in the order directing the sale.

1134. (Sec. 170.) When it appears to the court that the estate is insolvent, or that it will require a sale of all the property of the estate, of every
character, to pay the family allowance, expenses of administration and debts,
there need be but one petition filed, but one order of sale made, and but one
sale had, except in the case of perishable property, which may be sold as
provided in section 171. The probate court, when a petition for the sale of
any property, for any of the purposes herein named, is presented, must inquire fully -into the probable amount required to make all such payments, and
if there be no more estate than sufficient to pay the same, may require but
one proceeding for the sale of the entire estate. In such case the petition
must set forth substantially the facts required by section 182.

ARTICLE II.

SALES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

1135. (SEC. 171.) At any time after receivingletters, the executor, administrator or special administrator may apply to the court or judge and obtain an order to sell perishable and all other personal property likely to
depreciate in value, or which will incur loss or expense by being kept, and
so much other personal property as may be necessary to pay the allowance
made to the family of the decedent. The order for the sale may be made
without notice; but the executor, administrator or special administrator is
responsible for the property, unless, after making a sworn return on a proper
showing, the court shall approve the sale. _

1136. (SEC. 172.) If claims against the estate have been allowed, and a
sale of property is-necessary for their payment, or the expenses of administration, or for the payment of legacies, the executor or administrator may
apply for an order to sell so much of the personal property as may be necessary therefor. Upon tiling his petition, notice of at least five days must be
given of the hearing of the application, either by posting notices or by advertising. He may also make a similar application, either in vacation or term,
from time to time, so long as any personal property remains in his hands,
and sale thereof is necessary. If it appear for the best interest of the estate,
he may, at any time after filing the inventory, in like manner, and after
giving like notice, apply for and obtain an order to sell the whole of the
personal property belonging to the estate, whether necessary to pay debts or
not.

1137. (SEC. 173..) Partnership interests or interests belonging to any
estate by virtue of any partnership formerly existing, interests in personal
property pledged, and choses ti action, may be sold in the same manner as
other personal property, when it appears to be for the best interest of the
estate. Before confirming the sale of any partnership interest, whether made‘
to the surviving partner or to any other person, the court or judge must carefully inquire into the condition of the partnership aHairs, and must examine
the surviving partner, if in the county and able to be present in court.

1138. (SEC. 174.) If it appears that a sale is necessary for the payment
of debts or the family allowance, or for the best interest of the estate and the
persons interested in the property to be sold, whether it is or is not necessary
to pay the debts or family allowance, the court or judge must order it to be
made. In making orders and sales for the payment of debts or family allowance, such articles as are not necessary for the support and subsistence of
the family of the decedent, or are not specially bequeathed, must be first
sold, and the court or judge must so direct.

1139. (SEC. 175.) The sale of personal property must be made at puliic
auction, for such money or currency as the court may direct, and after
public notice given for at least ten days, by notices posted in three public
places in the county, or by publication in a newspaper, or both, containing
the time and place of sale, and a brief description of the property to be sold;
unless, for good reason shown, the probate court or judge orders a private
sale, or a shorter notice. Public sales of such property must be made at the
court house door, or at the residence of the decedent, or at some other public place, but no sale shall be made of any personal property, which is not
present at the time of sale, unless the court otherwise order. x

ARTICLE III.

smnuar saws or mass AND MINING} mraansrs.
1140. (SEC. 176.) When it appears from the inventory of the estate of

any decedent that his estate consists in whole or in part of mines or interests '

in mines. such mines or interests may be sold under the order of the probate
court having jurisdiction of the estate, as hereinafter provided.

1141. (SEC. 177.) The executor, administrator, or any heir at law, or
creditor of the estate, any partner or member of any mining company, in
which interests or shares are held or owned by the estate, may file in the probate court a petition in writing, setting forth the general facts of the estate
being then in due course of administration, and particularly describing the
mine, interest, or shares which it is desired to sell, and ‘particularly the con-dition and situation of the mines, or mining interests, or of the mining com
pany or corporation in which such interests or shares are held, and the
grounds upon which the sale is asked to be made.

1142. (SEC. 178.) Upon the presentation of such petition, the probate
judge must make an order directing all persons interested to appear before
him at a time and place specified, not less than four nor more than ten weeks
from the time of making such order, to show cause why an order should not
be granted to the executor or administrator to sell such mines, mining interests, shares or stocks, as are set forth in the petition and belonging to the estate. A copy of the order to show cause must be personally served on all
persons interested in the estate, at least ten days before the time appointed
for hearing the petition, or published at least four successive weeks in such
newspaper as the court shall specify. If all persons interested in the estate
signify in writing their assent to such sale, the notice may be dispensed
with.

1143. (S120. 179.) If, upon hearing the petition, it appears to the satisfaction of the probate judge that it is to the interest of the estate that such
mining property or interests of the estate should be sold, or if it appears to
his satisfaction that an immediate sale is necessary in order to secure the just
rights or interests of the mining partners or tenants in common, in which such
shares, stocks. or property are held, such probate judge must make an order
authorizing the executor or administrator to sell such mining interests,
mines or shares, as hereinafter provided.

1144. (SEC. 180.) After the order of sale is made, all further proceedings for the sale of such mining property, and for the notice, report and
confirmation thereof, must be in conformity with the provisions of article four
of this chapter. ~

ARTICLE IV.

SALE OF BEAT. ESTATE, INTERESTS THEREIN, AND CONFIRMATION THEREOF.

1445. (Sec. 181.) When a sale of property of the estate is necessary to
pay the allowance of the family, or the debts outstanding against the decedent, or the debts, expenses, or charges of administration, or legacies, the
-executor or administrator may also sell any real, as well as personal property
of the estate, for that purpose, upon the order of the probate court; and an
application for the sale of real property may also embrace the sale of personal property.

1146. (SEC. 182.) To obtain an order for the sale of real property, he
must present a verified petition to the probate court, or to the judge at
chambers, setting forth the amount of personal property that has come to
his hands, and how much thereof, if any, remains undisposed of; the debts

outstanding against the decedent, as far as can be ascertained or estimated :
the amount due upon the family allowance, or that will be due after the same
has been in force for one year; the debts, expenses, and charges of administration already accrued, and an estimate of what will or may accrue during
the administration; a general description of all the real property of which

I the decedent died seized, or in which he had any interest, or in which the estate
has acquired any interest, and the condition and value thereof, and whether the
same be community or separate property ; the names of the legatee and devisees,
if any, and of the heirs of the decedent, so far as known to the petitioner.
If any of the matters here enumerated cannot be ascertained, it must be so
stated in the petition; but a failure to set forth the facts showing the sale to
be necessary, will not invalidate the subsequent proceedings, if the defect be
supplied by the proofs at the hearing, and the general facts showing such
necessity be stated in the decree.

1147. (Sec. 183.) If it appears to the court orjudge, from such petition,
that it is necessary to sell the whole or some portion of the real estate for
the purposes and reasons mentioned in the preceding section, or any of them,
such petition must be filed and an order thereupon made, directing all persons interested in the estate to appear before the court, at a time and place
specified, not less than four nor more than ten weeks from the time of making such order, to show cause why an order should not be granted to the
executor or administrator to sell so much of the real estate of the decedent
as is necessary.

1148. (SEC. 184.) A copy of the order to show cause must be personally
served on all persons interested in the estate, any general guardian of a
minor so interested, and any legatee, or devisee, or heir of the decedent,
provided they are residents of the county at least ten days before the time
appointed for hearing the petition, or be published four successive weeks in
such newspaper in the county as the court or judge shall direct. If all
persons interested in the estate join in the petition for the sale, or signify in
writing their assent thereto, the notice may be dispensed with, and the hearing may be had at any time.

1149. (SEC. 185.) The probate court, at the time and place appointed in
such order, or at such other time to which the hearing may be postponed,
upon satisfactory proof of personal service or publication of a copy of the
order. by atiidavit or otherwise, if the consent-, in writing, to such sale of
all parties interested is not filed, must proceed to hear the petition, and hear
and examine the allegations and proofs of the petitioners, and of all persons
interested in the estate who may oppose the application. All claims against
the decedent not before presented, if the period of presentation has not
elapsed, may be presented and passed upon at the hearing.

1150. (SEC. 186.) The executor, administrator and Witnesses may be examined on oath by either party. and process to compel them to attend and
testify may be issued by the probate judge, in the same manner and with like
effect as in other cases.

1151. (SEC. 187.) If it appears necessary to sell a part of the real estate,
and that by a sale thereof the residue of the estate, real or personal, or some
specific part thereof, would be greatly injured or diminished in value, or subjectcd to expense, or rendered unprofitable, or that after any such sale the
residue would be so small in quantity or value, or would be of such a character with reference to its future disposition among the heirs or devise-es, as
clearly to render it for the best interest of all concerned that the same should
be sold, the court may authorize the sale of the whole estate or of any part
thereof necessary and for the best interest of all concerned.

1152. (See. 188.) If the court is satisfied, after a full bearing upon the
petition, and an examination of the proofs and allegations of the parties

interested, that a sale of the whole or some portion of the real estate is necessary, for any of the causes mentioned in this article, or if such sale be assented
to by all the persons interested, an order must be made to sell the whole, or
so much and such parts of the real estate described in the petition, as the
court shall judge necessary or beneficial.

1153. (SEC. 189.) The order of sale must describe the lands to he sold
and the terms of sale, which may be for cash, or on credit not exceeding
one year. payable in gross or installments, and in such kind of money, with
interest, as the court may direct. The land may be sold in one parcel or in
subdivisions, as the executor or administrator shall judge most beneficial to
the estate, unless the court otherwise specially directs. If it appears that
any part of such real estate has been devised and not charged in such devise
with the payment of debts or legacies, the court must order the remainder to
be sold before that so devised. Every such sale must be ordered to be made
at public auction, unless, in the opinion of the court, it would benefit the
estate to sell the whole or some part of such real estate at private sale; the
court may, if the same is asked for in the petition, order or direct such real
estate or any part thereof, to be sold at either public or private sale, as the
executoror administrator shall judge to be most beneficial for the estate.
If the executor or administrator neglects or refuses to make a sale under the
order and as directed therein, he may be compelled to sell, by order of the
court, made on motion, after due notice, by any party interested.

1154. (SEC. 190 ) If the executor or administrator neglects to apply for
an order of sale when it is necessary, any person may make application
therefor, in the same manner as the executor or administrator, and notice
thereof must be given to the execut )1’ or administrator, before the hearing.
The petition of such applicant must contain as many of the matters set forth.
in section one hundred and eighty-two as he can ascertain. and the decree of’
sale must fix the period of time within which the executor or administrator
must make the sale.

1155. (SEC. 191.) “Then a sale is ordered, and is to be made at public
auction, notice of the time and place of sale must be posted up in three of
the most public places in the county in which the land is situated, and published in a newspaper, if there be one printed in the same county, but if none,
then in such paper as the court may direct, for three weeks successively next
before the sale; the lands and tenements to be sold must be described with
common certainty in the notice.

1156. (See. 192.) Sales at public auction must be made in the county
where the land is situated, but when the land is situated in two or more counties, it may be sold in either. The sale must be made between the hours of
nine o'clock in the morning and the setting of the sun on the same day, and
must be made on the day named in the notice of sale, unless the same is postoned.
P 1157. (SEC. 193. When the saleof real estate is ordered tobe made at private sale, notice of the same must be posted up in three of the most public
placesin the county in which the land is situated and published in a newspaper, if there be one printed in the same county——if none, then in such
paper as the court may direct— for two weeks successively next before theday on or after which the sale is to be made, in which the lands and tenements to be sold must be described with common certainty. The notice must
state a day on or after which the sale will be made, and a place where offers
or bids will be received. The day last referred to must be at least fifteen
days from the first publication of notice. and the sale must not be made before that day, but must be made within six months thereafter. The bids or
offers must be in writing. and may be left at the place designated in the no.
tice, or delivered to the executor or administrator personally, or may be filed

in the office of the clerk of the probate court, to which the return of sale must
be made, at any time after the first publication of the notice and before the
making of the sale. If it is shown that it will be for the best interest of the
estate, the court or judge may, by an order, shorten the time of notice, which
shall not, however, be less than one week, and may provide that the sale may
be made on or after a day less than fifteen but not less than eight days from
the first publication of the notice, in which case the notice of sale and the
sale may be made to correspond with such order.

1158. (SEC. 194.) No sale of real estate at private sale shall be confirmed
by the court, unless the sum offered is at least ninety per cent of the appraised value thereof, nor unless such real estate has been appraised within
one year of the time of such sale. If it has not been so appraised. or if the
court is satisfied that the appraisement is too high or too low, appraisers must
be appointed, and they must make an appraisement thereof in the same manner as in case of an original appraisement of an estate. This may be done at
any time before the sale or the confirmation.

1159. (SEC. 195.) The executor or administrator must, when the sale is
made upon a credit, take the notes of the purchaser for the purchase money,
with a mortgage on the property to secure their payment.

1160. (SEC. 196.) The executor or administrator, after making any sale
of real estate, must make a return of his proceedings to the probate court,
which must be filed in the oflice of the clerk, at any time subsequent to the
sale, either in term or vacation. If the sale is made at public auction, and
the returns made and filed on or before the first day of the next term thereafter, no notice is required of such return or of the hearing thereof, but the
hearing may be had upon the first day of the term, or any subsequent day
to which the same may be postponed. If the sale be not made at public
auction, or if made at public auction a hearing upon the return of proceedings be asked for in the return, or is brought on for a bearing upon a day
before the first day of the next term thereafter, or upon any other day than
the first day of the next term after such sale, the court or judge must fix the day
for the hearing, of which notice of at least ten days must be given by the clerk,
by notices posted in three public places in the county, or by publication in a
newspaper, or both, as the court or judge shall direct, and must briefly indicate the land sold, the sum for which it was sold, and must refer to the return for further particulars. Upon the hearing, the court must examine the
return and witnesses in relation to the same, and if the proceedings were unfair, or the sum bid disproportionate to the value, and that a sum exceeding
such bid at least ten per cent exclusive of the expenses of a new sale, may be
obtained, the court may vacate the sale and direct another to be had, of which
notice must be given, and the sale in all respects conducted as if no previous
sale had taken place; if an offer ten per cent more in amount than that
named in the return, he made to the court in writing, by a responsible person, it is the discretion of the court to accept such offer and confirm the sale
to such person, or to ordera new sale.

1161. (SEC. 197.) When return of the sale is made and filed, any person
interested in the estate may file written objections to the confirmation thereof,
and may be heard thereon, when the return is heard by the court or judge,
and may produce witnesses in support of his objections.

1162. (SEC. 198.) If it appears to the court that the sale was legally
made and fairly conducted, and that the sum bid was not disproportionate
to the value of the property sold, and that a greater sum. as above specitled,
cannot be obtained,or if the increased bid mentioned in section one hundred and ninety-six be made and accepted by the court, the court must make
an order confirming the sale, and directing conveyances to be executed. The
sale, from that time, is confirmed and valid, and a certified copy of the order

confirming it and directing conveyances to be executed, must be recorded in ’

the oflice of the recorder of the county within which the land sold is situated. If, after the confirmation, the purchaser neglects or refuses to comply
with the terms of sale, the court may, on motion of the executor or administrator, and after notice to the purchaser, order a re-sale to be made of the
property. If the amount realized on such re-sale does not cover the bid and
expenses of the previous sale, such purchaser is liable for the deficiency of
the estate.

1163. (SEC. 199.) Conveyances must thereupon be executed to the purchaser by the executor or administrator, and they must refer to the orders of
the probate court authorizing and confirming the sale of the property of the
estate, and directing conveyances thereof to be executed, and to the record
of the order of confirmation in the office of the county recorder, either by
the date of such recording or by the date, volume and page of the record,
and such reference shall have the same effect as if the order were at large
inserted in the conveyance. Conveyances so made convey all the right, title,
interest and estate of the decedent in the premises, at the time of his death;
if prior to the sale, by operation of law or otherwise, the estate has acquired
any right, title or interest in the premises, other than in addition to that of
the decedent at the time of his death, such right, title or interest also. passes
by such conveyances.

1164. (SEC. 200.) Before any order is entered confirming the sale, it
must be proved to the satisfaction of the court that notice was given of the
sale as prescribed, and the order of confirmation must show that such proof
was made.

1165. (SEC. 201.) If, at the time appointed for the sale, the executor or
administrator deems it for the interest of all persons concerned therein that
the same be postponed, he may postpone it from time to time. not exceeding
in all three months.

1166. (SEC. 202.) In case of a postponement, notice thereof must be
given, by a public declaration, at the time and place first appointed for the
sale, and if the postponement be for more than one day, further notice must
be given by posting notices in three or more public places in the county where
the land is situated, or publishing the same, or both, as the time and circumstances will admit.

1167. (SEC. 203.) If the testator makes provision by his will or designates the estate to be appropriated for the payment of his debts, the
expenses of administration or family expenses, they must be paid according
to such provision or designation, out of the estate thus appropriated, so far
as the same is sufficient. '

1168. (SEC. 204.) When property is directed by the will to be sold, or
authority is given in the will to sell property, the executor may sell any
property of the estate without the order of the probate court, and at
either public or private sale, and with or without notice, as the executor
may determine; but the executor must make return of such sales as in
other cases; and if directions are given in the will as to the mode of
selling, or the particular property to be sold, such directions must be observed. In either case no title passes unless the sale is confirmed by the
court.

1169. (SEC. 205.) If the provision made by the will, or the estate appropriated therefor, is insufficient to pay the debts, expenses of administration
and family expenses, that portion of the estate not devised or disposed of by
the will, if any, must be appropriated and disposed of for that purpose, according to the provisions of this chapter.

1170. (SEC. 206.) The estate, real and personal, given by will to legatees or devisees, is liable for the debts, expenses of administration and family

expenses, in proportion to the value or amount of the several devises or legacies, but specilic devises or legacies are exempt from such liability if it
appears to the court necessary to carry into effect the intention of the testator and there is no other sufficient estate.

1171. (Sec. 207.) When an estate given by will has been sold for the payment of debts or expenses, all the devisees and legatees must contribute
according to their respective interests to the devisee or legatee whose devise
or legacy has been taken therefor, and the probate court, when distribution
is made, must, by decree for that purpose, settle the amount of the several
liabilities and decree the amount each person shall contribute, and reserve
the same from their distributive shares respectively, for the purpose of paying
such contribution.

1172. (SEC. 208.) If a decedent, at the time of his death, was possessed
of acontract for the purchase of lands, his interest in such land and under
such contracts may be sold on the application of his executor or administrator, in the same manner as if he had died seized of such land, and the
same proceedings may be had for that purpose as are prescribed in this
chapter forthe sale of lands of which he died seized, except as hereinafter
provided.

1173. (SEC. 209.) The sale must be made subject to all payments that
may thereafter become due on such contracts. any If there are any such, the
sale must not be confirmed by the probate judge until the purchasers execute
a bond to the executor or administrator, for the benefit and indemnity of himself and of the persons entitled to the interest of the decedent in the lands so
contracted for, in double the whole amount of payments thereafter to become
due on such contract, with such sureties as the probate judge shall approve.

1174. (See. 210). The bond must be conditioned that the purchaser will
make all p.a_\'ments for such land that become due after the date of the sale,
and will fully indemnify the executor or administrator and the persons so
entitled, against all demands. costs, charges and expenses, by reason of any
covenant or agreement contained in such contract.

1175. (SEC. 21].) Upon the confirmation of the sale, the executor or administrator must execute to the purchaser an assignment of the contract,
which vests in the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, all the right, title and
interest of the estate, or of the persons entitled to the interest of the decedent, in the lands sold at the time of the sale, and the purchaser has the same
rights and remedies against the vendor of such land as the decedent would
have bad if he were living.

1176. (Size. 212.) When any sale is made by an executor or administrator, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, of lands subject to any
mortgage or other lien, which is a valid claim against the estate of the decedent, and has been presented and allowed, the purchase money must be
applied, after paying the necessary expenses of the sale, first to the payment
and satisfaction of the mortgage or lien, and the residue, if any, in due
course of administration. The application of the purchase money to the
satisfaction of the mortgage or lien must be made without delay,and the
land is subject to such mortgage or lien, until the purchase money has been
actually so applied. N 0 claim against any estate which has been presented
and allowed, is affected by the statute of limitations pending the proceedings
for the settlement of the estate. The purchase money, or so much thereof
as may be suiilcient to pay such mortgage or lien, with interest, and any lawful costs and charges thereon, may be paid into the probate court, to be received by the clerk thereof, whereupon the mortgage or lien upon the land
must cease, and the purchase money must be paid over by the clerk of the
court without delay, in payment of the expenses of the sale, and in satisfaction of the debt to secure which the mortgage or other lien was taken, and

/

the surplus, if any, at once returned to the executor or administrator, unless
for good cause shown, after notice to the executor or administrator, the court
otherwise directs.

1177. (SEC. 213.) At any sale, under order of the probate court, of lands
upon which there is a mortgage or lien, the holder thereof may become the
purchaser, and his receipt for the amount due him from the proceeds of the
sale is a payment pro tanto. If the amount for which he purchased the property is insufficient to defray the expenses and discharge his mortgage or lien,
he must pay to the court or the clerk thereof an amount suflieient to pay such
expenses.

1178. (SEC. 214.) If there is any neglect or misconduct in the proceedings
of the executor in relation to any sale, by which any person interested in the
estate suffers damage, the party aggrieved may recover the same in an action
upon the bond of the executor or administrator, or otherwise.

1179. (SEC. 215.) Any executor or administrator who fraudulently sells
any real estate of a decedent contrary to or otherwise than under the provisions of this chapter, is liable in double the value of the land sold, as liquidated damages, to he recovered in an action by the person having an estate
-of inheritance therein. .

1180. (Sec. 216.) No action for the recovery of any estate, sold by an
executor or administrator under the provisions of this chapter, can be maintained hy any heir or other person claiming under the decedent, unless it be
commenced within three years next after the sale. An action to set aside the
sale may be instituted and maintained at any time within three years from
the discovery of the fraud or other grounds upon which the action is based.

1181. (SEC. 217.) The preceding section shall not apply to minors or
others under any legal disability to sue at the time when the right of action
first accrues ; but all such persons may commence an action at any time within
three years after the removal of the disability.

1182. (SEC. 218.) When a sale has been made by an executor or administrator, of any property of the estate, real or personal, he must return to
the probate court. at its next term thereafter, an account of sales, verified by

’ his atiidavit. If he neglects to make such return, he may be punished by

attachment, or his letters may be revoked, one day's notice having been first
given him to appear and show cause why such attachment should not issue or
such revocation should not be made.

1183. (SEC. 219.) No executor or administrator must, directly or indirectly, purchase any property of the estate he represents, nor must he be
interested in any such sale.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

POWERS AND DUTIES OF EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS,
AND MANAGEMENT OF ESTATES.

1184. (SEC. 220.) The executor or administrator must take into his possession all the estate of the decedent, real and personal, and collect all debts
due to the decedent, or to the estate. For the purpose of bringing suits to
quiet titles or for partition of such estate, the possession of the executors or
administrators is the possession of the heirs or devisees; such possession by
the heirs or devisees is subject, however, to the possession of the executor
or administrator, for the purpose of administration, as provided in this
title.

1185. (SEC. 221.) Actions for the recovery of any property, real or personal, or for the possession thereof, and all actions founded upon contracts,
may be maintained by and against executors and administrators, in all cases
in which the same might have been maintained by or against their respective
testators or intestates.

1186. (SEC. 222.) Executors and administrators may maintain actions
against any person who has wasted, destroyed, taken or carried away, or‘
converted to his own use, the goods of their testator or intestate, in his lifetime. They may also maintain actions for tresspass committed on the real
estate of the decedent in his lifetime.

1187. (SEC. 223.) Any person or his personal representatives may maintain an action against the executor or administrator of- any testator or intestate who in his lifetime has wasted, destroyed, taken or carried away, or
converted to his own use, the goods or chattels of any such person, or committed any trespass on the real estate of such person.

1188. (SEC. 224.) When a partnership exists between the decedent, at
the time of his death, and any other person, the surviving partner has the
right to continue in possession of the partnership, and to settle its business,
but the interest of the decedent in the partnership must be included in the
inventory, and be appraised and appropriated as other property. The surviving partner must settle the affairs of the partnership without delay, and
account with the executor or administrator, and pay over such balances asmay from time to time be payable to him, in right of the decedent. Upon
the application of the executor or administrator, the probate judge may,
whenever it appears necessary, order the surviving partner to render an account, and in case of neglect or refusal may, after notice, compel it by
attachment; and the executor or administrator may maintain against him any
action which the decedent could have maintained.

1189. (SEC. 225.) Any administrator may, in his own name, for the useand benefit of all parties interested in the estate, maintain actions on thebond of an executor, or of any former administrator of the same estate.

1190. (SEC. 226.) In actions by or against executors, it is not necessary
to join those as parties to whom letters were issued, but who have not
quahned.

1191. (SEC. 227.) Whenever a debtor of a decedent is unable to pay all
his debts, the executor or administrator, with the approbation of the probate
court or judge, may compound with him, and give him a discharge upon receiving a fair and just dividend of his effects. A compromise may also be
authorized, when it appears to be just and for the best interest of theestate.

1192. (SEC. 228.) When there is a deficiency of assets in the hands of an
executor or administrator, and when the decedent, in his lifetime, has conveyed any real estate or any rights or interests therein, with intent to defraud
his creditors, or to avoid any right, debt or duty of any person, or has so
conveyed such estate that by law the deeds or conveyances are void as against
creditors, the executor or administrator must commence and prosecute to final
judgment any proper action for the recovery of the same; and may recover
for the benefit of the creditors all such real estate so fraudulently conveyed,
and may also, for the benefit of the creditors, sue and recover all goods,
chattels, rights or credits which have been so conveyed by the decedent in his
lifetime, whatever may have been the manner of such fraudulent conveyance.

1193. (SEC. 229.) No executor or administrator is bound to sue for such
estate so mentioned in the preceding section, for the benefit of the creditors,
unless on application of creditors, who must pay such part of the costs and
expenses of the suit, or give such security to the executor or administrator
therefor, as the probate judge shall direct.

1194. (Sac. 230.) All real estate so recovered must be sold for the payment of debts, in the same manner as the decedent had died seized thereof
upon obtaining an order therefor from the probate court; and the proceeds
of all goods, chattels, rights and credits so recovered must be appropriated
in payment of the debts of the decedent, in the same manner as other property in the hands of the executor or administrator.

CHAPTER NINE.

CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS IN CERTAIN CASES.

1195. (SEC. 231.) When a person who is bound by contract, in writing,
to convey any real estate dies before making the conveyance, and in all cases
where such decedent, if living, might be compelled to make such conveyance,
the probate court may make a decree authorizing and directing his executor
or administrator to convey such real estate to the person entitled thereto.

1196. (SEC. 232.) On the presentation of a verified petition by any person
claiming to be entitled to such conveyance from an executor or administrator,
setting forth the facts upon which the claim is predicated, the probate court
must appoint a time and place for hearing the petition, at a regular term of
the court; and must order notice thereof to be published at least four successive weeks before such hearing, in such newspaper in this territory as he may
designate.

1197. (Sec. 233.) At the time and place appointed for the hearing, or at
such other time to which the same may be postponed, upon satisfactory proof
by affidavit or otherwise of the due publication of the notice, the court must
proceed to a hearing, and all persons interested in the estate may appear and
contest such petition by filing their objections in writing, and the court may
examine, on oath, the petitioner and all who may be produced before him for
that purpose.

1198. (SEC. 234.) If, after a full hearing upon the petition and objections,
and examination of the facts and circumstances of the claim, the court is satisiied that the petitioner is entitled to a conveyance of the real estate described
in the petition, a decree authorizing and directing the executor or administrator to execute a conveyance thereof to the petitioner must be made, entered on the minutes of the court and recorded.

1199. (SEC. 235.) The executor or administrator must execute the conveyance according to the directions of the decree, a certified copy of which
must be recorded with the deed in the office of the recorder of the county
where the lands lie, and is prima facie evidence of the correctness of the proceedings, and of the authority of the executor or administrator to make the
conveyance.

1200. (Sec. 236.) If, upon the hearing in the probate court, as hereinbefore provided,jthe right of the petitioner to have a specific performance of the
contract is found to be doubtful, the court must dismiss the petition without
prejudice to the rights of the petitioner, who may, at any time within six
months thereafter, proceed, in the district court, to enforce a specific performance thereof.

1201. (SEC. 237.) Every conveyance made in pursuance of a decree of
the probate court, as provided in this chapter, shall pass the title to the estate contracted for as fully as if the contracting party himself was still living

and executed the conveyance.
1202. (SEC. 238.) A copy of the decree for a conveyance, made by the

probate court, and duly certified and recorded in the oflice of the recorder of
the county where the lands lie, gives the person entitled to the conveyance a
right to the possession of the lands contracted for, and to hold the same according to the terms of the intended conveyance, in like manner as if they
had been conveyed in pursuance of the decree.

1203. (SEC. 239.) The recording of any decree, as provided in the preceding section, shall not prevent the court making the decree from enforcing‘

the same by other process.
1204. (SEC. 240.) If the person entitled to the conveyance dies before the

commencement of proceedings therefor under this chapter, or before the completion of the conveyance, any person entitled to ‘succeed to his rights in the
contract, or the executor or administrator of such decedent may, for the benefit of the person so entitled, commence such proceedings or prosecute any
already commenced, and the conveyance must be so made as to vest the estate in the persons entitled to it, or in the executor or administrator, for their
benefit.

1205. (Sec. 241.) The decree provided for in this chapter may direct the
possession of the property therein described to be surrendered to the person
entitled thereto, upon his producing the deed and a certified copy of the decree, when, by the terms of the contract, possession is to be surrendered.

CHAPTER TEN.

ACCOUNTS RENDERED BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS,
AND OF THE PAYMENT OF DEBTS.

ARTICLE I.

LIABILITIES AND COMPENSATION OF EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

1206. (SEC. 242.) No executor or administrator is chargeable upon any

special promise to answer damages or to pay the debts of the testator or intestate out of his own estate, unless the agreement for that purpose, or some
memorandum or note thereof, is in writing and signed by such executor or

administrator, or by some other person by him thereunto specially authorized.

- 1207. (SEC. 243.) Every executor and administrator is chargeable in his.
account with the whole of the estate of the decedent which may come into

his possession, at the value of the appraisement contained in the inventory,
except as provided in the following sections, and with all the interest, profit
and income of the estate.

1208. (SEC. 244.) He shall not make profit by the increase, nor suffer
loss by the decrease or destruction, without his fault, of any part of the
estate. He must account for the excess when he sells any part of the estate
for more than the appraisement, and if any is sold for less than the appraisement, he is not responsible for the loss, if the sale has been justly made.

1209. (SEC. 245.) No executor or administrator is accountable for any
debts due to the decedent, if it appears that they remain uncollected without
his fault.

1210. (SEC. 246.) He shall be allowed all necessary expenses in the care,
management and settlement of the estate, including reasonable fees paid toattorneys for conducting the necessary roceedings or suits in the probate or
other courts, and for his services, such ees as provided in this chapter; but
when the decedent, by his will, makes some other provision for the compen-sation of his executor, that shall be a full compensation for his services,
unless, by a written instrument tiled in the probate court, he renounces all

claim for compensation provided by the will.
1211. 68150. 247.) N o administrator or executor shall purchase any claim

against the estate he represents; and if he pays any claimfor less than its

nominal value he is only entitled to charge in his account the amount heactually paid. are

1212. (SEC. 248.) When no compensation is provided by the will, or the
executor renounces all claim thereto, he must be allowed commissions upon
the amount of the whole estate accounted for by him, as follows: For the first
thousand dollars, at the rate of seven per cent. ; for all above that sum, and
not exceeding ten thousand dollars, at the rate of five per cent. ; for all above
that sum at the rate of four per cent. ; and the same commission must [be
allowed administrators. In all cases, such further allowance may be made
as the probate judge may deem just and reasonable, for any extraordinary
service. The total amount of such allowance must not exceed the amount of
commissions allowed by this section; and that public administrators shall receive the same compensation and allowances as are allowed in this title to

other administrators.
ARTICLE II.

ACCOUNTING AND SETTLEMENT BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTBATOR8.

1213. (SEC. 249.) At the third term of the court after his appointment,
and thereafter at any time when required by the court, either upon its’ own
motion or upon the application of any person interested in the estate, the
executor or administrator must render, for the information of the court, an
exhibit under oath, showing the amount of money received and expended by
him, the amount of all claims presented against the estate and the names of
the claimants, and all other matters necessary to show the condition of its
affairs.

1214. (SEC. 250.) If the executor or administrator fails to render an exhibit at the third term of the court, the judge of the probate court must.
cause a citation to be issued requiring him to appear and render it.

1215. (Sec. 251.) Any person interested in the estate may, at any time
before the final settlement of accounts, present his petition to the probate
judge, praying that the executor or administrator be required to appear and
render such exhibit, setting forth the facts showing that it is necessary and
proper that such an exhibit should be made.

1216. (SEC. 252.) If the judge is satisfied, either from the oath of the applicant or from any other testimony offered, that the facts alleged are true,
and considers the showing of the applicant sutlicient, he must direct a citation to be issued to the executor or administrator, requiring him to appear at
some day to be named in the citation, which must be during a term of the
court, and render an exhibit as prayed for.

1217. (SEC. 253.) When an exhibit is rendered by an executor or administrator, any person interested may appear and, by objections in writing,
contest any account or statement therein contained. The court may examine
the executor or administrator, and if he has been guilty of neglect, or has
wasted, embezzled or mismanaged the estate, his letters must be revoked.

1218. (SEC. 254.) If any executor or administrator neglects or refuses to
appear and render an exhibit, after having been duly cited, an attachment
may be issued against him and such exhibit enforced, or his letters may be
revoked, in the discretion of the court.

1219. (SEC. 255.) Within thirty days after the expiration of the time mentioned in the notice to creditors within which claims must be exhibited, every
\

executor or administrator must render a full account and report of his admin
istration. If he fails to present his account, the court or judge must compel

'the rendering of the account by attachments, and any person «interested in

the estate may apply for and obtain an attachment; but no attachment must

issue unless a citation has been first issued, served and returned, requiring,

the executor or administrator to appear and show cause why an attachment
should not issue. Every account must exhibit all debts which have been presented and allowed during the period embraced in the account.

1220. (S110. 256.) When the authority of an executor or administrator
ceases or is revoked for any reason, he may be cited to account before the
probate court at the instance of the person succeeding to the administration

-of the same estate, in like manner as he might have been cited by any person

interested in the estate during the time he was executor or administrator.
1221. (SEC. 257.) If the executor or administrator resides out of the
county, or absconds or conceals himself so that the citation cannot be personally served, and neglects to render an account within thirty days after
the time prescribed in this article, or if he neglects to render an account

within thirty days after being committed where the attachment has been
executed, his letters must be revoked.

1222. (SEC. 258.) In rendering his account, the executor or administrator I

must produce and file vouchers for all charges, debts, claims and expenses
which he has paid, which must remain in the court; and he may be examined

on oath touching such payments, and also touching any property and effects
of the decedent, and the disposition thereof. When any voucher is required’

for other purposes, it may be withdrawn on leaving a certified copy on file;
if a voucher is lost, or for other good reason cannot be produced on the
settlement, the payment may be proved ‘by the oath of any competent witness.

1223. (SEC. 259.) On the settlement of his account he may be allowed
any item of expenditure, not exceeding twenty dollars, for which no voucher
is produced, if such item be supported by his own uncontradicted oath positive to the fact of payment, specifying when, where and to whom it was
made; but such allowances in the whole must not exceeed five hundred dollars
against any one estate.

1224. (SEC. 260.) When any account is rendered for settlement, the court
-or judge must appoint a day for the settlement thereof; the clerk must thereupon give notice thereof, by causing notices to be posted in at least three
public places in the county. setting forth the name of the estate, the executor
or administrator, and the day appointed for the settlement of the account,
which must be on some day of a term of the court. The court or probate
judge may order such further notice to be given as may be proper.

1225. (SEC. 261.) If the account mentioned in the preceding section be
for a final settlement, and a petition for the final distribution of the estate be
filed with said account, the notice of the settlement must state those facts,
which notice must be given by posting a publication as the court may direct
and for such time as may be ordered. On the settlement of said account,
distribution and partition of the estate to all entitled thereto may be immediately had, without further notice or proceedings.

1226. (SEC. 262.) On the day appointed, or any subsequent day to
which the hearing may be postponed by the court, any person interested in
the estate may appear and file his exceptions in writing to the account, and
contest the same.

1227. (SEC. 263.) All matters, including allowed claims. not passed
upon on the settlement of any former account, or on rendering an exhibit,
-or on making a decree of sale, may be contested by the heirs, for cause
shown. The hearing and allegations of the respective parties may be post_poned from time to time, when necessary, and the court may appoint one or

more referees to examine the accounts and make report thereon, subject to
confirmation; and may allow a reasonable compensation to the referees, to
be paid out of the estate of the decedent.

1228. (Sec. 264.) The settlement of the account and 'the allowance
thereof by the court or upon appeal, is conclusive against all persons in any
way interested in the estate, saving, however,,to all persons laboring under
any legal disability, their right to move for cause, to reopen and examine the
account, or to proceed by action against the executor, or administrator,
either individually or upon his bond, at any time before final distribution;
and in any action brought by any such person, the allowance and settlement
of the account is prima. facie evidence of its correctness.

1229. (SEC. 265.) The account must not be allowed by the court until it is
first proved that notice has been given as required by this chapter, and the
decree must show that such proof was made to the satisfaction of the court,
and is conclusive evidence of the fact.

1230. (Sec. 266.) Whenever it appears to the court on any hearing of
an application for the sale of real property, that it would be for the interest
of the estate that personal property of the estate, or some part of such property should be first sold, the court may decree the sale of such personal
property, or any part of it, and the sale thereof shall be conducted in the
same manner, as if the application had been made for the sale of such personal property in the first instance.

1231. (SEC. 267.) Pending the settlement of any estate on the petition of

‘ any party interested therein, the probate court may order any moneys in the

hands of the executors or administrators to be invested for the benefit of the
estate in securities of the United States or of this territory. Such order can
only be made after publication of notice of the petition in some newspaper
to be designated by the judge.

ARTICLE III.

PAYMENT OF DEBTS OF THE ESTATE.

1232. (SEC. 268.) The debts of the estate must be paid in the following
order: —

1. Funeral expenses.

2. The expenses of the last sickness.

3. Debts having preference by the laws of the United States.
4 Debts having preference by the laws of this territory.

5. Judgments rendered against the decedent in his lifetime, and mortgages
in the order of their date.

6. All other demands against the estate.

1233. (SEC. 269.) The preference given in the preceding section to a
mortgage only extends to the proceeds of the property mortgaged. Ifthe proceeds of such property are insufficient to pay the mortgage, the part
remaining unsatisfied must be classed with other demands against the estate.

1234. (SEC. 270.) If the estate is insuflieient to pay all the debts of any
one class, each creditor must be paid a dividend in proportion to his claim;

and no creditor of any one class shall receive such payment until all those of ’

the preceding class are fully paid.

1235. (SEC. 271) The executor or administrator, as soon as he has sufficient funds in his hands, must pay the funeral expenses and the expenses
of the last sickness, and the allowance made to the family of the decedent.
He may retain in his hands the necessary expenses of administration, but he

is not obliged to pay any other debt or any legacy until, as prescribed in this
article, the payment has been ordered by the court.

1236. (SEC. 272.) Upon the settlement of the accounts of the executors

or administrator as required in this chapter, the court must make an order
for the payment of the debts, as circumstances of the estate require. If
there is not sufficient funds in the hands of the executor or administrator, the
court must specify in the decree the sum to be paid to each creditor. If the
whole property of the estate be exhausted by such payment or distribution
such account must be considered as a final account, and the executor or administrator is entitled to his discharge on producing and filing the necessary
vouchers and proofs showing that such payments have been made, and that
he has fully complied with the decree of the court.

1237. (SEC 273.) If there is any claim not due, or any contingent or
disputed claim against the estate, the amount thereof, or such part of the
same as the holder would be entitled to if the claim were due, established
or absolute, must be paid into the court, and there remain, to be paid
over to the party when he becomes entitled thereto; or, if he fails to establish his claim, to be paid over or distributed as the circumstances of the estate require. If any creditor whose claim has been allowed, but is not yet
due, appears and assents to a deduction therefrom of the legal interest for
the time the claim has yet to run, he is entitled to be paid accordingly. The
payments provided for in this section are not to be made when the estate is
insolvent, unless a pro rata distribution is ordered.

1238. (SEC. 274.) When a decree is made by the probate court for the
payment of creditors, the executor or administrator is personally liable to
each creditor for his allowed claim, or the dividend thereon, and execution
may be issued on such decree, as upon a judgment in the district court, in
favor of each creditor, and the same proceeding may be had under such execution as if it had been issued from the district court. The executor or administrator is liable therefor, on his bond, to each creditor.

1239. (SEC. 275.) When the accounts of the administrator or executor
have been settled, and an order made for the payment of debts and distribution of the estate, no creditor whose claim was not included in the order for
payment has any right to call upon the creditors who have been paid, or upon
the heirs, devisees or legatees, to contribute to the payment of his claim;
but if the executor or administrator has failed to give the notice to the creditors, as prescribed in section one hundred and forty-four; such creditor may
recover on the bond of the executor or administrator the amount of his claim,
or such part thereof as he would have been entitled to had it been allowed.
This section shall not apply to any creditor whose claim was not due ten
months before the day of settlement, or whose claim was contingent and did
not become absolute ten months before such day.

1240. (Sec. 276.) If the whole of the debts have been paid by the first
distribution, the court must direct the payment of legacies and the distribution of the estate among the heirs, legatees, or other persons entitled, as
provided in the next chapter; but if there be debts remaining unpaid, or if,
for other reasons, the estate be not in a proper condition to be closed, the
court must give such extension of time as may be reasonable for a final settlement of the estate.

1241. (SEC. 277.) At the time designated in the last section, or sooner, if
within that time all the property of the estate has been sold, or there are sufficient funds in his hands for the payment of all the debts due by the estate,
and the estate be in a proper condition to be closed, the executor or administrator must render a final account and pray a settlement of his a dministration.

1242. (Sec. 278.) If he neglects to render his account. the same proceedings may be had as prescribed in this chapter in regard to the first account to be rendered by him, and all the provisions of this chapter relative to
the last mentioned account, and the notice and settlement thereof, appy to
his account presented for final settlement.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

PARTITION, DISTRIBUTION ‘AND FINAL SETTLEMENT OF
ESTATES. r

ARTICLE I.

PARTIAL DISTRIBUTION AND FINAL SETTLEMENT.

1243. (SEC. 279.) At any time after the lapse, of four ‘months from the
issuing of letters testamentary or of administration, any heir, devisee or legatee may present his petition to the court for the legacy or share of the estate
to which he is entitled, to be given to him upon his giving bonds, with security,
for the.payment of his proportion of the debts of the estate.

1244. (SEC. 280.) Notice of the application must be given to the executor
or administrator, personally, and to all persons interested in the estate, in
the same manner that notice is required to be given of the settlement of the
account of an executor or administrator.

1245. (See. 281.) The executor or administrator, or any person interested in the estate, may appear at the time named and resist the application,
or any other heir, devisee or legatee may make a similar application for
himself.

1246. (See. 182.) If, at the hearing, it appears that the estate is but little
indebted, and that the share of the party applying, may be allowed to him
without loss to the creditors of the estate, the court must make an order in
conformity with the prayer of the applicant, requiring —

1. Each heir, legatee or devisee obtaining such order, before receiving his
share or any portion thereof, to execute and deliver to the executor or ad-ministrator a bond, in such sum as shall be designated by the probate judge,
with sureties to be approved by the judge, payable to the executor or administrator, and conditioned for the payment, whenever required, of his proportion of the debts due from the estate, not exceeding the value or amount 01
the legacy or portion of the estate to which he is entitled.

2. The executor oradministrator to deliver to the heir, legatee or devisee,
the whole portion of the estate to which he may be entitled, or only a part
thereof, designating it.

If, in the execution of the order, a partition is necessary between two or
more of the parties interested, it must be made in the manner hereinafter
prescribed. The costs of these proceedings to be paid by the applicant, or
if there be more than one, to be apportioned equally amongst them.

1247. (SEC. 283.) When any bond has been executed and delivered
under the provisions of the preceding section, and it is necessary
for the settlement of the estate to require the payment of any part of the
money thereby secured, the executor or administrator must petition the
court for an order requiring the payment, and have a citation issued and
served on the party bound, requiring him to appear and show cause why the
order should not be made. At the hearing, the court, if satisfied of the necessity of such payment, must make an order accordingly, designating the
amount and giving a time within which it must be paid. If the money is not
paid within the said time allowed, an action may be maintained by the executor or administrator on the bond.

ARTICLE II.

DISTRIBUTION ON FINAL SETTLEMENT.

1248. (Sec. 284.) Upon the final settlement of the accounts of the executor
or administrator, or at any subsequent time, upon the application of the executor or administrator or of any heir, legatee or devisec, the court must proceed to
distribute the residue of the estate in the hands of the executor or administrator, if any, among the persons who by law are entitled thereto; and if the decedent has left a surviving child, and the issue of other children, and any of them
before the close of administration, have died while under age, and not having
been married, no administration on such deceased child's estate is necessary,
but all the estate which such deceased child was entitled to by inheritance must,
without administration, be distributed to other heirs at law. A statement of
any receipts and disbursements of the executor or administrator, since the
rendition of his iinal accounts, must he reported and filed at the time of
making such distribution, and a settlement thereof, together with an estimate
of the expenses of closing the estate, must be made by the court, and included in the order or decree; or the court or judge may order notice of the
settlement of such supplementary account, and refer the same as in other
cases of the settlement of accounts.

1249. (SEC. 285.) In the order or the decree, the court must name the
persons and the proportions or parts to which each shall be entitled, and
such persons may demand, sue for, and recover their respective shares from
executor or the administrator, or any person having the same in possession.
Such order or decree is conclusive as to the rights of heirs, legatees or
devisees, subject only to be reversed, set aside, or modified on appeal.

1250. (SEC. 286.) Upon application for distribution, after final settlement of the accounts of administration, if the decedent was a non-resident
of this territory, leaving a will which has been duly proved or allowed in the
territory of his residence, and an authenticated copy thereof has been admitted to probate in this territory, and it is necessary in order that the estate,
or any part thereof, may be distributed according to the will, that the estate
in this territory should he delivered to the executor or administrator in the
territory or place of his residence, the court may order such delivery to be
made, and, if necessary, order a sale of the real estate, and a like delivery of
the proceeds. The delivery in accordance with the order of the court is a
full discharge of the executor or administrator with the will annexed, in this
territory in relation to all property embraced in such order, which, unless
reversed on appeal, binds and concludes all parties in interest. Sales of real
estate ordered by virtue of this section must be made in the same manner as
other sales of real estate of decedents by order of the probate court.

1251. (Sec. 287.) The order or decree may be made on the petition of
the executor or administrator, or of any person interested in the estate.
Notice of the application must be given by posting or publication, as the
court may direct, and for such time as may be ordered. If partition be ap’plied for, as provided in this chapter, the decree of distribution shall not
divest the court of jurisdiction to order partition, unless the estate is finally
closed.

1252. (Site. 288.) Before any decree of distribution of an estate is made,
the probate court must be satisfied, by the oath of the executor or administrator, or otherwise, that the territory, county and municipal taxes, legally

levied upon the property of the estate, have been fully paid.

ARTICLE III.

DISTRIBUTION AND PARTITION.

1253. (SEC. 289.) When the estate, real and personal, assigned by the
decree of distribution to two or more heirs, devisees or legatees, is in common and undivided, and the respective shares are not separated and distinguished, partition or distribution may be made by three disinterested persons, to be appointed commissioners for that purpose by the probate court
or judge, who must be duly sworn to the faithful discharge of their duties.
A certified copy of the order of their appointment, and of the order
or decree assigning and distributing the estate, must be issued to them as
their warrant, and their oath must he indorsed thereon. Upon consent of the
parties, or when the court deems it proper and just, it is suiilcient to appoint
one commissioner only, who has the same authority and is governed by the
same rules as if three were appointed.

1254. (SEC. 290.) Such partition may be ordered and had in the probate
court on the petition of any person interested. But before commissioners
are appointed, or partition ordered by the probate court as directed in this
chapter, notice thereof must be given to all persons interested, who reside in
this territory, or to their guardians, and to the agents, attorneys or guardians,
if any in this territory, of such as reside out of the territory, either personally or by public notice, as the probate court may direct. The petition may
be filed, attorneys, guardians and agents appointed, and notice given, at any
time before the order or decree of distribution, but the commissioner must
not be appointed until the order or decree is made distributing the estate.

1255. (SEC. 291.) If the real estate is in different counties, the probate
court may, if deemed proper, appoint a commissioner for all, or different
commissioners for each county. The estate in each county must be divided
separately among the heirs, devisees or legatees, as if there was no other
estate to be divided, but the commissioner first appointed must, unless otherwise directed by the probate court, make division of such real estate, wherever, situated within this territory.

1256. (SEC. 292.) Partition or distribution of the real estate may be
made as provided in this chapter, although some of the original heirs, legatees or devisees may have conveyed their shares to other persons, and such
shares must be assigned to the person holding the same, in the same manner
as they otherwise would have been to such heirs, legatees or devisees.

1257. (SEC. 293.) When both distribution and partition are made the
several shares in the real and personal estate must be set out to each individual in proportion to his right by metes and bounds or description, so that
the same can be easily distinguished, unless two or more of the parties interested consent to have their shares set out so as to be held by them in common and undivided.

1258. (SEC. 294.) When the real estate cannot be divided without prejudice or inconvenience to the owners, the probate court may assign the whole
to one or more of the parties entitled to share therein who will accept it,
always preferring the males to the females, and among children preferring the
elder to the younger. The parties accepting the whole must pay to the other
parties interested their just proportion of the true value thereof, or secure
the same to their satisfaction, or, in case of the minority of such party, then
to the satisfaction of his guardian, and the true value of the estate must be
ascertained and reported by commissioners. When the commissioners appointed to make partition are of the opinion that the real estate cannot be
divided without prejudice or inconvenience to the owners, they must so report to the court, and recommend that the whole be assigned as herein provided, and must find and report the true value of such real estate. On filing
the report of the commissioners, and on making or securing the payment as
before provided for, the court, if it appears just and proper, must confirm
the report, and thereupon the assignment is complete, and the title to the
whole of such real estate vests in the person to -whom the same is soassigned.

1259. (SEC. 295.) When any tract of land or tenement is of greater value
than any one's share in the estate to be divided, and it cannot be divided
without injury to the same, it may be set off by the commissioners appointed.
to make partition to any of the parties who will accept it, giving preference
as prescribed in the preceding section. The party accepting must pay or
secure to the others such sums as the commissioners shall award to make the
partition equal, and the commissioners must make their a'ward accordingly;
but such partition must not be established by the court until the sums
awarded are paid to the parties entitled to the same, or secured to their satisfaction.

1260. (SEC. 296.) When it appears to the court, from the commissioners’
report, that it cannot otherwise be fairly divided, and should be sold, the
court may order the sale of the whole or any part of the estate, real or personal, by the executor or administrator, or by a commissioner appointed for
that purpose, and the proceeds distributed. The sale must be conducted,
reported and confirmed, in the same manner and under the same requirements provided in article four, chapter seven, of this title.

1261. (SEC. 297.) Before any partition is made or any estate divided, as
provided in this chapter, notice must be given to all persons interested in the
partition, their guardians, agents or attorneys, by the commissioners, of the
time and place, when and where they shall proceed to make partition. The
commissioners may take testimony, order surveys and take such other steps.
as may be necessary to enable them to form a judgment upon the matters before them.

1262. (SEC. 298.) The commissioners must report their proceedings, and
the partition agreed upon by them, to the probate court, in writing, and the
court may, for sufficient reasons, set aside the report and commit the same to
the same commissioners, or appoint others; and when such report is finally
confirmed, a certified copy of the judgment or decree of partition made
thereon, attested by the clerk, under the seal of the court, must be recorded
in the office of the recorder of the county where the lands lie.

1263. (SEC. 299.)-When the probate court makes a judgment or decree
assigning the residue of any estate to one or more persons entitled to the
same, it is not necessary to appoint commissioners to make partition or distribution thereof, unless the parties to whom the assignment is decreed, or_

some of them, request that such partition be made.

1264. (SEC. 300.) All questions as to advancements made, or alleged to
have been made, by the decedent to his heirs, may be heard and determined
by the probate court, and must be specified in the decree assigning and distributing the estate; and the final judgment or decree of the probate court,
or, in case of appeal, of the supreme court, is binding on all parties interested

in the estate.
ARTICLE IV.

AGENTS ABSENT, INTERESTED PARTIES, DISCHARGE OF EXECUTOR OR ADMINISTRATOR.

R 1265. (SEC. 301.) Any person capable of making a will may so provide'in
his will that no other action shall be had in the probate court in relation?tothe settlement of his estate than the probating and recording of his will and
the return of an inventory, appraisement and list of-claims of his estate.

1266. (SEC. 302.) In cases mentioned in the preceding section any person
having a debt or claim against said estate may enforce the payment of the
same by suit against the executor of such will, and the judgment recovered
against the executor shall be paid out of the assets of said estate, as other
judgments against an executor are paid.

1267. (SEC. 303.) Whenever, in a will, power is given to an executor to H

sell any property of the testator, no order of the probate judge shall be necessary to authorize the executor to make such sale, and when any particular
directions are given by a testator in his will respecting the sale of any property belonging to his estate, the same shall be followed, unless such directions
have been annulled or suspended by order of the court, as in this act provided.

1268. (Sec. 304.) If a testator in his will directs his personal estate or

any part thereof not to be sold, the same shall be reserved from sale, unless
such sale be necessary for the payment of debts.
@1269. (Sac. 305.) If such will does not distribute the entire estate of the
testator, or provide a means for the partition of said estate, the executor
shall have the right to file his final account in the court in which the will
was probated, and ask partition and distribution of the estate, and the same
shall be partitioned and distributed in the manner provided for the partition
and distribution of estates administered under the direction of the court.

1270. (SEC. 306.) When any estate is assigned or distributed by a judgment or decree of the court, as provided in this chapter, to any person residing out of, and having no agent in, this territory, and it is necessary that
some person should be authorized to take possession and charge of the same
for the benefit of such absent person, the court may appoint an agent for
that purpose, and authorize him to take charge of such estate as well as to
act for such absent person in the distribution. .

1271. (SEC. 307.) The agent must first give a bond to the probate judge,
to be approved by him, conditioned that he shall faithfully manage and account for the estate. The court appointing such agent may allow a reasonable sum out of the profits of the estate for his services and expenses.

1272. (SEC. 308.) When personal property remains in the hands of the
agent unclaimed for a year, and it appears to the court that it is for the
benefit of those interested, it should be sold under the order of the court,
and the proceeds, after deducting the expenses of the sale allowed by the
court, must be paid into the territorial treasury. When the payment is
made, the agent must take from the treasury duplicate receipts, one of which
he must file in the office of the auditor, and the other in the probate court.

1273. (SEC. 309.) The agent must render to the probate court appointing
him, annually, an account showing —

1. The value and character of the property received by him, what portion
thereof is still on hand, what sold, and for what;

2. The income derived therefrom ;

3. The taxes°and assessments imposed thereon, for what, and whether paid
or unpaid. '

4. Expenses incurred in the care, protection and management thereof, andwhether paid or unpaid.

When filed, the- probate court may examine witnesses and take proof in regard to the account; and if satisfied from such accounts and proofs that it
will be for the benetit and advantages of the persons interested therein, the
court may, by order, direct a sale to be made of the whole or such parts of
the real or personal property as shall appear to be proper, and the purchase
money to be deposited in the territorial treasury.

1274. (SEC. 310.) The agent is liable on his bond for the care and preservation of the estate while in his hands, and for the payment of the proceeds of
the sale as required in the preceding sections, and may be sued thereon by
any person interested. ,

1275. (SEC. 311.) When any person appears and claims the money paid
into the treasury, the probate court making the distribution must inquire into
such claim, and being first satisfied of his right thereto, must grant him a
certificate to that effect, under its seal; and upon the presentation of the
certificate to him, the auditor must draw his warrant on the treasurer for the
amount.

1276. (SEC. 312.) When the estate has been fully administered, and it is
shown by the executor or administrator, by the production of satisfactory
vouchers, that he has paid all sums of money due from him, and delivered
up, under the order of the court, all the property of the estate to the parties
entitled, and performed all the acts lawfully required of him, the court must»
make a judgment or decree discharging him from all liability to be incurred.
thereafter.

1277. (SEC. 313.) The final settlement of an estate, as in this chapter‘
provided, shall not prevent a subsequent issue of letters testamentary, or of

administration, or of administration with the will annexed, if other property
of the estate be discovered, or if it become necessary or proper for any cause
that letters should be again issued.

CHAPTER TWELVE.

ORDERS, DECREES, PROCESS, MINUTES, RECORDS, TRIALS AND
APPEALS.

1278. (SEC. 314.) Orders and decrees made by the probate court or the
judge thereof, need not recite the existence of facts, or the performance of
acts upon which the jurisdiction of the court or judge may depend; but it
shall only be necessary that they contain the matters ordered or adjudged,
except as otherwise provided in this title. All orders and decrees of the
court or judge must be entered at length in the minute book of the court,
and upon the close of each term the judge must sign the minutes.

1279. (SEC. 315.) When any application is ordered, such application
must be made daily or otherwise, as often during the prescribed period as the
paper is regularly issued, unless otherwise provided in this title. The court
or judge may, however, order a less number of publications during the period prescribed.

1280. (SEC. 316.) When it is provided in this title that any order or decree of a probate court or judge, or a copy thereof, must be recorded in the
office of the county recorder. from the time of filing the same for record,
notice is imparted to all persons of the contents thereof. .

1281. (SEC. 317.) Citations must be directed to the person to be cited,
signed by the clerk, and issued under the seal of the court, and must contain: —

1. The title of the proceeding;

2. A brief statement of the nature of the proceeding;

3. A direction that the person cited appear at a time and place specified.

1282. (SEC. 318.) The citation may be issued by the clerk upon the application of any party without an order of the judge, except in cases in which
such order is by the provisions of this title expressly required.

1283. (Sec. 319.) The citation must be served in the same manner as'a
summons in a civil action.

1284. (SEC. 320.) When personal notice is required and no mode of giving
it is prescribed in this title, it must be given by citation.

1285. (SEC. 321.) When no other time is specially prescribed in this title
citations must be served at least five days before the return day thereof.

1286. (Sec. 322.) When a complete description of the real property of
an estate sought to be sold has been given and published in a newspaper, as
required in the order to show cause why the sale should not be made, such
description need not be published in any subsequent notice of sale or notice
of a petition for the confirmation thereof; it is suliicient to refer to the description contained in the publication of the first notice, as being proved and
on file in the court.

1287. (SEC. 323.) Except as otherwise provided inthis title, the provisions of the code of procedure in civil cases are applicable to, and constitute
the rules of practice in, the proceedings mentioned in this title.

1288. Sec. 324.) All issues of fact joined in the probate court must be
tried in conformity with the requirements of article two, chapter two, of this
title, and in all such proceedings the party afiirming is plaintiff, and the one
denying or avoiding is defendant. Judgments therein, on _the issues joined,
as well as for costs, may be entered and enforced by execution or otherwise,
by the probate court. as in civil actions. .

1289. (SEC. 325.) If no jury is demanded, the court must try the issues
joined. If on written demand a jury is called by either party. and the issues
are not sufficiently made up by the written pleadings on file, the court on due
notice to the opposite party, must settle and frame the issues to be tried and
submit the same, together with the evidence of each party, to the jury, on
which they must render a verdict.

1290. (Sec. 326.) At or before the hearing of petitions and contests for
the probate of wills; for letters testamentary or of administration; for sales
of real estate and confirmations thereof; settlements, partitions, and distributions of estates; setting apart homesteads; and all other proceedings
where all the parties interested in the estate are required to be notified thereof,
the court may, in its discretion, appoint some competent attorney at law to
represent, in all such proceedings. the devisees, legatees, heirs, or creditors
of the decedent, who are minors and have no general guardian in the county,
or who are non-residents of the territory; and those interested who, though
they. are neither such minors or non-residents, are unrepresented. The order
must specify the names of the parties for whom the attorney is appointed,
who is thereby authorized to represent such parties in all such proceedings had
subsequent to his appointment. The attorney may receive a fee to be fixed
by the court for his services, which must be paid out of the funds of the
estate as necessary expenses of administration, and upon distribution may be
charged to the party represented by the attorney. If, for any cause, it become necessary, the probate court may substitute another attorney for the one
first appointed, in which case the fee must he proportionately divided. The
non-appointment of an attorney will not affect the validity of any of the proceedings.

1291. (SEC. 327.) When a judgment or decree is made, setting apart a
homestead, confirming a sale, making distribution of real property, or determining any other matter affecting the title to real property, a certified
copy of the same must be recorded in the oiiice of the recorder of the county
in which the property is situated.

1292. (SEC. 328.) When it is not otherwise prescribed in this title, the
probate court, or the proper court on appeal, may, in its discretion, order
costs to be paid by any party to the proceedings, or out of the assets of the

estate, as justice may require. Execution for the costs may issue out of the
probate court.

1293. (SEC. 329.) Whenever an executor, administrator or guardian is
committed for contempt, in disobeying any lawful order of the probate court
or the judge thereof, and has remained in custody for thirty days without
obeying such order, or purging himself otherwise of the contempt, the probate court may, by order reciting the facts, and without further showing or
notice, revoke his letters and appoint some other person entitled thereto,
executor, administrator or guardian, in his stead.

1294. (SEC. 330.) Whenever an infant, insane, or incompetent person has
a guardian of his estate residing in this territory, personal service upon the
guardian of any process, notice, or order of the probate court concerning the
estate of a deceased person, in which the ward is interested, is equivalent to
service upon the ward; and it is the duty of the guardian to attend to the interests of the ward in the matter. Such guardian may also appear for his
ward, and waive any process, notice, or order to show cause which an adult

or a person of sound mind might do.

1295. (Sec. 331.) Whenever proof of notice shall he required by the
provisions of this act, the certificate of the probate judge that such notice
has been duly given shall be deemed suiilcient proof.

1396. (SEC. 332.) The probate judge of each county shall be furnished
with an office for the transaction of probate business, and with the- necessary
furniture and stationery therefor by the board of supervisors of such county,
and the costs thereof shall be audited and be paid as other charges against

the county.
1297. (SEC. 333.) The terms of the probate court shall be holden at the

county seat, on the first Monday of January, April, July and October in
each year, and the judge may hold such adjourned or special terms as he

shall think proper.

 

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.
APPEALS.

1298. (SEC. 334.) Any person who may consider himself aggrieved by
any decision, order, decree or judgment of the probate court shall have the
right to appeal therefrom to the district court of the county upon complying
with the provisions of this chapter. 1299. (Sec. 335.) He shall within twenty days after such decision, order,
judgment or decree shall have been rendered, file with the clerk of the probate court a bond with two or more good and suillcient sureties payable to
the territory of Arizona, and to be approved by the clerk, conditioned that
the appellant shall prosecute said appeal to effect, and perform the decision,
order, decree or judgment which the district court shall makethereon, in
case the cause shall be decided against him.

1300. (SEC. 336.) When an appeal is taken by an executor or administrator no bond shall be required unless such appeal personally concern him, in
which case he must give the bond.

1301. (SEC. 337.) When the party who desires to appeal is unable to give
the appeal bond, it shall be sufilcient if he file with the probate clerk within
the time prescribed for giving such bond, an affidavit in writing that he has
made diligent efforts to give such bond, and is unable to do so by reason of
his poverty, and such aifl lavit shall operate a perfection of the appeal in respect to the matter of costs.

1302. (SEC. 338.) Upon such appeal bond or affidavit being filed in the
probate clerk's oiilce, it shall be his duty immediately to make out a certificate transcript of the papers and proceedings relating to the decision, order,
judgment or decree, and transmit the same to the clerk of the district court,
together with the appeal bond or affidavit that has been made in lieu of such
bond, on or before the first day of the next term of such court.

1303. (Sec. 339.) In case the clerks of the probate court shall be unable
for want of. time to make out such transcript before the first day of the
next term of the district court of the county after such appeal is taken,
then such transcript shall be transmitted to the next succeeding term of such
district court.

1304. (SEC. 340.) When the transcript and appeal bond or affidavit have
been received by the clerk of the district court, he shall file and number the
same, and enter the case upon the civil docket of such court to be called and
disposed of in its regular order. 1305. (Sec. 341.) All causes removed by appeal to the district court shall
be tried anew as if originally brought in such court, and. if no appearance is
entered upon the docket for the appellee, the cause shall proceed to trial in
its regular order upon the docket as if both parties were present.

1306. (Sec. 342.) When the judgment of the district courthas been rendered a certified copy thereof shall forthwith be transmitted by the clerks of
the district court to the clerk of the probate court from which the case was
repealed, for the observance of such court, and the clerks of the probate
court upon receiving such certified copy of judgment shall file the same and
record it upon the minutes of the court and note upon the docket, and the
probate judge shall make such order as may be necessary to the enforcement

of such judgment.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.
GUARDIAN AND WARD.

ARTICLE I.

GUA RDIANS OF MINORS.

1307. (Sec. 343.) The probate judge of each county when it appears
necessary or convenient, may appoint guardians for the persons and estates,
or either, or both of them, of minors who have no guardian legally appointed
by will, or deed, and who are inhabitants or residents of the county, or who
reside without the territory, and have estate within the county. Such appointment may be made on the petition of a relative or other person, in behalf of
such minor. Before making such appointment, the judge must cause such
notice as he deems reasonable to be given to the relative of the minor residing in the county, and to any person having care of such minor.

1308. (SEC. 344.) If the minor is under the age of fourteen years, the
probate judge may nominate and appoint his guardian. If he is above the
age of fourteen years, he may nominate his own guardian, who, if approved
by the judge, must be appointed accordingly.

1319. (SEC. 345.) ‘If the guardian nominated by the minor is not approved
by the judge, or if the minor resides out of the territory, or if, after being
duly cited by the judge, he neglects for ten days to nominate a suitable person, the judge may nominate and appoint the guardian, in the same manner
as if the minor were under the age of fourteen years.

1310. (SEC. 346.) When a guardian has been appointed by the court for

a minor under the age of fourteen years, the minor, at any time after he at-tains that age, may appoint his own guardian, subject to the approval of theprobate judge.

1311. (SEC. 347.) The father of the minor, if living, and in case of hisdecease, the mother while she remains unmarried, being themselves respect-ively competent to transact their own business, and not otherwise unsuitable,.
must be entitled to the guardianship of the minor.

1312. (SEC. 348.) If the minor has no father or mother living, competent
to have the custody and care of his education, the guardian appointed shall
have the same.

1313. (SEC. 349.) Every guardian appointed shall have the custody and
care of the minor, and the care and management of his estate, until such
minor arrives at the age of majority or marries, or until the guardian is.
legally discharged.

1314. (SEC. 350.) Before the order appointing any person guardian under
this chapter takes effect, and before letters issue, the judge must require of"
such person a bond to the minor, with sufiicient sureties, to be approved by
the judge, and in such sum as he shall order, conditioned that the guardian.
will faithfully execute the duties of his trust according to law; and the following conditions shall form a part of such bond without being expressed.
therein : —

1. To make an inventory of all the estate, real and personal, of his ward,
that comes to his possession or knowledge, and to return the same within suchtime as the judge may order.

2. To dispose of and manage the estate according to law and for the best.
interest of the ward, and faithfully to discharge his trust in relation thereto,,

and also in relation to the care, custody and education of the ward.

3. To render an account, on oath, of the property, estate and moneys of"
the ward in his hands, and all proceeds or interests derived therefrom, and of
the management and disposition of the same, within three months after hisappointment, and at such other times as the court directs, and at the expiration of his trust to settle his accounts with the probate judge, or with theward, if he be of full age, or his legal representatives, and to pay over and
deliver all the estate, moneys and effects remaining in his hands, or due from
him on suchsettlement, to the person or persons who are lawfully entitled.
thereto.

Upon filing the bond, duly approved, letters of guardianship must issue to
the person appointed. In form, the letters of guardianship must be substantially the same as letters of administration; and the oath of the guardian must.
be indorsed thereon, that he will perform the duties of his omce, as such
guardian, according to law.

1315. (SEC. 351.) When any person is appointed guardian of a minor,
the probate judge may, with the consent of such person, insert in the order
of appointment conditions not otherwise obligatory, providing for the care,
treatment, education and welfare of the minor. The performance of such
conditions is a part of the duties of the guardian, for the faithful performance of which he and the sureties on his hond are responsible.

1316. (SEC. 352.) All letters of guardianship issued, and all guardians’
bonds executed under the provisions of this chapter, with the affidavits and
certificates thereon must be recorded by the clerk of the probate court having jurisdiction of ‘the persons and estates of the wards.

1317. (SEC. 353.) If any minor, having a father living, has property, the
income of which is sufficient for his maintenance and education in a manner
more expensive than his father can afford, regard being had to the situation
of the father's family and to all the circumstances of the case, the expenses
of the education and maintenance of such minor may be defrayed out of the

income of his own property, in whole or in part, as judged reasonable, and
must be directed by the probate court; and the charges therefor may beallowed accordingly in the settlement of the accounts of his guardian.

1318. (SEC. 354.) A general guardian is the guardian of the person, or A

of all the property of the ward within this territory or both.

1319. (SEC. 355.) Every other is a special guardian.

1320. (SEC. 356.) A guardian of the person or estate, or both of a child
born, or likely to be born, may be appointed by will or by deed, to take
effect upon the death of a parent appointing1. If the child is legitimate, by the father, with the written consent of the
mother; or by either parent, if the other is dead or incapable of consent.

2. If the child is illegitimate, by the mother.

1321. (SEC. 357.) No person, whether a parent or otherwise, has any
power as guardian of property, except by appointment as hereinafter provided.

1322. (SEC. 358.) A guardian of the person or property, or both, of a
person residing in this territory, who is aminor, or of unsound mind, may be
appointed in all cases other than those named in section 356 by the probate court, as provided in this code.

1323. (Sec. 359.) A guardian of the property within this territory, of a
person not residing therein, who is a minor, or of unsound mind, may be appointed by the probate court.

1324. (SEC. 360.) In all cases, the court first making the appointment of
a guardian has exclusive jurisdiction to control him.

1325. (SEC. 361.) In awarding the custody of a minor, or in appointing a
general guardian, the court or officer is to be guided by the following considerations: —

1. By what appears to be for the best interest of the child in respect to its
temporal and its mental nd moral welfare; and if the child be of a sufficient
age to form an intelligen preference, the court may consider that preference
in determining the question.

2. As between parents adversely claiming the custody or guardianship,
neither parentis entitled to it as of right; but, other things being equal, if the
child be of tender years, it should be given to the mother; if it be of an age
to require education and preparation for labor or business, then to the
father. .

3. Of two persons equally entitled to the custody in other respects, preference is to be given as follows: —

1. To a parent;

2. To one who was indicated by the wishes of a deceased parent;

3. To one who already stands in the position of a trustee of a fund to be
applied to the child’s support;
4. To a relative.

1326. (SEC. 362.) A guardian appointed by a court, has power over the
person and property of the ward, unless otherwise ordered.

1327. (SEC. 363.) A guardian of the person is charged with the custody
of the ward, and must look to his support, health and education. He may
fix the residence of the ward at any place within the territory, but not elsewhere, without permission of the court.

1328. (SEC. 364.) A guardian of the property must keep safely the property of his ward. He must not permit any unnecessary waste or destruction
of the real property, nor make any sale of such property without the order
of the probate court, but must, so far as it is in the power, maintain the same,
with its buildings and appurtenances, out of the income or other property of

the estate, and deliver it to the ward, at the close of his guandianship, in as
good condition as he received it.

1329. (Sec. 365.) The relation of guardian and ward is confidential, and
is subject to the provisions of the law on trusts.

1330. (SEC. 366.) In the management and disposition of the person or
property committed to him, a guardian may be regulated and controlled by
the court.

1331. (SEC. 367.) On the death of one of two or more joint guardians,
the power continues to the survivor, until a further apppointment is made by
the court.

1332. (Sec. 368.) A guardian may be removed by the probate court for
any of the following causes: —

. For abuse of his trust.

. For continued failure to perform its duties.

. For incapacity to perform its duties.

. For gross immorality.

. For having an interest adverse to the faithful performance of his dumqagumwwu

. For removal from the territory.
. In the ease of a guardian of the property, for insolvency; or
. When it is no longer proper that the ward should be under guardianship. '

1333. (SEC. 369.) The power of a guardian appointed by a parent is superseded: —

1. By his removal, as provided by section 368.

2. By the solemnized marriage of the ward ; or,

3. By the ward’s attaining majority.

1334. (Sec. 370.) The power of a guardian appointed by a court is suspended only: — '

1. By order of the court; or,

2. If the appointment was made solely because of the ward’s minority, by
his attaining majority.

1335. (SEC. 371.) Every testamentary guardian must give bond and qualify, and has the same powers and must perform the same duties, with regard

. to the person and estate of his ward, as guardians appointed by the probate
-court, except so far as their powers and duties are legally modified, enlarged

or changed by the will by which such guardian was appointed.

5336. (SEC. 372.) Nothing contained in this chapter affects or impairs the
power of any court to appoint a guardian to defend the interests of any minor
interested in any suit or matter pending therein.

 

ARTICLE II.

GUARDIAN8 OF INSANE AND INCOMPETENT PERSONS.

1337. (SEC. 373.) When it is represented to the probate judge, upon ver‘ified petition of any relative or friend, that any person is insane, or, from any

cause, mentally incompetent to manage his property, the judge must cause a
notice to be given to the supposed insane or incompetent person of the time
and place of hearing the case, not less than five days before the time so appointed, and such person, if able to attend, must be produced before him on
the hearing.

1338. (Sec. 374.) If, after a full hearing and examination upon such petition, it appear!to the probate judge that the person in question is incapable
of taking care of himself and managing his property, he must appoint aguardian of his person and estate, with the powers and duties in this chapter specitied.

1339. (Sec. 375.) Every guardian appointed, as provided in the preceding section, has the care and custody of the person of his ward, and the management of all his estate until such guardian is legally discharged; and he
must give bond to such ward, in like manner and with like conditions as before prescribed with respect to the guardian of a minor.

1340. (Sac. 376.) Any person who has been declared insane, or the guardian or any relative of such person, within the third degree, or any friend,
may apply, by petition, to the probate judge of the county, in which he was
declared insane, to have the fact of his restoration to capacity judicially determined. The petition shall be verified, and shall state that such person is
then sane. Upon receiving the petition, the judge must appoint a day for
the hearing, and, if the petitioner request it, shall order an investigation before
a jury, which shall be summoned and impaneled in the same manner as juries
are summoned and impaneled in other cases in the probate court. The judge
shall cause notice of the trial to be given to the guardian of the petitioner, if
there be a guardian, and to his or her husband or wife, if there be one, and
to his or her father or mother, if living in the county. On the trial, the guardian or relative of the petitioner, and, in the discretion of the judge, any
other person, may contest the right of the petitioner to the relief demanded.
Witnesses may be required to appear and testify, as in other cases, and may
be called and examined by the judge of his own motion. If it be found
that the petitioner be of sound mind and capable of taking care of himself
and his property, his restoration to capacity shall be adjudged, and the
guardianship of such person, if such person be not a minor, shall cease.

ARTICLE III.

POWERS AND DUTIES OF GUARDIANS.

1341. (SEC. 377.) Every guardian appointed under the provisions of this
chapter, whether for a minor or any other person, must pay all just debts
due from the ward, out of his personal estate and the income of his real
estate, if sufficient; if not, then out of his real estate, upon obtaining an
order for the sale thereof, and disposing of the same in the manner provided
in this title for the sale of real estate of decedents.

1342. (SEC. 378.) Every guardian must settle all accounts-of the ward,
and demand, sue for and receive all debts due to him, or may, with the ap'-probation of the probate judge, compound for the same and give discharges

to the debtors on receiving a fair and just dividend of his estate and effects;
and he must appear for and represent his ward in all legal suits and proceedings unless another person is appointed for that purpose as guardian or next
friend. '
1343. (SEC. 379.) Every guardian must manage the estate of his ward
frugally and without waste, and apply the income and profits thereof, as far
as may be necessary, for the comfortable and suitable maintenance and support of the ward and his family, if there be any; and if such income and
profits be insufficient for that purpose, the guardian may sell the real estate,
upon obtaining an order of the court therefor, as provided. and must apply
the proceeds of such sale, as far as may be necessary, for the maintenance

and support of the ward and his family, if there be any.
1344. (SEC. 380.) When a guardian has advanced for the necessary maintenance, support or education of his ward, an amount not disproportionate

to the value of his estate, or his condition of life, and the same is made to

appear to the satisfaction of the court, by proper vouchers and proofs, the
guardian must be allowed credit therefor in his settlements. Whenever a

guardian fails, neglects or refuses to furnish suitable and necessary maintenance, support or education for his Ward, the court may order him to do so,
and enforce such order by proper process. Whenever any third person, at
his request, supplies a ward with such suitable and necessary maintenance,
support or education, and it is shown to have been done after refusal or
neglect of the guardian to supply the same, the court may direct the guardian to pay therefor out of the estate, and enforce such payment by due pro1345. (SEC. 381.) The guardian may join in and assent to a partition of
the real estate of the ward, wherever such assent may be given by any per-8011.

1346. (SEC. 382.) Every guardian must return to the probate court an inventory of the estate of his ward within three months after his appointment,

and annually thereafter. When the value of the estate exceeds the sum of

one hundred thousand dollars, semi-annual returns must be made to the probate court. The probate court may, upon application for that purpose by
any person, compel the guardian to render an account to the probate court

‘ of the estate of his ward. The inventories and accounts so to be returned or

rendered must be sworn to by the guardian. All the estate of the ward described in the first inventory must be appraised by appraisers appointed,
sworn and acting in the manner provided for regulating the settlement of
the estate of decedents; such inventory, with the appraisement of the property therein described, must be recorded by the clerk of the probate court in
a proper book kept in his office for that purpose. Whenever any other property of the estate of any ward is discovered, not included in the inventory of
the estate already returned, and whenever any other property has been succeeded to, or acquired by any ward for his benefit, the like proceedings must
be had for the return and appraisement thereof that are herein provided in
relation to the first inventory and return.

1347. (SEC. 383.) The guardian must, upon the expiration of a year from
the time of his appointment, and as often thereafter as he may be required,
present his account to the probate court for settlement and allowance.

1348. (Sec. 384.) When an account is rendered by two or more joint
guardians, the probate judge may, in his discretion, allow the same upon the

-oath of any of them.

1349. (SEC. 385.) Every guardian must be allowed the amount of his reasonable expenses incurred in the execution of his trust, and he must also
have such compensation for his services as the court in which his accounts are
settled deems just and reasonable.

ARTICLE IV.

SALE OF PROPERTY AND DISTRIBUTION OF PROCEEDS.

1350. (SEC. 386.) When the income of an estate under guardianship is

.insufIicient to maintain the ward and his family, or to maintain and educate

the ward when a minor, his guardian may sell his real or personal estate for
that purpose upon obtaining an order therefor.

1351. (SEC. 387.) When it appears to the satisfaction of the court, upon
the petition of the guardian, that for the benefit of his ward, his real estate or
some part thereof should be sold, and the proceeds thereof put out at intereat, or invested in some productive stock, or in the improvement or securit_v

of any other real estate of the ward, his guardian may sell the same for such
purpose, upon obtaining an order therefor.

1352. (Sac. 388.) If the estate is sold for the purposes mentioned in this
article, the guardian must apply the proceeds of the sale to such purposes,

-as far as necessary, and put out the residue, if any, on interest, or invest it

in the best manner in his power, until the capital is wanted for the maintenance of the ward‘ and his family, or the education of his children, or for
the education of the ward when aminor, in which case the capital may be
used for that purpose, as far as may be necessary, in like manner as if it
had been personal estate of the ward. '  

1353. (Sec. 389.) If the estate is sold for the purpose of putting out or
investing the proceeds, the guardian must make the investment according to
his best judgment, or in pursuance of any order that may be made by the
probate court.

1354. (SEC. 390.) To obtain an order for such sale, the guardian must
present to the probate court of the county in which he was appointed
guardian, a verified petition therefor, setting forth the condition of the
estate of his ward, and the facts and circumstances on which the petition
is founded, tending to show the necessity or expediency of a sale.

1355. (SEC. 391.) If it appears to the court or judge, from the petition, that it is necessary or would be beneficial to the ward that the real
estate, or some part of it, should be sold, or that the real and personal
-estate should be sold, the court or judge must thereupon make an order,
directing the next of kin of the ward, and all persons interested in the
estate, to appear before the court, at a time and place therein specitied, not less than four, nor more than eight weeks from the time of making
such order, to show cause why an order should not be granted for the sale
of such estate. If it appear that it is necessary, or would be beneficial to
the ward to sell the personal estate or some part of it, the court must order
the sale to be made. A

1356. (SEC. 392.) A copy of the order must be personally served 0
the next of kin of the ward, and all persons interested in the estate, at
least fourteen days before the hearing of the petition, or must be published
at least three successive weeks in a newspaper printed in the county; or, if
there be u ne printed in the county, then in such newspaper as may be
specified by the court or judge in the order. If written consent to making

the order of sale is subscribed by all persons interested therein, and the

next of kin, notice need not be served or published.
1357. (Sec. 393.) The probate court, at the time and place appointed in
the order, or such other time to which the hearing is postponed, upon proof

-of the service or publication of the order, must bear and examine the proofs

and allegations of the petitioner and of the next of kin, and of all other
persons interested in the estate who oppose the application.

1358. (SEC. 394.) On the hearing, the guardian may be examined on oath,
and witnesses may be produced and examined by either party, and process
to compel their attendance and testimony may be issued by the probate
court or judge, in the same manner and with like effect as in other cases
provided for in this title.

1359. (Sec. 395.) If any person appears and objects to the granting of
any order prayed for under the provisions of this article, and it appears to
the court that either the petition or the objection thereto is sustained, the court
may, in granting or refusing the order, award costs to the party prevailing
and enforce the payment thereof.

1360. (Sec. 396.) If, after a full examination, it appears necessary, or for
the benefit of the ward, that his real estate, or some part thereof, should be

-sold, the court may grant an order therefor, specifying therein the causes

or reasons why the sale is necessary or beneficial, and may, if the same has
been prayed for in the petition, order such sale to be made either at public
or private sale.

1361. (Sec. 397.) Every guardian authorized to sell real estate must, before the sale, give bond to the probate judge, with suflicient surety to be

I

approved by him, with condition to sell the same in the manner, and to account for the proceeds of the sale, as provided for in this chapter and chapter seven of this title. . '

1362. (SEC. 398.) All the proceedings under petition of guardians for
sales of property of their wards, giving notice and the hearing of such petitions, granting or refusing the order of sale,Adirecting the sale to be made at
public or private sale, re-selling the same property, return of sale and application for confirmation thereof, notice and hearing of such application,

- making orders rejecting or confirming sales and reports of sales, ordering

and making conveyances of property sold, accounting and the settlement of
accounts must be had and made as required by the provisions of this title
concerning estates of decedents, unless otherwise specially provided in this
chapter.

1363. (SEC. 399.) No order of sale, granted in pursuance of this article
continues in force more than one year after granting the same, without a sale
being had.

1364. (Sec. 400.) All sales of real estate of wards must be for cash, or
for part cash and part deferred payments, not to exceed three years, hearing
date from date of sale, as in the discretion of the probate judge is most beneficial to the ward. Guardians making sales must demand and receive from
the purchasers bond and mortgage on the real estate sold, with such additional security as the judge deems necessary and sufficient to secure the faithful payment of the deferred payments and the interest thereon.

1365. (SEC. 401.) The probate court, on the application of a guardian,
or any person interested in the estate of any ward, after such notice to persons interested therein as the probate judge shall direct. may authorize and
require the guardian to invest the proceeds of sales, and any other of his
ward’s money in his hands, in real estate, or in any other manner most to
the interest of all concerned therein; and the probate court may make such
other orders and give such directions as are needful for the management, investment and disposition of the estate and effects, as circumstances require.

ARTICLE V.

NON-'-RESIDENT GUARDIANS AND WARDS.

1366. (SEC. 402.) When a person liable to be put under guardianship,
according to the provisions of this chapter, resides without this territory, and
has estate therein, any friend of such person, or any one interested in his estate. in expectancy or otherwise, may apply to the probate judge of any
county in which there is any estate of such absent person, for the appointment of a guardian; and if, after notice given to all interested, in such manner as the judge orders, and a full hearing and examination, it appears
proper, a guardian for such absent person may be appointed.

1367. (SEC. 403.) Every guardian appointed under the preceding section, has the same powers and performs the same duties, with respect to the
estate of the ward found within this territory, and with respect to the person
of the ward, if he shall come to reside therein. as are prescribed with respect
to any other guardian appointed under this chapter.

1368. (SEC. 404.) Every guardian must give bond to the ward, in the
manner and with the like conditions as hereinbefore provided for other
guardians, except that the provisions respecting the inventory, the disposal
of the estate and effects, and the account to be rendered by the guardian,
must be confined to such estate and effects as come to his hands in this territory.

1369. (SEC. 405.) The guardianship which is first lawfully granted, of
any person residing without this territory, extends to all the estate of the

ward within the same and excludes the jurisdiction of the probate court of
every other county.

1370. (SEC. 406.) When the guardian and ward are both non-residents,
and the ward is entitled to property in this territory, whic_h may be removed
to another state or foreign country without conflict with any restriction or
limitation thereupon, or impairing the right of the ward thereto, such property may be removed to the state or foreign country of the residence of the
ward, upon the application of the guardian to the probate judge of the county
in which the estate of the ward, or the principal part thereof, is situated.

1371. (SEC. 407.) The application must be made upon ten days’ notice to
the resident executor, administrator, or guardian, if there be such, and upon
such application, the non-resident guardian must produce and file a certificate
under the hand of the clerk and seal of the court from which his appointment
was derived showing: —

1. A"t'ranscript of the record of his appointment;

2. That he has entered upon the discharge of his duties;

3. That he is entitled by the laws of the state of his appointment, to the
possession of the estate of his ward; or must produce and file a certificate
under the hand and seal of the clerk of the court having jurisdiction in the

country of his residence of the estates of persons under guardianship, or of‘

the highest court of such country, that by the laws of such country the applicant is entitled to the custody of the estate of his ward without the appointment of any court.

Upon such application, unless good cause to the contrary is shown, the
probate judge must make an order granting to such guardian leave to take
and remove the property of his ward to the state or place of his residence,
which is authority to him to sue for and receive the same in his own name,
for the use and benefit of his ward.

1372. (SEC. 408.) Such order is a discharge of the executor, administrator, local guardian or other person in whose possession the property may he
at the time the order is made, on filing with the probate court the receipt
therefor of the guardian of such absent ward.

ARTICLE VI.

GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

1373. (SEC. 409.) Upon complaint made to him by any guardian, ward,
creditor or other persons interested in the estate, or having a prospective interest therein as heir or otherwise, against any one suspected of having concealed, embezzled or conveyed away any of the money, goods or effects, or
an instrument in writing, belonging to the ward or to his estate, the probate
judge may cite such suspected person to appear before him, and may examine and proceed with him on such charge in the manner provided in this title
with respect to persons suspected of, and charged with, concealing or embezzling the effects of a decedent.

1374. (SEC. 410.) When a guardian, appointed either by the testator or
the probate judge, becomes insane or otherwise incapable of discharging his
trust, or unsuitable therefor, or has Wasted or mismanaged the estate, or
failed,for thirty days, to render an account or make a return, the probate
court may, upon such notice to the guardian as the court may require, remove
him and compel him to surrender the estate of the ward to the person found
tobe lawfully entitled thereto. Every guardian may resign, when it appears
proper to allow the same; and upon the resignation and removal of a guardian, as herein provided, the probate court or the judge thereof may appoint
another in the place of the guardian who has resigned or has been removed.

1375. (SEC. 411.) The marriage of a minor ward terminates the guardian17

ship ;'and the guardian of an insane or other person may be discharged by
the probate judge when it appears to him, on the application of the ward or
otherwise, that the guardianship is no longer necessary.

1376. (SEC. 412.) The probate judge may require a new bond to be given
by a guardian whenever he deems it necessary, and may discharge the existing sureties from further liability, after due notice given as he may direct,
when it shall appear that no injury can result therefrom to those interested
in the estate.

1377. (SEC. 413.) Every bond given-by a guardian must be filed and preserved in the oflice of the clerk of the probate court of the county; and in
case of a breach of a condition thereof, may be prosecuted for the use and
benefit of the ward or of any person interested in the estate.

1378. (SEC. 414:) No action can be maintained against the sureties on
any bond given by a guardian unless it be commenced within three years
from the discharge or removal of the guardian; but if at the time of such
discharge the person entitled to bring such action is under any legal disability
to sue, the action may be commenced at any time within three years after
such disability is removed.

1379. (SEC. 415.) No action for the recovery of any estate, sold by a
guardian, can be maintained by the ward, or by any person claiming under
him, unless it is commenced within three years next after the termination of
the guardianship, or when a legal disability to sue exists by reason of minority or otherwise, at the time when the cause of action accrues, within three
years next after the removal thereof.

1380. (SEC. 416.) The court, in its discretion, whenever necessary, may
appoint more than one guardian of any person subject to guardianship, who
must give bond and be governed and liable in all respects as a sole guardian.

1381. (SEC. 417.) The power conferred upon the probate judge in rela~ftion to guardians and wards may be exercised by him at chambers, or as the
-act of the probate court, when holding such court; and any order appointing
a guardian must be entered as and become a decree of the court. The proxvisions of this title relative to the estates of decedents, so far as they relate
to the practice in the probate or the district courts, applies to proceedings
«under this chapter.
1382. (SEC. 418.) In all cases where an undertaking with sureties is re.quired by the provisions of the title, the otiicers taking the same must re- _

quire the sureties to accompany it with an affidavit that they are each
residents and householders or freeholders within the territory, andare each
worth the sum specified in the undertaking, over and above all their just
debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution, but when
the amount speciiied in the undertaking exceeds three thousand dollars, and
there are more than two sureties thereon, they may state in the athdavits that
they are severally worth amounts less than that expressed in the undertaking,
if the whole amount be equivalent to that of two suliicient sureties.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN .

ADOPTION.

1383. (Sec. 419.) Any minor child may be adopted by an adult person,
in the cases and subject to the rules prescribed in this chapter.

1384. (SEC. 420.) The person adopting a child must be at least ten years ~
. older than. the person adopted.

1385. (SEC. 421.) A married man not lawfully separated from his wife
cannot adopt a child without the consent of his wife; nor can a married
woman not thus separated from her husband, without his consent, provided
the husband or wife not consenting is capable of giving such consent.

1386. (SEC. 422.) A legitimate child cannot be adopted without the consent of its parents if living, nor any illegitmate child without the consent of
its mother, if living, except that consent is not necessary from a father or
mother deprived of civil rights, or adjudged guilty of adultery, or of cruelty
and for either cause divorced, or adjudged to be a habitual drunkard, or whohas been judicially deprived of the custody of the child on account of cruelty

or neglect.
1387. (Sec. 423.) The consent of a child, if over the age of twelve

years, is necessary to its adoption.

1388. (SEC 424.) The person adopting a child and the child adopted and
the other person, if within or residents of this territory, whose consent is necessary, must appear before the probate judge of the county where the person
adopting resides; and the necessary consent must thereupon be signed and an
agreement be executed by the person adopting to the edect that the child
shall be adopted and treated in all respects as his own lawful child should be
treated. If the persons whose consent is necessary are not within or are not
residents of this territory, then their written consent, duly proved or acknowledged, as deeds or conveyances are acknowledged, shall be filed in said’
probate court at the time of the application for adoption.

1389. (Sec. 425.) The judge must examine all persons appearing before
him pursuant to the last section, each separately, and if satistied that the interests of the child will be promoted by the adoption, he must make an order
declaring that the child shall thenceforwarded be regarded and treated in all
respects as the child of the person adopting.

1390. (Sec. 426.) A child, when adopted, may take the family name of
the person adopting. After adoption, the two shall sustain towards each
other the legal relation of parent and child, and have all the rights and be
subject to all the duties of that relation.

1391. (SEC. 427.) The parents of an adopted child are, from the time of
the adoption, relieved of all parental duties towards, and all responsibility for
the child so adopted, and have no right over it.

1392. (Sec. 428.) The father of an illegitimate child, by publicly acknowledging it as his own, receiving it as such, with the consent of his wife,
if he is married, into his family, and otherwise treating it as if it were a legitimate child, thereby adopts it as such; and such child is thereupon deemed
for all purposes legitimate from the time of its birth. The foregoing provisions of this chapter do not apply to such an adoption.

[Took edect immediately.]

TIT L E XVIII.

Courts Justices, Practice in.

[APPROVED MARCH 10, 1887.]

CHAPTER ONE.

ELECTION AND QUALIFICATIONS OF JUSTICES.

1393. (SEC. 1.) There shall be elected by the qualified voters of each justices’s precinct in the several counties of this territory at each biennial election, one justice of the peace, who shall hold his office for two years, and
until his successor shall be elected and qualified.

1394. (SEC. 2.) Where in any justice’s precinct there may be a city or
town of eight thousand or more inhabitants, there shall be elected two j ustices of the peace.

1395. (SE0. 3.) Where any vacancy shall occur in the oflice of a justice of
the peace, the same shall be filled by some person appointed by the board of
supervisors of the county who shall hold his omce until the next general
election, and until his successor shall be elected and qualified.

1396. (SEC. 4.) During the period of such vacancy, or whenever the justice of the peace in any precinct shall be absent or unable or unwilling to
perform the duties of his office the nearest justice of the peace in the county
may perform the duties of the office until the vacancy can be filled, or such
absence, inability or unwillingness shall cease.

1397. (Sec. 5.) No justice of the peace shall sit in any cause where he
may be interested or where he may be related to either party within the third
degree of consanguinity or amnity.

CHAPTER TWO.

DOCKETS, BOOKS AND PAPERS.

1398. (SEC. 6.) It shall be the duty of every justice of the peace to keep
a civil docket in which he shall enter: 1. The title of all suits commenced before him.

2. The time when the first process was issued against the defendant when
returnable, and the nature thereof.

3. The time when the parties or either of them, appeared before him,
either with or without summons.

4. A brief statement of the nature of the plaintiff ’s demand or claim, or
the amount claimed, and a brief statement of the nature of the defense made

by the defendant if any.
5, Every adjournment, stating at whose request and to what time.

6. The time when the trial was had, stating whether the same was by a
jury or by the justice.

7. The verdict of the jury, if any.

8. The judgment rendered by the justice, and the time of rendering the
same.

9. All applications for setting aside judgment or granting new trial, and
the order of the justice thereon, with the date thereof.

10. The time of issuing execution, to whom directed and delivered, and the
amount of debt, damages and costs. And when any execution is returned
he shall note such return on said docket, with the manner in which it was executed.

11. All stays and appeals that may be taken, and the time when taken, the
amount of the bond and the names of the sureties.

12. An account of costs accruing in every suit commenced before him.

1399. (SEC. 7.) Each justice of the peace shall arrange and safely keep
the dockets, books and papers transmitted to him by his predecessor, and all
papers filed in any case in his court subject at all reasonable times to the inspection of any party interested therein.

1400. (SEC. 8.) When a justice of the peace shall vacate his office it shall
be his duty to deliver up to his successor all dockets, books and papers pertaining to his said oflice, and it shall be the duty of any person having possession of any dockets, books or papers belonging to the ofllce of any justice
of the peace, to deliver the same over to said justice on demand.

1401. (Sac. 9.) Should any person having such dockets, books or papers
refuse to deliver the same on such demand, he may, upon motion, be attached
and imprisoned by order of the district judge in term time or in vacation, until he shall make such delivery, but such motion shall be supported by amdavit, and three days’ notice thereof shall be given to the party against whom
such motion was made.

CHAPTER THREE.

VENUE.

1402. (SEC. 10.) The rules governing the venue of civil causes in the
district court shall govern in justices’ courts. the word “precinct” being
substituted for the word “county” wherever applicable; provided, that
suits against executors, administrators, or guardians as such, and suits
against counties must be brought in the precinct in which the county seat is
situated; and, provided, further, that suits against transient persons, nonresidents of the territory, or persons whose residence is unknown, may be
brought in the precinct where the plaintiff resides.

1403. (Sec. 11.) If there be no justice of the peace qualified to try the
suit in the proper precinct, the suit may be commenced before the nearest
justice of the peace of the county who is not disqualified to try the same.

1404. (SEC. 12.) If any party to a suit before any justice of the peace
shall make an afiidavit supported by the affidavit of two other credible persons of the county, to the effect that they have good reason to believe, and
do believe, that such party cannot have a fair and impartial trial before such
justice, or in such justice’s precinct, it shall be the duty of such justice to
transfer such suit to the court of the nearest justice of the peace within the
county not subject to the same or some other disqualification.

1405. (SEC. 13.) The venue may also be changed to the court of any

other justice of the peace of the county upon the written consent of the
parties or their attorneys, filed with the papers of the cause.

1406. (SEC. 14.) If a justice of the peace shall be disqualified from
sitting in any civil case pending before him, he shall transfer the same to
the nearest justice of the peace of the county who is not disqualified to
try it. ,

1407. (SEC. 15.) By the term “ nearest justice,” as used in this act, is
meant the justice whose place of holding his court is nearest to that of the
justice before whom the proceeding is pending or should have been brought.

1408. (SEC. 16.) The order of transfer in such cases shall state the
cause of the transfer and the name of the court to which the transfer is
made, and shall require the parties and witnesses to appear before such
court, named in ....... .. the order, not less than two nor more than five days
after its date.

1409. (SEC. 17.) When such order of transfer is made, it shall be the
duty of the justice who made the order immediately to make out a true and
correct transcript of all the entries made on his docket in the cause, and
certify thereto officially, and to transmit the same, with a certified copy of
the bill of costs taken from his docket, and the original papers in the cause,
to the justice of the peace of the precinct to which the same has been transferred.

CHAPTER FOUR.
SECURITY FOR COSTS.

1410. (SEC. 18.) The rules governing the district courts in reference to
requiring security for costs, and the effect of the rule for costs, and the penalty for non-compliance therewith, shall also govern the justices’ courts, in so
far as they can be applied to proceedings therein.

CHAPTER FIVE.
PARTIES.

1411. (SEC. 19.) The rules relating to parties in the district courts shall
also govern the justices’ courts, in so far as they can be applied thereto.

CHAPTER SIX.
PROCESS AND SERVICE.

1412. (SEC. 20.) When a claim or demand is lodged with a justice of the
peace for suit, it shall be his duty to issue forthwith a summons to the defendant, and if there be several defendants, residing in different counties, one
summons shall be issued to each of such counties.

1413. (SEC. 21.) The summons shall be the same as is required by law in
the district courts, the words “precinct of the county” being substituted
for the word county whenever applicable.

1414. (SEC. 22.) The time in which the summons shall require the defendant to answer the complaint shall be as follows :—

lst. If the defendant is served in the precinct in which the action is
brought — five days.

2d. If served without the precinct, but in the county —ten days.

3d. If served out of the county — fifteen days.

4th. In all other cases --twenty days.

1415. (SEC. 23.) The justice of the peace may, in case of an emergency,
depute any person of good character to serve any process, and the person so
deputed shall for such purpose have all the authority of a sheriff or constable; but in every such case the justice shall indorse on the process a statement in writing signed by him officially, to the effect that he has deputed
such person to serve such process, and such person shall also take and subscribe an affidavit, to be indorsed on or attached to the process, to the effect
that he will, to the best of his ability, execute the same according to law.

1416. (SEC. 24.) All the rules governing the issuance and service, and
the return of summons, issued out of the district courts and providing
for acceptance of service, and entering appearance, shall, except where
otherwise provided by law, govern also the justice’s courts, in so far as they
can be applied to the proceedings of said court.

CHAPTER SEVEN.
PLEADIN GS.

1417. (SEC. 25.) The pleadings in the justices’ courts shall be oral, except where otherwise provided, but a brief statement thereof shall be noted
in the docket

1418. (SEC. 26.) An answer or other pleading setting up any of the following matters, shall be in writing and signed by the party or his attorney,
and verified by affidavit: —

1. That the suit is not commenced in the proper county or precinct.

2. That the plaintiff has no legal capacity to sue.

3. That the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in the capacity in which he
sues.

4. That there is another suit pending in this territory between the same
parties for the same cause of action or counter-claim.

5. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant.

6. That the plaintiffs or defendants, suing or sued as partners, are not
partners as alleged.

7. That the plaintiff or defendant, suing or sued as a corporation, is not
a corporation as alleged.

8. That a written instrument purporting to be signed by him and relied on
by the other party, was not executed by him or by his authority.

9. That the indorsement or assignment of a written instrument, pleaded
by the adverse party was not executed by the party by whom it purports to
have been executed or by his authority.

10. That a written instrument pleaded by the adverse party, is without
consideration or that the consideration of the same has failed in whole or in
part.

11. That an account pleaded by the adverse party and duly verified by
affidavit, is not just, and in such case the answer shall set forth the items and
particulars which are unjust.

1419. (SEC. 27.) In suits to foreclose a mortgage or enforcea lien on
personal property the pleading shall be in writing.

1420. (Sec. 28.) The pleadings may be amended in accordance with the
rules governing amendments of pleadings in the district courts, so far as
the same are applicable.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

CON TIN UANCE.

1421. (SEC. 29.) Any justice of the peace may for good cause shown,
supported by affidavit, continue any suit pending before him, for a period
not exceeding ten days; provided, that where a continuance is asked by either
party for want of material evidence, the justice maycontinue the same for
as long a period as thirty days. The rules governing continuances in district
courts, shall so far as applicable govern in justices’ courts.

- CHAPTER NINE.§
TRIAL.

1422. (SEC. 30.) If the defendant who has been duly served with a summons shall fail to appear within the time specified in the summons the justice
shall proceed in the following manner:—

1. If the plaintiff’s cause of action be liquidated and proved by an instrument in writing purporting to have been executed by the defendant or be
upon an open account duly verified by afiidavit, the justice shall, whether
the plaintiff appear or not, render judgment in his favor against the defendant for the amount of such written obligation or sworn account, after deducting all credits indorsed thereon.

2. If the plaintiff’s cause of action is not so liquidated and the plaintiff
appear in person, or by agent or attorney, the justice shall proceed to hear
the testimony and render such judgment against the defendant and in favor
of plaintiff as the testimony shows the plaintiff entitled to, otherwise judgment shall be rendered for the defendant.

1423. (SEC. 31.) If the defendant appears and the plaintiff fails to appear
within the time specified in the summons, or on the day to which the same may
be adjourned, the justice may on motion of the defendant dismiss the suit.

1424. (SEC. 32.) In all cases where the defendant appears,‘ his appearance shall be noted on the docket. Either party may demand a jury at the
time of joining issues, and if not then demanded a jury shall be deemed
waived. When demanded, the trial shall be postponed to a time fixed for
the return of the jury, which shall be the same day, or within the next two
days. The jury shall be summoned upon an order of the justice from citizens of the precinct or county, and not from bystanders.

1425. (SEC. 33.) The order shall be directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county commanding him to summon six legally qualified jurors
or a greater number, should the justice deem it necessary, to attend before
such justice at a time and place to be named in the order.

1426. (SEC. 34.) The justice on delivering the order to the officer shall
administer to him the following oath: “ You do solemnly swear that you will

to the best of your skill and ability, and without bias or favor toward any
party summons as jurors none but impartial, sensible and sober men having
the qualifications of jurors under the law, that you will not directly or indirectly converse or communicate with any juryman touching the case pending
for trial, and that you will not by any means attempt to influence, advise or
control any juryman in his opinion, so help you God.”

1427. (SEC. 35.) The duties of the oflicer in serving the summons, the
manner of service and the return thereon, shall be the same as in the district
court. 1428. (SEC. 36.) At the time appointed for the trial, the justice shall proceed to call the names of the jurors summoned. The jury shall consist of six
persons, but may, by consent of both parties, consist of any number less than
six and not under three.

1429. (SEC. 37.) If a sumcient number of competent and indifferent jurors do not attend, the justice shall direct others to be summoned, who shall
possess the same qualifications as are required of other jurors.

1430. (SEC. 38.) Either party may challenge. The jurors thus challenged
shall be either for cause or peremptory. Each party shall have three per-emptory challenges.
1431. (SEC. 39.) Challenges for cause and the manner of making and the

-decision thereon and the proceedings when such challenge is sustained shall
be ap provided for similar proceedings in the district court.

1432. (SEC. 40.) When the jury has been selected the justice shall administer to it substantially the following oath: “You and each of you do
solemnly swear that in the case about to be submitted to you, you will a true
verdict render according to the law and evidence. so help you God.”

1433. (SEC. 41.) The mode of proceeding on the trial before the jury
shall be the same so far as applicable as is prescribed for the district court,
except that the justice shall not deliver any charge.

1434. (SEC. 42.) Where the suit is for the recovery of specific articles,
the jury shall, if they find for the plaintiff, assess the value of each of such
articles according to the proof.

1435. (Sec. 43.) Where the trial is by the justice without a jury the pro-ceedings shall conform, as near as may be, to the rules governing the district court in trial without a jury and the justice; trying the case shall give
judgment for the party who may appear justly entitled thereto.

1436. (SEC. 44.) The rules of evidence and the provisions for procuring
the attendance of witnesses, for taking the depositions of witnesses and
parties, and for taking and determining exceptions thereto, prescribed for
district courts, shall, when not in conflict with the provisions of this act, govern the proceedings in justices’ courts, so far as the same may be applicable.

CHAPTER TEN.

JUDGMENT.

1437. (SEC. 45.) Where the case has been tried by a jury and a verdict
has been returned by them, the justice shall announce the same in open court,
and note it in his docket, and shall proceed to render judgment thereon.

1438. (SEC. 46.) When the case has been tried by the justice without a
jury, he shall announce his decision in open court, and note the same in his
docket, and shall proceed to render judgment thereon.

1439. (SEC. 47.) The judgment shall be recorded at length in the justice’s docket, and shall be signed by such justice. It shall clearly state thedetermination of the rights of the parties in the subject-matter of controversy,
and the party who shall pay the costs, and shall direct the issuance of such
process as may be necessary to carry the judgment into execution.

1440. (SEC. 48.) The successful party in the suit shall recover his costs,
except in cases where it is otherwise expressly provided.

1441. (SEC. 49.) Where judgment is for the recovery of specific articles,
their value shall be separately assessed, and the judgment shall be that the
plaintiff recover such specific articles, if they can be found, and if not, then
their value as assessed, with interest thereon at the legal rate from the date of
the judgment.

1442. (Sac. 50.) The court shall cause its judgments to be carried into
execution, and where the judgment is for personal property, and the verdict,
if any, finds that such property has an especial value to the plaintiff, the
court may award a special writ for the seizure and delivery of such property
to the plaintiff, and may, in addition to the other relief granted in such case,
enforce its judgment by attachment, fine and imprisonment. '

1443. (SEC. 51.) No judgment other than a judgment by confession shall
be rendered by a justice of the peace against any party who has not entered
an appearance or accepted or waived service unless such party has been summoned, either personally or by publication.

1444. (SEC. 52.) Any party may appear in person or by an agent or attorney before any justice of the peace without the issuance or service of process, and confess judgment for any amount within the jurisdiction of the
justices’ courts, and such judgment shall be entered on the j ustice’s docket, as
in other cases; but in such cases the plaintiff, his'agent or attorney shall make
and file an aiiidavit in writing, signed by him, to the justness of his claim.

1445. (SEC. 53.) Where such judgment is confessed by an agent or attorney, the warrant of attorney shall be filed with the justice and noted in the
judgment.

1446. (SEC. 54.) The rules governing the district courts in relation to
judgments shall apply also to the justices’ courts, in so far as they may not
conflict with some provision of this act.

1447. (SEC. 55.) A justice of the peace may grant a new trial in a civil
case, but, in so doing, he shall be governed by the law relating to new trials
in the district court, so far as the same is applicable.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

EXECUTION.

1448. (SEC. 56.) The judgment of the courts of the justices of the peace
shall be enforced by execution or other appropriate process. The execution
or other process shall describe the judgment and shall require the sheriff or
constable of the proper county to execute the same, according to its terms,
whether the same be to make a sum of money or to deliver personal property
or to deliver possession of real estate or to do some other thing; and if for
money, it shall state the rate of interest; and it shall also require the officer
to make the costs which may have been adjudged against the defendant in exccution, stating the amount thereof, and also to make the further costs of
executing the writ.

1449. (Sec. 57.) Such execution or other process shall be returnable in.

sixty days, and may be issued upon the application of any party entitled
thereto, at any time within five years from the entry of judgment.

1450. (SEC. 58.) Where an execution from a justice’s court is sent to a
county other than that in which judgment was rendered, it shall be accompanied by a certificate of the district clerk, and attested by his oflicial signature and seal of oflice, that the otllcer issuing the same is an acting justice
of the peace in said county, and the cost of procuring such certificate shall
be collected as part of the cost of executing the writ.

1451. (Sec. 59.) The rules prescribed for the issuance, levy and return
of executions in district courts shall apply to the justices’ courts where not
in condict with the provisions of this act.

CHAPTER TWELVE.
APPEAL.

1452. (SEC. 60.) Any party to a final judgment in the justice’s court

may appeal therefrom to the district court,_where such judgment, or the
amount in controversy, shall exceed twenty dollars, exclusive of costs, and in
such other cases as may be expressly provided by law.

1453. (SEC. 61.) The party appealing, his agent or attorney, shall give
notice thereof in open court at the time the judgment is rendered, or by
serving a written notice thereof upon the adverse party, his agent or attorney,
within five days after the rendition of the judgment, and shall afterward.

within ten days from the date of the judgment, tile with the justice a bond with two or more good and sufficient sureties, to-he approved by the justice,
in double the amount of the judgment, payable to the appellee, conditioned

that the appellant shall prosecute his appeal to effect, and shall pay off and

satisfy the judgment which may be rendered against him on such appeal.

1454. (SEC. 62.) Whenever an appeal has been taken from the justice’s
court to the district court, it shall be the duty of the justice who made the
order, immediately to make out a true and correct copy of all the entries
made on his docket in the cause, and certify thereto oflicially, and transmit
the same, together with a certified copy of the hill of costs and the original
papers in the cause to the clerk of the district court, and the justice may be
compelled by the district court, by an order upon motion and cause shown,
to transmit such papers; and may be fined by the district court for neglect
or refusal to transmit the same within the proper time.

1455. (SEC. 63.) If the appeal be for any cause dismissed the clerk of the
district court shall certify the fact of dismissal to the court from which the
appeal is taken, with a statement of the costs in the district court, and no
other or further appeal shall be taken. Such certificate shall be signed by
him officially with the seal of the court impressed thereon.

1456. (SEC. 64.) Where a judgment is rendered against the appellant, it
shall also be rendered at the same time against his sureties on the appeal
bond without further notice, and executions shall issue against them as in
other cases.

1457. (SEC. 65.) The rules prescribed for the justification of sureties on
appeal bonds, in appeals from the district to the supreme court, shall govern
in justices’ courts so far as applicable.

1458. (SEC. 66.) Whenever the mode of proceeding in any particular case
or matter is not prescribed by the provisions of this act, or of some other law
or act. specially relating thereto, the same shall be governed by the provisions

of this act relating to the mode of proceeding in the district court in civil.
cases, in so far as the same may be applicable.

[Took effect July 1, 1887.] .

