CIVIL PRACTICE ACT. 
AN ACT TO REGULATE PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES
IN THE COURTS OF JUSTICE OF THIS ST.A.TE. 
Passed April 29th, 1861, 61. 
Tke People of the &ate of California, represented in Sen­
ate and Assembly, do enact as follows : 
TITLE I. 
tH' THE FORM OF ClVIL ACTIONS, ANO OF THE PARTIES
THERETO. 
One form of civil action. 

§ 1. There shall be in this State but one form of civil
action, for the enforcement or protection of private right,
and the redress or prevention of private wrongs. 

§ 2. In such action the party complaining shall be known
as the plaintiff, and the adverse party a11 the defendant. 

§ 3. When a question of fact not put in isane by the plead­ 
ings is to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be
made, stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact to be 
tried ; and such order shall be the only authority necessary
for a trial. 

§ 4. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the
real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in this
act.

§ 5. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the 
action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set­
off or other defense, existing at the time of, or before notice
of, the assignment; but this section shall not apply to a
negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange, transferred
in good faith, and upon good consideration before due.· 

§ 6. An executor or administrator, or trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may
sue without joining with him the person or persons for whose
benefit the action is prosecuted. A trustee of an express
trust within the meaning of this section, shall be construed
to include a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract
is made for the benefit of another.

§ 7. When a married woman is a party, her husband shall
be joined with her except- 
First. When the action concerns her separate property
or her right or claim to the homestead property, she may sue
alone. 
Second. When the action is between herself and her 
husband, she may sue or be sued alone.

§ 8. If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife 
may defend for her own right. 

§ 9. When an infant is a party he shall appear by guard­ 
ian, who may be appointed by the court in which the action
is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or a county judge. 

§ 10. The guardian shall be appointed as follows: 
First. When the infant is plaintiff'. upon the application
of the infant, if be be of the age of fourteen years; or if
under that age, upon the application of a relative or friend
of the infant. 
Second. When the infant is defendant, upon the applica­
tion of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and
apply within ten days after the service of the summons; if
he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then
npon the application of any other party to the action, or of a
relative or friend of the infant. 

§ 11. A father, or in case of his death. or desertion of his
family, the mother, may maintain an action for the injury or
death of a child ; and a guardian for the injury or death of
his ward. 


§ 12. All persons having au interest in the subject of the
action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined 
as plaintiffs, except, when otherwise provided in this act. 
JVlw to be defendante; 

§ 13. Any person may be made a defendant, who has or
claims an interest. in the controversy, adverse to the plaintiff,
or who is a nece11Mry party to a complete determination or
settlement of the question involved therein. 

§ 14. Of the parties to the action, those who are united
in interest shall be joined as plaintiffs, or defendauts , but if
the consent of any one who should have been joined as plain­
tiff cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the
reason thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the
question is one of a common or general interest, of many 
persons. or when the parties are numerous, and it is imprac­
ticable to bring them all before the court, one or more may
sue or defend for the benefit of all. 


§ 15. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation
or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and
promissory notes and sureties on the same or separate instru­
ments, may all or any of them be included in the same action,
at the option of the plaintiff'. 


§ 16. An action shall not abate hy the death, or other dis­
ability of a party; 01· by the transfer of any interest therein,
if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of the
death, or other disability of a party, the court, on motion, may
allow the action to be contiuued by or against his represen­
tative or suecesaor in interest. In case of any other transfer
of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the
original party ; or the court may allow the person to whom
the transfer is made, to be substituted in the action. 


§ 17. The court may determine any controversy between 
parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to
the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a
complete determination of the controversy cannot be had
without the presence of other parties, the court shall order
them to be brought in. 


TITLE II. 
. 
OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS • 
Actions for real property. 

§ 18. Actions for the fo11owing causes shall he tried in
the county in which the subject of the action, or some part
thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the court to
change the place of trial, as provided in this act: 
First. For the recovery of real property. or of an estate,
or interest, therein, or for the determination, in any form, of
such right, or interest, and for injuries to real property. 
Second. For the partition of real property, 
Third. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.
Provided, that where such real property is situate partly 
in one county and partly in another, the plaintiff may select
either of said counties, and the county so selected shall be
the proper county for the trial of any, or all, of such actions
as are mentioned in the first, second, and third, subdivisions
of this section.

§ 19. Actious for the following causes shall be tried in
the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose,
subject to the like power of the court to change the place of'
trial: 
First. For the recovery of 11. penalty or forfeiture im­
posed by statute; except, thut when it is imposed for an
offense committed 011 a lake, river, or other stream of water,
situated iu two or more counties, the action uiay be brought
in any county bordering on such lake, river, or stream, and
opposite to the place where the offense WM committed. 
Second, Against a public officer or person especially ap­
pointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in vir­
toe of his office, or against a person who, by his command,
or in his aid, does anything touching the duties of such officer. 

§ 20. In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the
county in which the defendants, or any one of them, may
reside at the commencement of the action; or, if none of the
defendants reside in the State, or, if' residing in this State, the
county in which they so reside be unknown to the plaintiff,
the same may be tried in any county which the plaintiff may
designate in bis complaint; and, if any defendant or defend­
ants may be about to depart from the State, such action may
be tried in any county where either of the parties may reside
or service be had; subject, however, to the power of the
court to change the place of' trial as provided in this act.

§ 21. The court may, on motion, change the place of trial
in the following cases: 
Find. Wben the county designated in the complaint is
not the proper county. 
Second, \Vhen there is reason to believe that an impartial
trial cannot be had therein. ' 
Third. When the convenience of witneeses and the ends
of justice would be promoted by the change. 
Fourth. When from any cause the judge is disqualified
from acting in the action. 


§ 22. Civil actions in the district courts, superior court of
the City of San Francisco, and the county courts, shall be
commenced by the filing of a complaint with the clerk of the
court in which the action is brought, and the issuing of a 
summons thereon; provided, that after the tiling of the com­
plaint a defendant in the action may appear, answer or
demur, whether the summons has been issued or not; and
such appearauce, answer or demurrer· shall be deemed a
waiver of summons.

§ 23. The clerk shall iudorse on the complaint the day, 
month, and year, the same is tiled; and at any time within
one year after the filing of tbe same, the plaintiff may ha Ye 
a summons issued. The summons shall be signed by the
clerk and directed to the defendant, and be issued under the
seal of the court.

§ 24. The summons shall state the parties to the action,
the court in which it is brought, the county in which the
complaint is filed, the cause and general nature of the action,
and require the defendant to appear and answer the com­
plaint within the time mentioned in the next section, after
the service of summons, exclusive of the day of service,
or that judgment by default will be taken agalnst him,
according to the prnye1· of the complaint, briefly stating- the
sum of money or other relief demanded in the complaint,
and the clerk shall also indorse on the summons the names of
the plaintiff'ts attorneys.

§ 24. The summons shall state the parties to the action,
the court in which it is brought, the county in which the 
complaint is filed, and require the defendant to appear and
answer the complaint, within the time mentioned in the next section, after the service of summons exclusive of the day of
service, or that judgment by default will be taken against him
according to the prayer of the complaint, briefly slating the
sum or other relief demanded in the complaint.

§ 25. The time in which the summons shall require the
defendant to answer the complaint, shall be as follows: 
First. If the defendant is served within the county in
which the action is brought, ten days. 
Second. If the defendant is served ont of the county. but
in the district in which the action is brought, twenty days. 
Third. In all other cases, forty days. 

§ 26. There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice,
in substance.iaa follows: 
First. In an action arising on contract for the recovery
only of money or damages, that the plaintiff will take judg­
ment for a sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to 
answer the complaint.
Second. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to 
answer the complaint, the plaintiff' will apply to the court for
the relief demanded therein. 

§ 27, In an action affecting the title to real property, the 
plaintiff, at the time of tiling the complaint, and the defend­
ant, at the time of filing his answer, when affirmative relief is
claimed in such answer, 01· at any time afterwards, may tile
with the recorder of the county in which the property is sit­
uated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the
names of the parties to, and the object of, the action, and a
description of the property in that county affected thereby,
and the defendant may also, in such notice, state the nature
and extent of the relief claimed in the answer. From the time
of filing, only, shall the pendency of the action be construc­
tive notice to a purchaser, or incumbrance [incumbrancer] of
the property affected thereby.

§ 28 The summons shall be served by the sheriff of the 
county where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by
a person specially appointed by him, or appointed by a judge
of the court in which the action ii! brought, or by auy white
male citizen of the United States, over twenty-one years of
age, who is competent to be a witness on the trial of the
action, except as hereinafter provided. A copy of the com­
plaint, certified by the clerk, shall be served with the sum·
mons, When the summons is served by the sheriff, or his
deputy, it shall be returned with the certificate or affidavit of
the officer of its service, and of the service of the copy of the
complaint, to the office of the clerk from which the summons
issued. 'When the summons is served by any other person,
as before provided, it shall be returned to the office of the
clerk from which it issued, with the affidavit of such person
of its service, and of the service of a copy of the complaint.
If there be more than one defendant in the action, and such
defendants reside within the county, a copy of the complaint
need be served on only one of the defeudants.

§ 29. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy
thereof, ai- follows : 
First. If the suit be against a corporation, to the presi­
dent, or other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or
managing agent, thereof. 
Second. If the suit be against a foreign corporation, or a 
uon-resideut joint stock company, or association, doing busi­
ness within this State, to an agent, cushier, or secretary,
thereof. 
Third. If against a minor under the age of fourteen
years, to such minor personally, and also to his father, mother, 
guardian ; or if there be none within the State, then to any
person haying the care, or coutro1, of such minor, or with
whom he resides, or in whose service be is employed. 
Fourth. If against a person judicially declared to be of
unsound mind, or incapable of conducting bis own atlairs,
and for whom a guardian bas been appointed, to such guard­
ian. 
Fifth. In all other cases, to the defendant personally.

§ 30. When the person on whom the service is to be made, 
resides ont of the State, or has departed from the State; or
cannot, after due diligence, be found within the State; or
conceals himself to avoid the ser.\'ice of summons, and the
fact shall appear by affidavit to t.he satisfuction of the court,
or a judge thereof, or a county judge, and it shall in like
manner appear, that a cause of action exists against tbe
defendant in respect. to whom the service is to be made, or
that be is a ueceseary or proper party to the action, such court
or judge may grant. an order that tbe service be made by the
publication of the summons. 

§ 31. The order shall direct the publication to be made in 
u newspaper to be designated, RB most likely to give notice
to the person to be served, and for such length of time as may
be deemed reasonable, at least once a week : provided, that
publication against a defendant residing out of the State, or
absent therefrom, shall not be le81l than three months. In 
case of publication where the residence of a non-resident or
absent defendant is known, the court or judge shall also direct
a copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith depos­
ited in the post-office, directed to the person to be served, at
his place of residence. When publication is ordered, per­
sonal service of a copy of the summona and complaint, out 
'of the State, shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in
the post-office. In either case, the service of the summons
shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time pre­
scribed by the order for publication. In actions upo~ con­
tracts for the direct payment of money, the court in its dis­
cretion may, instead of ordering publication, or may, after
publication, appoint un attorney to appear for the non-resi­
dent, absent, or concealed defendant, and conduct the pro­
ceedings on his part. 


§ 32. Where the action is against two or more defend­
ants, and the summons is served 011 one or more, but not on
all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows: 
First. If the action be against the defendants jointly in­
debted upon a contract, be may proceed against the defendant
served, unless the court otherwise direct ; and if he recover 
judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants thus
jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced against
the joint property of all, and the separate property of the 
defendant served; or,
Second. If the action be against defendants severally lia­ 
ble, he may proceed against the defeudauts served, in the
same manner as if they were the only defendants. 

§ 33. Proof of the service of the summons shall be as fol­
lows: 
First. If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the affidavit'
or certifica· e of such sheriff or deputy; or, 
Second. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,
Third. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, 
or his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same; and an
affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the post
office, if the same shall have been deposited; or, 
Fourth, The written admission of the defendant. 


§ 34. In case of service otherwise than by publication,
the certificate or affidavit shall state the time and place of 
the service. 

§ 36. From the time of the service of the summons and
copy of complaint in a civil action, the court shall be deemed
to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the
subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a de­
fendant shall be equivalent to personal service of the aum­
mous upon him. 

§ 36. The pleadings are the formal allegations bythe par­ 
ties of their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment
of the court. 


§ 37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the 
rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings shall be determ­
ined, shall be those prescribed in this act. 
Different kinds of pleading.

§ 38. The pleadings on the part of the plaintiff shall be the 
complaint or demurrer to the defendant's answer; the plead­
ings on the part of the defendant to the original complaint or
cross complaint of a co-defendant shall be the demurrer or
answer. When a defendant is entitled to relief as against the
plaintiff alone, or against the plaintiff and a co-defendant, he
may make a separate statement in his answer of the neces­
sary facts, with a prayer for the relief sought, instead of
bringing a distinct cross action. All pleadings subsequent to
the original complaint shall be filed with the clerk, and a copy
thereof served on the adverse party or bis attorney, if the
adverse party or his attorney live within the county where
the action is pending : prooided, that when the answer con­
tains a cross complaint, the parties plaintiff or defendant,
or his or their attorney thereto, shall he served with a 
copy thereof, and shall have the same time thereafter to plead 
thereto that is allowed for pleading to the original complaint
after service of the summons.

§ 39. The complaint shall contain: 
First. The title of the action, specifying the name of the
court and the name of the county in which the action is
brought, and the names of the parties to the action, plaintiff
and defendant. 
Second. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action in ordinary and concise language. 
Third. A demand of the relief wliich the plaintiff claims.
If the recovery of money, or damages be demanded, the
amount thereof shall be stated. 

§ 40. The defendant may demur to the complaint within
the time required in the summons to answer, when it appears
upon the face thereof, either: 
First. That the court bas no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant, or the subject of the action; or, 
Second. 'I'liat the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue; or, 
Third. That there is another action pending between the
same parties for the same cause; or, 
Fourth. That there is a defect or misjoinrler of parties
plaintiff or defendant; or, 
Fifth. That several causes of action have been improperly
united; or, 
Sixth. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action; or, 
Seventh. That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible,
or uncertain.

§ 41. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds
upon which any of the objections to the complaint are taken,
Unless it do so, itmay be disregarded. 

§ 42. The defendant may demur to the whole complaint,
or to one or more of several causes of action stated therein,
and answer the residue; or may demur and answer at the
same time. 

§ 43. If the complaint be amended, a copy of the amend­
ments shall be tiled, or the court may in its discretion require
the complaint as amended to be tiled, and a copy of the
amendments shall be served upon every defendant to be
affected thereby. or upon his attorney, if he has appeared by
attomey; the defendant shall answer in such time as may be
ordered by the court, and judgment by default may be en­
tered upon failure to answer,as in other cases.

§ 44. When any of the matters enumerated in section 
forty do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the ob­
jection may be taken by answer. 

§ 45, If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer
or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived
the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of
the court, and the objection that the complaint does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 

§ 46. The answer of the defendant shall contain: 
First. If the complaint be verified, a specific denial to
each allegation of the complaint controverted by the defend­
ant, or a denial thereof according to his information and
belief; if the complaint be not verified; then a general denial
to each of said allegations, but a general denial shall only 
put in issue the material and express allegations of the com· 
plaint.
Second. A statement of matter in avoidance, a counter 
claim constituting a defense, or the subject matter of cross 
complaint which may entitle a defendant to relief against the
plaintiff alone, 01· against the plaintiff' and a co-defendant.


§ 47. The county [counter] claim mentioned in the last section shall be one existing in favor of the defendant or
plaintiff, and against a plaintiff or defendant, between whom
a several judgment might be bad in the action and arising
out of one of the following causes of action : 
First. A cause of action arising out of the transaction set
forth in the complaint or answer, as the foundation of the
plaintiff's claim, or defendant's defense, or connected with
the subject of the action. 
Second. In an action arising upon contract ; any other
cause of action arising also upon contract and existing at the
commencement of the action.

§ 48, When cross demands have existed between persons, 
under such circumstances, that if one had brought an action
against the other, a counter claim could have been set up,
neither shall be deprived of the benefit thereof, by the as­
signment or death of the other; but the two demands be
deemed compensated, so far as they equal each other. 


§ 49. The defendant may set forth by answer as many 
defenses and counter claims as be may have. They shall
each be separately stated, and the several defenses shall
refer to the causes of action which they are intended to
answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly dis­
tinguished. 


§ 50. When the answer contains matter in avoidance, or
a connter claim, the plaintiff' may, within the number of days
in which the defendant is by the snmmons required to an· 
swer, to be computed from the time of the service of a copy
of such answer, demur to the same for insnfficiency, stating
therein the grounds of such demurrer; and when the answer
contains a eross complaint, the parties against whom relief is
therein demanded may demur or answer thereto within the
lik~ period. Sham and irrelevant answers and defenses, and 
so much of any pleading as may be irrelevant, redundant, or
immaterial, may be stricken out, npon motion, upon such
terms as the court in its discretion may impose.

§ 51. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party, or
his attorney; and when the complaint is verified by affidavit,
the answer shall be verified also, except as provided in the
next section.

§ 52. The verification of the answer, required in the last section, may be omitted when an admission of the troth of
the complaint might subject the party to prosecution for fel­
ony or misdemeanor. 

§ 53. When an action is brought upon A. written instru­
ment, and the complaint contained [contains] a copy of such
instrument, or a copy is annexed thereto, the genuineness 
and due execution of such instrument shall be deemed ad­
mitted, unless the answer denying the same be verified. 

§ 54. When the defense to an action is founded on a
written instrument, and a copy thereof is contained in the
answer, or is annexed thereto, the genuineness and due exe­
eutien of such instrument shall be deemed admitted unless
the plaintiff file with the clerk, five days before the com­
mencement of the term at which the action is to be tried, an
affidavit denying the same; provided, that the due execution
of the instrument shall not be deemed to be admitted by a
failure to controvert the same on oath, as prescribed in this
and the last preceding section, unless the party controverting
the same is, upon demand, permitted to inspect the original
before filing such answer.

§ 55. In all cases of the verification of a pleading, the 
affidavit of the party shall state that the same is true of his
own know ledge, except as to the matters which are therein
stated on his information 01· belief, and as to those matters,
that he believes it to be true. And where a pleading is veri­
fied, it shall be by the affidavit of the party, unless he be ab­
sent, from t.he county where the attorney resides, or from 
some cause unable to verify it, or the fucts are within the
knowledge of his attorney, or other person verifying ~be 
snme. When the pleading is verified by the attorney, or
any other person except the party, he shall set forth iu the
affidavit the reasons why it is not made by tbe party. Wbeu
a corporation is a party, the verificatiou may be made hy any
officer thereof; or when the State, or any officer thereof in
its behalf, is a party, the verification may be made by uny
person acquainted with the facts, except that in actions pro­
secuted by the attorney-general iu behalf of the State the
pleadings need not, in any case, be verified. 

§ 56. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a
pleading the items of an account therein alleged; but be
shall deliver to tile adverse party, within five days after a
demand thereof iu writing, a copy of the account, or be pre·
eluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or a judge
thereof, or a county judge, may order a further account, 
wheu the oue delivered is too general, or is defective in any
particular. 

§ 57. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a
pleading, it may be stricken out by the court on motion of
any person aggrieved thereby. 

§ 68. In an action for the recovery of real property, such 
property shall be described, with its metes and bounds, in
the complaint. 

§ 69. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a 
court or officer of especial jurisdiction, it shall not be ueces­
sary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judg­
ment or determination may be stated to have been duly given
or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party plead­
ing shall be bound to establish on the trial the facts confer­
ring jurisdiction. 

§ 60. In pleading the performance of conditions prece­ 
dent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts
showing such performance; but it may be stated generally
that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part ;
and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading,
shall establish, on the trial, the facts showing such perform­
ance. 

§ 61. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute bv its title and the day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon
take judicial notice thereof. 
Libel and slander suits, pleading therein. 

§ 62. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be neces­
sary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the pur­
pose of showing the application to the plaintiff of the defam­
atory matter out of which the cause of action arose ; but it
shall be sufficient to state generally, that the same was pub­
lished or spoken concerning the plaintiff, and if such allega­
tion be controverted, the plaintiff shall establieh on the trial 
· that it was so published or spoken. 


§ 63. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the de­
fendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the mat­
ter charged as defamatory and any mitigating circumstances
to reduce the amount of damages; and whether he prove the 
justification or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating
circumstances. 

§ 64. The plaintiff may unite several causes of action in
the same complaint, when they all arise out of: 
First. Contracts express or implied; or, 
Second. Claims to recover specific real property, with or
without damages, for the withholding thereof, or for waste 
committed thereon, and the rents and profits of the same ; or,
Third. Claims to recover specific personal property, with 
or without damages for the withholding thereof.
Fourth, Claims ugainst a trustee by virtue of a contract or 
by operation of law ; or,
F{fth. Injuries to character; or,
Sixth, Injuries to person ; or,
Serenth, Injuries to property. 
But the causes of action so united shall all belong to one
only of these classes, and shall affect all the parties to the
action, and not require different places of trial, and shall be
separately stated; provided, however, that an action for
malicious arrest and prosecnt ion , or either of them, may be
nnited with an action for either an injury to character or to
the person.

§ 65. Every material allegation of the complaint or cross 
complaint not controverted by the answer thereto, shall for
the purposes of the action he taken as true: the statement of
matters in avoidance shall on the trial be deemed controverted
by the adverse party.

§ 66. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim, or defense, and which could not be stricken from
the pleading without leaving it insufficient.  

§ 67. After demurrer, and before the trial of the issue of
law thereon, the pleadings demurred to may be amended as
of course and without costs by filing the same as amended
and serving a copy thereof on the adverse party or his attor­
ney within ten days, who shall have ten days thereafter in 
which to demur or answer thereto; but a party shall not so 
amend more than once. A demurrer shall not be deemed
waived by the filing of an answer at the same time of filing
the demurrer; and when the demurrer to a complaint is over­
ruled, and there is no answer filed, the court may upon terms
allow an answer to be filed. If a demurrer to the answer be
overruled, the facts alleged in the answer shall be considered
as denied to the extent mentioned in section sixty-five.
Where circumstances occurring subsequently to the com­
mencement of the action render it proper, the same may be
presented hy supplemental pleadings and issue taken thereon
in the same manner as in the case of original pleadings.

§ 68. The court may, in furtherance of justice, aud on 
such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or pro­
ceedings by adding or striking out the name of any party, or
by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect, and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for an answer or demurrer, or demurrer to an answer
filed. The court may likewise. upon affidavit showing good
cause therefor, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon
such terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in other particulars, and may, upon like terms,
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
act; and may, upon such terms as may he just, anti upon pay­
ment of costs, relieve a party or his legal representatives from
a judgment, order, or other proceeding taken against him
through bis mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neg­
lect; und when, for any cause satisfactory to the court, or
the judge at chambers, the party aggrieved bas been unable
to apply for the relief sought during the term at which such
judgment, order, or proceeding complained of was taken, the
court, or the judge at chambers in vacation, may grant the re­
lief upon application made within a reasonable time, not ex­
ceeding five months after the adjournment of the term.
When, from any cause, the summons and a copy of the com­
plaint in an uction have not been personally served 011 the
defendant, the court may allow, on such terms as muy be
just, such defendant or his legal representatives at any time
within six months after the rendition of any judgment in 
such action, to answer to the merits of the original action. 

§ 69. When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a 
defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading 
01· proceeding by any name; and when his true name is dis­
covered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

§ 70. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of
determining its effects, its allegations shall be liberally con­
strued, with a view to substantial justice between 'the
parties. 

§ 71. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disre­
gard any error or defect in the pleadings, or proceedings,
which shall not effect the substantial rights of the parties;
and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of 
such error 01· defect. 

§ 72. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except
as prescribed by this act. 

§ 73. The defendant may be arrested as hereinafter pre­ 
scribed, in the following cases arising after the passage of
this act: 
First. In au action for the recovery of money or damages
on a cause of action arising upon contract express or im­
plied, when the defendant is about to depart from the State,
with intent to defraud his creditors, or when the action is for
wilful injury to person, to character, or to property, knowing
the property to belong to another. 
Second. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money
or- property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or con­
verted to bis own use, by a public officer ; or an officer of a
corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or clerk, in
the course of his employment as such ; 01· by any other per­
son in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in
office, 01· in a professional employment.; or for a wilful viola­
tion of duty. 
Third. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property, unjustly detained, when the property, or any part 
thereof, has been concealed, removed, or disposed of, so tbas
it cannot. be found, or taken by the sheriff. 
Fourth. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud
in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation, for which
the action is brought; or in concealing, or disposing of the
property, for the taking, detention, or conversion of which
the action is brought. · 
Fifth. When the defendant has removed or disposed of
his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors. 

§ 74. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall be
obtained from a judge of the court in which the action is
brought, or from a connty judge. 

§ 75. The order may be made whenever it shall appear to
the judge by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or some other per­
son, that. a sufficient cause of action exists ; and that the case
is one of those mentioned in section seventy-three. The
affidavit shall be either positive, or upon information and
belief; and when upon information and belief, it shall state
the facts upon which the information and belief are founded.
If an order of arrest be made, the affidavit shall be filed with
the clerk of the county. 

§ 76. Before making the order, the judge shall require a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with sure­
ties, to the elfect that if the defendant recover judgment, the
plaintiff will pay all costs and charges that may be awarded
to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which shall be at least five hundred dollars.
Each of the sureties shall annex to the undertaking an affi­
davit that he is a resident and householder, or freeholder,
within the State, and worth double the sum specified in the
undertaking, over and above all his debts and liabilities,
exclusive of property exempt from execution. The under­
taking shall be filed with the clerk of the court.

§ 77. The order may be made to accompany the summons, 
or any time afterwards before judgment. It shall require the
sheriff of the county where the defendant may be found
forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified
sum, and to return the order at a time therein mentioned to
the clerk of the court in which the action is pending. 

§ 78. The order of arrest, with a copy of the affidavit 
upon which it is made, shall be delivered to the sheriff, who,
upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to him a copy of
the affidavit ; and also, if desired, u. copy of the order of 
arrest.

§ 79. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the 
defendant and keeping him in custody until discharged by
law. 

§ 80. The defeuduut, at any time before execution, shall 
be discharged from the arrest either upon giving bail, or upon
depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as
provided in this chapter. 

§ 81. The defendant may give bail by causlug a written 
undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient sureties,
stating their places of residence and occupations, to the effect
that they are bound in the amount mentioned in the order of
arrest; that tlle defendant shall at all times render himself
amenable to the process of the court, during the pendency of
the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judg­
ment therein; or that they will puy to the plaintitl' the
amount of any judgment which may be recovered in the
action. 

§ 82. At any time before judgment, 01· within ten days
thereafter, the bail may surrender the defendant in their
exoneration ; or he way surrender himself to the sheriff of
the county where he was arrested. 

§ 83. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the
bail at any time or place before they are finally charged, may
themselvea arrest him; 01· by a written authority, indorsed
on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower the
sheriff to do so. Upon the arrest of the defendant by the
sheriff, or upon his delivery to the aberiff by the bail, or upon
hie own surrender, the bail shall he exonerated; provided,
such arrest, delivery, or surrender, take place before the
expiration of ten daya after judgmeut ; hut if such 111·1·est,
delivery, or surrender, he not made within ten days after
judgment, the huil shall he finally charged on their 11111lcr­ 
taking, aud be hound to pay the a111011lit of the judgueut,
within teu d.iys thereafter, 

§ 84. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judgment
within ten days after they are finally charged, an action may
be commenced against such bail for the amount of such
original judgment.

§ 85. The bail shall also be exonerated by the death of
the defendant, or his imprisonment in a State prison; or by
his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the process. 

§ 86. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff
shall file the order of arrest in the office of the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, with his return indorsed
thereon, together with a copy of the undertaking of the bail.
The original undertaking he shall retain in his posseeeion until
filed, as herein provided. The plaintiff, within ten days
thereafter, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does
not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted
them, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability. If
no notice be served within ten days, the original undertaking
shall be tiled with the clerk of the court. 


§ 87. Within five days after the receipt of notice, the
sheriff or defendant may give to the plaintiff, or hie attorney,
notice of the justification of the same, or other bail, (specify­
ing the places of residence and occupations of the latter,
before a judge of the court, or county judge, or county clerk,
at a. specified time and place; the time to be not leas than
five, nor more than ten days thereafter, except by consent of
parties. In case other bail be given, there shall be a new
undertaking. 

§ 88. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows : 
First. Each of them shall be a resident, and householder '
or freeholder, within the county. 
Second. Each shall be worth the amount specified in the
order of arrest, or the amount to which the order is reduced,
as provided in this chapter, over and above all his debts and
liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution ; but
the judge, or county clerk, on justification, may allow more
than two sureties to justify severally, in amounts Iese than
that expressed in the order, if the whole justification be
equivalent to that of two sufficient bail. 

§ 89. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail
shall attend before the judge, or county clerk, at the time and
place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath,
on the part of the plaintiff', touching his sufficiency, in such
manner as the judge or county clerk, in his discretion, may
think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing,
and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintiff. 

§ 90. If the judge, or clerk, find the bail sufficient, he shall 
annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allow­
ance thereon, and cause them to be filed, and the sheriff shall
thereupon be exonerated from liability. 

§ 91. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead 
of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned
in tile order. In case the amount. of the bail be reduced, as
provided in this chapter, the defendant may deposit such
amount instead of giving hail. In either case, the sheriff shall
give the defendant a certificate of the deposit made, and the
defendant shall be discharged out of custody. 

§ 92. The sheriff shall immediately after the deposit pay 
the same into conrt, and take from the clerk receiving the
same, two certificates of such payment; the one of which he 
shall deliver or trunsmit to the plaintiff, or his attorney, and
the other to the defendant. For any default in making such
payment the same proceedings may be had on the official bond 
of the sheriff, to collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of 
delinquency. 

§ 93. If money be deposited. as provided in the last two sections, hail may he given, and may justify upon notice, at
any time before judgment; and on the filing of the undertak­
ing and justification with the clerk, the money deposited shall
be. refunded by such clerk to the defendant. 

§ 94. Where mouey shall have been deposited, if it remain
on deposit at the time of the recovery of a judgment in favor of
the plaintiff, the clerk shall, under the direction of the court,
apply the same in satisfactiou thereof; and after satisfying
the judgment, shall refund the surplus, if any, to the defend­
ant. If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk
shall, under like direction of the court, refund to him the
whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied. 

§ 95. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be
rescued, the sheriff shall himself be liable ns bail; but he may
discharge himself from such liability, by the giving and justi­
fication of bail, at any time, before judgment. 

§ 96. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon
his liability as bail, and au execution thereon he returned un­
satisfied in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be bud
on his official bond, for the recovery of the whole or auy de­
ficiency, us in other ('11808 of delinquency. 

§ 97. A defendant arrested may at any time before the jus­
tification of bail apply to the judge who made the order, 
or the court in which the action is pending, upon reasonable
notice to the plaintiff to vacate the order of arrest, or to re­
duce the amount of bail. If the application be made upon
affidavits, on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the
plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs, in
addition to those on which the order of arrest was made. 

§ 98. If upon such application it shall satisfactorily ap·
pear that there was not sufficient cause for the arrest, the
order shall be vacated; or if it satisfactorily ltppear that the
bail was fixed too high, the amount shall be reduced. 

§ 99. The plaintiff, in an action to recover the poeseseion
of personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons,
or at any time before answer, claim the delivery of such prop­
erty to him, as provided in this chapter. 

§ 100. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be
made by the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, showing: 
First. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed
(particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the pos­
session thereof. 
Second. That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant. 
Third. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, accord­
ing to his best knowledge, information, and belief. 
Fourth. That the same has not been taken for a tax, as­
sessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute ; or seized uuder an 
execution, or au attachment against the property of the
plaintiff; or if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from
such seizure ; and, 
Fifth. The actual value of the property, 

§ 101. The plaintiff or bis attorney may, thereupon, by an
indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff
of the county where the property claimed may be, to take
the same from the defendant.

§ 102. Upon a receipt of the affidavit, and notice with a
written undertaking executed by two or more sufficient sure·
ties, approved by the sheriff to the effect that they are bound 
to the defendant in double the value of the property as stated
in the affidavit for the prosecution of the action, for the return
of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be ad 
judged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may from
any cause be recovered against the plaintiff, the sheriff shall
forthwith take the property, described in the affidavit, if it
be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain
it in bis custody. He shall also without delay serve on. the
defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking by 
delivering the same to him personally if he can be found, or
to his agent, from whose possessio~ the property is taken, or
if neither can be found by leaving them at the usual place of
abode of either, with some person of suitable age and dis­
cretion, or if neither have any known place of abode, by
putting them in the nearest post office directed to the de­
fendant.

§ 103. The defendant may, within two days after the
service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give
notice to the sheriff that be excepts to the sufficiency of the
sureties. If he fails to do so, he shall be deemed to have
waived all objection to them, \VI.Jen the defendant excepts,
the sureties shall justify on notice in like manner as upon
bail on arrest; and the sheriff shall be responsible for the
sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to them is either
waived, as above provided, or until they justify. If the de·
fendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property
as provided in the next section. 

§ 104. At any time before the delivery of the property
to the plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the
sureties of the plaintiff, require the retnrn thereof, upon 
giving to -the sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two
or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound 
in double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit
of the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if
such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of
such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the
defendant. If a return of the property be not so required
within five days after the taking and service of notice to the
defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiff, except as pro­ 
vided in section one hundred and nine.

§ 106. The defendant's sureties, upon notice to the plain­
tiff of not less than two or more than five days, shall justify
before a judge or county clerk, in the same manner as upon
bail on arrest ; and upon such justification, the sheriff shall
deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be
responsible for the defendant's sureties until they justify, or
until the justification is completed or expressly' waived, and
may retain the property until that time ; if they, or others
in their place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed,
he shall deliver the property to the plaintiff. 

§ 106. The qualification of sureties and their justification
sball be such as are prescribed by this act, in respect to bail
upon an order of arrest. 

§ 107. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed 
in a building or inclosnre, the sheriff shall publicly demand 
its delivery : if it be not delivered, be shall cause the build­
ing or incloaure to be broken open, and take the property
into his possession ; and if necessary, he may call to his aid
the power of his county. 

§ 108. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as
in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place,
and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving
his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for
keeping the same.

§ 109. If the property taken be claimed by any other 
person than the defendant or his agent, and such person
1W1ke affidavit of his title thereto. or right to possession
thereof, stating the grounds of such title or right, .and serve
the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to
keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the
plaintiff, on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the sheriff
against such claim, by an undertaking, by two sufficient sure­
ties,accompanied by their affidavits, that they are each worth
double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit
of the plaintiff, over and above their debts and liabilities,
exclusive of property exempt, from execution, and are free­
holders, or householders in the county ; and no claim to such
property by any other person than the defendant or his agent,
shall be valid against the sheriff, unless so made. 

§ 110. The sheriff shall file the notice, undertaking, and 
affidavit with his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, within twenty days
after taking the property mentioned tbereiu.

§ 111. An injunction is a writ or order, requiring a person
to refrain from a particular act. The order or writ may be
granted by the court in which the action is brought, or by a 
judge thereof, or by a county judge ; and when made by a
judge, may be enforced as the order of the court. 

§ 112. An injunction may be granted in the following
cases: 
First. When it shall appear by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief,
or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission
or continuance of the act complamed of, either for a limited
period or perpetually. 
Second. When it shall appear by the complaint or ~ffi­ 
davit that the commission or continuance of some act during
the litigation would produce great or irreparable injury to the 
plaintiff.
Third. When it shall appear during the litigation that the 
defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is pro­
curing or suffering' to be <lone, some. act in violation of the
plaintiff's rights, respecting the subject of the uctiou, and
tending to render the judgment inetfectnal. 

§ 113. The injunction may be granted at the time of isau­ 
jng the suuuuous upon the complaint; and at any time after­
-wards, before judgment, upon uffidavlts. The complaint in
.,the one case, and the affidavits in the other, shall show satis­
factorily that sufficient grounds exist therefor. NQ injunction 
shall be granted on the complaint, unless it be verified by the
oath of the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, that he the
person making the oath has read the complaint, or heard the
complaint read, and knows the contents thereof, and the same
is teue of his own knowledge, except the mutters therein
stated on information and belief, and that as to those matters
he believes it to be trne. When granted on the complaint, a
copy of the complaint and verification attached shall be served
with the injunction; when grunted upon affidavit, a copy of
the affidavit shall be served with the injunction. 

§ 114. An injuuctiou shall not Le allowed after the defend­ 
ant has uuswered, unless ujon notice, or upon un order to show 
cause , but in such case the defendant may be restrained until
the decision of the court or judge granting or refusing the
injunction. 

§ 115. On granting an injunction, the court or judge shall
require, except where the people of the State are a l'arty
plaintiff, a written undertaking, on the part of the plaintiff,
with sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay
to the party enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount
to be specified, as such party may sustain by reason of the
injunction, if the court finally decide that the plaintiff was
not entitled thereto. 

§ 116. If the court or judge deem it proper that the
defendant, or any of several defendants, should be beard
before granting the injunction, an order may be made requir­
ing cause to be shown, at a specified time and place, why the
injunction should not be granted , and the defendant may, iu
the mean time, be restrained. 

§ 117. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary
businesa of a corporation shall not be i,cmuted except by the
court 01· a judge thereof; nor shall it be granted without due
notice of the application therefor to the proper officers or 
managing agent of the corporation, except when the people
of this State are a party to the proceeding.

§ 118. If an injunction be granted without notice, the de­
fendant at any time before the trial may apply upon reason­
able notice to the judge who granted the injunction, or to
the court in which the action is brought, to dissolve or modify
the same. The application may be made upon the complaint
and the affidavit on which the injunction was granted, or
upon affidavit on the part. of the defendant, with or without
the answer. If the application be made upon affidavits on
the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may
oppose the same by affidavits, or other evidence, in addition
to those on which the injunction was granted. 


§ 119. If upon such application it satisfactorily appear that
there is not sufficient ground for the injunction, it shall be
dissolved ; or if it eatiefactorily appear that the extent of the
injunction is too great, it shall be modified. 

§ 120. The plaintiff, at the time of issuing his [the] sum­
mons, or at any time afterwards, may have the property of
the defendant attached as security for the satisfaction of any 
judgment that may be recovered, unless the defendant give
security to pay such judgment, as hereinafter provided, in the
following cases: 
First. In an action upon ll contract, express or implied, for
the direct payment of money, which contract is made or is
payable in this State, and is not secured by mortgage, lien, or
pledge, upon real or personal property, or, if so secured, that
such security has been rendered nugatory by the act of the
defendant. 
Second. In au action upon a contract, express or implied,
against a defendant not residing in this State.

§ 121. The clerk of the court shall issue the writ of
attachment upon recei ving an affidavit by, or on behalf of, the
plaintiff; which shall be tiled, showing . 
First. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff
(specifying the amount of such indebtedness, over and above
all legal set-offs and counter-claims), upon a contract, express
or implied, for the direct payment of money, and that such
contract was made or is payable in this State, and that the
payment of the same has not been secured by any mortgage,
lien, or pledge, upon real or personal property; 01·, 
Second. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff
(specifying the amount of such indebtedness as near as may
be, over and above all legal set-offs or counter-claims), and
that the defendant is a non-resident of the State ; and, 
Third. That the sum for which the attachment is asked
is an actual, bona fide existing debt, due and owing from the
defendant to the plaintiff, and that the attachment is not
sought and the action is not prosecuted to hinder, delay, or
defraud, any creditor or creditors of the defeudant.

§ 122. Before issuing the writ, the clerk shall require a 
written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, in a sum not
lees than two hundred dollars, not exceeding the amount
claimed by the plaintiff, with sufficient sureties, to the effect
that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintiff will pay
all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all dam·
ages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not
exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking.

§ 123. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any
county in which property of such defendant may be, and
require him to attach and safely keep all the property of such
defendant within his county, not exempt from execution, or
so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's
demand, the amount of which shall be stated in conformity
with the complaint, unless the defendant give him security
by the undertaking of at least two sufficient sureties in an 
amount sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides costs, or in 
an amount equal to the value of the property which has
been, or is about to be, attached; in which case to take such
undertaking. Sever-al write may be issued at the same time 
to the sheriffs of different counties.

§ 124. The rights or shares which the defendant may
have in the stock of any corporation or company, together
with the interest and profits thereon, and all debts due such
defendant, and all other property in this State of such defend­
ant not exempt from execution, may be attached, and if
judgment be recovered, be sold to Blitisfy the judgment and
execution. 


§ 125. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and de­
livered, shall execute the same without delay, and if the un­ 
dertaking mentioned in section one hundred and twenty.
three, be not given as follows: 
First. Real property standing upon the records of the
county, in the name of the defendant, shall be attached, by
leaving a copy of the writ with an occupant thereof; or, if 
there be no occupant, by posting a copy in a conspicuoua
place thereon, and tiling a copy, together with a description
of the property attached, with the recorder of the county. 
Second. Real property, or any interest therein, belonging
to the defendant, and held by any other person, or standing 
on the records of the county in the name of any other per­
son, shall be attached, by leaving with such person, or his
agent, a copy of the writ, and a notice that such real property.
( giving a description thereof), and any interest therein, be­
longing to the defendant, are attached pursuant to such writ,
and filing a copy of such writ and notice with the recorder
of the county, and leaving a copy of such writ and notice
with an occupant of such property, or, if there be no occu­
pant, by posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place there­
on. 
· Third. Personal property, capable of manual delivery,
shall be attached, by taking it into custody. 
Fourth, Stock, or shares or interest in stock, or shares of
any corporation or company, shall be attached, by leaving
with the president, or other head of the same, 01· the secre­
tary, cashier, or other managing agent thereof, a copy of the
writ, and a notice stating that the stock or interest of the
defendant is attached, in pursuance of such writ. 
Fifth, Debits and credits, and other personal property,
not capable of manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving
with the person owning such debts, or having in his possea­
sion, or under his control, such credits and other personal
property, or with his agent, a copy of the writ, and a notice
that the debts owing by him to the defendant, on the credits
and other personal property in his possession, on [or] under
bis control, belonging to the· defendant, are attached, in
pursuance of such writ.

§ 126. Upon receiving information in writing from the
plaintiff', or his attorney, that any person bus in his posses­
siou, 01· under hit1 control, any credits or other personal prop­
erty belonging to the defendant, or is owing any debt to the
defendant, the sheriff shall serve upon such person a copy of
the writ, and a notice thut such credits, or other property or
debts, us the case may be, are attached in pursuance of such
writ.

§ 127. All persons having in the ii· poseession, or under
their control, any credits or other personal property, belong­
ing to the defendant, or owing any debts to the defendant at
the time of service upon them of a copy of the writ and
notice, as provided in the last two sections, shall be, unless
such property be delivered up or transferred, or such debts
be paid to the sheriff, Hubie to the plaintiff, for the amount of
snch credits, property, or debts, until the attachment be dis­
charged, or auy judgment recovered by him be aatisfied. 

§ 128. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or hav­
iug in his possession or under his control any credits or other 
personal property belonging to the defendant, may be re­
quired to attend before the court or judge, or a referee ap­
pointed by the court or judge, and be examined on oath res­
pecting the same. The defendant may also be required to
attend for the purpose of giving information respecting his
property, and may be examined on oath. The court or judge
may, after such examination, order personal property capable
of manual delivery, to he delivered to the sheriff on such
terms as may be just, having reference to any liens thereon,
or claims against the same, and a memorandum to be given
of all other personal property, contaiuing the amount and
description thereof.

§ 129. The sheriff shall make a full inventory of the
property attached, and return the same with the writ. To
enable him to make such return as to debts and credits at­
tached, he shall request, at the time of service, the party
owing the debt, or having the credit, to give him a memo
rar.dnm stating the amount and description of each; and if
such memorandum be refused, he shall return the fuct of re­
fusal with the writ. 'l'he party refusing to ~ive the memo­
randum may be required to pay the costs of any proceedings
taken for the purpose of obtaining information respecting
the amounts and description of such debt 01· credit. 

§ 130. If any of the property attached be perishable, the
sheriff shall sell the same in the manner in which such prop­
erty is sold on execution. The proceeds, and other prop­
erty attached by him, shall be retained by him to answer any
judgment that may be recovered in the action, unless sooner
subjected to execution upon another judgment recovered pre­
vious to the issniug of the attachment. Debts and credits
attached may be collected by him, if the same can be done
without suit. The sheriff's receipt shall be a sufficient dis-
charge for the amount paid. 

§ 131. If any personal property attached be claimed by a
third person as bis property, the sheriff may summon a jury
of six men to try the validity of such claim; and such proceed­
ings shall be had thereon, with the like effect, as in ease of a
claim after levy upon execution. 

§ 132. If judgment be recovered by the plaintiff, the 
sheriff shall satisfy the same oat of the property attached by
him which has not been delivered to the defendant, or u. 
claimant as hereinbefore provided, or subjected to execution
on another judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the 
attachment, if it be sufficient for that purpose: 
First. By paying to the plaintiff the proceeds of all sales 
of perishable property sold by him, or of any debts or credits
collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary. to satisfy
the judgment. 
Second. If any balance remain due, and au execution
shall have been issued on the judgment. he shall sell under
the execution so much of the property, real or personal, as
may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that
purpose remain in bis hands. Notices of the sales shall be
given, and the sales conducted as in other easea of sales on
execution. 

§ 133. If after selling all the property attached by him
remaining in his hands, and applying the proceeds, together
with the proceeds of any debts or credits collected by him,
deducting bis fees, to the payment of the judgment, any bal­
ance shall remain due, the sheriff shall proceed to collect such
balance as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever the
judgment shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable de­ 
mand, shall deliver over to the defendant the attached prop­
erty remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of the property
attached unapplied on the judgment. 

§ 134. If the execution be returned unsatisfied in whole
or in part, the plaintiff may prosecute any undertaking given
pursuant to section one hundred and twenty-three or section
one hundred and thirty-seven, or he may proceed as in other
cases upon the return of an execution. 

§ 135. If the defendant recover judgment against the 
plaintilf any undertaking received in the action, all the pro-.
ceeds of sales and money collected by the sheriff, and all the
property attached remaiuing in the sbei·ilf's hands, shall be
delivered to the defendant or his agent; the order of attach­
ment shall be discharged, and the prnpe1·ty released therefrom. 

§ 136. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in 
the action, he may, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff,
apply to the court in which the action is pending, or to the
judge thereof', or to a county judge, for an order to discharge
the attachment wholly or in part, and upon the execution of
the undertaking mentioned in the next section, such order
may be granted, releasing from the operation of the attach­
ment any or all of the property attached, and all of the
property so released, and all of the proceeds of the sales
thereof' [shall] be delivered to the defendant, upon the justi­
fication of the sureties on the undertaking, if required by the
plaintiff.

§ 137. Before the granting of such order, the court or
judge shall require au undertaking ou behalf of the defend 
ant, by at least two sureties, residents and freeholders or
householders in the county, to the effect that in case the
plaintiff recover judgment in the action, defendant will, on
demand, redeliver such attached property so released, to the
proper officer, to be applied to the payment of the judgment, 
and that in default thereof the defendant and sureties will
on demand pay to the plaintiff the full value of the property
released. The court or judge granting such release may fix
the sum for which the undertaking shall be executed, and if
ueeessary in fixing such sum to know the value of the prop­
erty released, the same may be appraised by three disinter·
ested persons to be appointed for that purpose. The sureties
may be required to justify before the court or judge, and the
property attached shall not be released from the attachment
without their justification, if the same be required.

§ 138. The defendant may also, at any time before the
time for answering expires, apply, on motion, upon reasona- ·
ble notice to the plaintiff, to the court in which the action is
brought, or to the judge thereof, or to a county judge, that
the attachment be discharged, on the ground that the writ
was improperly or irregularly issued.

§ 139. If the motion be made upon affida,•its, on the part
of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose
the same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those 
on which the attachment was made.

§ 140. If, upon such application, it shall satisfactorily
appear that the writ of attachment was improperly or irreg­
ularly issued, it shall be discbarged.


§ 141. The sheriff shall return the writ of attachment
with the summons, if issued at the same time; otherwise,
within twenty days after its receipt, with a certificate of his
proceedings indorsed thereon, or attached thereto. The pro­
visions of this chapter. shall not apply to any suite already
commenced, but so far as such suits may be concerned, the
act entitled an act to regulate proceedings against debtors by
attachment, passed April 22d, 1850, shall be deemed in full
force and effect. 

§ 142. When it. is admitted, by the pleading or examina­
tion of a. party, that be has in his possession, or under his
control, any money, or other thing, capable of delivery,
which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as
trustee for another party, or which belongs, or is due, to
another party, the court may order the same, upon motion, to
be deposited in court, or delivered to such party, upon such
conditions as may be just, subject to the further direction of
the court. 

§ 143. A receiver may be appointed by the court in which
the action is pending, or by a judge thereof: 
First. Before judgment, provisionally on the application
of either party when he establishes a prima facie right to the 
property, or to an interest in the property which is the subject
of the action, and which is in possesion of an adverse party,
and the property or its rents and profits are in danger of
being lost or materially injured or impaired. 
Second. After judgment to dispose of the property accord­
ing to the judgment, or to preserve it during the pending of 
an appeal ; and, 
Third. In such other cases as are in accordance with the 
practice of courts of equity jurisdietion.

§ 144. A judgment is the final determination of the rights
of the parties in the action or proceeding, and may be en·
tered in term or vacation. 

§ 145. Judgment may be given for or against one or more
of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several
defendants; and it may, when the justice of the case requires 
it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side,
as between themselves. 

§ 146. In an action against several defendants, the court
may, in it.s discretion, render judgment against one or more
of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others,
whenever Ii several judgment is proper. 

§ 147. The relief granted to the plaintiff', if there be no
answer, shall not exceed that which he shall have demanded 
in his complaint ; but in any other case, the court may grant
him any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint,
and embraced within the issue. 

§ 148. An action maybe dismissed, or a judgment of non­
suit entered, in the following cases : 
First. By the plaintiff himself, at any time before trial,
upon the payment of costs, if a counter-claim bas ·not been
made. If a provisional remedy has been allowed, the under­ 
taking shall thereupon be delivered by the clerk to the de­
fendant, who may have his action thereon. 
Second. By either party upon the written consent of the
other. 
Third. By the court, when the plaintiff fails to appear on
the trial, and the defendant appears and aaks for the dis­
missal. 
Fourth, By the court, when upon the trial, and before the
final submission of the case, the plaintiff abandons it. 
Fifth. By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when
upon the trial the plaintiff fails to prove a sufficient case for the
jury. The dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions,
shall be made by an entry in the clerk's register. Judgment
may thereupon be entered accordingly. 

§ 149. In every case, other than those mentioned in t~
last section, the judgment shall be rendered on the merits. 

§ 150. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to
answer the complaint, as follows: . 
First, In an action arising upon contract for the recovery
of money or damages only, if no answer has been filed with
the clerk of the court within the time specified in the sum­
mons, or such further time as may have been granted, the
clerk, upon application of the plaintiff, shall enter the default
of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter judgment
for the amount specified in the summons, including the cost~
against the defendant, or against one or more of several dt'!"
fendanta, in the cases provided for in section thirty-two: 
Second. In other actions, if no answer bas been filed with
the clerk of the court within the time specified in the sum­
mons, or such further time as may have been granted, the
clerk shall enter the default of the defendant ; and thereafter 
the plaintiff may apply at the first or any subsequent term of
the court for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the
taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to
enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment
into effect, the court may take the account or hear the proof;
or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose.
And where the action is for the recovery of damages, in
whole or in part, the court may order the damages to be as­
seesed by a jury ; or if, to determine the amount of damages,
the examination of a long account be necessary, by a refer­
ence as above provided. 
Third. In uctions, where the service of the summons WM 
by publication, the plaintiff, upon the· expiration of the time
designated in the order of publication, may, upon proof of the 
publication, and that no answer has been filed, apply for judg­
ment; and the court shall thereupon require proof to be made
of the demand mentioned in the complaint : and if the defend­
ant be not a resident of the State, shall require the plaintiff or
his agent to be examined on oath, respecting any payments
that have been made to the plaintiff, or to any one for his use,
on account of such demand, and may render judgment for the
amount which he is entitled to recover. 

§ 151, An issue arises when a fllet or conclusion of law is
maintained by the one party, and is controverted by the other. 
Issnes are of two kinds: 
First. Of law; and,
Second. Of fact. 

§ 152. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the com­
plaint or answer (Or] to some part thereof.

§ 153, An issue of facts arises : 
First. Upon a material allegation in the complaint contro­
verted by the answerjs and, 
Second. Upon new matters in the answer except an issue
of law is joined therein.

§ 154. An issue of law shail be tried by the Court, unless
it be referred, upon consent. as provided in Chapter VI of
this Title. 

§ 155. An issue of fact shall be tried by a jury, unless a. 
jury trial is waived, or a reference be ordered, as provided
in this act. Where there are issues both of law and fact to 
the same complaint, the issues of law shall be first disposed
of. 

§ 156. The clerk shall enter causes upon the calendar of
the court, according to the date of the issue. Causes once
placed on the calendar for a general or special term if not
tried or heard at such term, shall remain upon the calendar
from court to court, until finally disposed of. 
ltfovi.n9 case for trial or hearing. 

§ 167. Either party may bring the issue to trial, or to a
hearing, and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the
court for good cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his
case, and take a dismissal of the ac~n, or a verdict or judg­
ment, as the case may require.

§ 168. A motion to postppne a 'trial on the ground of the
absence of evidence, shall only be made upon affidavit, show­
ing the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained,
and that due diligence bas been used to procure it. The court
may also require the moving party to state, upon affidavit,
the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse
party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given,
and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or
offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be post­ 
poned. 

§ 159. When the action is called for trial by jury, the
clerk shall prepare separate ballots containing the names of
the jurors summoned who have appeared and not been ex·
cused, and deposit them in a box. He shall then draw from
the box twelve names, and the persons whose names are
drawn shall constitute the jury. If the ballots become
exhausted before the jury-is complete, or if from any cause a
juror or jurors be excused or discharged, the sheriff sluul 
summon, under the direction of the court, from the citizens of
the county and not from bystanders, eo many qualified persons
as may be necessary to complete the jury. The jury shall
consist of twelve persons, unless the parties consent to a Iese
number. The parties may consent to any number not less
than three. Such consent shall be entered by the clerk in
the minutes of the trial.

§ 160. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or affirm·
ation shall be administered to the jurors, in substance, that
they each of them will well and truly try the matter in iseue
between --, the plaintiff, and---, the defendant, and
a true verdict render according to the evidence. 

§ 161. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when
there are several parties on either side, they shall join in a
challenge before it can be made, The challenges shall be to
individual jurors, and shall either be peremptory, or for 
cause. Each party shall be entitled to four peremptory chal­
lenges. 

§ 162. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or
more of the following grounds : 
First. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by
statute to render a person competent as a juror. 
Second. Consanguinity or affinity, within the third degree,
to either party. 
Third. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward,
mas~r and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and
agent, to either party, or being a member of the family of
either party, or a. partner in business with either party, or
being security on any bond or obligation for either party. 
Fourth. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a. 
previous trial between the same parties for the same cause
of action. 
Fifth. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the
action or in the main question involved in the action, except
the interest of the juror as a member or citizen of a munici­
pal corporation. 
Sixth. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion
or belief as to the merits of the action. 
Seventh. The existence of a state of mind in the juror 
evincing enmity against, or bias to, either party.

§ 163. Challenges for cause shall bf! tried by the court. 
The juror challenged, and any other person, may be examined
as a witneee on the trial of the challenge. 

§ 164. If, after the impaneling of the jury, and before
verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform
hie duty, the court may order him to be discharged. In that
case the trial may proceed with the other jurors, or a new jury
may be sworn, and the trial begin anew ; or the jury may be
discharged, and a new jury then or afterwards impaneled. 

§ 165. In charging the jury the court shall state to them
all matters of law which it thinks necessary for their infor­
mation in giving their verdict; and if it state the testimony
of the case, it shall also inform the jury that they are the
exclusive judges of all questions of fact, The court shall
furnish to either party, at the time, upon req nest, a statement
in writing of the points of law contained in the charge ; or
shall sign, at the time, a statement of such points prepared
and submitted by the counsel of either party. 

§ 166. After hearing the charge, the jury may either de­
cide in court, or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they
shall he kept together in a room provided for them, or some
other convenient place, under the charge of one or more
officers, until they agree upon their verdict, or are discharged
by the court.' The officer shall, to the utmost of his ability,
keep the jury together, separate from other persons; he shall
not suffer any communication to be made to them, or make
any himself, unless by order of the court, except to ask them
if they have agreed upon their verdict; and be shall not,
before the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person
the state of theie deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon. 


§ 167. Upon retiring for deliberation the jury may take
with them all papers (except depositions), which have been
received as evidence in the cause, or copies of such papers
as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be taken from
the person having them in poeseesiou ; and they m11y also
take with them notes of the testimony, or other proceedings
on the trial, taken by themselves, or any of them; but none
taken by any other person. 

§ 168. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if
there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the
t.estimony, or if they desire to be informed of any point of
law arising in the cause, they may require the officer to con- 
duct thenf!fu~o .court. Upon ~h~ir\~ing brought into court,
the info~ati'oii·~quired sh~)l ?e given in the presence of,or
after notice to, the :parties' or' counsel. 

§ 169. In all eases where a jury are discharged, or pre­
vented from giving a verdict, by reason of ~~cident or other
cause, during the progress of the trial, or after the cause is
submitted to them, the action may be again tried immediately,
or at a future time, as the court shall direct. 

§ 170, While the jury are absent, the court may adjourn,
from time to time, in respect to other business; but it shall
nevertheless be deemed open for every purpose connected
with the cause submitted to the jury, until a verdict is ren­
dered, or the jury discharged. The court may direct the
jury to bring in a sealed verdict, at the opening of the court,
in case of an agreement during a recess, or adjournment for
the day. A final adjournment of the court for the term shall
discharge the jury. 

§ 171. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict,
they shall be conducted into court by the officer having them
in charge. Their names shall then be called, and they shall 
be asked by the court, or the clerk, whether they have agreed
upon their verdict ; and if the foreman answer in the affirm­
ative, they shall, on being required, declare the same. 

§ 172. If the verdict be informal, or insufficient, in not
covering the whole iesue or issuea submitted, the verdict may
be corrected by the jury, under the advice of the court, or
the jury may be again sent out. 

§ 173. When the verdict is given, and is not informal or
insufficient, the clerk shall immediately record it, in full, in
the minutes, and shall read it to the jury, and inquire of
them whether it be their verdict. If any juror disagree, the
jury shall be again sent out ; but if no disagreement be ex­
pressed, the verdict shall be complete, and the jury shall be
discharged from the case. 

§ 174. The verdict of a jury is either general or special.
A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally
upon all or any of the isaues, either in favor of the plaintiff
or defendant; a special verdict is that by which the jury find
the facts only, leaving the judgment to the court. The special
verdict shall present the conclusions of fact as established by
the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them ; and those
conclusions of fact shall be so presented, as that nothing
shall remain to the court but to draw from them conclusions
of law. 

§ 175. In an action for the recovery of money only, or
specific real property, the jury in their discretion may render
a general or special verdict. In all other cases the court may
direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing upon all
or any of the issues, and in all cases may instruct them, if
they render a general verdict, to find upon particular ques­
tions of fact, to be stated jn writing, and may direct a written
finding thereon. The special verdict or finding shall be filed
with the clerk and entered upon the minutes. Where a
special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with the general
verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court
shall give judgment accordingly.

§ 176. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff, in an ac­
tion for the recovery of money, or for the defendant, when a
counter-claim for the recovery of money is established, ex­
ceeding the amount of the plaintiff's claim as established, the
jury shall also find the amount of the recovery. 

§ 177. In an action for the recovery of specific personal
property, if the property has not been delivered to the plain­
tiff, or the defendant, by his answer, claim a return thereof,
the jury, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintiff, or if, 
being in favor of the defendant, they aleo find that be is entitled to a retum thereof, shall Jind the value of the property,
and may, at the 81l1De time, ll88e88 the damages, if any are
claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing
party bas sustained by reason of the taking or detention of
such property. 

§ 178. Upon receiving e. verdict, an entry shall be made
by the clerk in the minutes of the eourt, specifying the time
of trial, the names of the jurors and witneeses, and the ver­
dict; and where a special verdict is found, either the judg­
ment rendered thereon, or if the case be reserved for argu­
ment or further consideration, the order thus reeerving it. 

§ 179. Trial by jury may be waived by the several par­
ties to an Issue of fact, in actions arising on contract ; and
with the assent of the court in other actions, in the manner
following: 
First, By failing to appear at the trial. 
Second. By written consent, in person or by attorney,
filed with the clerk. 
Third. By ore.I consent in open court, entered in the .
minutes. The court may prescribe by rule what shall be
deemed a waiver in other cases. 

§ 180. Upon a trlal of issue of fact by the court, judg­
ment shall be entered in accordance with the finding of the 
court, and the finding, if required by either party, shall be
reduced to writing and tiled with the clerk. lu the finding
tiled, the faets found and the eonclnsions of law shall be sep­ 
arately stated. In such cases no judgment shall be reversed
on appeal for want of a finding in writing at the instance of
any party who, at the time of the submisaion of the cause,
shall not have requested a fiuding in writing, and had such
request entered in the minutes of the court; nor in cases
tried by the court by a commissioner or a referee shall the 
judgment be reversed on appeal for defects in the finding,
nnless exceptions be made in the court below for a defect in
the finding; and in cases of exceptions for defective findings,
the particular point or issue upon which the party requires a
finding to be made, or the particular defect to be remedied,
shall be specifically and particularly designated ; and upon
failure of the court to remedy, or when tried by a commis­
sioner or referee, to cause to be remedied, by such commis­
sioner or referee the alleged defect, the party moving shall
be entitled to his exceptions, and the same shall he settled by
the judge as in other cases; provided, that such exceptions
shall be filed in the court and served on the attorney of the
adverse party within five days after receiving from or giving
to the adverse party written notice of the filing of the find­
it\g; provided, that when any cause is tried and submitted
npon a written statement of facts, agreed to by the parties
or their attorneys, such statement 'shall have the effect of a
special verdict or finding of facts. and judgment shall be pro­ 
nounced thereon as upon a special verdict or finding of facts ;
and in such case, 110 finding of facts shall be made unless 
such statement shall fail to embrace all the facts proved and
in issue, in which case any additional fact may be found
upon evidence which is not repugnant to the agreed state­
ment.

§ 181. On a judgment upon an issue of law, if the taking 
of an account be necessary to enable the court to complete
· the judgment, a. reference may be ordered. 

§ 182. A reference may be ordered upon the agreement 
of the parties filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes: 
First. 'I'o try any or all of the issues in an action or pro·
ceeding, whether of factor of law, and to report a finding and 
judgment thereon.
Second. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court 
to proceed and determine the case.

§ 183. When the parties do not consent, the court may,
upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a
reference in the following cases : 
First. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the
examination of a Jong account on either side ; in which case
the referees may be directed to hear and deride the whole
issue, or report upon any specific question of fact involved
therein.
Second. When the taking of an account is necessary for
the information of the court before judgment, or for carrying
a judgment or order into effect. 
Third. When a question of fact, other than upon the
pleadings, ariaes upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of
the action; or, • 
Fourth. When it is necessary for the information of the
court in a special proceeding.

§ 184. A reference may be ordered to any person or per­
sons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the
parties do not agree, the court or judge shall appoint one or
more referees, not exceeding three, who reside in the county
in which the action or proceeding is triable and against
whom there is no legal objection, or the reference may be
made to a court com;.issioner of the county where the
cause is pending.

§ 185. Either party may object to the appointment of any
person as referee, on one or more of the following grounds : 
First. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by
statute to render a person competent as a juror. 
Second. Consanguinity or affinity, within the third de­
gree, to either party. 
Third. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward,
master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and
agent to either party; or being a member of the family of 
either party; or a partner in buainesa with either party; or
being security on any bond or obligation for either party. 
Fourth. Having served as a juror, or been a witness on
any trial between parties for the same cause of action. 
Fifth. Interest on the part of such person in the event of
the action, or in the main question involved in the action. 
Sixth; Having formed or expressed an unq ualified opinion
or belief HS to the merits of the action. 
Seoenth, The existence of a state of mind in such person
evincing enmity against or bias to either party. 

§ 186. The objections taken to the appointment of any
person 118 referee shall be beard and disposed of by the court.
Affidavits may be read, and any person examined as a wit­ 
. nese, as to such objections. 

§ 187. The referee or commiseiouer shall report their 
findings in writing to the court within ten days (or within
such further time as may be allowed by the court] after the
testimony shall have been closed, and the facts found and
conclusions of law shall be separately stated therein. The
finding of the referee or commissioner upon the whole issue
eball stand as the finding of the court, and upon filing of the
finding with the clerk of the court. judgment may be entered
thereon in the same manner as if the action had been tried
by the court. The finding of the referee or commissioner 
may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner as if made
by the court. When the reference is to report the facts. the 
finding reported shall have the effect of a special verdict.

§ 188. An exception is an objection token at a trial to a
decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial be by jary,
court, or referees, and whether the decision be made during
the formation of a jury, or in the admission of evidence, or
in the charge to a jury, or at any other time from the calling
of the action for trial to the rendering of the verdict or decis­
ion. But no exception shall be regarded on a motion for a
new trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be material,
and affect the substantial rights of the parties. 

§ 189. The point of the exception shall be particularly
stated, and may be delivered in writing to the judge; or, if
the party require, it shall be written down by the clerk.
When delivered in writing, or written down by the clerk, it
shall be made conformable to the truth, or be at the time cor­
rected until iL is so made conformable. When not delivered
in writing, or written down as above, it may be entered in
the judge's minutes, and afterwards settled in a statement of
the case, as provided in this act ; provided, that if the judge
shall, in any case, refuse to allow an exception in accordance
with the facts, any party aggrieved thereby may petition the
supreme court for leave to prove the same, and shall have
the right so to do, in such mode and manner and according to 
such regulations as tbe supreme court may, by rules, im­
pose.

§ 190. No particular form of exception shall be required.
The objection shall be stated, with so much of the evidence,
or other matter, as is necessary to explain it, but no more ;
and the whole as briefly as possible. 

§ 191. When a cause has been tried by the court, or by
referees, and the decision or report ie not made immediately
after the closing of the testimony, the decision or report shall 
be deemed excepted to on motion for a new trial or on appeal,
without any special notice that aneexception is taken thereto. 

§ 192. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact
in the same court, after a trial and decision by a jury, court,
or referees. 

§ 193. The .former verdict or other decision may be va­
cated, and a new trial granted, on the application of the party
aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affect­
ing the substantial rights of said party : 
First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or
adverse party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discre­
tion, by which either party was prevented from having a fair
trial. 
Second. Misconduct of the jury, and whenever any one or
more of the jurors shall have been induced to assent to any
general or special verdict, or to a finding on any question or
questions submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the
determination of chance; such misconduct may be proved by
the affidavits of any one or more of the jurors. 
Third. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against. 
Fourth, Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
making the application, whieh he could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial. 
Fifth. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given
under the iufluence of passion or prejudice. 
Sixth. Inentticiency of the evidence to justify the verdict,
or other decision, or that [it] is against law. 
Seoenth, Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted 
to by the party making the application.

§ 194. When the application is made for a cause men·
tioned in the first, second, third, and fourth subdivisions of
the last section, it shall be made upon affidavit; for any
other cause, it shall be made upon a. statement prepared as
provided in the next section. 

§ 195. The party intending to move for a uew trial shall
give notice of the same as follows: When the action has
been tried by a jury, within five days after the rendition of
the verdict; and when tried by a commissioner, referee, or
by the court, within ten days after receiving written notice of
the filing of the findings of the commissioner.. referee, or
court, when written findings are filed by the court, or of the
rendering of the decision of the court when no findings
are tiled; provided, the decision he rendered in open court,
and if rendered at vacation, then within ten days after re­
ceiving written notice of the filing thereof; and when
amendments are filed to remedy defects in the findings, within
ten days after receiving written notice of the filing of such
amendments. The notice shall designate generally the
grounds upon which the motion will be made. Within five
days after giving such notice, or within such further time,
not exceeding twenty days, as the court or judge thereof or
court commissioner may by order grant, the said party shall
prepare and file with the clerk the affidavit or statement, re­
quired by the last section. If no affidavit or statement be
filed within five days after the notice, or within such further .
time as the parties may agree upon, or the court or judge
thereof or court commissioner may by order grant, the right
to move for a new trial shall be deemed waived, When the
notice designates as the ground upon which the motion will
be made the insufficiency of the evidence to justify the ver­
dict or other decision, the statement shall specify the partic­
ulars in which such evidence is alleged to be insufficient.
When the notice designates as the g-round of the motion 
errors in law occurring at the trial and excepted to by the 
moving party, the statement shall specify the particular 
errors upon which the party will rely. If no such specifica­
tion be made, the statement shall be disregarded. The state­
ment shall contain so much of the evidence or reference
thereto as may be necessary to explain the particular points
thus specified, and no more. Such statement, when not
agreed to by the adverse party, shall be settled by the judge,
upon ~of.ice. Wh.en agreed to, it shall be accompanied by
the certificate of the parties or their attorneys that the same
bas been agreed upon and is correct. When settled by the
judge, the same shall be accompanied with bis certificate
that the same has been allowed by him and is correct. On
the argument reference may also be made to the pleadings,
depositions, and documentary evidence on file, and the minutes
of the court. If the application be made upon affidavits filed,
the adverse party may use counter affidavits on the hearing
Any counter affidavits shall be filed with the clerk one day 
at least previous to the hearing. The affidavits and counter
affidavits, or the statement thus used in connection with
such pleadings, depositions, and minutes of the court as are
read or referred to on the hearing, shall constitute, without
further statement, the papers to be used on appeal from the
order granting or refusing the new trial. To identify the
affidavits, it shall be sufficient for the judge or clerk to indorae
them at the time as having been read or referred to on the
hearing. To identify any depositions or mirtutes of the
court read or referred to on the hearing, it shall be sufficient 
that the judge designate them in his certificate as having been
thus read or referred to.

§ 196. The application for a new trial shall be made at
the earliest period practicable after filing the affiduvit or
statement, and tbe court or judge granting or refusing a new
trial shall state in writiug the grounds upon which the same
is granted or refused.

§ 197. When trial by jury has been bad, judgment shall
be entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, within
twenty-four hours after the rendition of the verdict, unless
the court order the case to be reserved for argument, or fur­
ther consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings. 

§ 198. When the case is reserved for argument or further
consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be
brought by either party before the court for argument.

§ 199. If a counter claim, established at the trial, exceed
the plaintiff's demand, so established, judgment for the de­
fendant shall be given for the excess; or if it appear that
the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judg­
ment shall be given accordingly. 

§ 200. In an action to recover the poasesaiou of personal 
property, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession,
or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and
damages for the detention. If the property has been de­
livered to the plaintiff, and the defendant claim a return
thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of
the property, or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be
had, and damages for taking and withholding the same. In
an action on a contract or obligation in writing, for the direct
payment of money, made payable in a specified kind of money
or currency, judgment for the plaintiff, whether the same be
by default or after verdict, may follow the contract or obli­
gation, and be made payable in the kind of money or cur­
rency specified therein ; and in an action against any person
for the recovery of money received by such person in a
fiduciary capacity, or to the use of another, judgment for the
plaintiff, whether the same be by default, or after verdict,
may be made payable in the same kind of money or currency
so received by such person.

§ 201. The clerk shall keep among the records of the 
court a book for the entry of judgments, to be called the
'' Judgment Book," in which each judgment shall be entered, 
and shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other deter­
mination of the action. 

§ 202. If a. party die after a verdict or decision upon any
issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may neverthe­
lees render judgment thereon. Such judgment shall not be a
lien on the real property of the deceased party, but shall be
payable in the course of administration on his estate. 

§ 203. Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk
shall attach together and file the following papers, which 
shall constitute the judgment roll: 
First. In case the complaint be not answered by any de­
fendant, the summons, with the affidavit or proof of service,
and the complaint, with & memorandum indorsed upon the
complaint that the default of the defendant in not answering
was entered, and a copy of the judgment. 
Second. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, ver­
dict of the jury, or finding of the court, commissioner, or
referee, all bills of exceptions taken and filed in said action,
copies of orders sustaining or overruling demurrers, a copy
of the judgment, and copies of any orders relating to a change
of parties.

§ 204. Immediately after filing a jndgment roll the clerk
sball make the proper entries of the judgment, under appro­
priate heads, in the docket kept by him; and from the time
the judgment is docketed, it shall become a lien upon all the
real property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from exe­
cution in the county owned by him at the time, or which be
may afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires, The
lien shall continue fcir two years, unless the judgment be
previously satisfied. 

§ 205. The docket mentioned in the Inst section is a book
which the clerk shall keep in hie office, with each page divided
into eight columns, and headed as follows: Judgment Debt·
ors; J ndgment Creditors; J ndgment; Time of Entry; Where
entered in Judgment Book; Appeals, when taken; Judg­
ment of Appellate Court; Satisfaction of Judgment, when
entered. If judgment be for the recovery of money or dam­
ages, the amount shall be stated in the docket under the head
of judgment; if the judgment be for any other relief, a mem­
orandum of the general character of the relief granted shall
be stated. The names of the defendants shall be entered in
the docket in alphabetical order. 

§ 206. The docket kept by the clerk shall be open at all
times during office hours for the Inspection of the public,
without charge; audit shall be the duty of theclerk to ar­
range the several dockets kept by him in such a manner as to
facilitate their inspection. 

§ 207. A transcript of the original docket certified by the
clerk may be filed with the recorder of any other county, and
from the time of the filing the judgment shall become a. lien
llpon all the real property of the judgment debtor not exempt
from execution in such county owned by him a.t the time, or
which be may afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires.
The lien shall continue for two years, unless the judgment be
previously satisfied. 

§ 208. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the
clerk's docket upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon
a.n acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made
in the manner of an acknowledgment of a. conveyance of real
property, by the judgment creditor; or within one year after
the judgment by the attorney, unless a revocation of his
authority be previously filed. Whenever a judgment shall be
eatisfied in fact, otherwise than upon an execution, it shall 
be the dnty of the party, or attorney, to give such acknowl­
edgment, and upon motion the court may compel it, or may
order the entry of satisfaction to be made without it. 


§ 209. The party in whose favor judgment is given, may,
at any time within five years after the entry thereof, issue a
writ of execution for ita enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter. 


§ 210. The writ of execution shall ·be issued in the name
of the people, sealed with the seal of the court, and sub­
scribed by the clerk, and shall be directed to the sheriff, and
shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court, the
county where the judgment roll is filed, and if it be for money,
the amount thereof, and the amount actually due thereon,
and if made payable in a specified kind of money or currency,
as provided in section two hundred of this act, the execution
shall also state the kind of money or currency in which the
judgment is payable, and shall require the sheriff, substan­
tially as follows: 
First. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor,
it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with inter- 
est, out of the personal property of such debtor, and if suffi­
cient personal property cannot be found, then out of his real
property; or if the judgment be a lien upon real property,
then out of the real property belonging to him on the day
when the judgment was docketed; or if the execution be
issued to a county other than the one in which the judgment 
was recovered, on the day when the transcript of the docket
was filed in the office of the recorder of such county, stating
such day, or any time thereafter. 
Second. If it be against real or personal property in the
hands of the personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees,
tenants of real property, or trustees, it shall require the
sheriff to satisfy the judgment with interest, out of such prop­
erty. 
Third. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor,
it shall require the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit
him to the jail of the county until he pay the judgment, with
interest, or be discharged according to law. 
Fourth. If it be issued on a judgment made payable in It 
specified kind of money or currency, as provided in section
two hundred of this act, it shall also require the sheriff to
satisfy the same in the kind of money or currency in which
said judgment is made payable, and the sheriff shall refuse
payment in any other kind of money or curren<'y ; and in case
of levy and sale of the property of the judgment debtor, he
shall refuse payment from auy purchaser at such sale in anv
other ki~d of money or currency than that specified in th~
execution. The sheriff collecting money or currency in the
manner required by this act, shall pay to the plaintiff or party
entitled to recover the same, the same kind of money or cur­
rency received by him, and in case of neglect or refusal so 
to do, be shall be liable on his official bond to the judgment
creditor in three times the amount of the money so collected. 
Fifth. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or
personal property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the
posseaaion of the same, particularly describing it, to the party
entitled thereto, and may, at the same time, require the 11heriff 
to satisfy any coets, damages, rents, or profits, recovered by
the same judgment, out of the personal property of the person
against whom it was rendered, and the value of the property
for which the judgment was rendered to be specified therein
if a delivery thereof cannot be had; and if sufficient personal
property cannot be found, then out of the real property, as
provided in the first subdivision of this section.

§ 211. When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment
recovered against two or more persons, in an action upon a. 
joint contract, in which action all the defendants were not
served with summons, or did not appear, it shall direct the
sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the joint property of all
the defendants, and the individual property only of the de­
fendants who were served or who appeared in the action. In
other respects, the writ shall contain the directions specified 
in subdivisiona one and four of the last section.

§ 212. The execution may be made returnable, at any
time not less than ten nor more than sixty days after its re­ 
ceipt. by the sheriff, to the clerk with whom the judgment
roll is filed; when the execution shall have been returned,
it shall he the duty of the clerk to attach the same to the
judgment roll. If any real estate be levied upon the clerk
shall record the execution and the return thereto at large, 
and certify the same under his hand as true copies, in a
book to he culled the " Execution Book," which book shall
be indexed with the names of the plaintiffs and defendants 
in execution alphabetically .arranged, and kept open at all
times during office hours for the inspection of the public,
without charge; and shall be evidence of the contents of the
originals whenever they or any part thereof may be de­
stroyed, Jost, or mutilated.

§ 213. Where the judgment requires the payment of
money or the delivery of real or personal property, the same
may be enforced by a writ of execution; when it requires
the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the 
judgment may be served upon the party against whom the
same i.s rendered, or upon the person or officer required
thereby or by law to obey the same ; obedience thereto may
be enforced by the court ; and after Ii final judgment of par·
tition the court shall have power to enforce a severance of
the possession.

§ 214. In all cases other than for the recovery of money,
the judgment may be enforced or carried into execution after
the lapse of ti ve years from the date of its entry, by leave
of the court, upon motion, or by judgment for that purpose
founded on supplemental pleadings.

§ 215. Notwithstanding the death of a party after the 
(a) Original section :

§ 213. Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or the 
judgment, execution thereon may be Issued, in ease of the
death of the plaintiff, the same as if he were living, upon
the application of his executor, or administrator, or successor
in interest, by the court in which the judgment was rendered 
or exists. And in case of the decease of the defendant, if
the judgment be for the recovery of real or personal prop­
erty, execution may be issued and executed against the
property recovered in the Mme manner and with the · same 
effect as if he were still liviug.

§ 216. Where the execution is against the property of 
the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any
county in the Slate. Where it requires the delivery of real
or persona! property, it shall be issued to the sheriff of the
county where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.
Executions may be issued, at the same time, to different
counties. 

§ 217. All goods, chattels, moneys, and other property,
both real and personal, or any interest therein of the judg­
ment debtor, not exempt by law, and all property and rights
of property, seized and held under attachment in the action,
shall be liable to execution. Shares and interests in any cor- 
poration or company, and debts and credits, and all other
property, both real and personal, or any interest in either
real or personal property, and all other property not capable
of manual delivery, may be attached on execution, in the
like manner as upon writs of attachments. Gold dust shall
be returned by the officer as so much money collected, at its
current value, without exposing the same to sale. Until a
levy, property shall not be affected by the execution.

§ 218. If the property levied on be claimed by a third
person as his property, the sheriff shall summon from his
county six persons qualified as jurors between the parties, to
try the validity of the claim. He shall also give notice of
the claim and of the time of trial to the plaintiff, who may
appear and contest the claim before the jury. The jury and
the witnesses shall be sworn by the sheriff', and if their ver­
diet be in favor of the claimant, the sheriff may relinquish
the levy, unless the judgment creditor give him a sufficient
indemnity for proceeding thereon. The fees of the jury, the
sheriff, and the witnesses, shall be paid by the claimant, if
the verdict be agaiust him; otherwise by the plaintiff. On 
the trial the defendant and the claimant may be examined by
the plaintiff RS wltneeees. 

§ 219. The following property shall be exempt from
execution, except as herein otherwise specially provided: 
First, Chairs, tables, desks, and books, to the value of
one hundred dollars, belonging to the judgment debtor. 
Second. Necessary household, table, and kitchen fnrnitnre
belonging to the judgment debtor, including stoves, stove­
pipe, and stove furniture, wearing apparel, beds, bedding,
and bedsteada, and provisions actually provided for individ­
ual or family use sufficient for one month. 
Third. The farming utensils or implements of husbandry
of the judgment debtor; also, two oxen, or two horses, or
two mules, and their harness, four cows, oue cart or wagon,
and food for such oxen, horses, cows, or mules, for one month;
also, all seed, grain or vegetables actually provided, reserved,
or on band for the purpose of planting or sowing at any time
within the ensuing six months, not exceeding in value the
sum of two hundred dollars, 
Fourth- Tools 01· implements of a mechanic 01· artisan
necessary to carry on his trade, the instruments and chest of
a surgeon, physician, surveyor, and dentist, necessary to the
exercises of their profession, with their scientiflc and profes­
sional libraries ; the law libraries of attorneys and counsel­
lors, and the libraries of ministers of the Gospel. 
Pifth. The cabin or dwelling of a miner, not exceeding
in value the sum of five hundred dollars; also, bis sluices,
pipes, hose, windlass, derrick, cars, pumps, tools, implements, 
and appliances necessary for carrying on any kind of mining
operations, not exceeding in value the aggregate sum of five
hundred dollars ; and two horses, mules, or oxen, with their
harness, and food for such horses, mules, or oxen, for one
month, when necessary to be used for any whim, windlass,
derrick, car, pump, or hoisting gear. 
Sixth. Two oxen, two horses, or two mules, and their.
harness, and one cart or wagon, by the use of which a cart­
man, huckster, peddler, teamster, or other laborer habitually
earns hie living; and one horse, with vehicle and harness or
other equipments, used by a physician, or surgeon, or minis­
ter of the Gospel in making his professional visits with food
for such oxen, horses, or mules, for oue month. 
Seventh. All fire engines, books and ladders, with the
carts, trucks, and carriages, hose, buckets, implements, and
apparatus thereto appertaining, and all furniture and uni­
forms of any fire company or department organized under
any law of this State. 
Eighth. All arms, uniforms, and accoutrements, required
by law to be kept by any person. 
Ninth. All court houses, jails, public offices, and build­
ings, lots, grounds, and personal property, the fixtures, furni­
ture, books, papel'I!, and appurtenances, belonging and per­
taining to the conrt-housevjail, and public offices belonging to 
any county of this State, and all cemeteries, public squares,
parks, and places, public buildings, town balls, markets,
buildings for the use of the tire departments and military or­
ganizations, and the Jots and grounds thereto belonging and
appertaining, owned or held by any town or incorporated
city, or dedicated hy such town or city to health, ornament,
or public use, or for the use of any fire or military company
organized under the laws of this State; but no article or ape- 
eies of property mentioned in this section shall· be exempt
from execution issued upon a judgment recovered for its
price or upon a mortgage thereon. 
Tenth. The earnings of the judgment debtor for his per-.
sonal services rendered at auy time within thirty days next,
preceding the levy of execution (01· levy of attachment), when
it shall be made to appear by the debtor's affidavit or other-.
wise, that. such earnings are necessary for the use of hie
family resldine in this State, supported wholly or in part by
hie labor.

§ 220. The sheriff shall execute the writ against the 
property of the judgment debtor, by levying on a sufficient
amount of property, if there be sufficient ; collecting or sell­
ing the things in action, and selling the other property, and
paying to the plaintiff or bis attorney so much of the pro­
ceeds as will aatisfy the judgment, or depositing the amount
with the clerk of the conrt; any excees in the proceeds over
the judgment and the sheriff's fees shall be returned to the
judgment debtor. When there is more property of the
judgment debtor than is sufficient to satisfy the judgment and
the sheriff's fees, within the view of the sheriff, he shall
levy only on such part of the property as the judgment
debtor may indicate ; provided, thut the judgment debtor be
present at, and indicate at the time .of the levy, such part;
and provided, that the property indicated be amply sufficient, 
to satisfy such judgment and fees. 

§ 221. Before the sale of property on execution, notice 
thereof shall be given as follows: 
First. In case of perishable property, by posting written
notice of the time and place of sale in three public places of
the township or city where the sale is to take pince, for such
a time as may be reasonable, considering the character and
condition of the property, 
Second. In case of other personal property, by posting a
similar notice in three public places in the township or city 
where the sale is to take place, not less than five nor more
than ten days successively. 
Tkird, In case of real property, by posting a similar no­
tice, particularly describing the property, for twenty days
successively, in three public places of the township or city
where the property is situated, and also when [where] the
property is to be sold, and publishing a copy thereof once a
week for the same period in some newspaper published in the
county, if there be one. 
Fourth. When the judgment under which the property is
to be sold i11 made payable in a specified kind of money or cur­
rency, the several notices required by this section shall state
the kind of money or currency in which bids may be made at
such sale, which shall be the same as that specified in the
judgment.

§ 222. An officer selling without the notice prescribed by 
the last section, shall forfeit live hundred dollars to the
aggrieved party, in addition to his actual damages ; and a
person wilfully taking down or defacing the notice posted,
if done before the sale or the satisfaction of the judgment, (it
the judgment be satisfied before sale}, shall forfeit five 
hundred dollars. 

§ 223. All sales of property under execution shall be
made at auction to the highest bidder, and shall be made be­
tween the hours of nine in the morning and five in the after­
noon ; after sufficient property has been sold to satisfy the
execution, no more shall be sold. Neither the officer holding
the execution, nor his deputy, shall become a purchaser, or
be interested in any purchase at such sale. When the sale is
of personal property, capable of manual delivery, it shall be
within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in
such parcels as are likely to bring the highest price ; and
when the sale is of real property, and consisting of several
known lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately ; or
when a portion of such real property is claimed by a third
person, and he requires it to be sold separately, such portion
shall be thus sold. The judgment debtor, if present at the
sale, may also direct the order in which property, real or per­
sonal, shall be sold, when such property consists of several
known lots or parcels, or of articles which can be sold to
advantage separately ; and the sheriff shall be bound to fol­
low such directions.  

§ 224. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by
him for property struck off to him at a sale under execution,
the officer may again sell the property at any time to the high­
est bidder, and if any loss be occasioned thereby, the officer
may recover the a mount of'snch loss, with costs, by motion upon
previous notice of five days before any con rt, or beforeany jus­
tice of the peace, if the same shall not exceed his jurisdiction. 

§ 225. Such court or justice shall proceed in a summary
manner and give judgment, and issue execution therefor
forthwith, but the defendant may claim a jury. And the
same proceedings may be had against any subsequent pur.
chaser who shall refuse to pay, and the officer may, in his
discretion, thereafter reject the bid of auy person so refus­
ing. 

§ 226. The two preceding sections shall not be construed
to make the officer liable for any more than the amount bid
by the second, or subsequent purchaser, and the amount col­
lected from the purchaser refusing to pay. 
Certificate of sale, and delivery of personal property. 

§ 227. When the purchaser of any personal property
capable of manual delivery shall pay the purchase money,
the officer making the sale shall deliver to the purchaser the
property, and if desired shall execute and deliver to him a
certificate of the sale and payment. Such certificate shall
convey to the purchaser all the right, title, and interest which
the debtor had in and to such property on the day the execu­ 
'tion was levied. 

§ 228. When the purchaser of any personal property
not capable of manual delivery shall pay the purchase
money, the officer making the sale shall execute and deliver 
to the purchaser a certificate of sale and payment. Such cer­
tificate shall convey to the purchaser all right, title, and inter­
est which the debtor had in and to such property on the day
the execution was levied. 

§ 229. Upon a sale of real property, the purchaser shall
be substituted to and acquire 1111 the right, title, interest, and
claim, of the judgment debtor thereto] and when the estate
is less than a leasehold of two years unexpired term, the sale
shall he absolute. lu all other cases, the property shall be
subject to redemption, as provided in this chapter, The otfi­
_cer shall give to the purchaser a certificate of sale containing: 
First. A particular description of the real property sold.
Second. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.
Tbird. The whole price paid.
Fourth. When subject to redemption, it shall be so stated.
And when the judgment, under which the sale bas been 
made, i11 made payable in a specified kind of money or cur­
rency, the certitieate shall also state the kind of money or 
currency in which such redemption may be made, which
shall be the same aa that specified in the judgment. A dupli­ 
cate of such certificate shall be filed by the officer in the
office of the recorder of the county.

§ 230. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided 
in the last section, or any part sold separately, may be re­
deemed in the manner hereinafter provided, by the following
persons, or their successors in interest: 
First. The judgment debtor, or bis successor in interest, in
the whole or any part of the property. 
Second. A creditor, having a lieu by judgment or mort­
gage on the p;operty sold, or on some share or part thereof,
anbsequent to that on which the property was sold. The per­
sons mentioned in the second subdivision of this section are,
in this chapter, termed redemptioners.  

§ 231. The judgment debtor or redemptioner, may re­deem the properly from the purchaser within six mouths after
the sale, on paying the purchaser the amount of his purchase,
with t welve per, cent. thereon in addition, together with the
amount of any asaessaient or taxes which the purchaser
may have paid thereon after the purchase and interest on
such amount ; and if the purchaser be also a creditor having
a prior lien to that of the redemptioner other than the judg­
ment under which such purchase was made, the amount of
such lien with Interest.

§ 232. If property be so redeemed by a redemptioner,
either the judgment debtor or another redemptioner may,
within sixty days after the last redemption, again redeem it
from the last redemptioner, on paying the sum paid on such 
ta.at redemption, with four per cent. thereon in addition, and
the amount of any assessment or truces which the Mid last
redemptioner may have paid thereon after the redemption by
him, with interest on such amount, and in addition the
amount of any liens held by said last redemptioner prior to
his own, with interest; provided, that the judgment under
which the property was sold need not be so paid as a lien.
The property may be again, and as often as the debtor or 1:1. 
redemptioner is so disposed, redeemed from any previous
redemptioner, within sixty days after the last redemption,
with four per cent. thereon in addition, and the amount of
any assessments or taxes which the last previous redemp­
tioner paid after the redemption by him, with interest there­
on, and the amount of any liens, ot.her than the judgment
uniter which the property was sold, held by the said last re· 
demptiouer previous to his own, with. interest. Notice of re·
demption shall be given to the sheriff; if no redemption be
made within six months after the sale, the purchaser, or hie
assignee, shall be entitled to a conveyance; or if so redeem­ 
ed, whenever sixty days have elapsed, and no other redemp­
tion bus been made and notice thereof given, the time for 
redemption shall ban ex,pired, and the lll8t redemptioner Qr
his assignee, shall be entitled to a sheriff's deed. If the 
_debtor redeem at any time before the time for redemption
expires, the effect of the sale shall be terminated and he be
restored to bis estate.

§ 233. The payments mentioned hi the last two section,
may be-made to the purchaser 01· redemptioner, as tbe case
may be, or for him, to the officer who made the sale. Wheii
'the judgment under which the su le bas been made is payable
in a specified kind of money or currency, said payments shall
be made in the same kind of money or currency, and a tender .
of the money shall be - equivalent to payment.

§ 234. A redemptioner shall produce to the officer or per­
son from whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with his notice
to the sheriff: 
First. A copy of the docket. of the judgment under which
he claims the right to redeem, certified by the clerk of the
court, or of the county where the judgment is docketed ; or
if he redeem upon a mortgage or other Jien, a note of the
record thereof certified by the recorder; 
Second. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish
his claim, verified by the affidavit. of himself, or of a sub­
scribing witness thereto; and, 
Third. Au affidavit by himself, or bis agent, showing the
amount then actually due on the lien. 

§ 235. Until the expiration of the time allowed for re­
demption, the court may restrain the commission of waste
on the property, by order granted with or without notice, on
the application of the purchaser or the judgment creditor.
But it shall not be deemed waste for the person in possession
of the property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession
aft.erwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to
eontiuue to use it in the same manner in which it was previ­
ously used; or to use it iu the ordinary course of husbandry ;
or to make the necessary repairs of buildings thereon; or to
use wood or timber on the property therefor; or for the re­
pair of fences; or for fuel in his family, while he occupies
the property.

§ 238. The purchaser from the time of the sale until a 
redemption, and a redemptioner, from the time of his re­
demption until another redemption, shall be entitled to receive
from the tenant in poaseaeion the rents of the property sold,
or the value of the use and occupation thereof. 

§ 237. If. the purchaser of real property, sold on execu­ 
tion, or his aueceseor in interest, be evicted therefrom in con­
sequence of irregularities in the proceedings concerning the
we, or of the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may
recover .the price paid, with interest, from the judgment
creditor. If the purchaser of property at sheriff's sale or his
successor in interest, fail to recover poseessiou, in conse­
quence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the
sale, or because the property sold was not subject to execu­
tion and sale, the court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on
petition of such party in interest or his attorney, revive the
original judgment for the amount paid by such purchaser at
the sale, with interest thereon from the time of payment, at
the same rate that the original judgment bore; and when so
revived the said judgment shall have the same effect as an
original judgment of the said court of that date, and bearing
interest as aforesaid, and any other or after acquired prop­ 
erty, rents. issues, or profits, of the said debtor, shall be
liable to levy and 811.le under execution in satisfaetiou of' such
debt; provided, that no property of such debtor sold bona
tide before the tiling of such petition, shall be subject to the 
lien of said judgment; and, provided, further, that notice of 
237 
tbe filing of such petition shall be made by filing a notice
thereof in the recorder's office of the eounty where such
property may be situated ; and that said judgment shall be
revived in the name of the original plaintiff or plaintiffs, for
the use of said petitioner, the party in interest.

§ 238. When an execution against property of tbe judg­
ment debtor, or of any one ot several debtors in the same
judgment; issued to the sheriff of the county where he re·
sides; or if he do not reside in this State, to the sheriff of
the county where the judgment roll is filed; is returned un­
satisfied in whole or iu part, the judgment creditor, at any
time after such return is made, shall be entitled to an order
from the judge of the court, or a county jndge, requiring such
judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his property, before such judge, or a referee appointed by him, at a
time . and place specified in the order; bot no judgment
debtor shall be required to attend before a judge or referee
out of the county in which he resides, when proceedings are
taken under the provisions of this chapter. 

§ 239. After the issuing of an execution against property,
and upon proof by affidavit, of a party, or otherwise to the
satisfaction of the court, or of a judge thereof, or county 
judge, that any judgment. debtor has property which be un­
justly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judg­ 
ment, such court or judge-may, by an order require the judg­
went debtor to appear at a specified time and place before
such judge, or a referee appointed by him, to answer con·
eerning the same ; and such procedings may thereupon be
had for the application of the property of the judgment
debtor toward the satisfaction of the judgment 1111 are pro­
vided upon the return of an execution. Instead of the order
requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, the judge
may upon affidavit of the judgment creditor, his agent or
attorney, if it, appear to him that there is danger of the debtor
absconding, order the sheriff to arrest the debtor and bring
him before such judge. Upon being brought before the judge,
he may be ordered to enter into an undertaking with suffl­
cient surety that he will attend from time to time before the
judge or referee, as shall be directed during the pendency of 
proceedings and until the final determination thereof, and will
not in the mean time dispose of any portion of his property,
not exempt from execution. In default of entering int.o such 
undertaking he may be committed to prison.

§ 240. After the issuing of an execution against property, 
any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the
sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy the execution: and the sheriff's receipt
shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid. 
Examination of debtor of judgment debtor. 

§ 241. After the issuing or return of an execution against
property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several
debtors in the same judgment, and i1pon proof by affidavit or
otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that any person or
corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is in­
debted to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars, the judge
may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or any
officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and
place, before him or a referee appointed by him, and answer
concerning the same. 

§ 242. Witneasea may be required to appear and testify
before the judge, or referee, upon any proceeding under this chapter in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue. 
Application of debt« due judgment debtor. 

§ 243. The jhdge or referee may o-der unv property of 
the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the
hands of such debtor or any other person, or due to the judg­
ment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the 
judgment; except that the earnings of the debtor for his per­
sonal services, at any time within thirty days next preceding
the order, shall not be so applied, when it shall be made to
appear by the debtor's affidavit, or otherwise, that such earn­
ings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly 
.or partly by bis labor.

§ 244. If it appellr that a person or corporation alleged 
to have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to
him, claims an interest in the property adverse to him, or
denies the debt, the court or judge mity authorize, hy an
order made to that effect, the judgment. creditor to institute an
action against such person or corporation, for the recovery of
such interest or debt; and the court or judge may, by order,
forbid a transfer or other dispoeition of such interest 01· debt,
until an action can be commenced and prosecuted to j udgment, 
Such order may be modified or vacated by the judge granting
the same, or the court in which the action is brought, at any 
'time upon such terms as may be just. 

§ 245. If any person, party or wituese, disobey an order 
of the referee, properly made in the proceedings before him
nuder this chapter, he may be punished by the court or judge
ordering the reference for a contempt. 

§ 246. There shall be but one action for the reco,·ery of
any debt or the enforcement of any right secured by mort­
gage upon real estate or personal property, which action
shall be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages the court shall
have power, by its judgment, to direct a sale of the incum­
bered property, (or so much thereof as may be necessary)
and the application of the proceeds of the sale to the pay­
ment of the costs of "the court and expenses of the sale, and 
the amount due to the plaintiff'; and if it appear from the
sheriff's return that the proceeds are insufficient, and a
balance still remains due, judgment shall then be docketed
for such balance against the defendant or defendants per­
sonally liable for the debt, and shall then become a lien on
the real estate of such judgment debtor as in other cases on
which execution may be issued. No person holding a con-,
veyance from or under the mortgagor of the property mort­
gaged, or having a lien thereon, which conveyance or lien
docs not appear of record in the proper office at the time of
the commencement of t~e action, need be made a party to
such action; and the judgment therein rendered and the
proceedings therein had shall be as conclusive against the
party holding such unrecorded conveyance or lien iis if he
had been made a party to said action, and shall in all respects have the same force and effect.

§ 247. If there be surplus money remaining after pay­
ment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien, or incum­
brance with costs, the court may cause the same to be paid
to the person entitled to it, and in the meantime may direct
it to be deposited in court. 

§ 248. If the debt, for which the mortgage, lien, or in­ 
cumbrauce is held, be not all due, so soon as sufficient of the
property has been sold to pay the amount due, with costs,
the sale shall cease; and afterwards as more becomes due,
for principal or interest, the court may, on motion, order
more to be sold. But if the property cannot be sold in por­
tions, without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered
to be sold in the first instance, and the entire debt and costs
paid, there being a rebate of interest where such rebate is
proper. 

§ 249. Anything which is injurious to health, or inde­
cent, or offensive to the eenses, or an obstruction to the free
use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable en­ 
joyment of life or property, ie a nuisance, and the subject of 
am action. Such action may be brought by any person whose
property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoy­
ment is lessened by the nuisance ; and by the judgment, the
nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages re­
covered. 

§ 250. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant,
or tenant in common of rea 1 property, commit waste thereon,
any person aggrieved by the waste may bring an action
against him therefor, in which action there may be judgment 
for treble damages. 

§ 251. Any person who shall cut down, or carry off, any
wood or underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or otherwise
injure any tree or timber on the land of another person, or 
on the street or high way in front of any person' S house, village
or city lot, 01 cultivated grounds; or on the commons or pub­
lic grounds of any city or town; or on the street or highway,
in front thereof, without lawful authority, shall be liable to
the owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble
the amount of damages which may be assessed • therefor, iu a.
civil action, in any court having jurisdiction. 

§ 252. Nothing in the last section shall authorize the 
recovery of more than the just value of the timber, taken
from uncultivated wood land, for the repair of a public high­
way or bridge upon the land, or adjoining it. 

§ 253. If a person recover damages for a forcible or un­ 
lawful entry in or upon, 01· detention of, any building or any
cultivated real property, judgment may be entered for three
times the amount at which the actual damages are assessed.

§ 254. An action may be brought by any person in pos­ 
session, by himself or his tenant, of real property, agaiust 
any person wl-o claims an estate or interest therein adverse
to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim,
estate, or interest. 

§ 255. If the defendant in such action disclaim, in his
answer, any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judg­
ment to be taken against him without answer, the plaintiff
shall not recover costs. 

§ 256. In an action for the recovery of real property,
where the. plaintiff shows a right to recover at the time the
action was commenced, but it appears that hie right has ter­
minated during the pendency of the actlon, the verdict and
judgment shall be according to the fact ; and the plaintiff' may 
recover damages for withholding the property.

§ 257. When damages are claimed for wit.hholding the
property recovered, upon which permanent improvements
have been made hy a defendant, or those under whom he
claims, holding under color of title adversely to the claims of
the plaintiff, in good faith, the value of such improvements
shall beallowed as a set-off against such damages. 

§ 258. The court in which an action is pending for the 
recovery of real property, or a judge thereof, or a county
judge, may, on motion, upon notice by either party, for good
cause shown, grant an order allowing to such party the right 
to enter upon the property and make lllll'vey and measure­
ment thereof for the purposes of the action.

§ 259. The order shall describe the property, and a copy 
thereof shall be served on the owner or occupant ; and there­
upon such party may enter upon the property, with neces­
sary surveyors and assistants, and make such survey and
measurements ; but if any unnecessary injury be done to the
property, he shall be liable therefor. 

§ 260. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed
a conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner
of the mortgage to recover poseeseion of the real property,
without a foreclosure and sale. 

§ 261. The court may, by injunction,on good cause shown,
restrain the party in posseesion from doing any act to the
injury of real property during the foreclosure of a mortgage
thereon ; or after a sale on execution, before a conveyance.

§ 262. When real property shall have been sold on exe­
cution, the purchaser thereof, or anyperson who may have
succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes abso­
lute, recover damages for injury to the property by the
tenant in possession, after sale and before possession is de·
livered under the conveyance . 

§ 263. An action for the recovery of real property against
a person in possession cannot be prejudiced by any alienation
made by such person, either before or after the commence­
ment of the action. 

§ 264. When several co-tenants hold and are in posses­
sion of real property as parceners, joint tenants, or tenants in 
common, in which one or more of them have an estate of
inheritance, or for life or lives, or for years, an action may
be brought by one or more of such pe1sons for a partition
thereof according to the respective-rights of the persons
interested therein, and for a sale of such property, or a part
thereof, if it appear that a partition cannot be made without
great prejudice to the owners.

§ 265. The interests of all persons in the property .wbeth­
er such persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth 
in the complaint specifically and particularly, as far as known
to the plaintiff; and if one or more of the parties, or the
share or quantity of interest of any of the parties, be un­
known to the plaintiff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the
ownership of the inheritance depend upon an executory
devise, or the remainder he a contingent remainder, so that
such parties cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in
the complaint. 

§ 266. No person having a conveyance of or claiming a
lien on the property, or some part of it, need be made a
party to the action unless such conveyance or lien appear of
record.

§ 267. Immediately after filing the complaint in the dis·
tnct court, the plaintiff shall file with the recorder of the
county or of the several counties in which the property is
situated, either a copy of such complaint or a notice of the 
pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties
so far as known, the object of the action, and a description
of the property to be affected thereby. From the time of
the filing it shall be deemed notice to all persons.

§ 268. The summons shall be directed to all the joint
tenants and tenants in common, and all persons having any
interest in, or any liens of record by mortgage, judgment,
or otherwise, upon the property, or upon auy particular por­
tion thereof; and generally, to all persons unknown, who
have or claim aoy interest in the property. 
Unknown and absent parties, service on. 

§ 269. If a party having a share or interest ii. unknown,
or any oue of the known parties reside out of the State, or
cannot be found therein, and such fact is made to appear by
affidavit, the summons may be served on such absent or
unknown party, by publication, as in other eases. When
publication is made, the summons, as published, shall be
aceompauied by a brief description of the property which is 
the subject of the action. 

§ 270. The defendants who have been personally served 
with the summons and a copy of the complaint, or who shall
have appeared without such service, shall set forth in their
answers, fully and particularly, the origin, nature, and ex­
tent of their respective interests in the-property , and if such
defendants claim a lien on the property by mortgage, judg­
ment, or otherwise, they shall correctly state the original
amount and date of the same, and the true sum remaining
due thereon ; a1t10, whether the same bas been secured in any
other wuy or not; and if secured, the nature and extent of 
such security, or they shall be deemed to have waived their 
right to such lien.

§ 271. The rights of the several parties, plaintiffs as well
as defendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined by
such action; and when a sale of the premises is necessary,
the title shall be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction of
the court, before the judgment of sale shall be made; and
where service of the complaint has been made by publiea­
tion, like proof shall be required of the right of the absent
or unknown parties, before such judgment is rendered; ex­
cept that where there are several unknown persons having 
an interest in the property, their rights may be considered
together iu the action, and not us between themselves. 

§ 272. Whenever from any cause it shall have become,
in the opinion of the court, impracticable or highly inconve­
nient to make a complete partition in the first instance among 
all the parties in interest, it shall be lawful for the court to
first ascertain and determine the shares or interest respect­
i vely held by the original co-tenants, and thereupon to ad­ 
judge and cause a partition to be made, as if such original
co-tenants were the parties and sole parties iu interest and
the only parties to the action, and thereafter to proceed in
like manner to adjudge and make partition separately of
each share or portion so ascertained and allotted, as between
those claiming under the original tenant to whom the same
shall have been so set apart, or allow them to remain tenants
in common thereof, as they may desire.

§ 273. If it shall appear to the court, by the certificate of
the county recorder, or county clerk, or by the sworn or
verified statement of any person who may have examined
or searched the records, that there are outstanding liens or
Incumbrances of record upon such real property, or any part
or portion thereof. which existed and were of record at the 
time of the commencement of said action, and the persons
holding such liens are not made parties to the action, the
court shall either order such persons to be made parties to
the action, by an amendment or supplemental complaint, or
appoint a referee to ascertain whether or not such liens or
ineumbrauccs have been paid, or if not paid, what amount
remains due thereon, and their order among the liens or in­
eumbrances severally held by the said persons and the parties
to the said action, and whether the amount remaining due
thereon has been secured in any manner, and ·if secured, the
nature and extent of the security.

§ 274. The plaintiff shall cause a notice to be served a
reasonable time previous to the day for appearance before 
the referee appointed, as provided in the last section, on each
person having outstanding liens of record, who is not a party
to the action, to appear before the referee at a specified time
and place, to make proof by his own affidavit or otherwise
of the true amount due, or to become due, contingently or
absolutely thereon. In case such person be absent, or his 
residence be unknown, service may be made by publication,
or notice to hie agents, under the direction of the court, in
such manner as may be proper. The report of the referee
thereon shall be made to the court, and shall be confirmed,
modified, or set aside, and a new reference ordered, as the 
justice of the case may require. 

§ 275. If it be alleged in the complaint, and be estab­
lisbed by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without
such allegation, in the complaint, to the satisfaction of the
court, that the property, or any part. of it, is so situeted that
partition cannot be made without 1£re11t prejudice to the
owners, the court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise,
upon the requisite proofs being made, it shall order a parti­
tion, according to the respective rights of the parties, as as­
certained by the court, and appoint three referees therefor ;
and shall designate the portion to remain undivided for the
owners whose interests remain unknown, or are not ascer­
tained. 

§ 276. In making the partition the referees shall divide 
the property and allot the several portions thereof to the re·
spective parties, quality and quantity relatively considered.
according to the respective rights of the parties as determined
by the court, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, dee­
i~nating the several portions by proper landmarks, and mlly
employ a surveyor with the necessary assistance to aid 
them.

§ 277. 1'he referees shall make a report of their proceed­
ings, specifying therein the manner of executing their trust,
describing the property divided, and the shares alloted to each
party, with a particular description of each share. 

§ 278. The court may confirm, change, modify, or set aside
the report, and, if neeeesary, appoint new referees, Upon the
report being confirmed, judgment shall be rendered that such
partition be effectual forever, which judgment shall be bind­
ing and conclusive : 
First. Ou all persons named as parties to the action, and
their legal representatives, who have at the time any interest
in the property divided or any part thereof, as owners in fee
or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled to the rever­
sion, remainder, or the in beritance of such property, or of any 
part thereof, after the determination of a particular estate
therein, and who by any contingency may be entitled to a
beneficial interest in the property, or who have an interest in
any undivided share thereof as tenants for years or for life. 
Second. On all persons interested in the property who
may be unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of
the action for partition by publication. 
Tkird. On all other persons claiming from such parties or
persons, or either of them. And no judgment shall be invalid. 
ated by reason of the decease of any party before final judg­
ment or decree ; but such judgment or decree shall be as con·
elusive against the heirs, legal representatives or assigns of
such decedent, as if such final judgment were entered before
such decease.

§ 279. But such judgment and partition shall not affect
tenants for years less thuu ten, to the whole of the property
which is the subject of the partition. 

§ 280. The expenses of the referees, including those of a
surveyor and bis assistaut or assietanta, when employed, shall
be ascertained and allowed by the court, and the amount
thereof, together with the fees allowed by the court in its
discretion to the referees, shall be apportioned among the
different parties to the action equitably.

§ 281. When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate
of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall 
thenceforth be u charge only on the share assigned to such
party ; but such share shall be first charged with its just
proportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to such
lien. 

§ 282. When a part of the property only is ordered to he
sold, if there be an estate for life, or years, in an undivided 
Abare of the whole property, such estate may be set off in
any part of the property not ordered to be sold. 

§ 283. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered prop­
erty shall be applied under the direction of the· court as
follows: 
First. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of
the action. 
Second. To pay the costs of the reference. 
Third. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens
in their order of priority, by payment of the sums due and 
to become due; the amount due to be verified by affidavit at
the time of payment. 
Fourth, The residue among the owners of the property
sold, according to their respective shares therein. 

§ 284. Whenever any party to an action who holds a lien
upon the property, or any part thereof, has other securities
for the payment of the amount of such lien, the court may,
in its discretion, order such securities to be exhausted before
a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or may order a just
deduction to be made from the amount of the lien on the
property, on account thereof. 

§ 285. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by 
the referees, or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them
to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the court so directa.
But in case uo direction be given, all such proceed, and
securities shall be paid into court, or deposited therein, or as
directed by the court. 

§ 286. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or
parcels belonging to persons who are parties to the action,
and who are known, are paid into court, the action may be
continued as between such parties, for the determination of
their respective claims thereto, which shall be ascertained
and adjudged by the court. Further testimony may be taken
in court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the court, and
the court may, if necessary, require such parties to present
the facts or law in controversy, by pleadings, as in an origi­
nal action. 

§ 287. All sales of real property, made by referees under
this chapter, shall be made by public auction to the highest
bidder, upon notice published in the manner required for the.
sale of real property on execution. The notice shall state
the terms of sale, and if the property or any part of it is to
be sold, subject to a prior estate, charge, or lien, that shall be
stated in the notice. 

§ 288. The conrt shall, in the order for sale, direct the
terms of credit which may be allowed for the purchase
money of any portion of the premises of which it may direct
a sale on credit, and for that portion of which the purchase 
money is required, by the provisions hereinafter contained,
to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners, infants,
or parties out of the State. 

§ 289. The referees may take separate mortgages and
other securities for the whole, or convenient portions of the
purchase money of such parts of the property as are directed
by the court to be sold on credit, for the shares of any
known owner of full age, in the name of such owner ; and
for the shares of an infant in the name of the guardian of
each infant, and for other shares, in the name of the clerk of
the connty and his successors in office.

§ 290. The person entitled to a tenancy for life, or years,
whose estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to receive
such sum as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for
such estate, and which the person so entitled may consent to
accept instead thereof, by an instrument in writing filed with
the clerk of the court. Upon the filing of such consent, the
clerk shall enter the same in the minutes of the court. 

§ 291. If such consent be not given, filed and entered, as
provided in the last section, at or before a judgment or sale
is rendered, the court shall ascertain and determine what
proportion of the proceeds of the Bille, after deducting ex­
penees, will be a just and reasonable sum to be allowed on 
account of such estate; and shall order the same to be paid
to such party, or deposited in court for him, as the case may
require. 

§ 292. If the persons entitled to such estate for life or
years be nnknown, the court shall provide for the protection
of their rights, in the same manner, as far as may he, RB if
they were known aud had appeared.  

§ 293. In all cases of sales, when it appears that any
person has a vested or contingent future right or estate in
any of the property sold, the court shall ascertain and settle
the proportional value of such contingent, or vested right or
estate, and shall direct such proportion of the proceeds of the
sale to be invested, secured, or paid over, in such manner as
to protect the righte and interests of the parties. 

§ 294. In all eases of sales of property, the terms shall
he made known at the time; and if the premises consist of 
distinct farms or lots, they shall be sold separately. 

§ 295. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the
benefit of either of them, shall he interested in uny purchase;
nor shall a guardian of an infant party be Interested in the
purchase of nny real property, being the subject of the ae­
tion, except for the benefit of the infant. All aales contrary
to the provisions of this section shall be void. 

§ 296. After completing a sale of the property, 01· any
part thereof ordered to be sold, the referees shall report the
same to the court, with a description of the different parcels
of land sold to each purchaser ; the name of the purchaser ; 
the price paid or secured ; the terms and conditions of the
sale; and the securities, if any, taken. The report shall be
filed in the office of the clerk of the county where the prop,
erty is situated. 

§ 297. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order
shall be entered, directing the referees to execute conveyan­ 
ces and take securities pursuant to such sale; which they are
hereby authorized to do. Such order may a lso give direc­
tions to them respecting the· diepositiou of the proceeds of 
the sale. 

§ 298. When II party entitled to a share of the property,
or an iucurnbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the 
s11 le, becomes a purchaser, the referees may bike his receipt
for so much of the proceeds af the sale as belongs to him. 

§ 299. The conveyances shall be recorded in the county 
where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar against
all per&0ns interested in the property in any way, who shall
have been mimed as parties in the uction , and against all
such parties and persons as were unknown, if the summons
have been served b:v publication, and agl\inst all persons
claiming from them, or either of them. 

§ 300. When there are proceeds of a sale belonging to
an unknown owner, or to a person without the State, who
has no legal representative within it, the same shall be in­
vested in securities on interest, for the benefit of the persons
entitled thereto. 

§ 301. When the security of the proceeds of sale is taken,
or when an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall
be done, except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of
the clerk of the county where the papers are filed, and his
successors in office, who shall hold the same for the use and
benefit of the parties interested, subject to the order of the
court. 

§ 302. When security is taken by the referees on a sale,
and the parties interested in such security, by an instrument
in writing under their hands delivered to the referees, agree
upon the sbares and proportions to which they are respect­
ively entitled; or when shares and proportions have been
previously adjudged by the court, such securities shall be
taken in the names of, and payable to, the parties respectively
entitled thereto; and shall be delivered to such parties upon
their receipt therefor. Such agreement and receipt shall be
returned and filed with the clerk.  

§ 303. The clerk in whose name a• security is taken, or
by whom an investment is made, and his successors in office, 
shall receive the interest and principal as it becomes due, and
apply and invest the same as the court may direct; and shall
file in his office all securities taken, and keep an account in a
book provided and kept for that purpose, iu the clerk's office,
free for inspection by all personB, of investments and moneys
received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof. 

§ 304. When it appears that partition cannot be made
equal between the parties, according to their respective
rights, without prejudice to the rights and interests of some
of them, and a partition be ordered, the court may adjudge
compensation to be made by one party to another, on account
of the inequality; but such compensation shall not be re­
quired to be made to others by owners unknown, nor by an
infant, unless it shall appear that such infant has personal
property sufflcient for that purpose, and that bis interest will 
be promoted thereby. And in all cases the court shall have
power to make compensatory adjustment between the res·
pective parties, according to the ordinary principles of equity. 

§ 305. When the share of an infant hi sold, the proceeds 
of the sale may be paid by the referee making the sale to his
general guardian, or the special guardian appointed for him
in the action, upon giving the security required hy law, or
directed by order of the court. 

§ 306. The guardian who may he entitled to the custody 
and management of the estate of an insane person, or other
person adjudged incapable of conducting bis own affairs,
whose interest in real property shall have been sold, may re­
ceive, in behalf of such person, his share of the proceeds of
such real property, from the referees, on executing with suf­
ficient sureties, an undertaking approved by a judge of the
court, or by a county judge, that. he will faithfully discharge
the trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just. HC· 
count to the person entitled, or to his legal representative. 

§ 307. The general guardian ofan infant, and the guardian 
entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an
insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of con­
ducting his own affairs, who is interested in real estate held
in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other manner so l:lB to
authorize his being made a party to an action for the partition
thereof, may consent to 'a partition without action, and agree
upon the share to he set off to such infant, or other person
entitled, and may execute a release in his behalf lo the own­
ers of the shares, of the parts to which they may be respect­
ively entitled, upon au order of the court. 

§ 308. The costs of partition, including fees of referees and 
other disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively
entitled to share in the lands divided, in proportion to their
respective interests therein, and may be included and specified
in the judgment. In that case they shall be a lien on the
several shares, and the judgment may be enforced by execn­
tion against such shares, and against other property held by
the respective parties. When, however, 11 litigation arises
between some of the parties only, tbe court may require the
expense of such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, 
or any of them. 

§ 309. The court, with the consent of the parties, may 
appoint a single referee, instead of three referees, in the pro­
ceedings under the provisions of this chapter; and the single
referee, when thus appointed, shall have all the powers and
perform II II the duties required of the three referees. 

§ 310. An action may be brought. by the attorney gen­ 
eral in the name of the people of this State, npon his own
information, or upon the complaint of II private party, against
any person who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or 
exercises any public office, civil or military, or any franchise
within this State. And it shall be the duty of the attorney
general to bring the action, whenever be has reason to be­
lieve that any such office or franchise bas been usurped, in­
truded into, or unlawfully held or exercised by any person,
or when he is directed to do so by the governor. 

§ 811. Whenever such action is brought, the att.orney
general, in addition to the statement of the cause of action,
may also set forth in the complaint the name of the person
rightly entitled to the office, with a statement of bis right
thereto ; and in such case, upon proof by affidavit that the
defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to the
office, and by means of bis usurpation thereof, an order may
be granted by a judge of the supreme court, or a districtjudge,
for the arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail ;
and thereupon he may be arrested, and held to bail, in tbe
same manner, and with the same effect, and subject to the
same rights and liabilities, 88 in other civil actions where the
defendant is subject to arrest. 

§ 312. In every such case, judgment may be rendered
upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the
party, so alleged to be entitled ; or only upon the right of the
defendant, as justice shall require. 

§ 313. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the
person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of
such person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office,
and executing such official bond as may be required by law, 
to take upon himself the execution of the office. 

§ 314. If judgment be rendered upon the right. of the person
so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may re­
cover, by action, the damages which he shall' have sustained,
by reason of the usurpation of the office by the defendant . 

§ 315. When eeveral persons claim to be entitled to the
same office or franchise, one action may be brought against 
all such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such
office or franchise, 

§ 316. When a defendant, against whom such action has
been brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into,
or unlawfully holding any office, franchise, or privilege, judg­
ment shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from
the office, franchise, or privilege, and that he pay the costs of
the action. The court may also, in its discretion, impose upon 
the defendant a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ;
which line, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of
the State. 

§ 317. All steamers, vessels, and boats, shall be liable:
First. For services rendered on board at the request of, 
or on contract with, their respective owners, masters, agents,
or consignees. 
Second. For supplies furnished for their use, at the re·
quest of their respecuve owners, masters, agents, or con­
signees. 
Third. For materials fur~ished in their construction, re­
pair, or equipment. t 
Fourth. For their wharfage and anchorage within this
State. 
Fifth. For nonperformance or malperformance of any
contract for the transportation of persons or property made
by their respective owners, masters, agents, or consignees. 
Sixth. For injuries committed by them to persons or
property. 
The said several causes ofaction shall constitute liens upon
all steamers, vessels, and boats, and have priority in their
order herein enumerated, and shall have preference over all
other demands; provided, such lien shall only continue in
force for the period of one year from the time the cause of
action accrued.

§ 318. Actions for demands ansmg upon any of the 
grounds specified in the preceding section, may be brought
directly against such steamers, veeeels, or boats. 

§ 319. The complaint shall designate the steamer, vessel,
or boat hy name, and shall be verified by the oath of the 
plaintiff, or some one on his behalf. 

§ 320. The summons attached to a certified copy of the
complaint, may be served on the master, mate, or any per­ 
son having charge of the steamer, vessel; or boat, against
which the action is brought. 

§ 321. The plaintiff, at the time of iesuing' the summons, 
or at any time afterwards, may have the steamer, vessel, or
boat, against which the action is brought, with its tackle,
apparel, and furniture attached, as security for the satiafae­
tion of any judgment that may be recovered therein. 

§ 322. The clerk of the court shall issue a writ of at­
tachment, on the application of the plaintiff, npon receiving 
a written undertaking on behalf of the plaintiff, executed by
two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect, that if judgment
be rendered in favor of the steamer, vessel, or boat, as the
case may be, he will pay all costs and damages that may be
awarded against him, and all damages which may be sue- 
. tained by each steamer, vessel, or boat from the attachment,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which
shall in no case be lees than five hundred dollars when the
attachment is isaued against a steamer or vessel, or lees than
two hundred dollars when issued against. a boat. The under­
taking shall be accompanied by an affidavit of each of the
sureties, that he is a resident and freeholder or householder
of the county, and worth doable the amount specified in the
undertaking over and above all his just debts and liabilities.
The clerk shall file the undertaking and affidavits. 

§ 323. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of the 
county within which the steamer, vessel, or boat lies, and
direct him to attach such steamer, vessel, or boat, with ite
tackle, apparel, and furniture, and keep the same in hie cus­
tody until discharged by due course of law; unless the
owner, master, agent, or consignee thereof, give him security
by the undertaking of at least two sufficient sureties, in au
amount sufficient to satisfy the demand in suit, which shall
be specified in the writ, besides costs ; in which case, to take
such undertaking. 

§ 324. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and 
delivered shall execute the same without delay, and shall, 
unless the undertaking mentioned in the last section be given,
attach and keep in his custody the steamer, vessel, or boat
named therein, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, until
discharged by due course of law ; but the sheriff shall not
be authorized by any such writ to interfere with the dis­
charge of any merchandise on board of such steamer, vessel,
or boat, nor will [with] the removal of any trunks or other
property of paesengere, or of the captain, mate, seaman, stew·
ard, cook, or other persons employed on board. 

§ 325. The owner, master, agent, or consignee of the
steamer, vessel, or boat, against which the action is brought,
may appear and answer, or plead to the action ; and may
except to the sufflcienoy of the sureties on the undertaking
filed on the behalf of the plaintiff, and may require snretiee
to justify, as in actions against individuals upon bail on
arrest.  

§ 326. All proceedings in actions under the provisions
of this chapter shall be conducted in the same manner as in
actions against individuals, except as otherwise herein pro­
vided; a.nd in all proceedings subsequent to the complaint,
the steamer, vessel, or boat may be designated as defendant. 

§ 327. After the appearance to the action,ofthe owner,
master, agent. or consignee, the attachment may, on motion,
be discharged, in the same manner, and on like terms and 
conditions, as attachments in other cases, subject to the pro­
visions of section three hundred and twenty-nine. 

§ 328. If the attachment he not discharged, and a judg­
ment be recovered in the action in favor of the plaintiff', and 
an execution be issued thereon, the sheriff shall sell at public
anction, after publication of notice of such sale for ten days,
the steamer, vessel, or boat, with its tackle, apparel, and
furniture, or such interest therein as may be necessary, and
shall apply the proceeds of sale, as follows: 
First. When the action is brought for demands other
than the wages of mariners, boatmen. and others employed
in the service of the steamer, vessel, or boat sold, to the
payment of the amount of such wages, as specified in the
execution. 
Second. To the payment of the judgment and costs, in­
cluding his fees; and, 
Third. He shall pay any balance remaining to the owner,
master, agent, or consignee, who may have appeared in the
action ; or if there he no appearance, then into court, subject
to the claim of any party or parties legally entitled thereto. 

§ 329. Any mariner, boatman, or other person employed
in the service of the steamer, vessel, or boat attached, who
may wish to assert bis claim for wages against the same, the 
attachments being issued for other demands than such wages,
shall file an affidavit of his claim setting forth the amount
and the particular service rendered, with the clerk of the
court; and thereafter no attachment shall be discharged 
upon tiling an undertaking, unless the amount of such claim,
or the amount determined 88 provided in the next section, be
covered thereby in addition to the other requirements; and
any execution issued against such steamer, vesael, or boat,
upon judgment recovered thereafter, shall direct the applica­
tion of the proceede of any sale: 
First. To the payment of the amount of such claims
tiled, or the amount determined, as provided in the next section which the clerk shall insert in the writ; and, 
Second. To the payment of the judgment and costs, and
sheriff's fees , and shall direct the payment of any balance
to the owner, master, agent, or consignee who may have
appeared iu the action; hut if no appearance by them be
made therein, it shall direct a deposit of the balance in court. 

§ 330. If the claim of the mariner, boatman, or other
person, filed with the clerk of the court, as provided in the
IIUlt section, he not contested within five days after notice of
the tiling thereof by the owner, master, agent, or consignee
of the steamer, vessel, or boat against which the, claim is
filed, it shall be deemed admitted ; but if contested, the clerk
shall indorse upon the affidavit thereof a statement that it is
contested, and the grounds of the contest; and shall immedi­
ately thereafter order the matter to a single' referee for his
determination, or he may hear the proofs and determine the
matter himself. The judgment of the clerk, or referee, may
be received by the county judge either in term or vaeatiqn,
immediately after the same is given, and the judgment of
the county judge shall be final. On the review, the county 
judge may nee the minutes of the proofs taken by the clerk,
or referee, or may take the proofs anew. 

§ 331. The notice of sale published by the sheriff shall 
contain a statement of the measurement and tonnage of the
steamer, vessel, or boat, and a general description of her
condition. 

§ 332. From orders and judgments under this chapter,
an appeal may be taken by the owner, master, agent, or
consignee, on the same terms and conditions as appeals in
actions against individuals.

§ 333. A judgment or order in a civil action, except when
expressly made final by this act, may be reviewed as pre·
scribed by this title, and not otherwise.

§ 334. Ao order made out of court, without notice to the
adverse party, may be vacated or modified, without notice,
by the judge who made it; or may be vacated or modified
on notice, in the manner in which other motions are made. 

§ 335. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases
prescribed in this title. The party appealing shall be known
as the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent. 

§ 336. An appeal may be taken: 
First. From a. final judgment in an action or special
proceeding commenced in the court in which the same is
rendered, within one year after the rendition of the judg­
ment. 
Second. From the judgment rendered on an appeal from
an inferior court, within ninety days after the rendition of
such judgment. 
1'hird. From an order granting or refusing a new trial ;
from an order granting or dissolving an injunction; from an
order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; from an order
diseol ving or refusing to dissol ve an attachment ; from any
special order made after final judgment, and from an inter­
locutory judgment in actions for partitions of real property,
within l!ixty days after the order or interlocutory judgment
is made and entered in the minutes of the court.

§ 337. The appeal shall be made by filing with the clerk
of' the court, with whom the judgment, or order appealed 
from is entered, a notice stating the appeal from the same,
or some specific part thereof, and serving a copy of the notice
upon the adverse party or his attorney. 

§ 338. When the party who has the right to appeal
wishes a statement of the case to be annexed to the record 
of the judgment or order, he shall, within twenty days after 
an order made at a special term within sixty days, and had a clause
that the section was not to extend to appeals tu the district courts
from orders or judgments of the probate courts. 
It was amended, May 15, l!IM, 84, by specifying In the third sub­
divlstou orders granting or refusing new trials, orders refusing to
change the place of trial, orders granting or dissolving lnju11cl101111, 
nnd special orders after final judgment. 
It was again amended, March 28, l8S9, 1:19, so as to fl'ftd In the
thin.I subdlvlslon like the following amendment of 1~6a, except that 
it contained the provision of ISM for appeals from orders refusing to
change the place of trial. 
the entry of such judgment, or order, prepare such statement.
which shall state specifically the particular errors 01· grounds
upon which he intends to rely on the appeal, and shall con­
tain so much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain
the particular errors or grounds specified, and no more, and
shall serve a copy 'thereof upon the adverse party. The res­
pondent may, within five days thereafter, prepare amend­
ments to the statement, and serve a copy on the appellant.
The statement and amendments which may be served shall
be presented to the judge who tried or heard the case, upon
not.ice of two days to the respondent, and a true statement
shall thereupon he settled by such judge. If no amendments
are served, the statement may be presented to the judge for
settlement without any notice to the respondent.

§ 339. If the party shall omit to make a statement with­
in the time above limited, he shall be deemed to have waived
his right thereto; and when a statement is made, and the 
parties shall omit within the several times above limited, the
one party to propose amendments, the other to notify an ap­
pearance before the judge, they shall respectively be deemed
the former to have agreed to the statement as prepared, and
the latter to have agreed to the amendments as proposed, bot
the judge who heard the cause shall, notwithstanding such
omission or implied agreement, have power to correct any
tniastatement of fa<'t11 or of his rulings which such statement
may contain.

§ 340. The several periods of time above limited may be 
enlarged, upon good cause shown by the judge before whom
the cause w1U! tried. 

§ 341. The statement, when settled by the judge, shall be
signed by him, with his certificate that the same bats been al­
lowed and is correct; when the statement is agreed upon by
the parties, they or their attorneys shall sign the same with
their certificate that it has been agreed upon by them, and ie
correct, In either case, when settled or agreed upon, it
shall he filed with the clerk.

§ 349. A copy of the statement shall be annexed to a copy
of so much of the judgment roll as shall be included in the 
transcript on appeal, if the appeal be from a judgment ; if the
appeal be from an order, to a copy ofeuch order.

§ 343. The provisions of the last five preceding sections
shall not apply to appeals taken from an order made upon 
affidavit filed, but such affidavits shall be annexed to the order
in place of the statement mentioned in those sections.

§ 344. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may
review any intermediate order involving the merits, and nee­
essarily affecting the judgment. 

§ 345. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the ap­
pellate court may reverse, affirm, or modify the judgment or 
order appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of
appeal, and as to any or all of the parties; and may set aside
or confirm, or modify any or all of the proceedings subsequent 
to or dependent upon such judgment or order, and may, if
necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment
or order is reversed or modified, the appellate court may make
complete restitution of ttll property and rights lost by the er­
roneous judgment or order, and when it appears to the appel­
late court that the appeal was made for delay, it may add to
the costs such daruaues as muy he just. 

§ 346. On 11.n appeal from a final judgment, the appellant
shall furnish the court with a transcript of the notice of ap­
peal, the pleadings, or amended pleadiugs, 11.s the case may
be, which form the issues tried in the case, the judgment, and
such other parts of the judgment roll, and no uiore , as are
necessary to present or explain the points relied on, and the
statement, ifthere be one, certified l,y the a ttorneys of the par­
ties to the appeal, or hy the clerk, to be correct. On appeal
from a judgment. rendered on au appeal, or from an order, the
uppellaut shall furnish the court with a copy of the notice of
appeal, the judgment 01· order appealed from, and a copy of
the papers used on the hearing in the court. below, such copies
to be certified in like manner to he correct, If any written
opinion be placed on tile in rendering'tbe judgment or waking
the order in the court below, a copy shall be furnished. If
the appellant fail to furnish the requisite paper~, the appeal 
may he diamissed.

§ 347. An appeal may he taken to the 1mpreme court from 
the district courts in the following cases:
First. From a final judgment entered in an action or spec· 
it,1 proceeding commenced in those courts or brought into
those co111111 from other courts. 
Second. From an order granting or refusing a new trial ;
from an order granting or dissolving am injunction; from an
order refusing to grant. or dissolve 1111 injunction; from an order
dissolving' or refusing to dissolve an attachment ; from any
special order made after final jndgment, and from such inter­
loeutory judgment in actions for partition as determines the
rig-hts 1111d interests of the respective parties, and directs par­
tition to be made.

§ 348. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, in
any case, a written undertaking shall be executed on the part 
of the appellant, hy at least two sureties, to the effect that the
appellant will pay all damages and coets which may be
awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding three
hundred dollars; or that sum shall be deposited with the clerk,
with whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the
event of the appeal. Such undertaking shall be tiled, or such
deposit made with the clerk within five days after the notice
of appeal is tiled. 

§ 349. If the appeal be from a judgment or order direct­
ing the payment of money, it shall not. stay the execution of
the jndgmeut or order, unless a written undertaking be exe­
coted on the part of the appellant, by two or more sureties,
stating their places of residence and occupation, to the effect 
tbat they are bound in double the amount named in the judg­
ment or order, that if the judgment or order appealed from,
or any part thereof, be affirmed, the appellant sha ll pay the
amount directed to be paid by the judgment br order, or the
part of such amount as to which the judgment or order shall
be affirmed, if affirmed only in part, and all damages and
costs which shall be awarded against the appellant upon the
appeal. Wben the judgment or order appealed from is made
payable in a specified kind of money or currency, the under­
taking required by this section shall be drawn and made
payable in the same kind of money or currency specified in
such judgment.

§ 350. If the judgment or order appealed from, direct the
aBBignment or delivery of documents, or personal property,
the execution of the judgment or order shall not be stayed
by appeal, unless the things required to be assigned or de­
livered, be placed in the custody of such officer or receiver 
88 the court. may appoint; or unless an undertaking be en­
tered into, on the part of the appellant, with at least two
sureties, and in such amount as the court or the judge there· 
of, or county judge, may direct, to the effect that the appel­
lant will obey the order of the appellate court upon the
appeal. 

§ 351. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the
execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution
of the judgment or order shall not be stayed hy the appeal,
unti I the instrument is executed and deposited wit b the clerk,
with whom the judgment or order is entered, to abide the
judgment of the appellate court. 

§ 352. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the
sale, or delivery of possession of real property, the execution
of the same shall not be stayed, uulesea written undertaking
be executed on the part of the appellant, with two or more
sureties, to the effect that during the possession of such
property by the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be
committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment be
affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of
the property, from the time of the appeal until the delivery
of poseession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not
exceeding a sum to be fixed by the judge of the court by
which the judgment was rendered or order made, and which
shall he specifled in the undertaking. When the judgment
is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a
deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall also
provide for the payment of such deficiency. 

§ 353. Whenever an appeal is perfected as provided in
the preceding sections in this chapter, i~ shall stay all further
proceedings in the court below upon the judgment or order
appealed from, 01· upon the matters embraced thereiu ; and
on appeal, and tiling an appeal bond on appeal from an order
discharging an attachment, said attachment shall not be dis­
solved, but shall remain in full force until the cause be dis­
posed of on appeal, but the court below may proceed upon
amy other matter embraced in the action and not affected by
the order appealed from. And the court below may, in its
discretion, dispense with or limit the security required by
said sections, when the appellant is an executor, adurinis­
trator, trustee, or other person acting in another's right;
provided, that au appeal shall not continue in force an attach­
ment, unless an undertaking be executed and filed on the
part of the appellant. by at least two sureties, iu double the
amount of the debt claimed by him, that the appellant will
pay all costs and damages which the respondent may sustain
by reason of the attachment, in case the order of the court
below be sustained; and unless, also, notice of the appeal be
given within five days after' service of the notice of the en­
try of the order appealed from, and such appeal be perfected,
and the undertaking in this section mentioned be filed within
five days thereafter.

§ 354. The undertaking prescribed by sections three hun­
dred and forty-eight, three hundred and forty-nine, three
hundred aud fifty, and three hundred and fifty-two, may be
in one instrument, or several, at the option of the appellant. 

§ 355. An undertaking on appeal shall be of no effect
unless it he accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties that
they are each worth the amount specified therein over and
above all their just debts and liabilities exclusive of property
exempt from execution, except where the judgment exceeds
three thousand dollars and the undertaking is executed by
more than two sureties; they may state in their affidavit
that they are severally worth amounts less than that expres­
sed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent
to that of twosuffleient sureties. The adverse party, how- 
. ever, may except to the sufficiency of t.he eureties to the un­
dertaking or undertakings mentioned in sections three hun­
dred and forty-nine, three hundred and fifty, three hundred
and fifty-one, and three hundred and fifty-two, at any time
within thirty days after the filing of such undertaking; and
unlees they or other sureties, within twenty days after the
appellant or appellants shall have been served with notice of
such exception, justify before a judge of the court below, a
county judge, or county clerk, upon five days notice to the
appellant, execution of the judgment or decree appealed from
shall be no longer stayed ; and in all cases where an under- 
taking is required on appeal by the provisions of this act a
deposit in the court below of the amount of the judgment
appealed from, and three hundred dollars in addition, shall
be equivalent to filing the undertaking, and in all cases the
undertaking or deposit may be waived by the written con­ 
sent of the respondent.

§ 356. In cases not provided for in sections .three hundred
and forty-nine. three hundred and fifty, three hundred and
fifty.one, and three hundred and fifty-two, the perfecting of
an appeal, by giving the undertaking, and the justification
of the sureties thereon, if required, or making the deposit
mentioned in section three hundred and forty-eight, shall
stay proceedings in the court below upon the judgment or
order appealed from; except that where it directs the sale
of perishable property, the court below may order the prop·
ert.y to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited, to
abide the judgment. of the appellate court.

§ 357. Appeals in the supreme court may be brought toe.
hearing by either party, upon a notice of three days to the
opposite party. Before the argument, each party shall fur­
nish to the other, and each of the justices, a copy of bis
points and authorities; or either party may file one copy
thereof with the clerk, who shall cause the requisite copies
to be made.

§ 358. When judgment is rendered npon the appeal, it
shall be certified by the clerk of the supreme court to the
clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed, or the order ap·
pealed from is entered. In cases of appeal from the judg·
ment, the clerk with whom the roll is filed shall attach the
certificate to the judgment roll, and enter 9: minute of the
judgment of the supreme court on the docket against the
original entry. In cases of appeal from an order, the clerk
shall enter at length in the records of the court the certificate
received, and minute against the entry of the order appealed
from a reference to the certificate, with 11. brief statement
that such order bas been affirmed, reversed, or modified, as
the case may he, by the supreme court, on appeal. 

§ 359. An appeal may he taken to the supreme court
from a fina l judgment. of the county court: 
First. In an action of forcible entry and detainer; in
an action to prevent or abate a nuisance; in a proceeding iu
insolvency; in an action wherein the legality of any tax,
impost, assessment, toll, or municipal line is in question; and 
in any special case within the appellate jurisdiction of the
1mpreme court over which the legislature may require said
county court to exercise jurisdiction. 
Second. From an order granting or refusing a new
trial; from an order granting or dissolving, or an order re­
fusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; and from any 
special order made after final judgment in the cases in this section before ennmerated.

§ 360. Security shall be given upon such appeals in the
same manner. to the same extent, and with the same effect, 
as in uppeals to the supreme court from the district court
from judgments or orders of a similar character, and like
juetitlcatlon on the part of the sureties may be required.

§ 361. Appeals from the county court shall be brought to 
a. bearing in the same manner and upon like notice as appeals
from the district court.

§ 362. The appellant shall fumish the papers for the su­
preme court in the same manner as upon appeals from the
district court.

§ 363. An appeal may be taken from a probate court
to the district court of the district in which the probate court
is held, in the following cases: , 
First. From an order or decree admitting a will to probate,
or refusing the same. 
Second, From an order setting apart property, or making
an allowance for the widow or children. 
Third. From an order granting letters testamentary or of
administration, or appointing a guardian of an infant, or of
an insane person, or of a person incompetent to manage hie
property, or refusing to grant such letters, or to make such
appointment, or making sueh letters or appointment. 
Fourth. From an order directing the sale or conveyance
of real property. 
Fifth. From an order or decree by which a debt, claim,
legacy, or distributive share is allowed, or payment thereof
directed; or by which such allowance or direction is refused. 
Sixth. From an order made on the settlement of an exe­
cutor, administrator, or guardian. 

§ 364. The appeal shall be taken within thirty days after
the order or decree appealed from is entered with the clerk.

§ 365. Appeals from the probate court shall be brought to
a bearing at the earliest period practicable. For a failure to
prosecute an appeal, or'unneeessary delay in bringing it to a
hearing, the district conrt may order the appeal to be dis·
missed.

§ 366. Judgments, in all civil cases, rendered by justices',
recorders', and mayors' courts, may be renewed [reviewed] 
by the county court. When the appeal is taken on questions
of law, alone, it shall be beard on a statement of the case
prepared as prescribed in title sixteen of this act. When the
appeal is taken on questions of fact, or on questions of both
law and fact, the action shall be tried anew in the connty
comt, and either party may, on such trial, demand a jury.

§ 367. Upon an appeal heard upon a. statement of the
ease the county court may review all orders affecting the 
judgment appealed from, and may set aside or confirm, or
modify any or all of the proceedings subsequent to, or de­
pendent upon said judgment. and may, if necessary or proper,
order a. new trial. \Vhen the action is tried anew on appeal,
the trial shall be conducted, in all respects, as trials in the
district con rt. The provisions of this act, as to changing the
place of trial, and all the provisions as to trials in the district
court. shall be applicable to trials on appeal in the county
court. For a failure to prosecute an appeal, or unnecessary
delay in bringing it to a hearing, the county court, after
notice, may order the appeal to be dismissed. Judgments
rendered in the county court on appeal shall have the same
force and effect, and be enforced in the same manner, as 
judgments in actions commenced in the district court.

§ 368. When a judgment is recovered Against one or
more of several persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation,
by proceeding, as provided in section thirty-two, those who
were not originally served with the summons, and did not
appear to the action, may be summoned to show cause why
they should not be bound by the judgment, in the same
manner as though they had been originally served with the
summons. 

§ 369. The summons, as provided in the last section,
shall describe the judgment, and require the person sum­
moned to show cause why he should not be bound by it, and 
shall be served in the same manner, and returnable within
the same time, as the original summons. It shall not be
necessary to file a new complaint.

§ 370. The summons should be accompanied by an affi­
davit of the plaintiff, his agent, representative, or attorney,
that the judgment or some part thereof remains unsatisfied;
and shall specify the amouutdue thereon. 

§ 371. Upon such summons the defendant may answer
within the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or
setting up any defense which may have arisen subsequently;
or be may deny bis liability on the obligation upon which
the judgment was recovered, except a discharge from such
liability by the statute of limitation [limitations]. 

§ 372. If the defendant in bis answer deny the judg­
ment, or set up any defense, which may have arisen subse­
quently, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the
answer, shall constitute the written allegations in the case ;
if he deny his liability on the obligation upon which the
judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint 
and judgment, the summons, with the affidavit annexed,
and the answer, shall constitute such written allegations. 

§ 373. The issues formed may be tried as in other cases;
but when the defendant denies, in his answer, any liability
on the obligation upon which the judgment was rendered, if
a verdict be found against him, it shall be for the amount
remaining unsatisfied ou such original judgment, with inter­
est thereon.

§ 374. A judgment by confession may be entered without
action, either for money due, or to become due, or to secure
any person a~ainst contingent liability on behalf of the de­
fendant, or both, in the manner prescribed by this chapter. 


§ 375. A statement in writing shall be made, signed by
the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following 
,effect: 
First. It shall authorize the entry of judgment f&r a spec­
ified sum. 
Second. If it be for money dne, or to become due, it, shall
state conciselv the facts out of which it arose, and shall show
that the sum· confessed therefor is justly due, or to become 
due.
Third. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff 
against a contingent liability, it shall state concisely the facts 
constituting the liability, and shall show that the sum con­ 
fessed therefor does not exceed the same. 

§ 376. The statement shall be filed with the clerk of the
county iu which the judgment is to he entered, who shall in­ 
dorse upon it, and enter in the judgment book ll judgment. of
such court, for the amount confessed, with ten dollars costs. 
The statement and affidavit, with the judgment indorsed, shall
thereupon become the judgment roll.

§ 377. Parties to a question in difference, which might be
the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon
a case eoutainiug the facts upon which the controversy de
pends, and present a submission of the same to any court
which should have jurisdiction.If an action bad been brought.
But it must appear, by affidiwit, that the controversy is real,
and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of
the parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine
the case, and render judgment thereon, as if 1111 action were
depending. 

§ 378. Judgment shall be 'entered in the judgment book,
as in other cases, but without coats, for any proceeding prior
to tbe trial. The case, the aubmlesion, and a copy of the judg·
ment shall constitute the judgment roll. 

§ 379. The judgment may be enforced in rhe same manner 
as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be in the
same manner subject to appeal. 

§ 380. Persons capable of contracting may submit to ar­
bitration any controversy which might be the subject of a ci vii
action between them, except a question of title to real prop· 
erty in fee or for life. This qualification shall not include 
questions relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real
property. 

§ 381. The submission to arbitration shall be in writing,
and may he to one or more persons. 


§ 382. It may be stipulated in the submission, that it be
entered as an order of the county court, or of the district court,
for which purpose it shall he filed with the clerk of the county
where the parties, or one of them, reside. The clerk shall,
thereupon, enter in his register of actions a note of the sub­
mission, with the names of the parties, the names of the ar­
bitrators, the date of the submission, when filed, and the time
Iimited by the eubmission, if any, within which the award
shall be made. When so entered, the submission shall not be
revoked without the consent of both parties. The arbitrators
may be compelled by the court to make an award, and the
award may be enforced by the court, in the same manner as a 
judgment. If the submission be not made an order of the
court, it may be revoked at any time before the award is 
made. 


§ 383. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a. time and 
place for hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to administer
oaths to witnesses, to bear the allegations and evidence oftbe
parties, and to make an award thereon. 

§ 384. All the arbitrators shall meet and act together dur­
ing the investigation ; but when met, a. majority may determ­
ine any question. Before acting, they shall be sworn before 
an officer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and fairly
to hear and examine the allegations and evidence of the par­
ties, in relation to the matters in controversy, and to make a
just a.ward according to their understanding . 

§ 385. The award shall be in writing, signed by the arbi­
trators, or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties.
When the submiesion is made an order of the court, the
award shall be filed with the clerk, and a note thereof made
in bis register. After the expiration of five days from the
filing of the award, upon the application of 11 party, and on
filing an affidavit, showing that notice of filing the award
has been served on the adverse party or his attorney, at least
fonr days prior to such application, and that no order staying
the entry of judgment has been served, the award shall be 
entered by the clerk in the judgment book, and shall there
upon have the effect of a judgment. 

§ 386. The court, on motion, may vacate the award upon 
either of the following grounds, and may order a new hear­
ing before the same arbitrators, or not, in its discretion : 
First. That it was procured by corruption or fraud.
Second. That the arbitratore were guilty of misconduct, or 
committed gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to post­
pone the bearing, or in refusing to bear pertinent evidence,
or otherwise acted improperly, in a manner by which the
rights of the party were prejudiced. 
Third. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in
making their award; or that they refused, or improperly
omitted, to consider a part of the matters submitted to them ;
or that the award is indefinite, or cannot be performed. 

§ 387. The court may, on motion, modify or correct th" 
award, where it appears: 
First. That there was a miscalculation in figures, upon
which it was made, 01· that there is a mistake in the descrip­
tion of some person or property therein. 
Second. When a part oft.he award is upon matters not
submitted, which part eau be separated from other parta, and
does not affect the decision on the matter submitted. 
Third. When the award, though imperfect in form, could
have been amended if it had been a verdict, or the imper­
fection disregarded. 

§ 388. The decision upon the motion shall be subject to
appeal in the same manner as an order which is subject to
appeal in a civil action; but the judgment entered before a
motion is made shall not be subject to appeal. 

§ 389. If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and an
aetion be brought therefor, the amount to be recovered shall
only be the costs and damages sustained in preparing for and
attending the arbitration. 

§ 390. The defendant may, at any time before the trial
or judgment, serve upon the plaintiff an offer to allow judg­
ment to be taken against him, for the sum or property, or to
the effect therein specified. If the plaintiff accept the offer, 
and give notice thereof within five days, he may file the 
summons, complaint, and offer, with an affidavit of notice of
acceptance, and the clerk sha 11 thereupon enter judgment 8<'• 
cordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the
offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in
evidence; and if the plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable 
judgment, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay the de­
fendant's costs, from the time of the offer. 

§ 391. All persons, without exception, otherwise than 
118 specilied in this chapter, may be witnesses in any action
or proceeding. Facts which have heretofore caused the ex­
clusion of testimony, may still be shown, for the purpose of 
affecting its credibility. 

§ 392. No person shall be disqualified 118 a witnesa in
1tuy action or proceeding on account of his opinions on mat­
ters of religious belief, or by reason of his interest in the
event of the action or proceeding as a party thereto, or other­
wise; but the party or parties thereto, and the person in
whose behalf such action or proceeding may be brought or
defended, shall, except as hereinafter excepted, be competent
and compellable to give evidence, either yiva voce, or by
deposition, or upon a eommission, in the same manner and
subject to the Slime rules of examination as any other witness,
on behalf of himself, 01· either or auy of the parties to the 
action or proceeding.

§ 393. No person shall be allowed to testify under t.he
provisions of section three hundred and ninety-two, where
the adverse party, or the party for wh6Re immediate benefit
the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended, is the 
representative of a deceased person, when the facts to be
proved transpired before the death of such deceased person ;
and nothing contained in said section shall affect the laws in
relation to the attestation of any instrument required to be
attested; nor shall anything contained in said section render
any person who, in a criminal proceeding, is eharged with
the commission of any public offense, competent or compel­
lable to Kive evidence therein for or against himself.

§ 394. The following persons shall not he witnesses: 
First. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of
their production for examination. 
Second. Children under ten years of age, who, in the
opinion of the court, appear incapable of receiving just im­
pressions of the facts respecting which they are examined,
or of relating them truly. 
Third. Mongoliirns, Chinese, or Indians, or persons hav­
ing one-half or more of Indian blood, in an action or pro­
ceeding wherein a white person is a party. 
Fourth. Persons against whom judgment has been ren­
dered upon a conviction for a felony, unless pardoned by the
governor, or such judgment has been reversed on appeal.

§ 395. A husband m1ty be a witness for or against his wife,
and a wife may be a witness for or against her husband, and
where husband and wife are parties to an action or proceed- 
ing, they, or either of them, may be examined as witnessea
in their own behalf, or in behalf of each other, or in behalf
of any of the parties thereto, the same 11e any other witness ;
but this section shall not apply to cases of divorce, neither
&hall any husband or wife be competent or compellable to
disclose any communication made to him or her by the other
during marriage.

§ 396. An attorney or counsellor shall not, withont the
consent of his client, be examined as a witness 88 [to] uny
communication made by the client to him, or his advice given
thereon, in the course of professional employment. 

§ 397. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the con­
sent of the person making the confession, be examined 88 a
witness as to any confession made to him in bis professiona I
character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the church
to which he belongs. 

§ 398. A licensed physician, or surgeon, shall not. with·
out tLe consent of hie patient, be examined as a witness as 
to any information acquired in attending the patient, which
was necessary to enable him to prescribe, or act, for the pa­
tient; provided, however, in any suit, or prosecution, against 
a physician, or surgeon, for malpractice, if the patient, or
party, suing, or prosecuting, shall give such consent, and any
such witness shall give testimony, then such physician, or
surgeon, defendant, may call any other physicians, or sur­
geons, as witnesses, on behalf of defendant, without the
consent of such patient, or party, suing, or prosecuting.

§ 399. A public officer shall not be examined as a wit­
ness 118 to communications made to him in official confidence,
when the public interest would suffer by the disclosure. 

§ 400. The judge himself, or any juror, may be called 
as a witness by either party ; but in such case it. shall be in
the- discretion of the court or judge to order the trial to be
postponed or suspended, and to take place before another
judge or jury. 

§ 401. When a witness does not understand and speak 
the English language, an interpreter shall be sworn to inter­
pret. for him. Any person, a resident of the proper county
may be summoned by any court or judge to appear before
such court or judge to act as interpreter in any action or pro­
ceeding. The summons shall be served and returned in like
manner as a subpcena, A11y person so summoned shall, for a
failure to attend at the time and place named in the summona, 
be deemed guilty of a contempt, and may be punished accord·
ingly.

§ 402. A subpoena may require not only the attendance
of the person to whom it is directed, at a particular time and·
place, to testify as a witness, but may also require him to
bring any books, documents or other things in his control, to
be used as evidence. No person shall be required to attend
as a witness before any court, judge, justice or any other
officer out of the county in which be resides, unless the dis­
tance be less than thirty miles from his place of residence to
the place of trial. 

§ 403. The subpoena shall be issued as follows : 
First. To require attendance before a court, or at the trial
of an issue therein, it shall be issued under the seal of the
court before which the attendance is required, or in which
the issue is pending. 
Second. To require attendance out of the court before e.
judge, justice, or other officer authorized to administer oaths 
or take testimony in any matter under the laws of this State, 
it shall be issued by the judge, justice, or any other· officer
before whom the attendance is required. 
Third. To require attendance before a eommiasiouer ap­
pointed to take testimony by a court of a foreign country, or
of the United States, or of any other state in the United
States, or of any other district or county within this State,
or before any officer or offieers empowered by the laws of the
United States to take testimony, it may be issued by any
jndge or justice of the peace in places within their respective
jurisdiction, with like power to enforce attendance, and upon
certificate of contumacy to said court, to punish contempt of
their process as such judge or justice could exercise if the
subpoena directed the attendance of the witness before their
courts in a matter pending therein.

§ 404. The service of a subpcena shall be made by 
showing the original, and delivering a copy, or a ticket con­
taining its substance, to the witness personally, giving or
offering to him at the same time, if demanded by him, the
fees to which he is entitled for travel to and from the place
designated, and one day's attendance there. Such service
may be made by any person. 

§ 405. If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel, 
so as to prevent the service of a subpoena upon him, any
court or judge, or any officer issuing th~ subpcena, may, upon
proof by affidavit of the concealment and of the materiality
of the witness, make an order that the sheriff of the county
serve the subposna ; and the sheriff shall serve it accordingly,
and for that purpose may break into the building or vessel
where the witness is concealed. 
Persons present in court.

§ 406. A person present in court, or before a judicial 
officer, may be required to testify, in the same manner as if he
were in attendance upon a subpcena issued by such court or
officer. 

§ 407. It shall be the duty of a witness, duly served 
with a subpcena, to atteud at the time appointed, with any
papers under his control required by the subpeena, to answer
all pertinent and legal questions; and, unless sooner dis­
charged, to remain till the testimony is closed. 

§ 408. A witness shall answer questions legal and perti­
nent to the matter in issue, though his answer may establish 
a claim against himself; but he need not give an answer
which will have a tendency to subject him to punishment
for a felony; nor need give an answer which will have a
direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it be to the 
very fact in issue, or to a fact from which the fact at iMoe
would be presumed. But a witness shall answer as to the
fact of his previous conviction for felony . 

§ 410. A witness disobeying a subpcena shall also forfeit
to the party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars, and
all damages which he may sustain by the failure of the wit­
ness to attend; which forfeiture and damages may be recov­
ered in a civil action. 

§ 411. In case of failure of a witness to attend, the court
or officer issuing the subpeena, upon proof of the service
thereof, and of the failure of the witness, way issue a war­
rant to the sheriff of the county to arrest the witness and
bring him before the court or officer where his attendance 
Willi required. 

§ 409. Disobedience to a subpcena, or a refusal to be
sworn, or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit
or deposition when required, may be punished as a contempt
by the court, or officer issuing the eubpcena, or requiring the
witness to be sworn ; and if the witness be a party, his
complaint may be dismissed, or his answer stricken out.

§ 412. If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail or 
prison within this State, for any other cause than a sentence
for felony, an order for bis examination in the prison upon
deposition, or for his temporary removal and production
before a court or officer for the purpose of being orally
examined, may he made, as follows: 
First. By the court itself, in which the action or special
proceeding is pending. 
Second. By a judge of the supreme court, district court,
or county judge of the county where the action or proceed­
ing is pending, if before a judge or other person out of court. 

§ 413. Such order can only be made upon affidavit,
showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testi­
mony expected from the witness, and its materiality. 

§ 414. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where 
the action or proceeding is pending, and for a cause other
than a sentence for felony, bis production may be required,
In all other cases, his examination, when allowed, shall be
taken upon deposition. 

§ 415. Every person who has been in good faith served 
with a aubpcena to attend as a witness before a court, judge,
commissioner, referee, or other person, in a case where the 
disobedience of the witness may be punished as a contempt, 
shall be exonerated from arrest, in a civil action, while going 
to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there, and
returning therefrom.  

§ 416. The arrest of a witness contrary to the last sec­
tion shall be void ; but an officer shall not be liable to the 
party for making the arrest in ignorance of the facts creating
the exoneration, but shall be liable for any subsequent deten­
tion of the party, if such party claim the exemption and
make an affidavit stating : 
First. That he has been served with a subpcena to attend
as a witness before a court, officer, or other person; specify­
ing the same, the place of attendance, and the action or pro­
ceeding in which. the subpcena was issued; and, 
Second. That he has not been thus served by hie own
procurement with the intention of avoiding an arrest. 
Third. That he is at the time going to the place of
at.tendance, or returning therefrom, or remaining there in
obedience to the subpcena. The affida,·it may be taken by
the officer, and shall exonerate him from liability for dis­
charging the witness when arrested. 

§ 417. No action to obtain a discovery nnder oath, in aid
of the prosecution or defense of another action or proceeding,
shall be allowed, nor shall any examination of a party be
had on behalf of the adverse party, except in the manner
provided by this and the foregoing chapter.

§ 419. The examination of a party, thus taken, may be
rebutted by adverse testimony. 

§ 420. If an adverse party refuse to attend and testify
Ht the trial, or to give his deposision before trial, or upon a
commission, when required, his complaint or answer may be
stricken out, and judgment be taken against him ; and he 
may be also, in the discretion of the court, proceeded against
as in other cases for a contempt.

§ 424. An affidavit to be used before any court, judge,
or officer of this State, may be taken before any judge or
clerk of any court, or any justice of the peace, or notary
public in this State. 

§ 425. An affidavit taken in another state of the United
States, to be used in this State, shall be taken before a com­
missioner appointed by the governor of this State to take
affidavits and depositions in such other state, or before any
judge of a court of record having a seal. 

§ 426. An affidavit taken in a foreign country to be used
in this State, shall be taken before an ambassador, minister,
or consul of the United States, or before ,my jndge of a court
of record having a seal in such foreign country. 

§ 427. When au affidavit is taken before a judge of a
court in another state, or in a foreign country, the genuine­
ness of the signature of the judge, the existence of the court,
and the fact that such judge is a member thereof', shall be
certified by the clerk of the court under the seal thereof. 

§ 428. The testimony of a witness in this State may be
taken by deposition in an action at any time after the service
of the summons or the appearance of the defendant ; aud in
a special proceedingcafter a question of fact bas arisen there­
in, in the following cases . 
First, When the witness is 11 party to the action or pro­
ceeding, or a person for whose immediate benefit the action
or proceeding is prosecuted or defended.. 
Second. When the witness resides out of the county in
which bis testimony is to be used. 
Third, 'When the witness is about to leave the county
where the action is to he tried, and will probably continue
absent when the testimony is required. 
Fourth: When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the
trial, is nevertheless too infirm to attend. 

§ 429. Either party may have the deposition taken, of a
witness in this State, before any judge, 01· clerk, or any justice
of the peace, or notary public in this State, 011 serving on the
adverse party previous notice of the time and place of exam­
ination, together with a. copy of an affidavit, showing th1tt
the case is one mentioned in the lust section. At any time
during the forty days immediately after the service of sum­
mons by publication has been completed, and at any time
thereafter, when the defendant has not appeared, the notice
required by this section may be served on the clerk of the
court where the action is pending. Such notice shall be at
least five days, and, in addition, one day fol' every tweuty­
tive miles of the distance of the place of examination from
the residence of the person to whom the notice is given, un­
less, for a cause shown, a judge, by order, prescribe a shorter
time. When a shorter time is prescribed, a copy of the order
shall be served with the notice.

§ 430. Either party iuay attend such examination and
put such questions, direct and crose, as may he proper, The
deposition, when completed, shall be carefully read to the 
witness and corrected by him in any particular, if desired;
it shall then be subscribed by the witness, certified by the 
judge or officer taking the depositiou, inclosed in an envelope
or wrapper sealed, and directed to the clerk of the court in
which the action is pending. 01· to such person as the parties
in writing may agree npon, snd either delivered by the judge
or officer to the clerk or such person, or transmitted through
the mail, or by some safe private opportunity; and thereupon
such deposition may he used by either party upon the trial,
or other proceeding, agaiust, any party giving or receiving
the notice, subject to all legal exceptions. But if the parties
attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an in­
terrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was
stated at the time of the examination. If the deposition be
taken by the reason of the absence or intended absence from
the county of the witness, or because he is too infirm to
attend, proof by affidavit. or oral testimony shall be made at
the trial that the witness continues absent, or infirm, to the
best of the deponent's knowledge or belief, The deposition
thus taken may be also read in case of the death of the wit­
uess. 

§ 421. When a deposition has been once taken, it may be
read in any stage of the same action or proceeding by either
party, and shall then he deemed the evidence of the party
reading it. 

§ 432. The testimony of a wltness out of the State mav 
be taken by deposition in an action at any time after th~
service of the summons or the appearance of the defendant ;
and in a special proceeding, at any time after a question of
fact has arisen therein.  

§ 433. The deposition of a witnesa out of this State shall
be taken upon eommission issued from the court, under the
seal of the court, upon an order of the judge, or court, or
county judge, ou the application of either party, upon five
days' previous notice to the other. It shall be issued to a
person agreed upon by the parties, or if they do not agree, to
any judge or justice of the peace selected by the officer
granting the commission, or to a commissioner appointed by
the governor of this state to take affidavits and depositions
in other states. 

§ 434. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, 11.8 
the respective parties may prepare, to be settled if the par·
ties disagree as to their form, by the judge or officer granting
the order for the commission, at a day fixed in the order,
may be annexed to the eommlsslon, or when the parties
agree to that mode, the examination may be without written
interrogatories. 

§ 435. The commission shall authorize the commissioner
to administer an oath to the witness, and to take hie deposi­ 
tion in answer to the interrogatories, or when the examina­
tion is to be without interrogatories, in respect to the ques­
tion in dispute ; and to certify the deposition to the court, in
a sealed envelope directed to the clerk or other person desig­
nated or agreed upon, and forwarded to him by mail or other
usual channel of conveyance. 

§ 436. A trial, or other proceeding, shall not be postponed
by reason of a. commission not returned, except upon evidence
satisfactory to the court that the testimony of the witness is
necessary, and that proper diligence has been used to obtain it.

§ 437, The testimony of a witness, or witnesses, may be
ttt ken and perpetuated, a.e provided in this chapter.

§ 438. The applicant shall present to a. district or county
judge, a petition, verified by the oath of the applicant, stating: 
First. That the applicant expects to be a party to an action
in a court in this State, and in such case, the name or names
of the person, or persons, whom he expects will be adverse
parties; or 
Second. That the proof of some fact, or facts, is neces­
sary to perfect the title to property in which he is interested,
or to establlsh marriage, descent, heirship, or any other mat­
ter which may hereafter become material to establish, though
no suit may at the time be anticipated, or, if anticipated, be
may not know the parties to such suit; and 
Third. The name or names of the witnesa, or witneeaes,
to be examined, bis or their place of residence, and a general
outline of tbe facts expected to be proved. The judge, to
whom such petition i11 presented, shall make an order allow­
ing the examination, and prescribing the notice to be given,
which notice, if parties are known and reside in this State,
shall be personally served on them : aud if unknown, such
notice shall he served 011 the clerk of the county where the
property to be affected by such evidence is situated, and a
notice thereof published in some newspaper to be designated
by the judge making the order.

§ 439. Upon proof of service of the notice, as provided
in the last section, it shall be the duty of the judge, before
whom the depositions are ordered to be taken, to proceed to
take the depositions of the witnessea named in said petition.
upon the farts therein set forth, and the taking of the same 
may be continued, from time to time, in the discretion of the
jndge.

§ 440. The examination shall be by question and answer,
nnlees the parties otherwise agree. The deposition, when
taken, shall be carefully read to, and subscribed by, the wit·
ness, then certlfied by the judge, and, immediately thereafter,
filed in the office of the clerk of the district court of the
county where the same was taken, together with the order
for the examination, the petition on which the same was
granted, and the proof of service of notice.

§ 441. The affidavits, or other proof filed with the depo­
sltions, or certified copies thereof, shall be prirna facie evi­
deuce of the facts therein stated.

§ 442. If a trial be had between the parties named in
the petition 8.8 parties 'expectant, or their successors in inter· 
est, or between any parties wherein it may be material to 
establish the facts which such depositions prove, or tend to
prove, npon proof of the death or insanity of the witness or
witnesses, or of his or their inability to attend the trial by
reason of age, sickness, or settled infirmity, the deposition or 
depositions, or certified copies thereof, may be used by either
party, subject to all legal objections. But if the parties at­ 
tend at the examination, no objection to the form of an inter­
rogat.ory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated
at the examinat.ion.

§ 443. Every court of this State, e~ery judge or clerk
of any court, every justice of the peace, and every notary
public, and every officer authorized to take testimony or to
decide upon evidence in any proceeding. shall have power to
administer oaths or affirmations. 

§ 444. When a person is sworn who believes in any 
other than the Christian religion, he may he sworn accord·
iug to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any 
such. 

§ 445. Any witnesa who desires it may, at hie option,
Instead of taking an oath, make hie solemn affirmation or
declaration, by usseutiug, when addressed, in the following
form: "You do eolemnly affirm, that the evidence you shall 
give in this iesue, (or matter) pending between ---- and
---, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth." Assent to this affirmation shall be made "by
the answer, " I do." A false affirmation or declaration shall
be deemed perjury, equally with a false oath. 

§ 446. Any court in which an action is pending, or a
judge tnereof, or a county judge, may, upon notice, order
either party to give to the other within a specified time an
inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy of any
book, document, or paper in his possession, or under his con­
trol, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, 
or the defense therein. If compliance with the order be
refused, the court may exclude the book, document, or paper,
from being given in evidence ; or if wanted as evidence by
the party applying, muy direct the jury to presume it to be
such as he alleges it to be ; and the court may also punish
the party refusing for a contempt. This sectiou shall not 
be construed to prevent a pll.rty from compelling another to 
produce books, papers, or documents, when be is examined
as a witness. 

§ 447. There shall be no evidence of the contents of u
writing, other than the writing itself, except in the following 
cases:
First. When the original bas been lost or destroyed ; 
in which case proof of the lose or destruction shall first be
made. 
Second. When the original is in the posaession of the
party against whom the evidence is offered, and he fails to 
produce it after reasonable notice. 
Third. When the original is a record or other document,
in the custody of a public officer. 
Fourth. When the original has been recorded, and a
certified copy of the record is made evidence by statute. 
Fifth. When the original consists of numerous accounts
or other documents, w hicb cannot be examined in court with­
out great loss of time, and the evidence sought from them is
only the genera I result of the whole. 

§ 448. The party producing a writing as genuine, which
has been altered, or appears to have been altered, after its
execution, in a part material to the question in dispute, and
such alteration is not noted on the writing, shall account for
the llppAarance or alteration. He may show that the alter­
ation was made by another, without bis concurrence, or was
made with tbe consent oft.he parties affected by it, or other· 
wise properly or innocently made. If be do tbaf, he may
give the writing in evidence, but not otherwise.

§ 449. A judicial record of this State, or of the United .
States, may be proved by the production of the original, or 
a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, or other person having 
the legal custody thereof, under the seal of the court, to be a 
true copy of such record. 

§ 460. The records and judicial proceedings of the courts
of any other state of the United States may be proved or ad­
mitted in the courts of this State by the attestation of the clerk
and the seal of the court annexed, if there be a seal, together
with ·a certificate of the judge, chief justice or presiding
magistrate, as the case may be, that the said attestation is in
due form.

§ 451. A judicial record of a foreign country may be
proved by the production of a copy thereof, certified by the
clerk, with the seal of the court annexed, if there be a clerk
and seal ; or by the legal keeper of the record with the eea.l 
of hie office annexed, if there be a seal, to he a true copy of
such record; together with a certificate of a judge of the
court, that the person making the certificate is the clerk of
the court, or the legal keeper of the record, and in either
case, that the signature is genuine, and the certificate in doe
form ; and also together with the certificate of the minister
or ambassador of the United States or of a consul of the
United States, in such foreign country, that there is such a
court, specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction, and
verifying the signature of the judge and clerk, or other legal
keeper of the record. 

§ 452. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign country
shall also be admissible in evidence upon proof: 
First. That the copy offered has been compared by the
witness with the original, and is an exact transcript of the
whole of it. 
Second. That such original WR8 in the custody of the
clerk of the court, or other legal keeper of the Mme ; and, 
Third. That the copy is duly attested by a seal, which is
proved to be the seal of the court where the record remains,
if it be the record of a. court ; or if there be no such seal, or
if it be not a record of a court, by the signature of the legal
keeper of the original. 

§ 453. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code, or
other written law, enacted by any other state, or territory,
or foreign government, purporting or proved to have been
published by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly
admitted as evidence of the existing law, in the courts and
judicial tribunals of such state, territory, or govemment, shall 
be admitted by the courts and officers of this State, on all
occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. 

§ 454. A seal of a court or public office, when required 
to any writ or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a
copy of any record or document, may be impressed with
wax, wafer, or any other substance, and then attached to
the writ, process, or proceeding, or to the copy of the record 
or document, or it may be impressed on the paper alone. 

§ 455. The writ of certiorari may be denominated the
writ of review. 

§ 456. This writ may be granted on application by any
court of this State, except a justices, or recorder's, or mayor's
court; the writ shall be granted in all cases when an inferior
tribunal, hoard or officer, exercising judicial functions, bas
exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board or officer ;
and there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the court, any 
plain, speedy, and adequate remedy. 

§ 457. The application shall be made on affidavit by the
party beneficially interested, and the court may require ll 
notice of the application to be given to the adverse party, or
may grant an order to show cause why it should not be allow·
ed, or may grant the writ without notice. 

§ 458. The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal,
hoard or officer, or to any other person having the custody of
the record or proceedings to be certified. When directed to
a tribunal, the clerk, if there be one, shall return the writ.
with the transcript required. 

§ 459. The writ of review shall command the party to 
whom it is directed to certify fully to the court issuing the
writ, at a specified time and place, and annex to the writ a
transcript of the record and proceedings (describing or refer­
ring to them, with convenient certainty), that the same may 
be reviewed by the court ; and reqniring the party in the
meantime to desist from further proceedings in the matter to
be reviewed. 

§ 460. If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the wor«te
requiring the stay shall be omitted from the writ; these words
may be inserted or omitted in the sound discretion of the
court; hat if omitted, the power of the inferior court or
officer shall not be suspended, nor the proceedings stayed.

§ 461. The writ shall be served in the same mammer a11 a
summons in civil action, except when otherwise expressly
directed by the court. 

§ 462. The review upon this writ shall not be extended
further than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, board,
or officer has regularly pursued the authority of such tribu­
nal, board, or officer. 

§ 463. If the return to the writ be defective, the court 
may order a further return to be made. When a full return
has been made, the court shall proceed to hear the parties, or
such of them as may attend for that purpose, and may there­ 
upon give judgment, either affirming, or annulling, or modi­
fying the proceedings below. 

§ 464. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, shall
be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or officer hav­
ing the custody of the record or proceeding certified up. 

§ 466. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, en­
tered upon, or attached to, the writ and return, shall consti­ 
tute the judgment roll. If the proceeding be bad in any 
other than the supreme court, an appeal may be taken from
the judgment in the same manner, and upon the same terms.

§ 466. The writ of mandamus may be denominated the
writ of mandate. 

§ 467. It may be issued by any court in this State, except 
a justi~'s, recorder's, or mayor's court, to any inferior tribu­
nal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance
of an act, which the law specially enjoins, as a duty result·
ing from an office, trust, or station; or to compel the admis­
sion of a party to the use and enjoyment of a right, or office
to which he is entitled, and from which be is unlawfully 
precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or
person. 

§ 468. Thie writ shall be issued in all cases where there
is not a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy, in the ordinary
coarse of law. It shall be issued npon affidavit, on the ap­
plication of the party beneficiall v interested. 

§ 469. The writ shall hEl either alternative or peremptory ;
the alternative writ shall state generally the allegation
against the party to whom it is directed, and command such
party, immediately after the receipt of the writ, or at some
other specified time, to do the act required to be performed,
or to show cause before the court, at a specified time and
place, why be has not done so. The peremptory writ shall
be in a similar form, except that the words requiring the
party to show cause why he has not done as commanded shall
be omitted, and a return day shall be inserted. 

§ 470. When the application to the court is made without
notice to the adverse party, and the writ he allowed, the
alternative shall be first issued; but if the application be
upon due notice, and the writ be allowed, the peremptory 
m"y be issued in the first instance. The notice of the appli­
cation, when given, shall be at least ten days. The writ
shall not be granted by default. The case shall be heard by
the court, whether the adverse party appear or not. 

§ 471. On the retnrn day of the alternative, or the day on
which the application of the writ is noticed, or such further
day as the court may allow, the party on whom the writ or
notice sball have been served may show cause by answer
under oath, made in the same manner as an answer i.o a
complaint in a civil action. 

§472. If an answer be made, which raises a question
as to a matter of fact essential to the determination of the
motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the parties,
and upon the supposed truth of the allegation of which the
application for the writ is based, the court may, in its dis­
cretion, order the question to be tried before a jury, and
postpone the argument until such trial can be bad, and the
verdict certified to the court. The question to be tried shall
be distinctly stated in the order for trial, and the county shall
be designated in which the sume shall be had. The order
may also direct the jury to assess any damages which the
applicant may have sustained in case they find for him. 

§ 473. On the trial, the applicant shall not be precluded
by the answer of any valid objection to its sufficiency, aud
may eouutervail it by proof either in direct denial or by ~ay
of avoidance. 

§ 474. If either party be disaatistled with the verdict of
the jury, he may move for a new trial upon a statement pre­
pared as provided in section one hundred and ninety-five. 
The motion for a new triai may, upon reasonable notice, be
brought, on before the judge of the court in which the cause
was tried, either in term or vacation. If a new trial be
granted, the jury shall, within five days thereafter, nnlees
tile parties agree on a longer time, be summoned to try the
issue. After a second verdict in favor of the same party, a
new trial shall not be had. 

§ 475. If no notice for R new trial be given, or if given,
be denied. the clerk, within five days after the rendition of
the verdict or denial of the motion, shall transmit to the
court in which the application for the writ is pending, a certi­
fled copy of the verdict attached to the order of trial; after
which either party may bring on the argument of the appli­
cation, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party. 

§ 476. If no answer be made, the case shall he heard on
the papers of the applicant. If an answer be made which
does not raise a question such as is mentioned in section four
hundred and seventy-two, but ouly such matters as may be
explained or avoided by a reply, the court may, in its discre­
tion, grant time for replying. If the answer, or answer and
reply, raise only questions of law, or put in issue immaterial
statements, uot affecting tbe substantial rights of the parties,
the court shall proceed to hear, or fix a day for. hearing the
argument of the ease.

§ 477. If judgment be given for the applicant, he shall
recover the damages which he shall have sustained as found
by the jury, or as may be determined by the court, or
referees, upon a reference to be ordered, together with costs ;
and for such damages and costs, an execution may issue ;
and a peremptory mandate shall also be awarded without
delay. 

§ 478. The writ shall be served in the same manner W! a
summons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly
directed by order of the court. 

§ 479. When a peremptory mandate bas been issued and
directed to any inferior tribunal. corporation, hoard, or per­
son, if it appear to the 'court that any member of such tri­
bunal, corporation, or board, or such person upon whom the
writ. has been personally served, has, without just excuse,
refused or neglected to obey the same, the court may, upon
motion, impose a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars.
Ju case of persistence in a refusal of obedience, the court
may order the party to be imprisoned for a period not ex­
eeeding three months, and may take any orders necessary
and proper for the complete enforcement of the writ. If a
fine be imposed upon a judge or officer who draws a salary
from the State or county, a certitied copy of the order shall
be forwarded to the controller, or county treasurer, as the
case may be, and the amount thereof may be retained from
the salary of such judge 01· officer. Such judge or officer for 
hie willful disobedience shall also be deemed guilty of a mis­
demeanor in office.

§ 480. The following acts or omissions shall be deemed
contempts: 
First. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior
towards the judge whilst holding court, or engaged in his
judicial duties at chambers, or towards referees or arbitrators 
whilst sitting on a reference or arbitration, tending to inter­
rupt the due course of a trial, reference, or arbitration, or
other judicial proceeding. 
Second. A breach of the peace, boisterons conduct, or
violent disturbance in presence of the court or its immediate
vicinity, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or
other judicial proceeding. 
Third. Disobedience or resistance to any lawful writ,
order, rule, or proceea, iesued by the court, or judge at
chambers. 
Fourth. Disobedience of a enbpoena duly served, or re·
fusing to be sworn or answer as a witneee. 
Fifth. Rescuing any person or property in the cnstod., of
any officer, by virtue of an order or process of such court or
judge at chambers. 

§ 481. When a contempt is committed in the immediate
view and presence of the court, or judge at chambers, it may
be punished summarily; for which an order shall be made
reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view and
presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is
thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished ll8 
therein prescribed. When the contempt ie not. committed in
the immediate view and presence of the court, or judge at
chambers, an affidavit shall be presented to the court or
judge, of the facts constituting the contempt, or a statement of
the facts by the referees or arbitrators. 

§ 482. When the contempt is not committed in the im­
mediate view and presence of the court or judge, a warrant
of attachment may be issued to bring the person charged to
answer, or without a previous arrest, a warrant of commit­
ment may upon notice, or upon an order to show cause, be
granted ; and no warrant of commitment shall be issued
without such previous attachment to answer, or such notice
or order to show cause. 

§ 483. \Vhenever a warrant of attachment is issued pur­
suant to this chapter, the court or judge shall direct by an
indoreement on such warrant, that the person charged may
be let to bail for hie appearance, in an amount to be specified 
in such indorsement.

§ 484. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the
sheriff shall keep the person in custody, bring him before the
court or judge, and detain him until an order be made in the
premises, unlesa the person arrested entitle himself to be dis·
charged, as provided in the next section. 

§ 485. When a direction to let the person arrested to bail
is contained in the warrant of attachment, or indorsed there­
on, he shall be discharged from the arrest, upon executing and
delivering to the officer, at any time before the return day of
the warrant, a written undertaking, with two sufficient sure­
ties, to the effect that the person arrested will appear on the
return of the warrant, and abide the order of the court or
jndge thereupon; or they will pay as may be directed, the
sum specified in the warrant. 

§ 486. The officer shall return the warrant of arrest and
the undertaking, if any, received by him from the person
arrested, by the return day specified therein. 

§ 487. When the person arrested has been brought up or 
appeared, the court or judge shall proceed to investigate the
charge and shall hear any answer which the person arrested
may make to the same, and may examine witnesses for or
against him, for which an adjournment may be had from time 
to time, if necessary. 

§ 488. Upon the answer and evidence taken, tbe conrt or
judge shall determine wbetber the person proceeded against 
is guilty of tbe comtempt charged, and if it be adjudged that
he is guilty of the contempt, a fine may be imposed on him
not exceeding live hundred dollars, or he may be imprisoned
not exceeding tive days, or both. 

§ 489. When the contempt consists in the omission to per­
form an act which is yet in the power of the person to per·
form, he may be imprisoned until he have performed it, and
in that case the act shall be specified in the warrant of com­
mitment. 

§ 490. Persons proceeded against according to the provis­
ions of this chapter, shall also be liable to indictment for the
same misconduct, if it be an indicta hie offense ; but the court
before which a conviction is had on the indictment, in passing
senteuce, shall take into consideration tbe punishment before 
inflicted. 

§ 491. When the warrant of arrest bas been returned
served, if the person arrested do not appear on the return
day, the court or judge may issue another warrant of arrest,
or may order the undertaking to be prosecuted, or both. If
the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of damages in
the action shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained
by the aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduet for
which the warrant was issued, and the costs of the pro- 
ceediug. 

§ 492. Whenever by the provisions of this chapter an
officer is required to keep a person arrested on a warrant of
attachment in custody, and to bring him before a court or 
judge, the inability from Illness or otherwise of the person to
attend shall be a sufficient excuse for not bringing him up ;
and the officer shall not confiue a person arrested upon the
warrant in a prison or otherwise restrain him of personal
liberty, except so far as way be necessary to secure his per·
sonal attendance. 

§ 493. The judgment and orders of the court or judge
made in cases of contempt, shall be final and conclusive,
The punishment shall be by fine or by imprisonment, but no
fine shall exceed the sum of five hundred dollars, and no im­
prisonment. shall exceed the period of five days, except as
provided in section four hundred and eighty-nine. 

§ 494. The measure and mode of compensation of attor­
neys and counsellors shall be left to the agreement, express
or implied, of the parties; but there shall be allowed to the
prevailing party in any action in the supreme court, district
court, superior court of the City of Sau Francisco, and county
courts, his costs and necessary disbursements in the action,
or special proceeding in the nature of an action.

§ 495. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintiff
upon a judgment in his favor in the following cases: 
First. In an action for the recovery of real property.
Second. In an action to recover the possession of personal 
property, when the value of the property amounts to three
hundred dollars or over. Such value shall be determined by
the jury, court, or referee, by whom the action is tried. 
Third. In an action for the recovery of money or dama­
ges, where plaintiff recovers three hundred dollars or over. 
Fourth. In a special proceeding in the nature of an action. 

§ 496. When several actions are brought on one bond
undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other m­
strument in writing, or in any other case for the same canse
of action, against several parties who might have been joined
as defendants in the same action, no costs sball be allowed to 
the plaintiff in more than one of such actions, which may be
at bis election, if the part.y proceeded against in the other
actions were at the commencement of the previous action
openly within this State ; but the disbursements of the plain­
tiff shall be allowed to him in each section [action.] 

§ 497. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant
upon a judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in sec­
tion four hundred and ninety-five, and in a special proceed­ 
ing in the nature of Kn action. 

§ 498. In other actions than those mentioned in section
four hundred and ninety-five, costs may be allowed or not;
and if allowed, may be apportioned between the parties on
the same or adverse sides iu the discretion of the court; but uo
costs shall be allowed in an action for the recovery of money or
damages when the plaintiff recovers less than three hundred
dollars, nor in an action to recover the poasession of personal
property when the value of the property is less than three
hundred dollars.

§ 499. When there are several defendants in the actions
mentioned in section four hundred and ninety-five, not nnited
in interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers,
and the plaintiff faila to recover judgment against all, the
court shall award costs to such of the defendants as have judg­ 
ment in their favor. 

§ 500. In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall
be in the discretion of the court: 
First. When a new trial is ordered. 
Second. When a judgment is modified. 

§ 504. The fees of referees shall be ti ve dollars to each for
every day spent iu the business of the reference; but the
parties may agree in writing-upon any other rate of compen­
sation, and thereupon such rate shall be allowed.

§ 505. When an application is made to a court or referee 
to postpone a trial, the payment. of costs occasioned by the
postponement may he imposed, in the discretion of the court 
01· referee, as a condition of granting the same.

§ 606. When in au action for the recovery of money only,
tbe defendant alleges in bis answer that before the commence­
ment of the action he tendered to the plaintifft.he full amount,
to which he was entitled, and thereupon deposits in court for
plain tiff the amount so tendered, and the allegation he found
to be true, the plaintiff shall not recover costs, but shall 
pay costs to the defendant.

§ 607. In an action prosecuted or defended by au execu­
tor, administrator, trustee of [an] express trust, or a person
expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovered, ae in
action by and against a person prosecuting or defending in
hie own right; but such costs shall, by the judgment, be made
chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or party represented,
unless the court shall direct the same to be paid by the plaint­
iff or defendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith
in the action or defense. 

§ 608. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdic­
tion in a special proceeding, ie brought before a court of
higher jurisdiction for a review in nny other way than by
appeal, the same costs shall be allowed as in cases on appeal,
and may be collected by execution, or in such manner as the
court may direct, according to the nature of the case. 

§ 609. On the commencement of an action, the plaintiff,
and on the filing of notice of appeal from final judgment, the
appellant, shall pay to the clerk three dollars, to be applied
to the payment of the salary of the judge of the court in
which the payment is made. Each clerk shall keep a true
and accurate account of all moneys so received, and shHII
pay over the same at the end of each month to the judge of
such court, taking duplicate receipts for each payment, one of
which shall be filed by the Mid clerk in his office. On the
first day of each month the said clerk shall deliver to the
auditor of the county an account of all sums received, speci­
fying the cases in which received, and of all sums paid out. 
At the same time, a like account shall be made out and for­
warded by such clerk to the controller of State of the sums
paid inio the district court, and of the sums paid out, with the
other receipts of said judge therefor. It shall be the duty of
the dietriet attorney, at the commencement of each month, 
to examine the books of Mid clerk, and if found correct in
the amount paid to the district jndge, he shall make and exe­
cute a certificate to such controller to that effect ; and if said
books shall be found correct in the amount paid to the county 
judge, the said district attorney shall in like manner make
and execute a certificate to the county auditor to that effect. 
In paying the salary of any district judge, the controller shall
deduct the amount paid to such judge, as shown by his
receipt; and in like manner the county auditor, in payiug
the salary of any county judge, shall deduct the amount to 
such judge, as shown by his receipt.

§ 510. The party in whose favor judgment is rendered, 
and who claims his costs, shall deliver to the clerk of the
court, within two days after the verdict or decision of the
court, a memorandum of the items of his costs and necessary
disbursements in the action or proceeding; which memoran­
dum shall be verified by the oath of the party, or his attor­
ney, stating that the items are correct, and that the disburse- 
ments have been necessarily incurred in the action or pro­
ceeding.

§ 511. The clerk shall include in the judgment entered up
by him, any interest on the verdict, or decision, of the court,
from the time it was rendered, or made, and the costs, if the
same have been taxed, or ascertained ; and he shnll, within
two days after the same shall be taxed, or ascertained, if not
included in the judgment, insert the same in a blank, left in. 
the judgment for that purpose, and shall make a similar inser­
tion of the costs in the copies and docket of the judgment.

§ 512. When the plaintiff in an action resides out of the
State, or is a foreign corporation, security for the costs and
charges which may be awarded against such plaintiff may be
required by the defendant. When required, all proceedings
in the action shall be stayed until an undertaking, executed
by two or more persons, be filed with the clerk, to the effect
that they will pay such costs and charges as may be awarded
against the plaintiff by judgment, or in the progress of the
action, not exceeding the sum of three hundred dollars. A
new or an additional undertaking may be ordered by the
court or jndge upon proof that the original undertaking is
insufficient security, and proceedings in the action stayed
until snch new or additional undertaking be executed and filed. 

§ 513. Each of the sureties on the undertaking mentioned
in the last section shall annex to the same au affidavit that 
he is a resident and householder or freeholder within the
county, and is worth donble the amount specified in the under­
tak iug, over and above all his just debts and liabilities, exclu­
sive of property exempt from execution. 

§ 514. After the lapse of t.hirty days from the service of
notice that security is required, or of an order for new or
additional security, upon proof thereof, and that no undertak­
ing as required has heeen tiled, the court or judge may order.
the action to be dismissed. 

§ 616. Every direction of a court or judge made or en­
tered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denomin­ 
ated an order. An application for an order i11 a motion. 

§ 516. Motions shall be made in the county in which the
action is brought, or iu an adjoining county in the same dis­
trict. 

§ 517, When a written notice of a motion is necessary,
it shull be given, if the court be held in the same district
with both parties five days before the time appointed for
the hearing; otherwise tendays, but the court, or judge, or
county judge may prescribe a shorter time.

§ 518. When a notice of a motion is given, or an order to
show cause is made returnable before a judge out of court,
and at the time fixed for the motion, or on the return day of
the order, the judge is unable to hear the parties, the matter
may be transferred by his order to some other judge, before
whom it might originally have been brought. 

§ 519. Written notices and other papers, when required
to be served on the party or attorney, shall be served in the
manner prescribed in the next three sections, when not other­
wise provided ; but nothing in this title shall be applicable to
original or final process, or any proceedings to bring a party
into contempt. 

§ 520. The service may be personal, by delivery to the 
party or attorney, on whom the service is required to be
made, or it may be as follows : 
First. If upon an attorney, it may be made during i,is 
absence from his office, by leaving the notice or other papers
with his clerk therein, or with a person having charge there­ 
of; or when there is no person in the office, by leaving them, 
between the hours of• eight in the morning and six in the
afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the office ; or if it be not
open, BO as to admit of such service, then by leaving them at
the attorney's residence, with some person of suitable age
and discretion; and if bis residence be not known, then by
putting the same, inclosed in a envelope, into the post office,
directed to such attorney. 
Second. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the
notice or other paper at his residence between the hours of
eight in the morning and six in the evening, with some per­
son of suitable age and discretion ; and if his residence be
not known, by putting the same, inelosed in an envelope,
into the post office directed to such party. 

§ 621, Service by mail may be made, where the person
making the service, and the person on whom it is to be made, 
reside in different places, between which there is a regular
communication by mail.  

§ 622. In case of service by mail, the notice, or other
paper. shall be deposited in the post office, addressed to the
person on whom it is to be served, at bis place of residence,
and the postage paid. And in such case, the time of service
shall be increased one day for e,•ery twenty-five miles dis­
t.ance, between the place of deposit and the place of address ; 
provided, that service in any case shall be deemed complete 
at. the end of ninety days from the date of its deposit in the
post office.

§ 523. A defendant shall be deemed to appear in an ac­
tion when he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintiff written
notice of his appearance, or when an attorney gives notice
of appearance for him. After appearance, a defendant or 
his attorney sh,11I be entitled to notice of all subsequent pro­
ceedings of which notice is required to be given. But where
a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers
need not to be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for
want of bail. 

§ 524. When a plaintiff or a defendant who has appeared
resides out of the State, and has no attorney in the action or
proceeding, the service may be made on the clerk for him.
But In all cases where a party has an attorney in the action
or proceeding, the service of papers, when required, shall be
upon the attorney instead of the party, except of aubpcenas,
of writs, and other process issued in the suit, and of papers
to bring him into contempt. 

§ 525. Successive actions may be maintained upon the
same contract, or transaction, whenever, after the former ac­
tion, a new cause of action arises therefrom. 
Consolidation of actions. 

§ 526. Whenever two or more actions are pending at
one time between the same parties, and in the same court, 
upon causes of action which might have been joined, the
court may order the actions to be consolidated into one. 

§ 627. An action mav be brought by one person ag-.1inl!t 
another, for the purpose of determining an adverse claim
which the latter makes against the former, for money or
property, upon an alleged obligation; and also against two
or more persons. for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy
a debt due to the other, for which the plaintiff is bound as 
security. 

§ 628. The clerk shall keep among the records of the 
court a register of actions. He shall enter therein the title
of the action, with brief notes under it, from time to time, of
all papers filed and proceedings had therein. 

§ 629. When there are three referees, 01· three arbitra­ 
tore, all shall meet, but two of thew may do any act which
might be done by all. 

§ 530. The time within which an act is to be done, as 
provided in this act, shall be computed by exclnding the first
day, and including the last; if the last day be Sunday, it shall
be excluded, When the act to he done relates to the plead­
ings in the action, or the nudertakings to be filed, or the justi- 
fication of sureties, or the service of notices, other than of
appeal, or the preparation of statements, or of bills of excep­ 
tions, or of amendments thereto, the time allowed by this act
may be extended, upon good cause shown, by the court in
which the action is pending, or the Judge thereof, or in the
absence of such judge from the county in which the action is
pending, by the county judge; but such extension shall not
exceed thirty days, beyond the time prescribed by this act,
without the consent of the adverse party.

§ 531. An affidavit, notice, or other paper, without, the title of the action or proceeding in which it is made, or with 
a defective title, shall be as valid and effectual for any pur­
pose as if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to such action
or proceeding. 

§ 532. When a cause of action has arisen in another 
state, or in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof an
action thereon cannot there be maintained against a person
by reason of the lapse of time, an action thereon shall not be
maintained against him in this State, except in favor of a
citizen thereof, who bas held the cause of action from the
time it accrued. 

§ 533. The provisions of title one of this act, as to parties 
to actions, shall be applicable to actions of which a justice's
court bas jurisdiction ; also, the provisions of this act from section three hundred and seventeen to section three hund­
red and thirty-two, both sections inclusive, are hereby made
applicable to justices' courts, the word "justice" being sub­
stitnted for the word "clerk," and the word "constable·•
for the word "sheriff."

§ 534. Parties in juetices' courts may prosecute or defend 
in person, or by attorney: and any pel'l:lon. on the request of
a party, may act as bis attorney, except that the consta ble
by whom the summons or jury process was served, shall not.
appear or act on the trial in behalf of either party. 

§ 535. No pel'Bon shall be held to answer to any summons
issued against him from a justice's court, in a civil action, in 
any township or city other than the one in which he shall
reside, except in the cases following : 
.First. When there shall be no justice's court for the
township or city in which the defendant may reside, or no
justice competent to act on the case. 
Second. When two or more persons shall be jointly or
jointly and severally bound in any debt or contract, or other­ 
wise jointly liable in the same action, and reside in different
townships or different cities of the same county, or in dif­
ferent counties, the plaintiff may prosecute his action in a 
justice's conrt of the township or city in which any of the
debtors or other persons liable may reside. 
Third. In cases of injury to the person, or to real or per­
sonal property, the plaintiff may prosecute his action in the 
township or city where the injury was committed.
Fourth, Where personal property, unjustly taken or de­ 
tained, is claimed, or damages therefor are claimed, the
plaintiff' may bring his action in any township or city in 
which the property may be found, or in which the property 
was taken. 
Fifth. When the defendant is a non-resident of the coun­
ty, he may be sued in any township or city wherein he may 
be found. 
Sixth. When a person has contracted to perform any obli­
gation at a particular place, and resides in another connty
or ma township or city of the same county, he may be sued
in the township or city in which such obligation is to be
performed or in which he resides; and for the purpose of
justices' courts' jurisdiction under this clause, the township 
or city in which t.he obligation is incurred shall be deemed to
be the township or city in which it is to be performed, unless
there is a special contract to the contrary. 
Seventh. When the foreclosure of a mortgage or the
enforcement of a lien upon personal property is sought by
the action, the plaintiff may sue in the township or city
where the property is situated. 
Eighth. Any person or persons residing iu the City of
San Francisco may be held tto answer to any summons
issued against, him or them from the court of a justice for
any township within the corporate limits of the City of San
Francisco, in any action or proceeding whereof justices of
the peace of the City or County of San Francisco have or
may have jurisdiction by law; provided, nothing herein con­
tained shall be construed to allow any jnetice of said city
or county to hold a court in any other township than the
one for which he shall have been elected.

§ 536. Judgment upon confession may be entered up m
any justice's court in the State specified in the confession. 

§ 537. Justices' courts shall have jurisdiction of an action
and the persons of the parties thereto, upon the voluntary 
appearance of the parties without summons, and without re­
gard to their residences or the place where the cause of'­
action arose or the subject matter of the action may exist.
The plaintiff may commence an action by summons, either
in the township or city where the contract was by its terms
to be performed, or in which the defendant resides, as be may
eleet.

§ 538. Actions in justices' courts shall be commenced by
filing a copy of the account, note, bill, bond, or instrument
upon which the action is brought, or a concise statement in
writing of the cause of action, and th" issuance of a sum- 
mons thereon, or by the voluntary appearance and pleadings
of the parties without summons. In the latter case the action
shall be deemed commenced at the time of appearance.

§ 539, When a guardian is necessary, be shall be appoint­
ed by the justice as follows: 
First. If the infant be plaintiff. the appointment shall be
made before the summons is issued, upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years or upwards;
if under that age, upon the application of some relative or
friend. The consent in writ.ing of the guardian to be ap­
pointed, and to be responsible for costs, if he fail in the action,
shall be first filed with the justice. 
Second. If the infant be defendant, the guardian shall ·be
appointed at the time the summons is returned, or before the
pleadings. It shall be the right of the infant to nominate hie
own guardian, if the infant be over fourteen years of age,
and the proposed guardian be present and consent in writing
to be appointed. Otherwise, the justice IDliY appoint any
suitable person who gives such consent. 

§ 540. The summons shall be addressed to the defendant
by name, or if hie name be unknown, by a fictitious name;
and shall summon him to appear before tho justice at hie
office, naming its totynehip or city, and at a time specified
therein, to answer the complaint of the plaintiff, for a cause
of action therein described in general terms, sufficient to 11.p·
prise the defendant of the nature of the claim against him;
and in action for money or damages, shall state the amount
for which the plaintiff will take judgment, if the defendant 
fail to appear and answer. It shall be subscribed by the
justice before whom it is returnable. 

§ 541. The time in which the summons shall require the
defendant to appellr and answer the complaint shall be as
follows: 
First. If the plaintiff and defendant reside within the
township when [where] the action is brought, within ten
days after the service thereof. 
Second. If the plaintiff and defendant reside out of the
township but within the county where the action is brought,
within five days after the service thereof. 
Third. If the plaintiff reside out of the township where
the action is brought and the defendant resides in said town­
ship, withiu three days after the service thereof. 
Fourth. If the defendant reside out of the county or town­
ship in which the action is brought and the plaintiff resides
in said township, within fifteen days after the service there­
of. 
The defendant may appear in the action by demurrer or
answer at any time after service of summons upon him, and 
shall notify the plaintiff, by written notice, of such appear­
ance. If any of the defendants shall fail to answer or appear
in the action within the time prescribed in the summons, such
default shall be entered by the justice in his docket. If all
of the defendants shall fail to appear or answer within the
time prescribed in the summone, the justice shall thereupon
enter judgment againstthem for the amount demanded in the
summons, where the action is brought upon a contract for the 
direct payment of money; and in all other cases shall bear 
the proofs, and give judgment in accordance with the plead- 
ings and proofs. Where all the defendants served with pro­
cesa shall have appeared, or some of them have appeared
and the remaining defendants have made default, the justice
ml:ly proceed to try the cause, or, upon good cause shown by
either party, may fix the day for trial on any subsequent day
not more than ten days thereafter.

§ 542. The summons shall be served by the sheriff or a
constable of the county as follows: 
First. If the action be against a corporation, by delivery
of a copy to the president or other head of the corporation,
or to the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof; or
when no such officer resides in the county, to a director resi­
dent therein. 
Second. If against a minor under the age of fourteen.

§ 541. The time mentioned In the summons for the appiaraoce of 
the defendant, and time of service, shall be as follows:
Fir,t. When the summons Is accompanied with an order to arrest 
the defendant, It shall be returnable Immediately. 
years, by delivery of a copy to such minor, and also to hit1
father, mother, or guardian; or if there be none within the
connty,.then to any person having the care or control of such
minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is. 
Third. If against a person judicially declared to be of un­
sound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and
for whom a guardian has been appointed, by delivery of a.
copy to such guardian. 
Fourth. In an other cases, by delivery of the copy to the
defendant personally. 

§ 543. When the person upon whom the service is to be
made resides ont of the State, or bas departed from the State,
or cannot after due diligence be found within the State, or
conceals himself to avoid the service of summons, and the
fact shall appear, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the justice,
and it shall, in like manner, appear that a cause of action.
existe against, the defendant in respect to whom the serviee
is to he made, the justice shall grant an order that the service
be made by the publication of the summons; the order shall
direct the publication to be made in a newspaper, to be desig­
nated as most likely to give notice to the person to be served,
and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, at
least once a week; provided, that publication against a de­ 
fendant residing oat of the State, or absent therefrom, shall
not be less than three months, The service of summons shall
be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed
by the order of publication ; the justice shall also direct a
copy of the summons to be forthwith deposited in the post- 
office, directed to the person to be served at hie place of resi­
dence.

§ 544. An order to arrest the defendant may be indorsed
on a summons issued by the justice, and the defendant may 
be arrested thereon by the sheriff or constable, at the time of 
serving the summons', and brought before the justice, and there
detained until duly discharged in the following cases, arising
after the passage of this act; 
First. In an action for the recovery of money, or damages,
on a cause of action arising upon contract, express or implied,
when the defendant is about to depart from the State, with
intent to defraud his creditors; or where the action is for a
willful injury to the person, or for taking, detaining, or injur­
ing personal property, 
Second. In au action for a tine or penalty, or for money or
property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted
to his own use by an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or clerk,
in the course of bis employment as such, or by any other per­
son in a fiduciary capacity. 
Third. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in
contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for which
the action is brought. 
Fourth. When the defendant bas removed, concealed, or 
disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with intent to
defraud his creditors. But 110 female shall be arrested in any
action. 


§ 545. Before an order for an arrest shall be made, the
party applying shall prove to the satisfaction of the justice, by 
the affidavit of himself or some other person, the facts on 
which the application is founded. The plaintiff shall also ex­ 
ecute and deliver to the justice a written undertaking, with
two or more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant re­
cover judgment, the plaintiff will pay to him all costs that
may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he
may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum
specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least two
hundred dollars. 

§ 546. The defendant, immediately upon being arrested,
shall be taken to the office of the justice who mal!e the order,
and if he be absent, or unable to try the action, or if it be
made to appear to him by the affidavit of defendant, that he 
is a material witness in the action, the officer shall immedi­
ately take the defendant before the next justice of the city or
township, who shall take cognizance of the action, and pro­
ceed thereon, as if the summons bad been issued and the order
of arrest made by him. 

§ 547. The officer making the arrest shall immediately 
give notice thereof to the plaintiff or his attorney, or agent,
and indorse on the summons, and subscribe a certificate, stat·
ing the time of serving the same, the time of the arrest, and
of his giving notice to the plaintiff. 

§ 548. The officer making an arrest shall keep the defend­
ant in custody until duly discharged by order of the justice. 

§ 649. The defendant nuder arrest on bis appearance with
the officer, may demand a trial immediately; and upon such
demand being made, the trial shall not be delayed beyond
three hours, except by the trial of another action pending at
the same time; or he may have an adjournment, and be dis­
charged on giving bail, as provided in the next section. An
adjournment at the request of the pluintitf, beyond three
hours, shall discharge the defendant from arrest, but the action
may proceed notwithstanding; and the defendant shall be
subject to arrest on the execution in the same manner as if he
had not be~n so discharged. 

§ 560. If the defendant on his appearance demand an ad­
jourmnent, the same shall be granted, on condition that be
execute and file with the justice an undertaking, with two or
more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the justice, to the
effect that he will render himself amenable to the proeesa of
the court during the pendency of the action, and such as may
be issued to enforce the judgment therein; or that the sureties
will pay to the plaintiff the amount of any judgment which
he may recover in the action, On filing the undertaking spec- 
itied in this section, the justice shall order the defendant to
be dlscharged from custody. 

§ 551. In an action upon a contract, express or implied,
made after the passage of this act, for the direct payment of
money; which contract is made or is payable in this State and
is not secured by mortgage, lien, or pledge upon real or per­
sonal property, the plaintiff at the time of issuing the sum­
mons or at any time afterwards, may have the property of the
defendant. attached as security for the satisfaction of any 
judgment that may be recovered, uulesa the defendant give
security to pay such judgment, as hereinafter provided.

§ 562. A writ to attach the property of the defendant
shall be issued by the justice, on receiving an affidavit by or
on behalf of the plaintiff, showing the same facts as are re­
quired to be shown by the affidavit specified in section one
hundred and twenty-one of this act.

§ 653. Before issuing the writ, the justice shall require a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with two or
more sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the defendant
recover judgment the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may
sustain by reason of the attachment.

§ 664. The writ may be directed to the sheriff or any 
constable of the county, and shall require him to attach and
safely keep all the property of the defendant within hie
county not exempt from execution, or eo much thereof as
may be eutlicient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand, the amount
of which shall be stated in conformity with the complaint, 
uuless the defendant give him security by the undertaking of
two sufflcieut sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such
demand besides costs; in which case, to take such under­
taking. 

§ 566. The sections of this act, from section one hundred
and twenty-four to section one hundred and forty-one, both in­
clusive, shall be applicable to attachments issued in justices'
eourts, the word'' constable" being substituted for the word 
"sheriff," whenever the writ is directed to a constable, and
the word "justice'' being substituted fol' the word "judge." 

§ 556. The plaintiff in an a~tion to recover the possession
of personal property, may at the time of issuing the sum·
mons, or at any time before answer, claim the delivery of
such property to him, as provided in this chapter. 

§ 557. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall
be made by the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf,
showing r 
First. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property
claimed (particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to 
the possession thereof.
Second. That the property is wrongfully detained by the 
defendant.
Third. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, ac­ 
cording to bis best knowledge, information, and belief. 
Fourth. That the same has not been taken for a tax, as­
sessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an
execution, on an attachment against the property of the
plaintiff, or if seized, that it is by statute exempt from such
seizure; and, 
Fifth. The actual value of the property. 

§ 558. The justice shall thereupon, by an indorsement in
writing upon the affidavit, order the sheriff or a constable of
the county to take the same from the defendant, and deliver
it to the plaintiff, upon receiving the undertaking mentioned 
in the following section. 

§ 559. Upon the receipt of the affidavit, and order, with
a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient
sureties, approved by the officer, to the effect that they are
bound in doable the value of the property as stated in the
affidavit, for the proeecntion of the action, for the return of
the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any 
cause, be recovered against the plaintiff, the officer shall
forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it be
in the posseeeion of the defendant, or his agent, and retain it
in hie custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the
defendant a copy of the affidavit, order, and undertaking, by
delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found
within the county, or to hi3 agent, from whose posseseion
the property is taken, or if neither can be found within
the county, by leaving them at the usual place of abode
of either within the county, with some person of suitable
age and discretion, or if neither have any known place of
abode within the county, by putting them into the nearest
poet-office directed to the defendant. 

§ 560. The defendant may, within two days after the
service of a copy of the affidavit. and undertaking, give notice
to the officer that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties.
If be fails to do so, be shall be deemed to have waived all
objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sure­
ties shall justify on not.ice before the justice ; and the officer
shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties until
the objection to them is either waived as above provided, or 
until they justify. If the defendant except to the sureties,
be cannot reclaim the property as provided in the next sec­
tion. 

§ 561. At any time before the delivery of the property to
the plaintiff', the defendant may, if he do not except to the
sureties of .the plaintiff, require the return thereof, upon giv­
ing to the officer a written undertaking, executed by two 01· 
more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound, in
double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of
the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintiff. if such
delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such
sum as may for any cause be recovered against the defend­
ant. If a return of the property be not so required within
two days after the taking and service of notice to the defend­
ant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided
in this chapter. 

§ 562. The defendant's sureties, upon reasonable notice 
to the plaintiff, shall justify before the justice; and upon such
justiflcation, the officer shall deliver the property to the
defendant. The officer shall be responsible for the defend­
lint's sureties until they justify, or until the justifieation is 
completed or expressly waived, and may retain the property
until that time; but if they, or others in their place, foil to 
jnstify at the time appointed, he shall deliver the property to
the plaintiff.  

§ 563. If the property 01· any part thereof be concealed 
in a building, or inclosure, the officer shall publicly demand
its delivery; and if it be not delivered, be shall cause the 
building or inclosure to be broken open, and take the prop·
erty into his possession. 

§ 564. When the officer shall have taken property, as in
this chapter provided, be shall keep it in a secure place, and
deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his law­
ful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping
the same. 

§ 565. If the property ta ken be claimed by any other
person than the defendant or his agent, and such person make
affldavit of his title thereto, or right to the posseeelon thereof,
etat.ing the grounds of such title or right, and serve the same
upon the officer, the officer shall not be bound to keep the
property, or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on
demand of him or his agent, indemnify the officer against
such claim, by an undertaking, executed by two sufficient
sureties, accompanied by their affidavits, that they are each
worth double the value of the property as specified in the affi­
davit of the plaintiff, over and above their debts and liabili­
ties, exclusive of property exempt from execution, and are
freeholders or householders of the county ; and no claim to
such property by any other person than the defendant or his
agent shall be valid against the officer, unless so made. 

§ 566. The officer shall return the order and affidavit,
with his proceedings thereon, to the justice within five days
after taking the property mentioned therein. 

§ 667. The qualification of sureties on the several under­
takings required by this chapter, shall be as follows: 
First. Each of them shall be a resident, and householder,
or freeholder within the county. 
Second. Each shall be worth double the amount stated in
the undertaking, over and above all his debts and liabilities, 
exclusive of property exempt from execution.

§ 568. For the purpose of justification, each of the sure­
ties shall attend before the justice at the time mentioned in
the notice, and may be examined on 011.th, on the part of the
adverse party, touching his sufficiency, in such manner as
the justice, in bis discretion, may think proper, The exam·
ination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the
sureties, if required . 

§ 569. If the justice find the sureties sufficient, be shall
annex the examination to the undertaking, iudorse his allow­
ance thereon, and file the same, and the officer shall there­ 
upon be exonerated from liability. 

§ 570, The pleadings in justices' courts shall be :
First. The complaint by the plaintiff, stating the cause of 
action. 
Second. The answer by the defendant, stating the ground
of the defense.

§ 571. The pleadings shall be in writing, and verified by 
the oath of the party, his agent or attorney, when the action
is: 
First. For the foreclosure of any mortgage or the enforce­
ment of any lien on personal property. 
Second. For I\ forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forci­
ble or unlawful detention of lands, tenements, or other pos­
sessions. 
Third. To recover possesaion of a "mining claim." In
other cases the pleadings may be oral or in writing. 

§ 572. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of them
shall be entered by the justice in his docket; when in writ­
ing they shall be filed in his office, and a reference to them
made in the docket. Pleadings shall not be req aired to be 
in any particular form, but shall be such as to enable a
person of common understanding to know what is intencled. 

§ 573. The complaint shall state in a plain and direct 
manner the facts constituting the cause of action. 

§ 574. The answer may contain a denial of any of the 
material facts stilted in the complaint, which the defendant
believes to he untrue, and also a statement, in a plnin and
direct manner, of any other facts constituting a defense, or a
counter claim upon which an action may he brought by the
defendant against the plaintiff in a justice'e court. 

§ 575. A statement in answer t~t the party has not suffi­ 
cient knowledge or information in respect to a particular
allegation in the previous pleading of the adverse party to
form a belief, shall be deemed equivalent to a denial. 

§ 576. When the cause of action or counter-claim arises 
upon an account or instrument for the payment of money
only, it shall be sufficient for the party to deliver a copy of
the account or instrument to the court, and to state that there
is dne to him thereupon, from the adverse party, a specified
sum, wbich he claims to recover or set-off. The court may,
at the time of the pleading, require that the original account
or instrument be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse
party, and a copy to be furnished; or if it be not so exhibited
and a copy furnished, may prohibit its being afterwards given
in evidence. 

§ 577. If the plaintiff annex to his complaint or file with
the justice at the time of issuing the summons, a copy of the
promissory note, bill of exchange, or other written obligation
for the payment of money upon which the action is brought,
the defendant shall be deemed to admit the genuineness of
the signatures of the makers, indorsere, or assignors thereof,
unlesa be specifically deny the same in hie answer, and verify­
ing the answer by his oath.

§ 578. Either party may object to a pleading of bis ad­ 
versary, or to any part thereof, that it is not sufficiently ex­
plicit to enable him to ut\l1erst.and it, or that it contains no
cause of action 01· defense, although it be taken as true. If
the court deem the objection well founded, it shall order the
pleading to be amended, and if the party refuse to amend,
the defective pleading shall be disregarded.  

§ 579. A variance between the proof on the trial and the
allegations in a pleading, shall be disregarded as immaterial,
unless the court be aatisfied that the adverse party has been
misled to hie prejudice thereby. 

§ 580. The pleadings may be amended at any time before
the trial, to supply a deficiency or omiasion, when by such
amendment substantial justice will he promoted. l:t the
amendment be made after the issue, and it be made to appear
to the satisfaction of the court by oath, that an adjournment
is ueceseary to the adverse party in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The court
may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amend­
ment, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed
by the court, not exceeding twenty dollars; but such pay­
ment shall not be required uulesa an adjournment is made
necessary by the amendment; nor shall an amendment be
allowed after a witness is sworn on the trial, when an ad­
jonrnment thereby will be made necessary. 

§ 581. The parties shall not be at liberty to give evidence
upon any question which involves the title or posseeeion of
real property, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment,
toll, or municipal fine, nor shall any issue presenting each
question he tried by said justice; and if it 11.ppear, from the
plaintiff's own showing on the trial, or from the answer of
the defendant, verified by hie oath, that the determination of
the action will necessarily involve the question of title or
poeaeseiou to real property, or the legality of any tax, impost,
aesesament, toll, or municipal fine, the justice shall suspend
all further proceedings in the action and certify the plead­ 
ings, or if the pleadinga be oral, a transcript of the same, 
from his docket to the district court of the county, and from 
the time of filing such pleadings or transcript with the county 
clerk, the district court shall have over the action the Mme
jurisdiction as if it were commenced therein.

§ 582. If. at any time before the trial, it appear to the
eatisfaction of the justice before whom the action is brought,
by affidavit of either party, that such justice is a material
witness for either party, or if either party make affidavit
that he has reason to believe, and does believe, that he can­
not have a fair and impartial trial before such justice, by
reason of the Interest, prejudice, or bias of the justice,
the action may be transferred to some other justice of the
B11me 01• neighboriug township; and in case a jury be de­
manded, and affidavit of either party is made that he cannot 
have a fair and impartial trial, on account of the bias or prej­
udice of the citizens of the township against him, the action
may be transferred to some other justice of the peace in the
county; but only one transfer shall be allowed to either
party. The justice to whom an action may be transferred by
the provislous of this section, shall have and exercise the
same jurisdiction over the action as if it had been originally
commenced before him. The justice ordering the transfer of
the action to another justice, shall immediately transmit to
the latter, on payment by the party applying of all the
costs that have accrued, all the papers in the action, together
with a certified transcript from his docket of the proceedings
therein. The justice to whom the case is transferred shill}
issue a notice. st.ating the time and place when and where
the trial will take place, which notice shall be served upon
the parties by an officer authorized to serve process in a jus­
tiee' e court, or by any person specially deputied by the justice
for that purpoae,at least one day before the trial.

§ 583. The trial may be adjourned by consent, or npon
application of either party, without the consent of the other, 
for 11 period not. exceeding ten days, (except as provided in
the next section), RB follows: · 
First. The party aaklng the adjournment shall, if reqnired
by his adversary, prove, by hie own oath or otherwise, that
be cannot, for want of material testimony, which he ex­
pects to proc·ure, safely proceed to trial, and shall show in
what respect the testimony expected is material, and that he
has used due diligeuce to procure it, and has been unable to
do so. 
Second. The party asking the adjournment shall also, if
required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of
any witnees of such adverse party who is in attendance, be
then taken by deposition before the justice, which shall ac­
cordingly be done, and the testimouy so taken may be read
on the trial, with the same effect and subject to the same
objections as if the witness were produced ; but such objec­
tions shall be made at the time of taking the deposition. 
Third. The court mayalso require the moving party to
state, upon affidavit, the evidence which be expects to obtain,
and if the ad verse party thereupon admit that such evidence
would be given, and that it be considered as actually given
on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial
shall not be postponed.

§ 584. An adjournment may be had, either at the time of 
jommg issue, or at any subsequent time to which the case
may stand adjourned, on application of either party, for a
period longer than ten days, but not to exceed four months,
from the time of the return of the summons, upon proof by
the oath of the party, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the 
justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial before the
time to which be desires an adjournment, for want of mate·
riul evidence, particularly describing it, and that the delay
has not been made neceesary by any act or negligence on his
part since the action was commenced ; that he bas used due
diligence to procure the evidence, and -has been unable to do
so, and that he expects to procure the evidence at the time
stated by him ; provided, that. if the adverse party admit
that such evidence would be given, and consent that it may
be considered as given on the trial, or offered, or overruled as
improper, the adjournment shall not be had.

§ 585. No adjonrnment shall be granted for a period
longer than ten days, upon the application of either party,
exceptupon condition that such party file an undertaking,
with sureties, to be approved by the justice, to the effect that
they will P,llY to the opposite party the amount of any judg­
ment which may be recovered against the party applying. 

§ 586. If either party shall fail to appear at the time
fixed for trial, or at the time to which the trial has been
adjourned, the trial may proceed at the request of the adverse
party, and judgment shall be rendered in conformity with
the pleadings and proofs.

§ 587. A trial by jury shall be demanded at the time of
joining issue ; and shall be deemed waived, if neither party
then demand it. When demanded, the trial of the case shall 
be adjourned, until a time and place fixed for the return of
the jury. If neither party desire an adjournment, the time
and place shall be determined by the justice, and shall be on
the same day, or within the next two days. The jury shall
be summoned upon an order of the justice from the citizens
of the city or township, and not from the bystanders. 

§ 588. At the time appointed for the trial, the justice
shall proceed to call, from the jurors summoned, thenames
of the persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the
issue. The jury by consent of the parties may consist of any
number not more than twelve nor less than three. 

§ 589. If a sufficient number of competent and indifferent
jurors do uot attend, the justice shall direct others to be sum­
moned from the vicinity, and not from the bystanders, suffi·
cient to complete the jury. 

§ 590. Either party may challenge the jurors. The
challenges shall be either peremptory, or for cause. Each
party shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges.
Either party may challenge for cause, on any grounds set
forth in section one hundred and sixty-two, Challenges for
cause shall be tried by the justice in a summary manner,
who m~y examine the juror challenged, and witnesses. 

§ 591. Judgment that the action be diamissed without
prejudice to a new action, may be entered with costs in the
following cases : 
First. When the plaintiff' voluntarily dismissea the
action before it is finally submitted. 
Second, When he fails to appear at the time specified in
the summons, · or upon adjournment, or within one hour 
thereafter. 
Third. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by
the evidence, that the action is brought in the wrong county,
or township, or city ; but if the objection be taken aud over- 
ruled, it shall be the cause only of reversal on appeal, and
shall not otherwise invalidate the judginent , if not taken at.
the trial, it shall be deemed waived, and shall not be cause
of reversal. 

§ 592. When the defendant fllile to appear and answer,
judgment shall be given for the plaintiff us follows: 
First. \Vhen a copy of the account, note, bill, or other
obligation upon which the action is brought, was filed with
the justice at the time the summons was issued, judgment
shall be given without further evidence, for the sum specified
in the summons. 
Second. In other cases the justice shall hear the evidence
of the plaintiff, and render judgment for such sum only as
shall appear by the evidence to be just; but in no case
exceeding the amount specified in the summons. 

§ 593. Upon issue joined, if a jnry trial be not demanded,
the justice shall bear the evidence, and decide all questions
of fact and of law, and render judgment accordingly. 

§ 694. Upon a verdict, the justice shall immediately 
render judgment accordingly. When the trial ie by the
justice, judgment shall be entered immediately after the
close of the trial, if the defendant has been arrested and is
still in custody, in other caees it shall be entered within four 
days after the close of the trial. If the action be on a con·
tract against two or more d~fendants, and the summons ie 
served on one or more, but not on all, the judgment shall be
entered up only against those who were served, or have
voluntarily appeared, if the contract be a several or a joint
and several contract; but if the contract he a joint contract.
only, the judgment shall be entered up against all the defend­
ants, but shall only be enforced against the joint property of
all, and the individual property of the defendants served, or
who have voluntarily appeared in the action. In an action
on a contract or obligation in writing for the direct payment
of money, made payable in a specified kind of money or
currency, judgment for the plaintiff, whether the Mme be
by default or after verdict, may follow the contract or obliga­
tion, and be made payable in the kind of money or currency
specified therein.

§ 595. When the amount found due to either party 
exceeds the sum for which the justice is authorized to enter
judgment, such party may remit the excess, and judgment 
may be rendered for the residue. 

§ 596. If the defendant, at any time before the trial, 
offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him
for a specified sum, the plaintiff may immediately have 
judgment therefor, with the costs then acerued , but if be do 
not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover in
the action a sum equal to the offer, be shall not recover
costs, but costs shall he adjudged against him, and if he
recover, deducted from his recovery. But the offer and
failure to accept it shall not be given in evidence to affect
the recovery otherwise than as to coste, as above provided. 

§ 597. When a judgment is rendered in a case where the
defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, it
shall be so stated in the judgment, and entered in the docket. 

§ 598. When the prevailing party is entitled to eoste by
this chapter, the justice shall add their amount to the verdict ;
or in case of a failure of the plaintiff to recover, or in <'88e 
of a dismissal of the action, shall enter up judgment in favor
of the defendant for the amount of such costs. 

§ 599. The justice, on demand of the party in whose favor
judgment is rendered, shall give him a transcript thereof, 
which may be filed and docketed in the office of the clerk of
the county where the judgment was rendered. The time of
the receipt of the transcript by the county clerk shall be
noted by him thereon and entered in the docket ; and from
that time executions may he issued by the county clerk on
such judgments to the sheriff of any other county of the
State, in the same manner as upon judgments recovered in
the higher courts. All proce88 upon judgments recovered in
justices' courts to be executed within the same county, shall
be issued by the justice or his successors in office. No judgment rendered by a justice of the peace shall create any lien
upon any lands of the defendant, unless a transcript of such 
judgment, certified by the justice, be filed and recorded in
the office of the recorder. When such transcript is to be filed
in any other county than that in which the justice resides,
such transcript shall be accompanied with the certificate of
the county clerk as to the official character of the justice.
When so filed and recorded in the office of the recorder · for
any county such judgment shall constitute a lien upon, and
bind the lands and tenements of the judgment debtor, sitna­
ted in the county where such transcript may be filed and re·
corded in favor of such judgment creditor, as if such judgment
had been rendered in the district court of such county.

§ 600. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment in 
a justice's court. may be issued on the application of the party·
entitled thereto, at any time within five years from the entry
of judgment .. 

§ 601. The execution, when issned by a justice, shall he 
directed to the sheriff or to a constable of the county, and
subscribed by the justice by whom the jndgment was ren­
dered, or hy his successor in office, and shall bear date the 
day of its delivery to the officer to be executed. It shall in­
telligibly refer to the judgment, by stating the names of the
parties, and the name of the justice before whom, and of
the county. and the township, or city, where, and the time
when, it was rendered; the amount of judgment, if it be for
money; and if Iese than the whole is due, the true amount
due thereon. It shall contain, in like cases, similar directions
to the sheriff or constable as are required by the provisions
of title seven of this act, in an execution to the sheriff'. 

§ 602, The sheriff' or constable to whom the execution it<
directed shall proceed to execute the same in the same man­ 
ner as the sheriff' is required by the provisions of title seven
of this act to proceed npou executions directed to him ; and
the constable, when the execution is directed to him, shall be
vested for that purpose with all the powers of the sheriff,
and, after issuing an execution, and either before or after its
return (if the same be returned unsatisfied either in whole or
in part), the judgment creditor shall be entitled to au order
from the justice requiring the judgment debtor to utteud at a
time to be designated in the order, and unswer concerning
bis property before such justice, and the attendance of such 
debtor may be enforced by the justice; on his attendance, 
such debtor may be examined under oath concerning his
property, and any person alleged to have in his hands prop· 
erty, moneys, effects 01· credits of the judgment debtor may
also be required to attend and be examined, and the justice
may order any property in the huuds of the judgment debtor
or any other person not exempt from execution, belonging to
such debtor, to be applied towards the satiefaetiou of the
jndgment, and the justice may enforce such order by imprls- 
onmeot until complied with, but no judgment debtor or other
person shall be required to attend before the justice out of
the county in which he resides.

§ 603. Those provisions of this act which are referred to 
in this title and no other, shall, in addition to the provisions
embraced in this title, be applicable to justices' courts and
proceedings tberein.

§ 604. Every justice shall keep a book denominated a 
docket, in which he shall enter: 
First. The title of every action or proceeding.
Second. The object of the action or proceeding, and if n. 
sum of money he claimed, the amount of the demand.
Third: The date of the summons and the time of its re- 
tum, and if an order to arrest the defendant be made, or a
writ of attachment be issued, a statement of these facts. 
Fourth. The time when the parties, or either of them,
appear, or their non-appearance if default be made; a minute
of the pleadings and motions, if in writing, referring to them
-if not in writing, a concise statement of the material parts
of the pleading and of all motions made during the trial by
either party, and hie decisions thereon. 
Fifth. Every adjournment, stating on whose application,
whether on oath, evidence orconsent, and to what time. 
Sixth. The demand for 11 trial by jury, when the same is
made, and by whom made, the order for the jury and the
time appointed for the trial and return of the jury. 
Seoenth, The names of the jnry, who appear and are
sworn, the names of all witaesses sworn and at whose
request. 
Eighth. The verdict of the jury and when received; if
the jury disagree and are discharged, the fact of such dis­
agreement and discharge. 
Ninth. The judgment of the court, specifying the costs
included, noel the time when rendered. 
Tenth, The issuing of the execution, when issued and to
whom, the renewals thereof, if any, and when made, and a
statement of any money paid to the justice, and when and
by whom. 
Eleventh. The receipt of a notice of appeal. if any be
given, and of the appeal bond, if auy be filed.

§ 605. The several particulars of the last section specified
shall be entered nuder the title of the action to which they
relate, and at the time when they occur. Such entries in a 
justice's docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the justice
or his successor in olflce, shall be primary evidence to prove
the facts so stated therein. 

§ 606. A justice shall keep an alphabetical index to his
docket, in which shall be entered the names of the parties to
each judgment, with a reference to the page of entry. The
names of the plaintiffs shall be entered in the index, in the
alphabetical order of the ti.rat letter of the family names. 

§ 607. It shall be the duty of every justice of the peace,
upon the expiration of his term of office, to deposit with bis
successor bis official dockets and all papers filed in bis office, 
1\8 well bis own as these of his predecessors, or any other
which may be in his custody to be kept as public records. If
the office of a justice become vacant by his death or removal
from the township or city, or otherwise, before bis successor
is elected and qualified, the dockets and papers in possession
of such justice shall be deposited in the office of some other 
justice in the township, to be by him delivered to the succes-
11<>r of said justice; and while in his possession, he may issue
execution on a judgment there entered and unsatisfied, in the
same manner and with the same effect. as the justice by whom
the judgment was entered might have done. If there be no other
jnstice in the township, then the dockets and papers of such
jnsrice shall be deposited in the office of the county clerk of 
the county, to be by him delivered to the successor in office of
the justice.

§ 608. Any justice with whom the docket of his predeces 
sor 'is deposited shall have and exercise over all _actions and
proceedings entered in the docket of his predecessor, the same
jurisdiction as if originally commenced before him. In case
of the creation of a new county, or the change of the boundary
between two counties, any justice into whose hands the
docket of a justice formerly acting a11 such within the same
territory may come, shall, for the purposes of this section, be
considered the successor of said former justice.

§ 609. The justice elected to fill a vacancy shall be deemed 
the successor of the justice whose office became vacant before
the expiration of a full term. When & full term expires, the
same or another person elected to take office in the same town­
ship, or city, from that time shall be deemed the succeseor. 

§ 610. When two or more justices are equally entitled
under the last section to be deemed the successors in office of
the justice, the county judge shall, by a certificate, subscribed
by him and tiled in the office of the county clerk, designate 
which justice shall be the successor of a justice going out of
office, or whose office has become vacant. ' 

§ 611. The summons, execution, and every other paper
made or issued by a justice, except a subpcenn, shall be filed
without a blank left to be filled by another, otherwise it shall
be void. 

§ 612. In case of the sickness, other disability, or neces­
sary absence of a justice on a return of a summous, or at the
time appointed for a trial, another justice of the same town­
ship or city may,at his request, attend in bis behalf, and shall
thereupon become vested with the power, for the time being,
of the justice before whom the summons was returnable. In
that case the proper entry of the proceedings before the at­
tending justice, subscribed by him, shall be made in the docket
of the justice before whom the summons was returnable. If
the case be adjourned, the justice before whom the summons
was returnable, may resume jurisdiction. 

§ 613. The justice may, at the request of a party, on good
cause being shown therefor under oath, but not otherwise, 
specially depute any discreet or responsible person of suitable 
age, and not interested in the action, or related to such justice
or party. to serve a summons or execution, with 01· without
an order to arrest the defendant, or with or without a writ of
attachment. The said justice shall be liable on hie official
boud for all official acts of the person eo deputed; such depn­
tation shall be in writing on the prooesa, and shall state the
reason thereof.

§ 614. The person so deputed shall have the antbority of
a constable in relation to the service, execution, and return
of such process, and shall be subject to the same obligations. 

§ 615. A constable, notwithstanding the expiration of his
term of office, may proceed and complete the execution of all
final proce11s which he has begun to execute, in the same
manner as if he still continued in office, and his sureties shall
be liable to the same extent, 

§ 616. A justice may punish as for contempt, persons
guilty of the following acts.jmd no other-: 
First. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent; behavior
towards the justice while holding the court, tending to inter­
rupt the due course of a trial, or other judicial proceeding. 
Second. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or vfo­
lent disturbance in the presence of the justice, or in the imme­
diate vicinity of the court held by him, tending to interrupt 
the due course of a trial, or other judicial proceeding.
Third. Disobedience or resistance to the execution of a 
.lawful order, or process, made or issued hy him. 
Fourth. Disobedience to a subpcena duly served, or refus­
ing to be sworn, or answer as a witness. 
Fifth. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of
any officer, by virtue of an order or process of the court held
by him. 

§ 617. When a contempt is committed in the immediate
view and presence of the justice, it may be punished summa­ 
rily, for which an order shall be made reciting the facts, as
occurring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging
that the person proceeded against is thereby guilty of a con­
tempt, and that be be punished as therein prescribed. When
the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and
presence of the justice, a warrant of arrest may be issued by
such justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested
and brought before the justice immediately, when an oppor­
tunity to be heard in bis defense or excuse shall be given.
The justice may thereupon discharge him, or may convict
him of the offense. A justice may punish for contempts, by 
fine or imprisonment, or both; such fine not to exceed in any
case one hundred dollars, and such imprisonment one day. 

§ 618. The conviction specifying particularly the offense 
and the judgment thereon, shall be entered by the justice in
his docket. 

§ 619. Justices of the peace may issue subprenas in any 
action or proceeding in the courts held by them, and final
p1·oces11, or [on) ttny judgment recovered therein to any part
of the county. A justice of the peace may issue summons to
any person, a resident of the proper township, to appear 
before him, at his office, to act as interpreter in any action or
proceeding in the courts held by him. Such summons shall
be served nnd returned in like manner as a subpcena issued
by ajnstice. Any person so summoned shall, for a failure to
attend at the time and place named in the summons, be
deemed guilty of 11. contempt, and may be punished accord­
ingly.

§ 620. Justices of the peace ma y issue commissions to 
take the depositlons of witnesses ont of this State, and settle
interrogntories t.o be annexed thereto, and direct the manner
in which the commissions shall be returned. The provisions
of title eleven of this act, so far as the same are consistent with
the jurisdiction and powers of justices' courts, shall be appli- 
cable to justices' courts, and to actions and proeeedings
therein. 

§ 621. In actions respecting mining claims, proof shall
be admitted of the customs, usages, or regulations established 
and in force at the bar, or diggings, embracing such claim;
and such custorne, usages, or regulations, when not in con­
flict with the constitution and laws of this State, shall gov­
ern the decision of the action. 

§ 622. A new trial may be granted by the justice, on
motion, within ten days after the entry of judgment, for any
one of the following causes: 
First. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against. 
Second. Excessive damages, appearing to have been
given under the influence of passion; or, 
Third. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict
or other decision. 
Fourth, Newly-discovered evidence material for the
party making the application, which he could not with reas­ 
onable diligence have discovered and produced at the time. 

§ 623. The application shall be made upon affidavit and
notice. The affidavit, shall be filed with the justice, with a
statement of the grounds upon which the party intends to
rely. The adverse party may use counter affida vite on the 
motion, provided they be filed one day previous to the hear­ 
ing of the motion. 

§ 624. Any party disaatisfled with a judgment rendered
in a justice's court may appeal therefrom to the county
court o'-he county any time within thirty days after the
rendition of the judgment. The appeal shall be taken by
filing a notice of appeal with the justice, and serving a copy
on the adverse party. The notice shall state whether the
appeal is taken from the whole or a part of the judgment,
and if from a part, what part, and whether the appeal is
taken ou questions of law or fact, or both.

§ 625. When a party appeals to the county court on
questions of law alone, he shall, within ten days from the
rendition of judgment, prepare a statement of the case and
file the same with the justice. The statement shall contain
the grounds upon which the party intends to rely on the
appeal, and so much of the evidence as may be neceesary to
explain the grounds, and no more; within ten days after he
receives notice that the statement is filed, the adverse patty,
if disaatisfled with the same, may file amendments; the pro­
posed statement and amendments shall be settled by the jus­
tice, and if no amendments be filed, the original statement
shall be adopted. The statement thus adopted or as settled
by the justice, with a copy of the docket of the justice, and
all motions filed with him by the parties during the trial, and 
tbe notice of appeal, shall be used on the hearing of the ap­
peal before the county court.

§ 626. When a party appeals to the county court on quer­
tions of fact, or on questions of both law and fact, no state­
ment need be made, but the action shall be tried anew
in the county court.

§ 627. Upon receiving the notice of appeal and on pay­
ment of the fees of the justice and tiling an undertaking as
required in the next section, the justice shall within five
days transmit to the clerk of the connty court, if the appeal
be on question of law alone, a certitied copy of bis docket,
the statement as admitted or as settled, the notice of appeal
and the undertaking filed; or, if the appeal be on questions
of fact, or both law and fact, a certified copy of his docket, 
the pleadings, all notices, motions and other papers filed in
the cause, the notice of appeal and the undertaking filed ; and
the justice may be compelled by the county court, by an
order entered upon motion, to transmit such papem, and may
be fined for neglect or refusal to transmit the same ; a certi­
fied copy of such order may be served on the justice by the
party or bis attorney. In the county court either party shall
have the benefit of all legal objections made in the justice's
court.

§ 628. An appeal from II justice's court shall not be effect­ 
ual for any purpose, unless an undertaking be tiled, wiLh
two or more sureties, in the sum of one hundred dollars, for
the payment of the costs on the appeal; or, if a stay of pro­
ceedings be claimed, in a sum equal to twice the amount of
the judgment, including costs, when the judgment is for
the payment of money; or twice the value of the property,
including costs, when the judgment is for the recovery of
specific personal property, and shall be conditioned, when
the action is for the recovery of money, tbat the appellant
will pay the amount of the judgment appealed from and all
coats, if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount
of any judgment and all coats that may be recovered against 
him in the said action iu the county court, When the action
is for the recovery of specific personal property, the under­
taking shall be conditioned that the appellant will pay the 
judgment and costs appealed from, and obey the order of the
court made therein, if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed,
or any judgment and costs that may be recovered against
him in said action in the county court, and will obey any
order made by the court therein. T.J1e undertaking shall be
accompanied by the affidavita of the sureties that they are
residenta of the county and are each worth the amount speci­
fied in the undertaking, over and above all their just debts
and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution ;
or the bond shall he executed by a sutficitmt number of sure­
ties who can justify, in the aggregate, to an amount equal to 
double the amount specified in the bond, or a deposit of the
amount of the judgment, including all coste appealed from,
or of the value of the property, including all coats in actions
for the recovery of specific personal property, with the jus­
tice. And such deposit shall he equivalent to the filing of
the undertaking in this act mentioned ; and in such cases the 
justice shall transmit the money to the clerk of the county
court, to ho by him paid out on the order of the court. The
adverse party may, however, except to the sutticiency of the
sureties within five days after the filing of the undertaking,'
and unless they or other sureties justify before the justice
before whom the appeal is taken, within five days thereafter,
upon notice to the adverse party, to the amounts stated in
their affldavits, the uppeal shall be regarded 118 if no such
undertaking bad been given.

§ 629. If an execution be issued, on the filing of the
undertaking, staying all proceedings, the justice shall, by
order, direct the officer to stay all proceeding; on the same.
Such officer shall, upon payment of his fees for services rend·
ered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all property
levied upon, and deliver the same to the judgment debtor,
together with all moneys collected from sales or otherwise.
If hit1 fees be not paid, the officer may retain so much of
the property, or proceeds thereof, as may be necessary to pay
the same. 

§ 631. Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party
in a justice's court.

§ 633. Justices of the peace ahall receive from the sheriff
or constables of their county, all moneys collected on any
process or order issued by their courts respectively, and all
moneys paid to them in their official capacity, and shall pay
the same over to the parties entitled or authorized to receive
them without, delHf', For a violation of this section they
may be removed from their office, and shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor. 

§ 634. Justices of the peace may, in all cases, require a
deposit of money, or an undertaking, ae security for costs of
court, before i88Uing a summons. 

§ 635. The provisions of sections thirty-two, three hund- 
red and sixty-eight, three hundred and sixty-nine, three
hundred and seventy, three hundred and seventy-one, t.bree
hundred and seventy-two, three hundred and seventy-three,
five hundred and nineteen, five hundred and twenty, five
hundred and twenty-three, five hundred and twenty-five,
five hundred and twenty-six, five hundred and twenty-seven,
five hundred and thirty-one, five hundred and thirty-two,
shall be applicable to justices' courts and actions therein.

§ 838. Civil actions in recorders' and mayol'B' courts shall
be commenced by filing a complaint, setting forth the viola­
tion of the ordinance complained of, with such particulars of
time, place, and manner of violation, as to enable the defend­
ant to understand distinctly the character of the ~olation
complained of, and to answer the complaint. The oPrlinance
may be referred to by its title. The complaint shall be veri­
fied by the oath of the party complaining, or of his attorney,
or agent.

§ 637. Immediately after filing the complaint, a summons
shall be issued, directed to the defendant, and returnable
either immediately, or at any time designated therein, not
exceeding four days from the date of its issuance. 
Answer.
§ 638. On the return of the summons the defendant may 
plead to the complaint, or he may answer or deny the same.
Such plea, answer, or denial, may be oral or in writing, and
immediately thereafter the case shall be tried, unlees for
good cause shown an adjournment be granted.  

§ 839. In all actions for violation of an ordinance where
the line, forfeiture, or penalty imposed by the ordinance is
lees than lift.y dollars, the trial shall be by the court. In
actions where the fine, forfeiture, or penalty imposed by the
ordinance is over fift y dollars, the defendant shnll be enti­
tied, if demanded by him, to a jury of six persons. 

§ 640. From a judgment in a civil action in R recorder's
or mayor's court, an appeal may be taken to the county
eourt, The appeal shall be taken and the proceedings
thereon conducted in the same manner as appeals are taken
from a judgment in a civil action in a justice's court, and as
the proceedings thereon are conducted . 

§ 641. All proceedings in civil actions in recorders' and 
mayors' courts, except as herein otherwise provided, shall
be conducted in the same manner as in civil actions injustices'
courts. 

§ 642. The provisions of this title, shall be applicable to 
civil actions in recorders' and mayors' courts already estab­
lished, or which may hereafter be established in any incor­
porated city of this State. 

§ 643. The supreme court may make rules not inconsistent 
with tbe constitution and laws of the State, for its own
government, and the government of the district courts, and
the superior court of the City of San Fraucisco ; but such 
rules shall not be in force until thirty days lifter their adop­
tion and publication. 

§ 644. The county clerk shall he the c1erk of the county 
court, the court of sessions, and the probate court of his
county. Until otherwise provided by law, the clerk of the
superior court of the City of San Francisco shall be appointed
by the said court. 

§ 645. If an action be brought against a sheriff for an
act done by virtue of his office, and he give written notice
thereon to the sureties on any bond of indemnity received
by him, the judgment recovered therein shall be conclusive
evidence of his right to recover against such sureties; and
the court or judge in vacation may, on motion, upon notice
of five days, order judgment to be entered up against them
for the amount so recovered, including costs. 

§ 646. In the Counties of Monterey, Sun Luis Obispo,
Santa Barbara, Los Angeles, and Sau Diego, it shall be the
duty of the officer to give the defendant in a civil action, if
said defendant shall require it, a copy of the summons, or
other process, iu the Spanish language ; and in the Counties
of Santa Barbara, Sun Luis Obispo, Los Angeles, San Diego,
and l\Ionterey, it shall be lawful, with the consent of both
parties, to have the procees, pleadings, and other proceedings,
in a cause, in the Spanish language.

§ 647. Words used in this act in the present tense shaJI
be deemed to include the future as well as the present : 
words used in the singular number shall be deemed to
include the plural, and the plural the singular; writing shall
be deemed to include printing or printed paper; oath to
include affirmation or declaration; siguature or subscription,
to include mark when the person cannot write, his name 
being written near it, nod witnessed by a person who writes
his own name as a witness. 

§ 648. The following statutes, namely: the act entitled
" An Act to regulate proceedings in civil cases in the district
court, the snperior court of the City of Sau Francisco, and
the supreme court," passed April 22d, 18[!0; the act entitled
" Ao Act to regulate proceedings against debtors by attach­
ruent," passed April 22d, 1850; the act entitled '' An Act
providing for the collection of demands against vessels and
boats," passed April 10th, 1850; the act entitled "An Act to
regulate proceedings in courts of justices of the peace in
civil cases," paesed April 10th, 1850; nod the act entitled
"An Act to regulate proceedings in the county courts in
cases of appeal from the courts of justices of the peace,"
paesed April 11th, 18.50; the act entitled "An Act respecting
set-offs," passed [April] 22d, 1850, are hereby repealed ; but
such repeal shall not invalidate any judgment rendered, or
order made, or any proceeding already taken by virtue of
said statutes. 

§ 649. This act shall take effect on the first day of July
of the present year. 


650. In all cases where au undertaking with sure­
ties is required by the provisions of said act, the judge, justice,
clerk or other officer taking the same, shall require the
sureties to accompany the same, with. an affidavit that they
are each worth the sum specified in the undertaking, over
and above al1 their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of
property exempt from execution; provided, that when the
amount specifled in the undertaking exceeds three thousand
dollars, and there are more than two sureties thereon, they
may state in their affidavits that they are severally worth
amounts less than that expressed in the undertaking, if the 
whole amount -be equivalent to that of two sufficient sureties. 


651. In actions respecting miners' chums in. a jns­
rice's court, the justice shall have power upon application of
the party out of poesession of the claim or claims, after
notice of one day to the adverse party, to appoint a receiver
of the proceeds of the claim, pending the action. If the
parties agree upon a person, be shall be appointed such 
receiver. If the parties do not agree, the justice shall
appoint a receiver, who shall take an oath, which shall be 
filed with the justice, that lie is not interested in the action
between the parties, and that he will honestly keep an
account of all gold dust or metals of any kind, the proceeds
of the chum or claims in dispute. After the appointment of
such receiver, the justice shall have power to issue a written
order to any sheriff or constable to put such receiver into
possession of such claim; which order said sheriff or con­
stable shall execute, and the receiver shall remain in posses­
sion of the claim or claims, so long as said action may remain
undetermined in any court. The court in which the action
may be pending, shall have authority upon application of
either party with two days' notice to the other, from time to
time, to make such orders for the dieposition of the proceeds
of such claim or claims for the safety of the same, as may
seem proper. The court in which the action may be pending
shall also have power, upon application of the receiver,
based upon his affidavit, to punish as for contempt, all persons
who have been guilty of disturbing the receiver in the
possession of the claim. 

§ 652. The receiver mentioned in the last section 
shall keep an accurate account of all the proceeds of the
claim pending action, and of all amounts paid out for working 
the same, and shall retain the proceeds and pay the same
over, pursuant to the order of the court. The receiver shall
also be required, on demand of either party, to give security
for the faithful performance of his trust, and shall be allowed
for the same a reasonable compensation, to. be paid out of
the proceeds of the claim in bis hands, but in no case exceed­
ing ten per cent, upon such proceeds. 


§ 653. Writs of certiorari and mandamus may be issued 
in the cases prescribed by said act by a judge of the supreme
eonrt, district court or county court, in vacation, and may,
in the discretion of the judge iseulng the writ, be made re­
turnable, and a hearing may be had on the return thereof in
vacation. 


§ 664. Whenever property bas been taken by an officer
under a writ of attachment, in pursuance of the provisions of
said act, and it shall be made to appear satisfactorily to the
court, or a judge thereof, or a county judge, that the interest
of the parties to the action will be subeerved by II sale thereof,
the court or judge may order such property to be sold, in the
same manner as property is sold under an execution, and the
proceeds to be deposited in court, to abide the judgment in the
action. Such order shall be made only upon notice to the ad­
Teree party, or his attorney, in case such party has been ~r­
sooally served with a summons in the action. 


§ 675. A copy of any record- document or paper in
the custody of a public officer of this State, or of the United 
States, within this State, certified under the official seal, or
verified by the oath of such officer to be a true, full and correct
copy of'the original in his custody, may be read in evidence
in any action or proceeding in the courts of this State, in the
like manner an1 with the like effect as the original could be if
produced.

§ 68. When two or more persons associated in any
business, transact such business under a common name,
whether it comprises the names of such persons or not, the
aesociates may be sued by such common name, the summons
in such case being served on one or more of the associates,
but the judgment in such case shall bind only the joint prop­ 
erty of the associates. 


§ 69. All decisions given upon an appeal in any appel­
lant court of ibis State, shall be given in writing, with t.be
reason therefor, and filed with the clerk of the court, but this section shall not apply to actions tried with a jury anew in the
county court, or on appeal from a justice's court. 


§ 70. A defendant against whom an action is pend­
ing, upon a contract, or for specific personal property, may
at any time before answer, upon affidavit, that a person not n
party to the action makes against him, and without nny col­
lusion with him, a demand upon the same contract, or for the
same property, upon due not.ice to such person, and the ad- 
verse party, apply to the court for an order to substitute such
person in bis place, and discharge him from liability to either 
party, on his depositing in court the amount claimed on the
contract, or delivering the property or its value to such person 
RB the court may direct, and the court may, ip its discretion,
make the order. 


§ 71. Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an
action who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the
suecees of either of the parties to the action, or an interest
against both. An intervention takes place when a. third per·
son is permitted to become a party to an action between other 
persons, either by joining the plaintiff in claiming what is
sought by the complaint, or by uniting with the defendant in
resisting the claims of the plaintiff, or by demanding anything
adversely to both plaintiff and defendant. 


§ 72. A third person may intervene either before or
after issue has been joined in the cause. 

§ 73. The intervention shall be by petition or com­
plaint, filed in the court in which the action is pending, and it
must set forth the grounds on which the intervention rests;
a copy of the petition or complaint shall be served upon the
party or parties to the action against whom anything is de­
manded, who shall answer it. as if it were an original com 
plaint in the action. 


§ 74. The court shall determine upon the interven­ 
tion ut the same time that the action is decided ; if the claim
of the pnrt.y intervening is not sustained, be shall pay all costs
incurred by the intervention.

§ 75. On the trial of any action in a court of record, 
either pnrt.y may require the clerk to take down the testimony
in writing. 


§ 76. The party obtaining the postponement of a 
trial in any court. of record, shall also, if required by the ad­
verse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of
such adverse party who is in attendance, be then taken by
deposition before a judge or clerk of the court in which the
case is pending, or before such notary public a11 the court may
indicate, which shall accordingly be done, and the testimony
so taken may be read on the trial with the same effect and
subject to the same objections WI if the witnesaes were pro­
duced. 


§ 77. Whenever costs are awarded to a party by au 
appellant court, such party may have an execution for the 
same on filing remittitur with the clerk of the court below;
and it. shal! be the duty of such clerk, whenever the remit· 
titnr ie filed, to issue the execution upon application therefor,
and whenever costs are awarded to a party by an order of
any court, such party may have an execution therefor in like
manner ae upon a judgment. 

§ 78. Sections five, six, seven, fifteen, sixteen, sev­
enteen, eighteen, nineteen and twenty of the act entitled
" An Act amendatory of and supplementary to the act entitled
'An Act to regulate proceedings in civil cases in the courts of
iustice in this State,' passed May eighteen, one thousand eight
hundred and fifty-three," are hereby repealed, and the sec­
tions amended by said amendatory act shall stand revived as
amended by this act. 

§ 79. This act shall take effect on the tirst day of
July, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-four. 


§ l. In all civil cases arising in justices' courts,
wherein an undertaking is required as prescribed in section
twenty-eight of an act entitled an act t-0 regulate proceed­
ings in civil cases in courts of justice in this State, passed
April twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred and sixty, and sec­
tions five hundred and forty-five (545) and five hundred and
fifty (550) of un act entitled an act to regulate proceedings in
civil cases in courts of justice in this State, passed May fif.
teenth, eighteen hundred and fifty-four, the plaintiff or de· 
fendant may deposit with said justice a sum of money equal
to the amount required by said undertaking, which said sum
of money shall be taken as eecnrity in place of said under·
taking. 

§ 1. All costs which have or may hereafter accrue 
in cases where the State is a party to any action in any of
the courts of this State, and wherein the State, according to
law, is liable, shall be paid out of any funds in the State
treasury not otherwise appropriated. 


§ 1. In any snit at law or in equity, or in any civil 
proceeding whatever wherein the State or the people of the
State is a party plaintiff, 01· any State officer, in his official
capacity or 011 behalf of the State, is a party plaintiff or de­
fendant, no bond, written undertaking, or security shall he
required of the State or the people thereof, or any officer
acting as aforesaid, under the provisions of sections seventy­
aix, one hundred and two, one hundred and fifteen, and one
hundred and twenty-two, or any other section of the act entitled an act to regulate proceedings in civil cuses in the 
see 
courts of justice in this State, passed April twenty-ninth, 
A.D. eighteen hundred and fifty-one, or of the acts amenda­
tory thereof and supplementary thereto, requiring partiee
to give security in cases of arrest, replevin, injunction, and
attachment, and in other cases ; but on complying with the
other provisions required by law, the State, or the people
thereof, or any State officer acting as aforesaid, shRII have
the same rights, remedies, and benefits as if the bond, under·
taking, or security were given and approved as required
by law. 


§ 2. In any civil action or proceeding whatever
wherein the State or the people of the State is a party plain­
tiff, or any officer of the State. on ita behalf or in his official
capacity, is a party plaintiff or defendant, it shall not be
neeessary to verify nny pleading or paper used or filed
therein on the pa rt of the State, or the people of the State, or
any State officer, in his official capacity or on behalf of the
!State, but such pleading and paper shall have the same effect
in all respects 1\8 if the same were verified. 


§ 3. In any civil action or proceeding wherein the
State or the people of the State is a party plaintiff, or wherein
any officer of the State on its behalf or in his official capa­
city, or a county, is a party plaintiff or defendant, sheriff'a,
county clerks, the sopreme court clerk, and all other officers,
and all persona required by law to perform services in any
such action or proceeding, shall perform such services for the
State, or the people of the State, or any State officer acting
on behalf of the State or in hie official capacity, or a coun,y, 
without requiring payment of his fees therefor in advance ;
but all such fees, and the costs accruing for said services,
whenever allowable, shall become a charge against the State
or county, ll8 the case may be, and shall be audited and
allowed as other demands; provided, that in any action or
proceeding brought or had for the collection of any delin­
quent taxes, aseessments, or liens, no officer shall be entitled
to charge, claim, demand, or receive from the county or State
any fees or compensation whatsover for any services ren­
dered by him in any such action or proceediug.(a) [Amend­
ment; approved Febr11.ary 3, 1866; 1865-6, 49; took efect 
from passage. 

§ 4. This act shall take effect from and after its passage.


§ 1. If an action or proceeding is commenced, or pend­ 
.ing in a court, as is hereinafter mentioned, and the judge or
justice thereof is by law disqualified from actiug as such, or,
if for any cause the court orders the place of trial to be 
changed, it shall he transferred for trial to a court, the par- 
ties may agree upon by stipulation in writing, or made in
open court, and entered 'in the minutes; or if they do not so
agree, then to the nearest court, where the like objection or
cause for making the order does not exist, as follows: 
First. tr in the district, to another district court. 
Second. If in the superior court of the City of San Fran­
cisco, to a district court. 
'Third. If in a county court. to a district court or some
other county court. 
Fourth. If in the probate court, to a district court, or some
other probate court. 
Fifth. If in a justice's court, to another justice's court in
the same county. 


§ 2. When an order re made, transferring an action
or proceeding for trial, the clerk of the court or justice of
the peace, shall transmit the pleadings and papers therein, to
the clerk or justice of the court to which it has been trans­
ferred. If the transfer is made on the ground that a judge or 
justice is disqualified from acting, the costs and fees thereof,
and of re-entering and filing the pleadings and papers anew,
are to abide the event of the action or proceeding ; in other
cases they are to be paid by the party at whose instance the
order is made. 

§ 3. The court to which an action or proceeding is 
transferred, shall have, and exercise over the same, the like 
jurisdiction us if it bad . been originally commenced therein, 
and m::Ly, by order or execution, enforce the judgment. 

§ 4. In an action or proceeding transferred from a
probate court, or brought to recover the possession of lands
or tenements (excepting it be in e. justice's court), after final
judgment therein, the clerk of the court in which it is beard,
shall certify under hie seal of office, and transmit to the court
from whence it is transferred, a full transcript of the proceed­
ingt' and judgment. The clerk receiving such transcript,
shall docket and record the judgment in the records of his
court, briefly designating it as a judgment transferred frow
-- court, (naming the proper court). 

§ 5. On transferring cases, the following, and no 
other fees and costs shall be allowed to the clerks of the
court: for transmitting the pleadings and papers of a canse,
the sum of two dollars; for re-entering and filing the same
pleadings and papers anew, three dollars; for certifying and
remitting a transcript and judgment, when required to he done
under this act, five dollars; for docketing and recording a
transcript and judgment, when required to be done nuder this
act, five dollars. The last two items may he taxed in favor
of the successful party, and made a part of the judgment
11gai11st the other party, or otherwise ordered paid, as the
court, bearing the action or proceeding, may by its order or
judgment direct, 

§ 6. If an action or proceeding is transferred to a
justice's court, the justice receiving it. shall, three days before
he proceeds to the trial thereof, unless the parties stipulate in 
writing to waive such notice. cause therein a notice in writ 
ing to be served on the parties, which notice shall in­
form them of the time and place of trial; in other cases, the
action or proceeding- shall proceed in the manner provided
for by law in such actions or proceedings. 

§ 1. If a suit be commenced in any court of this
State, against an alien, or by a citizen of this State against a
citizen of another State, and the matter in dispute exceeds
the sum or value of five hundred dollars, exclusive of costs,
to be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court, and the
defendant shall, at the time of entering his appearance in
such court of this State, file a petition for the removal of the
cause for trial into the next circuit court of the United
States, or district court of the United States, having the
powers and jurisdiction of a circuit court, to he held in the
district where the suit is pending, and offer good and suffi­
cient surety for bis entering in such court, on the first day
of its session, copies of said process against him, and also
for his there appearing and entering special bail in the cause,
if bail was originally requisite therein, it shall then be the
duty of such court of this State to accept the surety and pro­
ceed no further in the cause ; and all subsequent proceedings
which may be taken or had in snch court in contravention of 
the provisions of this section, shall be void and of no force or
effect for any purpose whatsoever. 
 
§ 2. A final judgment. or decree in any suit in the
highest court of law or equity of this State in which a decis­
ion of the suit could be had, where is drawn in question the
validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised
under the United States, and the decision is against their val­
idity; or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute
of, or au authority exercised under this State on the ground
of their being repugnant to the constitution, treaties or Jaws
of the United States, and the decision is in favor of such,
their validity ; or where is drawn in question the construc­
tion of any clause of the constitution of the United Statee,
or of a treaty, or of a statute of, or commission held under
the United States, and the decision is against the title, right,
privilege, or exemption specially set up or claimed by either
party, under such clause of the said constitution, treaty,
statute or commission, may be removed by writ of error to,
and be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the supreme
court of the United States, in the manner prescribed by the
laws of the United States; and upon the isauance and service
of such writ of error, the chief justice or any judge of the
court, rendering or passing the judgment or decree complained
of, upon being applied to by the plaintiff in error, or his attor­
ney, shall sign the requisite citation to the adverse party. 

§ 3. After a final judgment shall have been rendered 
in any suit in the highest court of this State, if the party
against whom the decision may have been given, shall within
ten days thereafter file notice, in writing, with the clerk,
of his intention to remove the cause, by writ of error, to the
supreme court of the United States, and shall offer sufficient
security, to be approved by the judge of the supi·eme court,
or any district court of this State, for the prosecution of such
writ of error, it shall be the duty of the said court in which such
final judgment was rendered, or any judge thereof at cham­
bers, to stay all proceedings for such time not exceeding four
mouths, to be fixed by the said court or judge, as will be
sufficient to enable such party to apply for and serve his writ
of error in the mode prescribed by the laws of the United
St.ates, and upon the receipt of such writ of error the clerk
of the court in which the record may be, and to which the
writ may be directed, shall make return thereto, and send up
the record or a transcript, without the necessity of any other
or further order or authority whatsoever. 

§ 4. If any judge, clerk, or other officer of any court
of this State, shall knowingly and voluntarily act in contra­
vention of the provisions of this act, he shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor in office and liable to impeachment 
and removal from office. 

§ l. Wheu judgment bas been rendered in the court
of a justice of the peace, in a county court, 11. district court,
or the superior conrt of the City of Sau Franoiseo, agaiost
any organized or incorporated city or town in this State, said
city or town, or county, against which such judgment waa
rendered may appeal therefrom to any court of competent
jurisdiction, by filing a notice of appeal with the said justice of
the peace, or clerk of either of the other courts as above men­
tioned, and serving a copy thereof on the opposite party or
his attorney, within the time and manner provided for appeals
in other cases; and said appeals shall be effectual for all pur­
poses, and shall operate as a eupereedeas to any execution
that has been or may be issued on said judgment without the
tiling of a bond or the payment. of costs to the justice or other
courts, by the said city, or town, or county so appealing. 

§ 2. The mayor, attorney, or chief officer of any
city, or district attorney, or the president of the board of
supervisors of any county, shall have power to give the
notice herein required to be given, and to perfect such appeal
on behalf of their respective corporations or counties. 

§ 3. An Act concerning appeals in certain cases, ap­
proved February sixteenth, one thonsand eight hundred aud 
fifty-five, and all laws or parts of lawe in conflict with the
provisions of this act, are hereby repealed, 


§ 1. That no distinction as to the mode of taking, 
or perfecting, appeals, or as to the effect of them, shall be
made between cases at law and cases in equity; but the pro­
visions of the practice act shall apply in the same manner to 
all cases of appeal. 


§ 3. No appeal shall be dismissed for insufficiency 
. of the notice of appeal, or undertaking, thereon; provided,
that a good and sufficient undertaking, approved by a judge of
the supreme court, be filed in the supreme court, before the
hearing upon motion to dismiss the appeal, and upon pay·
ment of such reasonable cost as the court may adjudge:
provided, that the respondent shall not be delayed, but
may move when the cause is regularly called fur the dispo­
sition, or dismissal, of the same, if such undertaking be aot 
given. 

§ 4. During the progreBB of a cause, a party may
take his bill of exceptions to the admission, or exclusion, of
testimony, or to the rulings of the judge on points of law, 
and it shall not be necessary to embody in such bill anything
more than sufflcient facts, to show the point and pertiuency
of the exception taken ; the presiding judge shall sign the
same, as the truth of the case may be, which bill shall t.hen
become a part of the record; and a party 11gainst whom
judgment is rendered may" appeal from such judgment with·
out any further statement, or motion ; and on such appeal it
shall only be neceseary to bring to the supreme court the
transcript of the pleadings, and the judgment, and the bill, or
bills, of exceptions so taken. 

§ 5. This act shall take effect, from and after the tirl!t day
of July, eighteen hundred and sixty-one. 
 
§ 1. In addition to appeal provided for by section
three hundred and thirty-six of an act to regulate proceed­ 
ings in civil cases in the courts of justice of this State,
passed April twenty-ninth, A.D. eighteen hundred and fifty­
one, an appeal may be taken from the judgment or decree of
the court in cases of partition, which determines the right of
the several parties and directs partition to be made ; provided,
that upon the filing the bond mentioned in section three
hundred and forty-eight of an act entitled an act to regulate
proceedings in civil cases, passed April twenty-ninth, eight­
een hundred and fifty-one, all proeedings in the case pending
the appeal shall be stayed. 

§ 1. All persons holding as tenants in common, joint
tenants, or coparceners, or any number less than all. may 
jointly or severally, bring or defend, any civil action for
the enforcement or protection of the rights of such party. 

§ 1. It shall be lawful, from and after the passage
of this act, for any district judge of this State, at any time
within twelve months after the expiration of his term of
office, or within twelve months after he shall, from any
cause, have ceased to exercise the duties of such office, to 
sign any records of his court that he may have left unsigned,
at the time of going out of office; also, to sign and settle
statements on motions for new trials, and statements and
bills of exceptions on appeal to the supreme court, subject to
the same regulations and restrictions that now are, or here­
after may be, prescribed by law. 

§ 2. Said records, when thus signed, and said state·
ments and such bills of exceptions, when thus settled, shall
have the same legal force and effect that they would be
entitled to had they been sigued or settled by the judge
whilst in the exercise of hie office. 

§ 3. This act shall not be deemed to take from the
snecessors of any district judge the power to sigu any record,
or to sign and settle any statement or bill · of exeeptione, aa
heretofore authorized by law. 
 
§ 1. In any suit at law, or in equity, wherein the
City and County of San Francisco is a party plaintiff, or de­
fendant, no bond, written undertaking, or security, shall be
required of said city and county, under the provisions of sec­
tions seventy-six, one hundred and two, one hundred and
fifteen, and one hundred and twenty-two, of the act entitled
an act to regulate proceedings in civil cases in the courts of 
justice in this State, passed April twenty-ninth, eighteen
hundred and fifty-one, commonly called the "Civil Practice
Act," and of the acts amendatory thereof and supplementary
thereto, requiring of plaintiffs security in cases of arrest,
replevin, injunction, and attachments, but on complying with
the other provisions required by law, the said City and
County of San Francisco shall have the same rights, reme­
dies, and benefits, as if the undertakings, bond, or securities,
were given and approved, as required by law in such cases. 

§ 1. The sheriff of San Beruardino County, or his
deputies, or some person specially appointed by him, shall 
serve all civil procesa emanating from the district court, 
county court, and probate court, in said county ; and it shall
not be lawful for any other person to serve any civil process
emanating from said courts within said county; provided,
that the judge of either of the said courts, may, in case of
disability on the part of the sheriff, appoint some suitable
person to serve process. 

§ 2. All acts, or parts of acts. in conflict with the provi­
sions of this act, are hereby repealed. 

§ 1. The testimony of a witneas in a foreign country
may be taken by deposition in any civil action pending in
any of the diatriet courts of this State, at any time after the
service of the summons, or the appearance of the defendant;
and in a special proceeding, at any time after a question of
fact bas arisen therein. 

§ 2. The deposition of a witness in a foreign coun­
try shall be taken upon commission issued from a district
court, under the seal thereof, upon an order of such court, or
the judge thereof, on the application of either party, upon
five days' previous notice to the other. It shall he issued to
a person, or persons, agreed upon between the parties, or if
they do not agree, to 1111y person, or persons, nominated by the
court, or judge, granting the commission. 

§ 3. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, as
the respective parties may prepare, to be settled, if the par·
ties disagree as to their form, by the court, or judge, granting
the order for the commission, at 11 day fixed in the order, may
be annexed to the commiseion, or when the parties agree to
that mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories, 

§ 4. The eommiesion shall authorize the commis­
sioner to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his 
deposition in answer to the interregatorles, or, when the ex­
amination is to be without interrogatories, in respect to the
question in dispute, and to certify the deposition to the court
in a sealed, or closed, envelope, directed to the clerk, or other
person, designated, or agreed upon, and forward to him by
mail, or other usual channel of conveyance. 

§ 5. When a deposition has been once taken in
accordance with the provisions of this act, it may be subject
to legal objections, be read in evidence in any stage of the
same action, or proceeding, by either party, and shall then be
deemed the evidence of the party reading it. 

§ 6. Thie act shall take effect from and after its paseage. 
An Act for the punlshment of contempts and trespuses.

§ l. Every person who shall have been, or shall be
hereafter, dispossessed or ejected from, or out of, any piece,
parcel, lot, or tract, of land, by tbe judgment, decree, or pro­
cess, of any court of competent jurisdiction, and who, not hav­
ing legal right so to do, shall re-enter into, or upon, or take
poseeesion of, any such land, or any part thereof, or induce, or
procure, any pel'l!on, not having legal right so to do, or shall
aid or abet him therein, shall be deemed guilty of 11 contempt
of the court by which such judgment or decree was rendered,
or' from which such process issued, and shall he tried and
punished therefor, in the same manner and form as now pro­
vided by law, in case of contempt not committed in presence
of the court or justice of the pence. 

§ 2. Upon a conviction for such contempt, the
court, or justice of the peace, shall immediately iNiue an aliaa
process, directed to the proper officer. and requiring him to
restore the party entitled to the posession of such property,
under the original judgment, decree, or process, to such poa­
seesion of which be shall have been dispossessed by the
wrongful conduct or act herein declared to be a contempt. 

§ 3. No attorney at law shall be permitted to practice in any court in this state until he shall have taken and filed in teh office of the county clerk of the county in which the attorney shall reside, teh oath prescribed in this act; and for every violation fo the provisions of this section, the attorney so offending shall be considered guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction, shall be fined in the sum of one thousand dollars.

§ 4. This act, so far as the same relates to parties to an
action, shall take effect immediately. 

§ 1. In all cases in which the statutes of this State
authorize the deposit of moneys in the courts of record of this
St.ate, the moneys so deposited shall be paid to the clerk of
the court, who shall deposit them, in his name of office, with
the treasurer of the county. 

§ 2. It is hereby made the duty of each connty treas­
urer of this State to receive such deposits of moneys from the
clerk of the court as special deposits, and to keep each deposit
entirely separate from all other moneys under his control, and 
to give to the clerk making such deposits receipts for the
same, which receipts shall state the court in which action is
pending, and also the title of the action in which such deposit
is made, and the amount so deposited. The treasurer shall
deliver any deposit of moneys so madewith him, upon pre­
sentation of an order signed by the clerk of the court and
countersigned by the judge of the court in which the deposit
is made. 


§ 3. For the safe keeping of a II moneys eo deposited,
and for the faithful performance of the duties prescribed in
this act, the treasurer shall be responsible upon his official
bond. 


§ 4. All moneys now on deposit in any of the courts
of record of this State shall be deposited by the clerk in the
manner prescribed in this act. 


§ 5. This act shall not be so construed as to interfere
with any existing law concerning the lluyment to the county
treasurer of uny fines which may be inflicted by any court
of record in this State ; but. such fines shall be deposited by
the clerks with the county treasurer in the manner heretofore
provided by law. 

§ 6. All acts and parts of acts in conflict with this act are
hereby repealed. 

§ 7. This net shall take effect immediately . 

§ 1. If any person shall, with violence and a l!ltrong 
hand, enter upon or into any lands or buildings, either. by
breaking open doors, windows, or other parts of a house, or
by any kind of violence or circumstance of terror, or ff any
person, after entering peaceably, shall tum out by force, or
by threats, or by menacing oondaet., the party in po88e18ian,
such person shall be deemed guilty of a forcible entry, 11od
may be proceeded against and punished as hereinafter pro­
vided. 


§ 709. If any person shall, by force and with a etroog
hand, or by menaces and threats of violence, unlawfully hold 
and keep the pcseeesion of any lands or tenements, whether 
the same were acquired peaceably or otherwise, such per­
son shall be deemed guilty of a forcible detainer, and may be
proceeded against as herein provided. 
§ 710. If any person shall, in the night time, or doriog
the absence of the occupant of any lands or tenements, un­
lawfully enter upon sneh lllDda or tenements, aod lhall, aftei. 
demand made for the surrender of such premises for tbe
period of five days, refuse to surrender tbe same to such
former occupant, aueh person shall be deemed guilty of a
forcible detainer, and may be proceeded against as herein
provided for such offense ; prooided, that the party shall be 
deemed the actual occupant of lands who, within five days
preceding such unlawful entry, was in the peaceable and
undisturbed possession of such lands or tenements. 

§ 4. Actions for the recovery of the poeeession of 
any lands or tenements under the provisions of this act, and 
for damages consequent upon any forcible entry or forcible
detainer, shall be commenced and prosecuted in the county 
conrt of the county in which such lands or tenements or some
port.ion thereof may be situated, and as herein provided. 


§ 5. The plaintiff shall present to the county judge 
his written complaint, setting forth therein the facts on
which he seeks to recover, and shall describe the premises
sought to be recovered with reasonable certainty, and may
charge that the defendant bas acted fraudulently in making
such forcible entry or holding such posseeeion by force, (in 
case where the action is brought for a forcible entry or forci­
ble holding), and may claim such damages therefor as he may
deem proper; but in such case he shall state the facts consti­ 
tuting the fraud. Upon receiving such complaint the judge
shalt fix a day for tbe appel\rance of the defendant in snob 
achoo, and shall indorse the date thus fixed, together with 
~e day of the presentation of said complaint, upon said 
complaint ; the judge shall further provide and direct upon 
said complaint that the summons to be issued thereupon shall
be served upon the defendant at a day not lesa than three
days previous to the day set for the appearance of said de­
fendant, and not more than twenty days from the date of
making the order, fixing the return day of the summons. 


§ 6. The complaint thus indorsed shall be then filed
with the clerk of the county court, and the clerk shall forth·
with issue a summons under the seal of said court. Such
summons shall state the parties to the action, the court in
which the same is brought, the nature of the action in eoneise
terms, and the relief sought, and also the day fixed for the
appearance of the defendant therein, and the number of days
before the time of the appearance that the same is to be
served on the defendant. It shall command said defendant
to appear and answer within the time designated in said
enmmons, or that the relief sought will be taken against
him. The summons shall be directed to the defendant, and
shall be served by the sheriff of the county, or other person
duly qualified, by delivering to such defendant a certified 
copy thereof, and the return of the sheriff shall show the
day and place at which the same was served. 

§ 7. On or before the day set for his appearance
therein, the defendant shall file with the clerk, and in Baid
cause, his written answer, demurrer, or demurrer and answer,
or other appearance, or if he fail to so appear, the clerk shall
note his default, and the judge shall thereupon, upon Batie·
factory evidence, order such judgment as ehall be just in tbe
premises. Whenever an issue of fact is presented by the 
pleadinge, the county judge, upon application of either party,
shall' order the clerk to iesue a venire for a special trial jury
to be summoned for the day fixed by the court for the trial
of said cause. Such jury shall be summoned in t.be same
manner as provided in section twenty-eight of 11.n act entitled 
11.D act concerning graud and trial juries, approved April
twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and sixty-three, and shall 
poeeese the qualifications prescribed by the said act, and shall
be subject to the same challenges. All pleadings under the
provisions of this act shall be in writing, and verified by the
partiealn the same mode prescribed by law for the verification
of pleadings in other civil cases. All proceedings for the trial
and determination of ca uses arising under this act, not herein
provided for, shall be regulated by the provisions of the civil
practice act of this State so far as the aame may be applica­
ble thereto. 


§ 8. If the complaint in the action presented shall
establish, to the satisfaction of the county judge, fraud, force,
or violence in making such entry, or in holding such posses­
sion, and that such poeseesiou is unlawful, the judge may
also make an order for the arrest of the defendant, and all
t.he provieions of law, from section seventy-six to section
ninety-eight. both inclusive, in title five, chapter one, of an
act to regulate proceedings in civil cases in the courts of jus­
tice of this State, passed April twenty-ninth, eighteen hun­ 
dred and fitl.y-one, shall be and are hereby made the rule of
proceeding to said arrest and bail in sald action of forcible
entry or forcible detainer. · 

§ 9. On the trial of any such action of forcible entry
or forcible detainer, the plaintiff shall only be required to
show, in addition to the forcible entry or forcible detainer
complained of, that he was ·peaceably in the actual possesaiou
at the time of the forcible entry, or was entitled to the p08-
seseion at the time of the forcible detainer. The defendant
may show in his defense, that he or hie ancestors, or those
whose interest in such premises be claims, have been in the
quiet possession thereof for the space of one whole year
together next before the commencement of said action, and
that bis interest therein is not then ended or determined, and
such showing shall be a bar to the action in all cases pro­
vided for in this act. 

§ 10. Whenever, upon the trial of any esuee under
the provisions of this act, it shall appear from the evidence
that the defendant has been guilty of either of the offe~eee
herein provided for a forcible entry or a forcible detainer, and
other than the offense charged in the complaint, the judge
shall order that such complaint be forthwith amended to con­
form to such proofs. Such amendment shall be without any
imposition of terms, nor shall any eontiuuanee be permitted
upon account of such amendment, unless the defendant, by 
affidavit filed, shall show to the satisfaction of the court good
cause therefor. 

§ 11. No person other than the actual occnpanbs of
the premises shall be neceseary parties defendant to proceed­
ings epecitied in this act; nor shall any acuon abate or plain- 
tiff be nonsuited for the nonjoinder of any persona who might
or should have been made parties defendant; but when it
shall appear tbat any of the parties served with process or
appearing in said action are guilty of the offense charged, 
judgment shall be rendered against such persons thus found
guilty. And in case a. married woman be a tenant or occu­
pant, and her husband is not a resident of the county in which
the premises are situated, her marriage shall not be a defense 
in such proceedings; bot in case her husband be not joined,
or unless she be doing businesa ~ a sole trader, a judgment
against her shall be only valid against property on the prem­
ises at the time of the commencement of the action. 

§ 12. If, upon the trial of any action under the pro­ 
visions of this act, the verdict of the jury or the findings of
the court shall be in favor of the plaintiff' and against the 
defendant, the court shall thereupon enter judgment for the
plaintiff to have restitution of the premises, and the jury, or
the court in case the action is tried without a jury, shall also
find or aBSess the damages occasioned to the plaintiff by such
forcible entry or forcible detainer, and judgment shall be at
once entered by the clerk in favor of the plaintiff' and against
the defendant for three times the amount of the damages
thus aaseesed. 

§ 13. The proceedings in or upon the trial of any 
such action shall be the same as in other civil cases, except
as herein otherwise provided, and judgment shall be entered,
execution issued, and all other proceedings, 'both before and
subsequent to judgment, be had as in other civil cases;
prooided; that no appeal taken by a defendant in such action
to the supreme court shall prevent the issuance and execution
of the writ of restitution therein unless the county judge
shall by hie written order direct that such writ of restitution
be stayed.

§ 14. Any duly appointed court commiesioner of a
county may perform any and all the duties in this act, required
to be performed by the county judge, whenever such com­
miesioner is authorized by law to perform such duties. 


§ 15. All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with or
repugnant to the provisions of this act are hereby repealed; 
provided, this section shall not in any way affect. or apply to
actions or proceedings commenced or pending before this act
goes into effect, bot the same may be prosecuted and pro­
ceeded in to final judgment or otherwise, in the same man­
ner as if this act had not been pasaed. 


§ 5. Nothing in this act shall be construed to preclude
the bringing of actions in justices' courts of this State against
any party or parties residing out of this State. 

§ 6. This act shall take effect and be in force immediately. 


§ 1. By agreement between creditor and debtor, a 
less sum than the whole amount may be paid and received in 
• 
full payment and discharge of any indebtedness, if such agree·
ment be clearly manifested by a receipt or instrument, in
writing, signed by such creditor. 
§ 2. This aet shall take effect immediately. 


§ 1. In any civil or criminal action or proceeding, a
witnesa may be discredited or impeached, and for such pnr­
pose his general character for truth, honesty and integrity
may be inquired into. 

§ 2. This act shall take effect immediately. 

§ 1. Any two or more persons claiming any estate or
interest in lands under a· common source of title, whether
holding as tenants in common, joint-tenants, coparmers, [co·
parceners] (1) or in severalty, may unite in an action against
any person claiming an adverse estate or interest therein, for
the purpose of determining such adverse claim. or of eetab­
liahing such common source of title, or of declaring the same
to be held in trust, or of removing a cloud upon the eame. 

§ 2. This net shall take effect immediately upon ita pauage. 


§ 1. Upon the death of the last surviving trustee of 
an express trust, the trust estate shall not descend to his heirs
nor pass to bis personal representatives, nor to any aeaignee
or devisee ; but the trust, if then unexecuted, shall rest in the
people of the State of California, with all the powers and
duties of the original trustee, and shall be executed by some
person appointed for that purpose by the district court for the
county in which the property held in trust, or some part
thereof, shall be situated at the time of the death of such sur­
viving trustee, and under the direction of that court, upon
such previous notice to the attorney general, representing the
State in that behalf, as the court conducting the proceedings
shall prescribe. 


§ 2. The provisions of this act shall extend to all 
express trusts heretofore created ; provided, the trustee or
trustees shall be alive at the time of the passage of this act,
and to all express trusts hereinafter [hereafter] created. 

§ 3. This act shall take effect immediately on il.8 pUBage. 


§ 1. That in all assignments of property, whether
real or personal, which shall hereafter be made by any per­
sons, or chartered company or corporation, or by any person
or persons owning or leasing real or personal property, to
trustees or aesigneee, on account of inability at the time of
the assignment to pay bis, her or their debts, or in proceed­
ings in insolvency, the wages of the miners, mechanics,
salesmen, servants, clerks or laborers employed by such per­
son or persons, or cbartered company or corporation, shall be
held and deemed preferred claims, and paid by such trustees
or assignees before any other creditor or creditors of the as­
signor; provided, that the claims of each ruiner, mechanic,
salesman, servant, clerk, 01· laborer thus preferred shall not
exceed in value one hundred dollars of gold coin of the
United States, and the services shall have been rendered or
labor performed within forty days next preceding said assigu­
ment or the filing of said proceeding in insolvency. 

 
§ 2. That in 1111 cases of the death of any employer
or employers, the wages of each miner, mechanic, salesman.
clerk, servant and laborer, for services rendered within the
forty days next preceding the death of the employer, not ex­
ceeding one hundred dollars of gold coin of the United
States shall rank after the funeral expenses of the last sick- 
ness, the charges and expenses of administering upon the es­
tate, and the allowance to the widow and infant children,
and be paid pro rata before all other claims against the estate
of the deceased person or persons ; provided, this act shall
in no way affect the homestead or other property exempted
by law from forced sale in payment of debts, or any mortgage
or lien lawfully obtained on the property of the deceased be­
fore bis death. 


§ 3. In all cases of executions, attachments, and
writs of a similar nature, hereafter to be issued against any
person or pereons, or chartered company, or corporation, it
shall be lawful for such miners, mechanics, salesmen, serv­
ants, clerks and laborers, to give notice of their claim or
claims, and the amount thereof, duly certified and sworn to
by the creditor or creditors making the claim, to the officer
executing either of such writs, at any time before the actual
sale of property levied 011 ; and such officers shall pay to
such miners, mechanics, salesmen, servants, clerks or laborers,
out of the proceeds of the sale, the amount each is justly and 
legally entitled to receive for services rendered, within the
forty days next preceding the levy of the writ of execution,
attachment or other writ, not exceeding one hundred dollars
of gold coin of the United States; provided, if any or all of
the claims so presented and claiming preference under this section shall be disputed by either the debtor or the creditor,
the miner, mechanic, salesman, servant, clerk or laborer pre­
senting the same shall commence an action within ten days
for the recovery thereof, and shall prosecute his action with
due diligence, or be forever barred from any claim of priority
of payment thereof; but in case action is rendered necessary
by the act, as aforesaid, of either debtor or creditor, and judg- 
ment shall be had for said claim, or any part thereof, carry·
ing costs, the costs attending the prosecution of said action,
and legally taxable therein, shall likewise be a preferred
claim, with the same rank as the original claim ; and prof7i­
ded further, if the amount of 888et8, after deducting costs of
levy and sale, shall not be adequate to the payment of all of
the preferred claims of this class, they shall be paid pro rat.a
out of the fund hereby made applicable thereto ; and prof7i.
ded further, that nothing in this act contained shall be con­
strued to affect any homestead claims, mortgage, or lien of
any description, created and existing before the claim of such
laborer accrued. 


§ 1. When there is no expreee contract in writing 
fixing a different rate of interest, interest shall be allowed at
the rate of seven per cent. per annum, for all moneys after
they become due on any bond, bill, promissory note, or other
iustrnment of writing ; on any judgments recovered before
any court in this State for moneys lent; for moneys due on
the settlement of accounts, from the day on which the bal­
ance is ascertained, and for moneys received to the use of 
another.

§ 2. Parties may agree in writing for the payment 
of any rate of interest whatever on money due or to become
due, and it shall be allowed according to the terms thereof
until the entry of judgment thereon; but whatever may be
the rate of interest agreed upon, 110 judgment or decree in
any court of this State shall draw interest at a rate to ex­
ceed seven per cent. per annum.
§ 3. The parties may in any contract in writing,
whereby any debt is secured to be paid, agree, that if the
interest on such debt is not punctually paid it shall become a 
part of the principal, and thereafter bear the same rate of
interest as the principal debt. 


§735. The common law of England, so far as it is not 
repugnant to or inconsistent with the constitution of the
United States, or the constitution or laws of the State of
California, shall be the rule of decision in all the courts of
this State. 