AN ACTEto regulate proceedings in Civil Cases in the District Court, the Superior Court of the City

of San Francisco, and Supreme Court.
Passed April 22, 1850.

The People of the State of California, represented in Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows :

CHAPTER I.
0f the form pf Civil Actions.

§ 1. There shall be in this State, hereafter, but one form of action for the enforcement or protection
of private rights and the redress of private wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil action.

§ 2. In such action the party complaining shall be known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as
the defendant.

§ 3. No action shall be brought upon a judgment rendered in any court of this State between the
same parties, without leave of the court for good cause shown, or notice to the adverse party.

§ 4. No action shall be maintained for criminal conversation or for seduction.

§ 5. When a question of fact not put in issue by the pleadings, is to be tried by a jury, an order for
the trial may be made, stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact to be tried, and such order shall
be the only authority necessary for a trial.

CHAPTER II.
0f the parties to Civil Actions.

§ 6. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.

§7. In case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by the assignee shall be without
prejudice to any set-off or other defence existing at the time of, 'or before notice of, the assignment; but
this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note, or inland bill of exchange, transferred in
good faith and upon good consideration, before due. ,

§ 8. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
matte, may sue without joining with him the person for whose benefit the suit is prosecuted.

§ 9. When a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined with her, except that——

1st. When the action concerns her separate property, she may sue alone.

2d. When the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue or be sued alone.

§ 10. When an infant is a party, he must appear by guardian, who may be appointed by the court
in which the action is prosecuted, or by a Judge thereof, or by a County Judge.

§ 11. The guardian shall be appointed as follows :

lst. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the petition of the infant, if he be at the age of fourteen
years; or if under that age, upon the petition of some other party to the suit, or a relative or friend of
the infant.

2d. When the infant is defendant, upon the petition of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen
years, and apply at any time before the return day of the summons ; if he be under the age of fourteen,
or neglect so to apply, then upon the petition of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend
of the infant.

§ 12. All persons having an interest in the subject of the action and in obtaining the relief demanded,
may be joined as plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.

§ 13. Any person may be made a defendant, who has, or claims, an interest in the controversy
adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the
questions involved therein.

§ 14. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest must be joined as plaintiEs or
defendants; but if the consent of any one who should have been joined as plaintiff cannot be obtained,
he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint. When the question is
one of axgeneral or common interest of many persons, or when the parties are very numerous, and it
may be impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit
of the whole.

§ 15. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills

of exchange and promissory notes, may all or any of them be included in the same action, at the option
of the plaintiff.

§ 16. No action shall abate by the death, marriage, or other disability of a party, or by the transfer
of any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of death, marriage, or other
disability of a party, the Court on motion at any time within one year thereafter, or afterwards on a
supplemental complaint, may allow the action to be continued by or against his representative or
successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the action shall be continued in the
name of the original party, or the Court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be
substituted in the action. '

§ 17. The court may determine any controversy between the parties before it when it can be done
without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination
of the contrary cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the court shall order them to be

brought in.
CHAPTER III.

0f the place of trial of Civil Actions.

§ 18. Actions for the following causes must be tried in the county in which the subject of the action
or some part thereof is situated, subject to the power of the Court to change the place of trial in the
cases provided by statute.

lst. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination in
any form of such right or interest, and for injuries to real property.

2d. For the partition of real property.

3d. For the enforcement of a mortgage of real property.

§ 19. Actions for the following causes must be tried in the county where the cause or some part

thereof arose, subject to the like power of the Court to change the place of trial in the‘ cases provided
by statute.

lst. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute, except that when it is imposed
for an offence committed on a lake, river, or any other stream of water, situated in two or more counties,
the action may be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river, or stream, and opposite to the
place where the offence was committed.

2d. Against a public officer or person especially appointed to execute his duties for an act done by
him in virtue of his odice, or against a person, who, by his command or in his aid, shall do anything
touching the duties of such odicer.

§ 20. In all other cases the action shall be tried in the county in which the parties, or any of them,
shall reside at the commencement of the action, or if none of the parties reside in the State, the same
may be tried in any county which the plaintiff shall designate in his complaint, subject however to the
power of the court to change the place of trial in the cases provided by statute.

§ 21. If the county designated for that purpose in the complaint be not the proper county, the action
may notwithstanding be tried therein, unless the defendant shall, before the time for answering expire,
demand in writing that the trial be had in the proper county.

CHAPTER IV.
0f the manner of commencing Civil Actions.

§ 22. Civil Actions in the District Court shall be commenced by the filing of a complaint with the
Clerk of the Court in which the action is brought, who shall endorse on it the day, month, and year,
when he received it.

§23. Upon «the filing of the complaint, the Clerk shall issue and deliver to the plaintiff or his
attorney on demand a summons directed to the defendant, together with a true copy of the complaint,
the correctness of which shall be certified by the Clerk. If there are several defendants, there shall be
a summons to each, accompanied with a copy of the complaint.

§ 24. The summons and the certificate, as to the correctness of the copy, shall be signed by the Clerk,
with his name of ofiice, and authenticated with the seal of the Court. The summons shall state the
Court in which the complaint is filed, and shall require the defendant to appear and answer the complaint
within ten days after the summons shall have been served upon him, when the defendant is served with
process in the county in which the suit is brought, or within thirty days after the service, when the
defendant is served with process in any other county. \Vhen there are several defendants, and any one
or more of them are served with process out of the county in which the suit is brought, all the defendants
shall have thirty days to answer.

§ 25. In an action affecting the title to real property, the plaintiff at the time of commencing the
action, or at any time afterwards, may. tile with the Recorder of each county in which the property is
situated, a notice of the pending of the action, containing the names of the parties, the object
of the action, and a description of the property in that county affected thereby. From the time
of filing only shall the pendency of the action be constructive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of
the property.

§26. The summons shall be served by the Sheriff of the county where the defendant may be
found, and shall be served by delivering a copy thereof, together with the copy of the complaint, as
follows:

1st. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president, or other head of the corporation, secretary,
cashier, or managing agent thereof.

2d. If against a minor, under the age of fourteen years, to such minor personally, and also to his
father, mother, or guardian; or if there be none within the State, then to any person having the
care and control of such minor, or with whom he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be employed.

3d. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting
his own ati‘airs, and for whom a guardian has been appointed, to such guardian, and to the defendant
personally. '

4th. In all other cases to the defendant personally. § 27. When the person on whom the service is to be made, cannot after due diligence be found I
within the State, and that fact shall be shown by the Sheriff ’3 return upon the summons, and also be 1
proved by affidavit to the satisfaction of the Ccurt, or that he is a non-resident of the State, and it shall
appear by afiidavit that a cause of action exists against the defendant, in respect to whom the
serv'we is to be made, or that he is a necessary or proper party to any action, the Court or Judge may
grant an order that the same be made by publication of a summons. The order shall direct the
publication to be made in some one or more newspapers, to be designated as most likely to give notice
to the person to be served, and for such length of time as the circumstances of the case may
require. In case of publication the Court or Judge shall also direct a copy of the summons and
complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post-oi‘n‘ce, directed to the person to be served at his place of
residence, unless it appears by adidavit that such residence is neither known to the party making the
application, nor can with reasonable diligence be ascertained by him. If the summons shall not be
personally served on a defendant, he or his representatives shall (except in actions for divorce) be
allowed to defend after judgment, or at any time within one year after notice thereof, and within three
years after its rendition, on such terms as shall be just; and if the defence be successful, and the judgment,
or any part thereof, shall have been collected or otherwise enforced, such rendition may thereupon be
compelled as the Court shall direct. In all cases where publication is made, the summons as published,
shall state the time and place of the filing of the complaint, the nature of the action, with a brief
statement of the complaint, and shall require the defendant to appear and answer at such time as shall
be directed by the order. When the defendant is out of the State, the publication shall be once a
month, for not less than six months.
§ 28. When service has been made, the summons shall be returned to the proper Court, within the
time in which the defendant is required to answer. If service is not made, the summons shall be
returned within thirty days after its date, when it is placed in the hands of the Sheriff of the county in
which it is issued, or within ninety days, if placed in the hands of any other Sheriff, or at such time as
the plaintiff or his attorney may direct.
§ 29. When a summons has been returned not served, the clerk shall at any time issue another on
' the application of the plaintiff or his attorney. _ .
§ 30. More than one summons may be issued at the same time; but in such case the plaintiff shall
not recover the costs of more than one.
§ 31. When the action is against two or more defendants, and the summons is served on one or
more, but not on all of them, the plaintitl' may proceed as follows :
1st. If the action be against several persons, jointly indebted upon a contract, he may proceed
against the defendant, served in the same manner as if all had been served, unless the Court shall
otherwise direct; or,
2d. In an action against defendants severally liable, he may proceed against the defendant or
defendants, served in the same manner as if such defendant or defendants were the only parties proceeded
against.
3d. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may be taken against any or either of them
severally, when the plaintiff would be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defendants, if
the action had been against them or any of them alone.
§ 32. In the cases in which the service may be made by publication, the service shall be deemed
complete at the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication.
§ 33. Proof of the service of the summons, and of the complaint accompanying the same, shall be as
follows :
lst. If served by the SheriE, his certificate thereof; or,
‘ 2d. In case of publication, the aflidavit of the printer, or his foreman or principal clerk, showing the
same; and an aiiidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the post-office, if the same shall have
been deposited.

3d. The written admission of the defendant. In case of actual service, the certificate shall state the
time and place of the service.

§ 34. If any defendant, in person or by attorney, shall endorse upon the complaint an acceptance of
service, it shall be equivalent to actual service, and no summons need issue.

§ 35. From the time of the service of the summons in a civil action, or the allowance of a provisional

remedy, the Court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all.the
subsequent proceedings. '

CHAPTER V.
0f the Pleadings in C‘ivil Actions.

§36. The forms of pleadings in civil actions in the District Court, and the rules by which the
sudiciency of the pleadings are to be determined, shall be as prescribed by this Act.

§ 37. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is the complaint.

§ 38. The complaint shall contain—

1st. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the Court in which the action is brought, the
names of the parties to the action, plaintiff and defendant, and their residence, if known.

2d. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action in ordinary and concise language, without
repetition, and in such a manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is
intended.

3d. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff supposes himself entitled. If the recovery of money
he demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated.

§ 39. The only pleading on the‘part of the defendant is either a demurrer or an answer; it must
be filed within the time prescribed in the summons.

§40. The defendant may demur to the complaint, when it shall appear upon the face thereof,
either ,

lst. That the Court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant or the subject of the
action; or,

2d. That the complainant has not legal capacity to sue : or,

3d. That there is another action pending between the same parties for the same cause ; or,

4th. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant; or,

5th. That several causes of action have been improperly united ; or,

6th. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

§ 41. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objection to the complaint; unless it do so,
it may be disregarded. It may be taken to the whole complaint or to any of the alleged causes of
action stated therein.

§ 42. If the complaint be amended, a notice of the filing of the amended complaint shall be served
on the defendant or his attorney, who must answer it within five days. On proof of the service, and
there being no answer filed, the plaintiff may proceed to take judgment by default as in other cases.

§ 43. When any of the matters which are the causes of demurrer do not appear upon the face of the
complaint, the objection may be taken by answer. I

§ 44. If no such objection be taken either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to

have waived the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection
that the complaint does not state facts suliieient to constitute a cause of action.
§ 45. The answer of the defendant shall contain—

lst, In respect to each allegation of the complaint controverted by the defendant, a general or specific

denial thereof, or a denial thereof according to his information and belief, or of any knowledge thereof
sufiicient to form a belief.

2d. A statement of any new matter constituting a defence, in ordinary and concise language, without

repetition, and in such a manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is
intended.

§ 46. The defendant may set forth by answer as many defences as he shall have; they shall each be
separately stated, and refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer, in any manner by
which they may be intelliginy distinguished. .

.§ 47. \Vhen the defendant in his answer alleges on his part new facts, they shall be considered as
denied by the plaintilf, except as-to the signature of any instrument of writing on which the 'answer is
founded.

§ 48. The defendant may demur to one or more of several causes of action stated in the complaint,
and answer the residue, or may demur and answer at the same time.

§ 49. Sham answers and defences may be stricken out on motion.

§ 50. When the answer shall contain new matter, the plaintiff may demur to the same for insuflicieucy ,
stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof, and he may also demur to one or more of several defences
set up in the answer.

§ 51. N 0 other pleading shall be allowed than the complaint, answer, and demurrers.

§ 52. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party or his attorney. a

§ 53. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the items of an account therein
alleged ; but he shall deliver to the adverse party within five days after a demand thereof in writing, a
copy of the account, verified by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, to the effect that he
believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The Judge may order a further or
a more particular bill.

§ 54. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall
be liberally construed, and with a view'to substantial justice between the parties.

§ 55. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it may be stricken out on motion
of any person a grieved thereby ; and if no motion be made, it shall be the duty of the court to order

it to be done.
§ 56. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court or of‘n‘cer of special jurisdiction, it

shall not be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction; but such judgment or determination may
be stated to have been duly given or made. if such allegations be controverted, the party pleading shall
be bound to establish on the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction. '

§ 57. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts showing the performance ; but it may be stated generally, that the party duly performed
all the conditions on his part; and if such allegations be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound
to establish on the trial the facts showing such performance.

§ 58. In pleading'a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be sudicient to refer to such
statute by its title, and the day of its approval, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice
thereof. .

§ 59. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic
facts, for the purpose of showing the application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter out of which
the cause of action arose, but it‘shall be suliicient to state generally that the same was published or
spoken concerning the plaintiff; and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintiff shall be bound to
establish on the trial that it was so published or spoken. § 60. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the
truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of
damages ; and whether he prove the justilication or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating

(Y
C

circumstances.

§ 61. The plaintiff may unite several causes of action in the same complaint, when they all arise out
of—

lst. Contracts, express or implied; or,

2d. Injuries with or without force to the person; or,

3d. Injuries with or without force to property ; or,

4th. Injuries to character; or,

5th. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for withholding thereof, and the rents
and profits of the same ; or,

6th. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages for the withholding thereof; 0:.

7th. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract or by operation of law.

But the cause of action so united must belong to one only of these classes, and must affect all the
parties to the action, and must be separately stated.

 62. When any complaint or answer is founded on any instrument of writing which is alleged to
have been signed by the party, the signature shall be considered as admitted, unless denied by such
party on oath. If denied, it may be proved by any proper evidence.

§63. Every material allegation of the complaint not controverted by the answer, shall, for the
purposes of the action, be taken as true. . .

§64. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof shall be deemed material,
unless it have actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defence
upon the merits. \Vhenever it shall be alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved to
the satisfaction of the court, and in what respect he has been misled, and thereupon the court may order
the pleading to be amended upon such terms as shall be just.

§ 65. When the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the
fact to be found according to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment without costs.

§ 66. When, however, the allegation of the cause of action or defence to which the proof is directed
is unproved, not in some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it shall not
be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

§ 67. Any pleading ,may be once amended by the party of course, without costs and without
prejudice to the proceedings already had, at any time before the period for answering it shall expire, or
within five days after the answer to such pleading shall have been filed. 9

§68. The court may at any time, in furtherance of justice and on such terms as may be proper,
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of the party, or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting any other allegations
material to the cause, or by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, allow an answer to be made, or other act to be done, after the time limited by
this Act, or by an order enlarge such time, and may also at any time within one year after notice
thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order, or proceeding taken against him through his mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and may supply an omission in any proceeding, and when
any proceeding taken by a party fails to conform in any respect to the provisions of this Act, the
Court shall have power to permit an amendment of such proceeding, so as to make it conformable to
law. '

§ 69. After demurrer either party may amend any pleading demurred to of course and without
costs, filing the same amended, and giving notice thereof within five days to the adverse party, who
shall have tive days to answer or demur thereto, if the pleading be a complaint, or three days to demur
thereto if it be an answer; but a party shall not so amend more than once. When a demurrer to a
complaint is overruled, and there is no answer tiled, the Court may, upon such terms as shall be just,
allow the defendant to tile an answer. If a demurrer to the answer be overruled, the facts
alleged in the answer shall still be considered as denied. A demurrer only admits the facts for the
sake of an argument.

§ 70. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name of a defendant, such defendant may be
designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name; and when his true name shall be discovered,
the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

§ 71. The Court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any error or defect in the pleading or
proceedings which shall not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party, and no judgment shall be
reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect. § 72. The plaintiff and defendant respectively may be allowed on motion to make a supplemental
complaint or answer, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the former complaint or answer,
or of which the party was ignorant when this former pleading was made.

CHAPTER VI.
, Arrest and .Baz'l.

§ 73. No person shall be arrested in a civil action except as prescribed by this Act; but this provision
shall not apply to proceedings for contempt.
§ 74. The defendant may be arrested as'hereinafter described in the following cases :—

First. In an action for money received, or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, by a public
officer, or by an attorney or counsellor, or by an of’dcer or agent of a corporation, in the course of his
employment as such, or by any factor, agent, broker, or other person in a fiduciary capacity. .

Second. \Vhen the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt or incurring the
obligation for which the action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property for the taking,
detention, or conversion of which the action is brought. '

Third. \Vhen the defendant has removed or disposed of his property, or is about to do so with
intent to defraud his creditors. But no female shall be arrested in any action. ‘

§ 75. The order may be made when it shall appear to the Judge, by the adidavit of the
plaintiff, or of any other person, that a sufficient cause of action exists, and that the case is one of those
above mentioned.

§ 76. An order for the arrest of the defendant must be obtained from a Judge of the Court in which
the action is brought, or from a County Judge.

§ 77. Before making the order, the Judge shall require a written undertaking on the part of the
plaintiff, with sufficient suretics to the effect that if the order be wrongfully obtained, the plaintiff will
pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages he may sustain by reason of the
arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be fixed by the Judge, and shall
not be less than five hundred dollars.

§ 78. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or at any time afterwards before
judgment. It shall require the Sheriff of the County where the defendant may be found, forthwith to.
arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order at a time and place therein
- mentioned to the Court in which the action is pending. .

§ 79. The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to the Sheriff, who, upon arresting the
defendant, shall deliver to him a copy thereof.

§ 80. The Sheriff shall execute the order by armsting the defendant, and keeping him in custody
until discharged by law, and may call the power of the County to his aid in the execution of the arrest
as in case of process.

§ 81. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be discharged from the arrest, either upon
giving bail or upon depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest as provided in this chapter.

§ 82. The defendant may give bail by causing a written undertaking to be executed by two or more
sufficient bail, stating their places of residence and occupation, to the effect that the defendant shall at
all times render himself amenable to the process of the court during the pendency of the action, and to
such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein.

§ 83. At any time before a failure to comply with theii' undertaking, the bail may surrender the
defendant in their exoneration or he may surrender himself to the Sheriff of the county where he was
arrested in the following manner :—

lst. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be delivered to the Sheriff, who shall detain

the defendant in his custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and shall by a certificate in writing
acknowledge the surrender. .

2d. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and Sheriff’s certificate, a Judge of the Cdurt
or County Judge may, upon notice to the plaintiff of eight days, with a copy of the certificate, order that
the bail be exonerated, and on filing the order and the papers used on such application, they shall be
exonerated accordingly.

§ 84. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, at any time and place before they are
finally charged, may themselves arrest him, or by a written authority endorsed on a certified copy of
the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do so.

§ 85. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking the bail may be proceeded against by action
onlv.

§ 86. The bail may be exonerated either by the death of the defendant or his imprisonment in a
State Prison, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process, or
by his surrender to the Sheriff of the county where he was arrested in execution thereof, within twenty
days after the commencement of the action against the bail, or within such further time as may be
granted by the court. 9 ,

§87. Within the time limited for that purpose, the Sheriff shall file the order of arrest and the
undertaking of the bail in the court in which the action is pending, with his return endorsed, and shall
give notice in writing to the plaintiff or his attorney, that the order and undertaking are tiled. The
plaintiff, within ten days thereafter, may serve upon the Sheriff a notice that he does not accept the bail,
or he shall be deemed to have accepted it, and the Sheriff shall be exonerated from liability.

§ 88. On the receipt of such notice the Sheriff or defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to
the plaintiff or his attorney, notice of the justification of the same or other bail, specifying the place of
residence and occupation of the latter, before a Judge of the Court, or County Judge, or Justice of the
Peace, at a specified time and place, the time not to be less than five nor more than ten days thereafter.
In case other bail be given, there shall be a new undertaking in the form prescribed for that hrst given.

§ 89. The qualification of bail must be as follows :

lst. Each of them must be a resident and householder, or freeholder within the State.

2d. They must each be worth the amount stated in the order of arrest, over and above the amount
of their debts, and exclusive of property exempt from execution; but theJudge, or a Justice of the
Peace, on justification, may allow more than two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that
expressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail.

§ 90. For the purpose of justification each of the bail shall attend before the Judge or a Justice of the
Peace, at the time and place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath on the part of the
plaintiff touching his sufiiciency in such manner as the Judge or J ustice of the Peace in his discretion
may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing and subscribed by the bail, if required
by the plaintiff. V 0' § 91. If the Judge or Justice of the Peace find the bail sufiicient, he shall annex the examination to
the undertaking, endorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed with the Clerk, and the
Sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.

§ 92. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of giving bail, deposit ‘with the Sheriff
the amount mentioned in the order. The Sheriff shall thereupon give the defendant a certiticate of the
deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

§ 93. The Sheriff shall, within four days after the deposit, pay the same into Court, and shall take from the oflicer receiving the same two certificates of such payment, the one of which he shall deliver
to the plaintiff and the other to the deferfdant; for any default in making such payment, the same
proceedings may be had on the ofiicial bond of the Sheriff, to collect the sum deposited, as in other

cases of delinquency.

§ 94. If money be deposited as above provided, bail may be given and justified, on notice at any
time before judgment, and thereupon the judge, before justification is bad, shall direct in the order of
allowance that the money deposited be refunded to the defendant, and it shall be refunded accordingly.

§ 95. Where money shall be so deposited, if it remain on deposit at the time of an order or judgment,
for the payment of money to the plaintiff, the Clerk shall, under the direction of the Court, apply the
same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment, shall refund the surplus, if any, to the
defendant; if the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the Clerk shall refund to him the whole sum
deposited and remaining unapplied.

§ 96. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or
a deposit be not made instead thereof, the Sheriff shall himself be liable as bail ; but he may discharge
himself from such liability, by the giving and justification of bail, as provided in this chapter, at any
time before process against the person of the defendant, to enforce an order or judgment in the action.

§ 97. If a judgment be recovered against the Sheriff upon his liability as bail, and an execution be
returned thereon unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had on the odicial bond
of the Sheriff, to collect the deficiency, as in other cases of delinquencies.

§ 98. The bail taken upon the arrest shall, unless they justify, or other bail be given or justified, be
liable to the Sheriff by action for damages which he may sustain by reason of such omission.

§ 99. A defendant arrested may, at any time before the justification of bail, apply to the judge of
the Court in which the action is pending, to vacate the order of arrest or to reduce the amount of bail,
reasonable notice of the application being first given to the plaintiff. No continuance of such an
application for more than one day shall be granted to the plaintiff.

§ 100. At the hearing of the application the defendant may be discharged from custody, or his bail
exonerated for any irregularity or defect in the proceedings; but the judge shall discharge him and
exonerate his bail, unless the plaintiff show clearly not only that he has a sufiicient cause of action
against the defendant as alleged, but also that the facts and circumstances of the case justify the issuance
of the order. At the hearing either party may introduce any proper testimony.

§ 101. The recovery of a judgment in the action by the plaintiff against the defendant, shall not
protect the plaintiff or the parties to the undertaking given to procure the order of arrest against the
claim of the defendant for damages, for wrongfully obtaining such order. In any such action for
damages against him, the plaintiff shall be bound to show not only that he had a good cause of action
against the defendant, but also that the facts and circumstances of the case justified the issuance of the
order.

§ 102. A defendant who has been arrested may commence and maintain an action against the
plaintiff for wrongfully obtaining the order for his arrest, or against the plaintiff and his sureties on the
undertaking, without’awaiting the decision of the plaintiff’s action against him. .

CHAPTER VII.
Claim and delivery of Personal Property.

§ 103. The plaintiff in an action to recover the possession of personal property, may, at the time of
issuing the summons, or at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property as
provided in this chapter.

§ 104. An order for the delivery of the property must be obtained from a Judge of the Court in
which the action is brought, or from the County Judge. '

§ 105. The order may be made where it shall appear from the affidavit of the plaintiff :—

1st. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed (particularly describing it), or is lawfully
entitled to the possession thereof by virtue of a'special property therein, the facts in respect to which
shall be set forth..

2d. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.

3d. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best knowledge, information, and
belief.

4th. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine pursuant to a statute, or seized
under an execution or attachment against the property of the plaintiff; or if so seized, that it is by
statute exempt from such seizure; and,

5th. The actual value of the property.

§ 106. The affidavit, with the order of the Judge endorsed thereon, shall be delivered to the Sheriff,
who, before executing it, shall require of the plaintiff a written undertaking, executed by one or more
suflicient sureties approved by the Sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the
property as stated in the aliidavit for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to
the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for. any
cause be recovered against the plaintiff. The Sheriff shall, when the undertaking has been given, take
the property described in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain
it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a cepy of the afiidavit, order, and
undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally if he can be found, or to his agent from whose
possession the property is taken; or if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual place of
abode of either, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

§ 107. The defendant may, within three days after the service of a copy of the affidavit and
undertaking, give notice to the Sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to do
so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties
shall justify on notice in like manner as upon bail or arrest; and the Sheriff shall be responsible for'the
sufiiciency of the sureties until the objection to them is either waived as above provided, or until they
shall justify, or new sureties shall be substituted and justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he
cannot reclaim the property, as provided in the next section. .

§ 108. At any time before the delivery of the preperty to the plaintiff, the defendant may, if he does
except to the sureties of the plaintiff, require the return thereof upon giving to the Sheriff a written
undertaking, with two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double the value
of the property as stated in the affidavit of the plaintiff, for the delivering thereof to the plaintiff, if such
delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any cause be recovered .
against the defendant. If a return of the property be not so required within three days after the
taking and service of notice to defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiff upon payment of fees and
expenses.

§ 109. The defendant’s sureties upon a notice to the plaintiff of not less than two nor more than six
days, shall justify before a Judge or Justice of the Peace, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest;
upon such justification the Sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant. The Sheriff shall be
responsible for the defendant’s sureties until they justify or until justification is completed or waived, and
may retain the property until that time; but if they, or others in their place, fail to justify at the time
and place appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintiff.

§ 110. The qualifications of sureties and their justification shall be as prescribed in respect to bail
upon an order of arrest.

§ 111. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintiff or its return to the defendant
as prescribed in the preceding section, the defendant may apply to the Judge of the Court in which
the action is pending to vacate the order, giving to the plaintiff one day’s notice of the application.

§ 112. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in a building or inclosure, the Sheriff shall
publicly demand its delivery; if it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or inclosure to be
broken open, and shall take the property in his possession ; and if necessary, he may call to his aid the
power of the county.

§ 113. When the Sheriff shall have taken property as in the chapter provided, he shall keep it in a
secure place and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawnt fees for taking and his

necessary expenses for keeping the same.

§ 114. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than the defendant or his agent, and
such person shall make afiidavit of his title thereto and right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds'
of such right and title, and serve the same upon the Sheriff, the Sheriff shall not be bound to keep the
property, or to deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff on demand shall indemnify him against such
claim by an undertaking with two or more sufiicient sureties, accompanied by their aHidavits that they
are each worth double the value of the property as specified in the afiidavit of the plaintiffs, and
freeholders or householders of the county; and no claim to such property by any other person than the
defendant shall be valid against the Sheriff, unless made as aforesaid; and notwithstanding such claim
when so made, he may retain the property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity; § 115. The Sheriff shall file the order and affidavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the Clerk
of the Court in which the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the property mentioned
therein.

CHAPTER VIII.
Injunction.

§ 116. The writ of injunction as a provisional remedy is abolished, and an injunction by order is
substituted therefor. The order may be made by the Court in which the action is brought or by a
Judge thereof, or by a County Judge, in the cases provided in the next section, and when made by a
Judge may be enforced as the order of the Court.

§ 117. When it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded,
and such relief or any part thereof consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act,
the commission or continuance of which during the litigation would produce injury to the plaintiff; or,
when during the litigation, it shall appear that the defendant is doing or threatens, or is about to do,
or is procuring or suffering some act to be done in violation of the plaintiff ’3 rights respecting the subject
of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to
restrain such act; and when, during the pending of an action, it shall appear by aflidavit that the defendant
threatens, orgis about to remove or dispose of his property, with intent to defraud his creditors, a
temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such removal or disposition.

§ 118. The injunction may be granted at the time of commencing the action, or at any time
afterwards before judgment, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the Judge or Court, by the affidavit of
the plaintiff or of any other person, that sutlicient grounds exist therefor. A copy of the aHidavit must

be served with the injunction.
§ 119. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant shall have answered, unless upon notice

or upon an order to show cause; but in such case the defendant may be restrained until the decision of
the Court or Judge granting or refusing the injunction.

§ 120. The Court or Judge shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with
sufficient surety, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined such damages, not exceeding
an amount to be specified, as he may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the Court shall finally decide
that the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a reference or otherwise,
as the Court shall direct.

§ 121. If the Court or Judge deem it proper that the defend:th or any of several defendants shall be
heard before granting the injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be shown at a specified
time and place why the injunction should not be granted, and the defendant may in the meantime be
restrained. '

§ 122. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary business of a corporation shall not be
granted, except by the Judge of the Court in which the action is brought.

§ 123. If the injunction be granted by a County Judge without notice, the defendant, at any time
before the trial, may apply, upon notice to a Judge of the Court of the county in which the action is
brought, to vacate or modify the same. The application may be made upon the complaint and the

adidavit upon which the injunction was granted, or upon adidavits on the part of the defendant, with or

' without the answer. .
§ 124. If the application be made upon afiidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise,
the plaintiff may oppose the same by adidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on which the

injunction was gz'anted.

CHAPTER IX.
Judgment after Failure to Answer.

§ 125. If the defendant fails to appear and file his answer within the time prescribed by law, the
plaintiff may take judgment by default against him.

§ 126. No judgment by default can be taken until all demurrers are disposed of.

§ 127. The judgment shall only  granted on motion in open Court, of which no notice need be
given to the defendant, and consists merely of astatement entered on the minutes of the Court, showing
that the defendant has failed to appear.

§ 128. If three days after the judgment has been rendered the defendant neither appears nor files
his answer, the judgment by default may be made dnal, upon proof by the plaintiff of his demand.
This proof is required in all cases. N o judgment by default can be made dual except in open Court.

§ 129. \Vhen from the nature of the demand damages are to be assessed, the cause shall be
submitted to a jury in the same manner as if the defendant had answered, and the Court shall enter
judgment in conformity with the verdict. In cases where the demand is liquidated, a iury need not be
summoned, but the Court shall render judgment.

§ 130. If the defendant, before or on the day when dual judgment was to have been rendered
against him, appear and file his answer, the judgment, if taken, shall be set aside, and he may file an
answer at any time before the judgment is made dual.

CHAPTER X.
Issues and the Mode of Trial.

§ 131. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one
party and controverted by the other. They are of two kinds :—

1st. Of law.

2d. Of fact.

§ 132. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint or answer, or to some part thereof.

§ 133. An issue of fact arises :—

lst. Upon a material allegation in the complaint coutrovertcd by the answer ; or,

2d. Upon new matter in the answer, except an issue of law is joined therein.

§ 134. Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different parts of the pleading in the same
action. 'In such cases the issues of law must be first tried, unless the Court otherwise direct.

§ 135. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between the parties, whether they be issues of
law or of fact.

§ 136. \Vhenever there shall be an issue of fact, it must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be
waived. Issues of law must be. tried by the Court. .

§ 137. At any time after issue, either party may give notice of trial. The party giving notice shall
furnish the clerk with a note of the issue containing the title of the action and the names of the
attorneys, and the clerk shall thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar. '

§ 138. The issues upon the calendar shill be disposed of in the following order, unless for the
convenience of parties or the dispatch of business, the Court shall otherwise direct :—

lst. Issues of fact to he tried by a jury.

2d. Issues of fact to be tried by the Court.

3d. Issues of law.

w
V

CHAPTER XI.
Trial by Jury.

§ 139. Juries for the trial of civil actions in the District Court shall be formed in the same manner as
they are required to be formed for the trial of criminal actions. "

§ 140. Juries for the trial of civil actions in the Superior Court of the City of San Francisco, shall be
formed in the manner prescribed in the succeeding sections of this chapter.

§ 141. On the first or any subsequent day of the term, the Superior Court shall, by an entry on the
minutes, direct an order to be issued to the Sheriff of the county, to summon forty-eight persons to
appear forthwith, or at such time as may be named.

§ 142. The Clerk shall issue the order, and the Sheriff shall execute and return it at the time specified,
with a list of the names of the persons so summoned. If he has been unable to summon the whole
number in the time allowed, he shall return the order with the list of names summoned.

§ 143. The court may in its discretion enlarge the time of the return and direct the Sheriff to summon
the whole number, or may proceed to empanel a jury or juries from the number summoned.

§ 144. Upon the return of the order, or upon the expiration of the further time allowed, the names
of the persons summoned shall be called, and the court shall proceed to empanel a jury or juries for the
term. If any person summoned fails to attend, without reasonable excuse, the court may impose upon
him a fine, not exceeding one hundred dollars, and may compel attendance by attachment.

§ 145. The Clerk, shall prepare separate ballots containing the names of those in attendance, and
deposit them in a box. He shall then draw from the box twelve names, and the persons drawn shall
form a jury for the term. If the court so direct, he shall continue the drawing until a second jury is
drawn. When two juries are drawn, the court may direct at what time they shall each attend.

§ 146. If there be not enough of the persons summoned in attendance to form one, or if required, two
juries, the court may direct others to be summoned before the drawing, or may direct the whole
number present to be put upon the jury or juries, and the deficiency to be supplied from among the

bystanders.
§ 147. The court may excuse any individual juror or jurors at any time and direct their places to be

supplied from among the bystanders ; and at the end of the first week of the term, or at any subsequent
time, may discharge the whole jury; or if there be two in attendance, may discharge one or both of
them.

§ 148. Whenever a jury is discharged, another may be formed in the manner hereinbefore prescribed,
and shall serve so long as the court shall require.

§ 149. At any time during the term, the court may have two juries in attendance, or if necessary ,
may direct a third to be formed, which shall be done in the manner hereinbefore prescribed.

§ 150. The qualifications of a juror shall be the same as those prescribed by law for a grand juror.

§ 151. Upon the trial of a civil action, either party may challenge four jurors peremptorily; all
challenges for cause shall be determined by the court or judge.

§ 152. Either party giving the notice may bring the issue to trial, and in the absence of the adverse
party, unless the Court for good cause shown otherwise direct, may proceed with his case and take a
dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict or judgment, as the case may require.

§ 153. A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues,
either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts
only, leaving the judgment to the court.

§ 154. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if the property has not been
delivered to the plaintiff, or the defendant, by his answer, claims a return thereof, the jury shall assess
the value of the property, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintiff; or if they find in favor of the
defendant, and that he is entitled to a return thereof, and may at the same time assess the damages, if

any are claimed, in the complaint or answer which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of the
detention or taking and withholding such property.

§ 155. In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real property, the jury in their
discretion may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases the court may direct the jury to
find a special verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues, and in all cases may instruct them, if they
render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct
a written finding thereon. The special verdict or finding shall be filed with the Clerk and entered upon
the minutes.

§ 156. Where a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with the general verdict, the former
shall control the latter, and the Court shall give judgment accordingly.

§ 157. When a verdict shall be found for the plaintiff in an action for the recovery of money only,
the jury shall also assess the amount of the recovery.

 158. Upon receiving a verdict, the Court shall direct an entry to be made, specifying the time and
place of the trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and either the judgment to be
rendered thereon, or an order that the case be reserved for argument or further consideration.

§ 159. Judgment shall be entered by the Clerk in conformity to the verdict, which shall be final
after the expiration of four days, unless the Court order the case to be reserved for argument or further
consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings.

CHAPTER XII.
Trial by the Court.

§ 160. Trial by Jury may be waived by the several parties to an issue of fact in actions on contract,
and with the assent of the Court, in other actions, in the manner following:—

1. By failing to appear at the trial.

2. By written consent in person, or by attorney, tiled with the Clerk.

3. By oral consent in open court entered on the minutes; but no issue of fact, in which damages
are required to be assessed, shall be tried by the Court, unless upon an express waiver of a jury by the
parties or their attorneys.

§ 16]. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the Court, its decision shall be given in writing, and
filed with the Clerk within two days after the trial took place. Judgment upon the decision shall be
entered as upon a verdict of a jury. '

§ 162. Either party may except to a decision in a matter of law arising upon such trial, within five
days after the judgment, in the same manner, and with the like effect as upon a trial by jury; and
either party desiring a review upon the evidence appearing on trial, may, before entering on the trial,
require the testimony to be taken down by the Clerk in writing, and certitied as in other cases.

CHAPTER XIII.
Trial by Referees.

§ 163. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact or of law, or both, may be referred
upon the written consent of the parties.

§ 164. When the parties do not consent, the Court may, upon the application of either, or of its
own motion, except when the investigation will require the decision of difficult questions of law, direct a

reference in the following cases :
v 1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of a long account on either
side, in which case the referees may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report upon

any specific question of fact involved therein ; or,
2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information 0f the court before

judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into etl'ect ; or,

3. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, shall arise upon motion, or otherwise,
in any stage of the action. § 165. The report of the referees upon the whole issue shall stand as the decision of the Court, and
judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the action had been tried by the Court, and
their decision may be excepted to, and reviewed in like manner, or a rehearing may be granted by the
Court in which the judgment is entered.
§ 166. In all cases of reference the parties may agree upon a suitable person or persons, not
exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered accordingly. If the parties do not agree, the
Court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who shall be free from exception, and
reside in the County where the action is to be tried.

CHAPTER XIV.
Manner of entering. Judgment.

§ 167. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several plaintifih, and for or against one
or more of several defendants, and it may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side as
between themselves. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render
judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others whenever a
several judgment may be proper. The court may also dismiss the complaint, with costs in favor of one
or more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect on the part of the plaintiE' to have the summons
served on other defendants, or to proceed in the cause against the defendant or defendants served.

§ 168. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no answer, cannot exceed that which he has
demanded in his complaint, but in any other case the court may grant him any relief consistent with the
case made by the complaint and embraced within the issue.

§ 169. In an action to recover possession of personal property, judgment for the plaintiff may be for
the possession or for the recovery of possession or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had ,
and of damages for the detention. If the property have been delivered to the plaintiff; and the defendant
claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property or the value
thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding the same.

§ 170. The Clerk shall keep among the records of the court a book for the entry of judgments, to be
called the “Judgment Book.” § 171. The judgment shall be entered in the judgment book, and shall specify clearly the relief
granted or other determination of the action; upon the expiration of four days the judgment shall be
signed by the Judge, after which execution may issue. ‘

CHAPTER XV.
The Execution.

§ 172. A judgment shall create no lien upon the property of the judgment debtor, unless a transcript
thereof be filed for record in the oliice of the Recorder of Deeds. From the time of such filing the
judgment shall bind all the real estate of the debtor within the county in which the transcript is so filed:
Provided, that if no execution be issued on the judgment within six months, the lien shall be lost.

§ 173. The party in whose favor judgment shall be given may, at any time within five years after the
entry of the judgment, proceed to enforce the same as provided by this Act.

§ 17 4. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment, an execution may be issued only by
leave of the court, on motion, with notice to the adverse party. Such leave shall not be given unless it
shall be established by the oath of the party or other proof that the judgment or some part thereof
remains unsatisfied and due.

§ 175. Where a judgment requires the payment of money or the delivery of real or personal property,
the same may be enforced in those respects by execution, as provided by this Act. Where it requires
the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served upon the party against

whom it is given, or the person or ofiicer who is required thereby or by law to obey the same, and his
obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse, he may be punished by the court as for a contempt.

§ 1 76. There shall be three kinds of execution : one against the property of the judgment debtor, another ’
against his person, and the third for the delivery of the possession of real or personalOProperty, or such
delivery with damages for withholding the same.

§ 177. When the execution is against the property of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the
Sheriff of any county in this State. When it requires the delivery of real or personal property, it must
be issued to the Sheriff of the county where the property or some part thereof is situated. Executions
may be issued at the same time to different counties.

§ 17 8. If the action be one in which the defendant might have been arrested, an execution against
the person of the judgment debtor may be issued to any county in the State, after the return of an

execution against his property, unsatisfied in whole or in part. .
§ 17 9. The execution must be signed by the Clerk, and be under the seal of the Court. It must be
directed to the Sheriff, or to the Coroner when the Sheriff is a party interested, and shall refer intelliginy
to the judgment, stating the court, the names of the parties to the action, the date and amount of the
judgment if it be for money, and the amount actually due thereon, and shall require the ofiicer
substantially as follows :—
lst. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall require the officer to satisfy the
judgment out of the personal property of such debtor, and if sutiicient personal property cannot be
found, out of his real property.
2d. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall require the odicer to arrest such
debtor and commit him to the jail of the county until he shall pay the judgment or be discharged
according to law.
3d. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, it shall require the odicer
to deliver the possession of the same (particularly describing it) to the party entitled thereto, and may
at the same time require the odicer to satisfy any costs, damages, or rents and profits recovered by the
same judgment, out of the personal property of the party against whom it was rendered, and the value
of the property for which the judgment was recovered, to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof
cannot be had ; and if sufiicieut personal property cannot be found, then out of his real property.
§ 180. The execution shall be returnable at such time as the plaintiff or his attorney may direct,
which shall not be less than forty days nor more than six months.
§ 181. An execution shall create no lien, except upon personal property actually levied upon, and
from the day the levy is made.
§ 182. The Clerk shall keep an execution docket, in which he shall enter an abstract of all executions
issued by him, setting forth the names of the parties, the character of the writ, the amount, if it be for
money, the date of the judgment, with a reference to the page of the record on which it is entered, the
date of the execution, the ofiicer to whom it was issued, and the return made upon the execution.
» § 183. Any execution issued irregularly or wrongfully, may be set aside by the Judge of the Court
from which it issued, on motion and five days’ notice thereof given to the Opposite party or his

attorney.
CHAPTER XVI.

Levy of Execution and Sale.

§ 164. The following property shall be liable to be seized and sold upon execution :— 1st. All goods and chattels not exempt by law.

2d. The rights and shares of a defendant in the stock of any incorporated company or association.

3d. Any current gold or silver coin, or gold dust, which shall be returned by the ofiicer as so much
collected, without exposing the same to sale. ‘

4th. All the real estate not exempted by law, whereof the defendant, or any person for his use, was
seized on the day of the rendition of judgment or at any time thereafter.

§ 185. Upon the receipt of any execution, it shall be the duty of the officer to endorse thereon the
year, month, day, and hour of the day when he received the same.

§ 186. When goods and chattels shall be pledged for the payment of money, or the performance of
any contract or agreement, the rights and interest in such goods of the person making such pledge may
be sold on execution, and the purchaser shall acquire all the right and interest of the defendant, and
shall be entitled to the possession of such goods and chattels on complying with the terms and conditions
of the pledge.

§ 187. Any share or interest of a stockholder in any joint stock company may be levied upon or
attached by leaving an attested copy of the writ with the officer or person who has at the time the
custody of the books and papers of the company; and any share or interest so levied upon or attached,
with all the dividends that shall thereafter accrue, shall be held and sold to satisfy the judgment in like
manner as other property.

§ 188. If the officer having an execution or attachment against any such stockholder shall exhibit
the writ to the ofiicer of the company appointed to keep a record or account of the shares or interest of
the stockholders therein, and shall request a certificate of the number of shares, or amount of interest
held by the defendant, such ofiicer of the company shall give such certificate to the person holding the
writ; and if he shall refuse to do so, or if he give a false certificate, he shall be liable for double the
amount of all damages sustained by reason of such refusal or false certificate, unless the judgment is
satisfied by the original defendant.

§ 189. The person against whom an execution for money is issued shall have the right to designate
the property to be levied upon. If he does so, the officer shall levy upon such property and no other,
if in his opinion it is sufficient; if it is not, then upon such additional property as shall be sufiicient. If
the defendant in execution cannot be found, or refuses to make any designation of property, the odicer
shall levy~ upon any of his property, as required by the writ.

§ 190. When personal property is levied upon, the defendant may retain possession thereof until
the day of sale, by giving an undertaking in double the value of the property to the odicer, with
sufiicient sureties, to be approved by him, for the delivery of the property to such of’ricer at the time
and place of sale to be named in the undertaking.

§ 191. If the property be not delivered according to the undertaking, the emcer may seize any
property of the defendant which is subject to the execution, and sell it; if personal property, on three
days’ notice ; if real estate, on ten days’ notice, to satisfy the execution.

§ 192. If the property be not delivered according to the undertaking, and the execution be returned
unsatisfied in whole or in part, the plaintiff may, on any day of the next term of the Court, by motion
and without notice, obtain judgment on the undertaking against the parties thereto, or any of them.

§ 193. No sale of personal preperty shall be made by virtue of any execution, unless previous notice
of such sale shall have been given five days successively, by posting up notices thereof in three public
places in the county where the sale is to be had, specifying the time and place where the same is
intended to be had and the property to be sold.

§ 194. Sales of personal property under execution shall be made at some public place in the county
where it is found, to be designated by the officer in his notice.

§ 195. If in any case where an oflicer has an execution against property there is any reasonable
doubt as to the ownership of such property, or as to its liability to be taken on the execution, the odicer
may require sufficient surety to indemnify him for levying upon such property.

§ 196. No personal property shall be offered for sale, unless the same be present and within view of
those attending the sale : Provided, that horses and cattle which may have the mark or brand of the
defendant in the execution, may be sold without being present or in view of those attending. Such
property shall be offered for sale in such lots and parcels as shall be calculated to bring the highest
price.

§ 197. When real estate has been taken in execution, it shall be sold at the county seat of the
county in which it is situated, and at the Court-house door, or at the door of the house in which the
County Court is usually held.

Notice of such sale shall be given as follows :

lst. A written or printed notice thereof shall be posted up at least twenty days before the sale in
these public places in the county. The notice shall intelliginy refer to the execution, and shall state
the time and place of the sale, and describe the property to be sold with common certainty by metes
and bounds, or by some other appropriate description.

2d. A copy of such notice shall be published for two successive weeks in some newspaper published
in the county, if there begone. .

§ 198. When real estate, offered for sale by virtue of any execution, shall consist of any known lots,
tracts, or parcels, the same shall be separately exposed for sale by the otiicer, and no more of any real
estate shall be exposed to sale than shall appear to be necessary to satisfy the execution.

§ 199. Any officer who shall sell any real estate without the previous notice herein required, or
otherwise than in the manner prescribed, shall forfeit one thousand dollars to the party injured, in
addition to any damages which such party may sustain ; but the omission of such ofiicer to give notice
of the sale, or the taking down or the defacing the notice, shall not affect the validity of any sale made
to a purchaser in good faith, without notice of such omission or offence.

§ 200. No Sheriff or other otiicer to whom any execution shall be directed, nor the deputy of such
Sheriff or ofiicer holding any execution, and conducting any sale of property in pursuance thereof, shall
directly or indirectly purchase any property whatever at any sale by virtue of such execution, and all
purchases made by him, or them, or by any other person to his or their use, shall be void.

§ 201. All sales of property under execution shall be made at auction to the highest bidder, and
shall be made between the hours of nine o’clock in the forenoon and sunset of the same day. If the
sale cannot be concluded on the day for which it is advertised, it may be continued from day to day
until concluded.

§ 202. If any purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by him for property struck off to him at a
sale under execution, the officer making the same may again sell the property at any time to the
highest bidder, and if any loss be occasioned thereby, the ofiicer shall recover the amount of such loss
with costs, by motion before any Court, or before any Justice of the Peace, if the same shall not exceed
his jurisdiction, five days’ notice of the motion having been given.

§ 203. Such Court or Justice shall proceed in a summary manner and give judgment, and issue
execution therefor forthwith, and the same proceedings shall be had against any subsequent purchaser who
shall refuse to pay, and the otiicer may, in his discretion, thereafter reject the bid of any person so refusing.

§204. The two preceding sections shall not be construed to make the oflicer liable for any more
than the amount bid by the second or subsequent purchaser, and the amount collected how the
purchaser refusing to pay.

§ 205. When the purchaser of any goods or chattels shall pay the purchase money, the otiicer
selling the same shall deliver him the property, and if desired, shall execute an instrument of writing,
drawn and delivered to him at the expense of the purchaser, setting forth the sale and payment of the
purchase money, and conveying to the purchaser all the right, title, and interest which the debtor had
in and to the property sold on the day the execution was levied.

§ 206. When any right or shares of stock in any company 'or corporation shall be sold, the officer
making the sale shall execute an instrument in writing, to be drawn at the expense of the purchaser,
reciting the sale and payment of the consideration, and conveying to the purchaser such rights and
shares, and shall also leave with the cashier, secretary, or chief clerk or other agent of such corporation
or company, a copy of the execution and his return thereon, .and the purchaser shall thereupon be
entitled to all dixidends and stocks," and the same privileges as a member of such company or
corporation as such debtor was entitled to.

§ 207. The otIicer who shall sell any real estate or lease of lands and tenements for more than one
year, shall make to the purchaser a deed, to be paid for by the purchaser, reciting the names of the
parties to the execution, the date when issued, the date of the judgment, order, or decree, and other
particulars as recited in the execution, also a description of the property, the time, place, and manner of
sale, which recital shall be received as evidence of the facts therein stated. The deed shall convey to
.the purchaser all the right, title, and interest, which the defendant had at 'the time of the filing of the
transcript of the judgment in the Recorder’s oilice; or, if it has not been filed, at the time of the levy of
the execution; and shall be acknowledged by the otlicer as other conveyances of real estate.

§ 208. The Sheriff shall return every execution at the time therein directed, endorsing on it a certificate
of his acts done under authority of the writ.

§ 209. Whenever any Sheriff shall vacate his office, leaving any writ unexecuted, or any act
unperformed in relation thereto, his successor shall have power to proceed in like manner as if such writ
had been directed to himself. _

§ 210. If any oilicer to whom any execution shall be delivered, shall refuse or neglect to execute or
levy the same according to law, or shall neglect or refuse to make sale of property so levied upon, or
shall make a false return to the writ, he shall be liable and bound to pay the whole amount of the
execution; and if he shall not, on the return of the execution, or at the time the same ought to be
returned, have the money which he shall have thus become liable to pay before the Court, and pay the
same according to the requirement of the writ, the execution creditor may obtain judgment against him
and the sureties on his bond, by motion in the court from which the writ issued, with damages thereon,
five days’ notice of the motion having been first given.

CHAPTER XVII.
Proceedings supplementary to the Execution.

§ 211. When an execution against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors
I in the same judgment, shall be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any
time after such return is made, shall be entitled to an order from a Judge of the Court, or a County
Judge of the Court in which the debtor resides, requiring such judgment debtor to appear and answer
concerning his property before such judge, or a referee appointed by a Judge of the Court, at a time
and place specified in the order.

§ 212. After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon proof by atiidavit to the
satisfaction of the Court, or a Judge thereof, or County Judge, that any judgment debtor has property
which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such Court or Judge may
by an order require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place, to answer concerning
the same, and such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of the property of the
judgment debtor towards the satisfaction of the judgment, as are provided upon the return of an
execution,

§ 213. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, the judge may, if it
appear to him that there is danger of the debtor’s absconding, issue a warrant under his hand, requiring
the Sheriff of any county where such debtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before such judge.
Upon being brought before the judge, he may be examined on oath, and ordered to enter into an
undertaking with sutlicient surety that he will attend, from time to time, before the judge or referee, as
he shall direct, during the pendency of the proceedings, and until the final determination thereof, and
will not in the meantime dispose of any portion of his property not exempt from execution. In default
of entering into such undertaking, he may be committed to prison by warrant under the hand of the
judge.

§ 214. Nothing in the three preceding sections shall authorize the examination of the debtor before

a Judge of any other county than that in which the debtor resides, or in which he may be at the time
the order is issued and served.

§ 215. After the issuing of execution against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor
may pay to the Sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy the
execution, and the Sheriff’s receipt shall be a suHicient discharge for the amount so paid.

§ 216. Upon an affidavit that any person, or corporation, or company, has property of any judgment
debtor, or is indebted to him, the judge may by an order require such person, or corporation, or
company, or any olIicer or member thereof, to appear at a specitied time and place, and answer
concerning the same. The judge may also in his discretion require notice of such proceeding to be
given to any party to the action, in such manner as may seem to him proper.

§ 217. 'Witnesses may be required to appear and testify on any proceedings under this chapter, in
the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.

§ 218. The party or witness may be required to attend before the judge, or before a referee appointed
by the Court or judge; and if before a referee, the examination shall be taken before him. and certified
to the judge. All examinations before a judge or referee under this chapter, shall be on oath, except
that when a company or corporation answers, the answer shall be on the oath of a member or odicer
thereof.

§ 219. The Judge may order any property of the judgment debtor not exempted from execution in
the hands either of himself or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards
the satisfaction of the judgment.

§ 220. The Judge may also by order appoint a receiver of the property of the judgment debtor, and
may also by order forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the judgment debtor not
exempt from execution, and any interference therewith.

§ 221. If it appear that a person, company, or corporation alleged to have property of the judgment
debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, such
interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an action against such person, company, or corporation, by
the receiver; but the Judge may by order forbid a transfer or other disposition of such property or
interest, till a suflicient opportunity be given to the receiver to commence the action and prosecute the
same to judgment and execution; but such order may be modified or dissolved by the Judge granting
the same at any time on such security as he shall direct.

§ 222. The Judge may in his discretion order a reference to a referee agreed upon or appointed by
him, to report the evidence of the facts.

§ 223. The Judge may allow to the judgment creditor or to any party so examined (whether a party
to the action or not), witnesses’ fees and disbursements, and a fixed sum in addition, not exceeding in all
thirty dollars as costs.

§ 224. If any person, party, or witness, disobey an order of the Judge or referee duly served, such
person, party, or witness, may be punished by the Judge as for a contempt.

CHAPTER XVIII.
0f the Costs in Civil Actions. "

§ 225. The measure of the compensation of attorneys shall be left to the agreement express or implied
of the parties.

§ 226. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintiff upon a recovery in the following cases :—

lst. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when a claim of title to real property arises on
the proceedings or is certified by the Court to have come in question upon the trial.

2d. In an action to recover the possession of personal property.

3d. In an action for the recovery of money, unless where it is otherwise expressly provided by law;
but in an action for assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, or malicious prosecution, if the
plaintiff recover less than fifty dollars, he shall recover no costs.

§ 227. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant in the actions mentioned in the last section,
unless the plaintiff be entitled to costs therein.

§ 228. In other actions, and on all motions or other proceedings, where it is not otherwise expressly
provided, costs may be allowed in the discretion of the Court. '

§ 229. Where there are several defendants not united in interest, and making separate defences by
separate answers, and the plaintiff fails to recover judgment against all, the Court may award costs to
such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor, or any of them.

§ 230. The term “costs” as used in this Act, shall be construed to include all fees of officers, jurors,
and witnesses, and all disbursements for any necessary publication of any order or process.

.CHAPTER XIX.

Deposit-ions and Testimony taken under Commissions. .

§ 231. The District Judge of each district may appoint for each county in his district, any number of
commissioners to take testimony, not exceeding three, who shall hold oilice for one year. Before
proceeding to act they shall take and subscribe the oath of otlice and file it in the Court.

§ 232. The commissioners shall severally have power to issue subpoenas to witnesses and to enforce
their attendance by attachment, to administer all necessary oaths, and to take and certify the. depositions
of witnesses or their answers to interrogatories. I

§ 233. Any party to an action may take the deposition of a witness within the county in which theaction is pending, by giving reasonable notice to the opposite party or his attorney, of the time and place
at which the witness will be examined before a commissioner. The notice shall state the title of the
cause in which the evidence of the witness will be used, and the name of the commissioner.

§ 234. Upon the application of any person to one of the commissioners, he shall subpoena any witness
within the county to appear before him at a time and place to be fixed by the subpoena, and may compel
attendance by attachment. The Sheriff of the county shall execute and return any subpmna or
attaclnnent issued to him by a commissioner in the same manner as if it was issued by the court.

§ 235. Upon the appearance of the witness, the commissioner, upon being satisfied that reasonable
notice has been given to the opposite party or his counsel to attend, shall proceed to take the deposition
of the witness, who, after being duly sworn, may be examined and cross-examined by the parties or their
counsel in the same manner as if examined on a trial in open court. The deposition when completed
shall be read over to the witness and signed by him. The commissioner shall then certify to the
deposition, and within five days shall file it in the court in which the action is pending. The Clerk
who receives it, shall endorse the time of its filing and the name of the commissioner by whom it was
delivered to him. A .

§ 236. The deposition of a witness taken in the manner prescribed in the preceding section, shall only
be used in evidence on the trial when the witness is a female, or when it is shown by the party offering
it to the satisfaction of the court :—

lst. That the witness is without the county in which the action is pending ; or,

2d. That he is from sickness or infirmity unable to attend in person; or,

3d. That he is dead.

§ 237. When any party to an action desires to take the testimony of a witness residing out of the
county in which the action is pending, he may tile his interrogatories in writing propounded to the
witness, and Serve upon the opposite party or his attorney a notice that such interrogatories have been
filed. The notice shall state the name and residence of the witness, and the title of the action in which
the answers will be used. A copy thereof shall be served by the Sheriff, who shall return and file in
court the original notice with his Certificate endorsed thereon, showing the time and manner of service.

3’ 238. Within tire days after the service of the notice, the opposite party may file cross-interrogatories
to the witness.

§ 239. Upon the expiration of tive days after the service of the notice, the party desiring to take the
testimony of the witness may obtain from the Clerk a commission directed generally to the County Judge
of the county in which the witness is alleged to reside, or any commissioner or notary public or other
of’dcer thereof, competent by law to take the answers of a witness to interrogatories. The commission
shall be under the hand of the Clerk and seal of the court, and shall empower the oiiicer to take his
answers to the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories, if any, a copy of which certified by the Clerk
shall be attached to the commission.

§ 240. The commission may be executed by any otiicer authorized to execute it, into whose hands it
may be delivered. .

§ 241. When the witness appears before the commissioner, he shall, the witness having been first
duly sworn, proceed to take and reduce to writing his answers to each interrogatory and crossinterrogatory ; when completed, the answers shall be read over to the witness, and corrected if necessary,
subscribed by him, and certified by the commissioner under his hand and seal, if he have one.

§ 242. The commissioner shall then seal up the commission, interrogatories, and cross-interrogatories
and answers, in an ('anlutm, writing his name across the seal, and direct and forward the package to the
Clerk of the court from which the commission issued, endorsing on the envelope the style of the action
in which the testimony is taken.

§ 243. When the package has been received by the Clerk, it may be opened by him at the request
of either party, or his attorney, an endorsement of such request being made by the Clerk.
.  244. The certiticate of the officer taking any deposition or answers under the provisions of this
chapter, shall be presumptive evidence of the facts stated in the certificate.

§ 245. \Vhen a witness resides out of the State, his testimony may be taken by tiling interrogatories
in the same manner as is herein provided for taking the answers of a witness who resides in another
county, except that the commission shall be addressed to, and may be executed by, any commissioner
to take acknowledgments of deeds, appointed under the authority of this State, or any Notary Public, or
any Judge or Clerk of any Court of Record of any one of the United States, or any foreign State or
country. _ '

§ 246. Where there is no action pending, but where any person desires to perpetuate the testimony
of a witness, he may tile interrogatories in the District Court of any county in which any person to be
afiected by the testimony resides, or is found, and may have notice served on such person, and may
proceed in all respects as is provided in this chapter in regard to the taking of the answers of a witness
out of the court. When executed, the commission shall be returned to and remain tiled in the court
from which it issued. In any action in any Court of this State, between the person tiling the
interrogatories and any person to whom notice has been given or prescribed in this chapter, the testimony
of the witness so examined may be used in evidence subject to the same exceptions which might be
made if the answers were taken in an action pending at the time: Provided, that the witness he not at
the time of the trial a resident of the county in which the action is tried.

§ 2-17. Depositions and answers to interrogatories when admitted to be read in evidence, shall be
subject to all exceptions and objections which might be made if the witness were personally present at.
the trial; but when any deposition or answer shall have been filed three days before the trial, notice in
writing shall be filed of all exceptions thereto, before the trial is cmnint-nced, or the exceptions shall not
be heard.

§ 248. Every person acting in this State as a commissioner to take depositions or answers, shall be
entitled to the following fees for his services: For each certificate two dollars ; for taking depositions or
answers, for each folio, one dollar.

§ 249. Where depositions or answers are taken in any action, but are not admitted or used on a trial,
the party taking them shall not recover the costs thereof.

§ 250. N 0 female shall be required to attend any court as a witness, nor shall any person be required
to attend as a witness any court held out of the county in which he resides.

1' (7w .1. 1"".on

§ 251. The court may revise their judgment by granting a new trial in the cases hereafter provided.

§ “252. The party who believes himself aggrieved by the judgment against him, may, within four
judicial days after such judgment has been rendered, pray for a new trial, which must be granted if there
be good ground for the same. § 2.33. The party demanding a new trial must set forth the grounds on which he rests his demand,
. and the same must be filed, entered on the records of the court, and notilied to the adverse party, in
order that he may answer within the delay prescribed for answering.

 254. A new trial shall be granted :—

lst. If the judgment appear clearly contrary to law and evidence.

2d. If the party has discovered, since the trial, evidence important to the cause which he could not
with due diligence have obtained before.

3d. If the cause has been tried by a jury, and it be shown that the jury has been bribed or has
behaved improperly, so that impartial justice has not been done in the cause.

4th. New trials may be granted without motion in the sound discretion of the court.

§ 255. If a new trial be prayed for on the ground of new evidence having been discovered, or on
account of bribery or misconduct of the jury, or of the adverse party, the party praying for the new trial
must, on filing his motion, annex to the same his at’ddavit of the facts alleged in proof of the bribery or
misconduct of the jury, or his having discovered the evidence material to his suit since judgment was
rendered. although he had before used his utmost diligence to procure the necessary testimony. This
adidavit must be filed in the records.

§ 256. It is not necessary that the party should make an affidavit, when the motion for a new trial is
made on the ground that the judgment is contrary to law and evidence.

§ 257. The court shall decide summarily on such applications. If a' new trial be granted, the cause
shall again be placed on the calendar, and on the new trial the parties shall not be precluded from
producing new proofs on the ground of the same not having been offered on the first trial.

CHAPTER XXI.
A ppmle.

§ 258. In all cases in which an appeal lies from the District Court to the Supreme Court, the appeal
may be taken by any person interested at any time within two years after the judgment is rendered.
No appeal shall lie from any but a final judgment.

§ 259. The appeal shallbe made by serving on the adverse party or his attorney, and filing with the
clerk of the court in which the judgment is entered, a notice stating the appeal. The Judge who tried or
heard the cause, or one of the Justices of the Supreme Court, may order a stay of the proceedings upon
the judgment until the expiration of the time allowed for preparing and tiling a statement of facts. At
the time of tiling the notice, the appellant shall pay to the clerk his fees for making up the transcript of
the record in the case. Until his fees are paid, the clerk shall not be bound to receive or file the notice.

§ 260. To render an appeal effectual, a written undertaking must be executed on the part of the
appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect: that the appellant will pay all costs- and damages that
may be awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding live. hundred dollars, or that sum must be
deposited in the District Court to abide the event of the appeal ; but such undertaking or deposit may
be waived by a mitten consent on the part of the respondent. ' '

§261. If the appeal he froma judgment directing the payment of money, it shall not stay the
execution of the judgment, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by
at least two sureties, to the effect that if the judgment appealed from, or any part thereof, be affirmed,
the appellant will pay the amount directed to be paid by the judgment, or the part of such amount as to

which the judgment shall be afhrmed, if it be athrmed only in part, and all damages and costs which
shall be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal. '
§262. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the execution of a conveyance or other
instrument, the execution of the judgment shall not be stayed by the appeal until the instrument shall
have been executed and deposited in the court in which the judgment is entered, to abide the judgment
of the Supreme Court.
§ 263. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the performance of any act other than the
payment of money or the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment
or order shall not be stayed by appeal, unless a written undertaking be entered into on the part of the
appellant, by at least two sureties, and in such amount as the District Judge or one of the Justices of
the Supreme Court shall, on notice to the respondent of at least one day, direct, that the appellant will
obey the judgment or order of the Supreme Court upon the appeal.
§ 264. The sureties must be residents of the county in which the judgment is rendered, and each
must be worth of property within the county the amount specified in the undertaking, or the whole
number of sureties, if more than two, must be worth of such property in the aggregate double such
amount. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect unless it be accompanied by the affidavit
of the sureties that they have the qualifications required by this section. '
§ 265. The undertaking upon an appeal, and the afiidavit accompanying it, must be filed in the court
in which the judgment appealed from was entered.
§ 266. Whenever an appeal shall be. perfected, as provided in Sections Two llundred and Sixty-one,
Two Hundred and Sixty-two, and Two Hundred and Siaty-three, it shall stay all further proceedings in
the court below, upon the judgment or order appealed from, and upon execution or process to enforce it,
§ 267. The respondent may except to the sufiiciency of the sureties on the appeal within five days
after notice of the appeal, by serving a notice of exception on the adverse party or‘his attorney, and
unless such sureties, or other sureties to a new undertaking, justify before the Judge or Clerk of the
Court below, or a County Judge, or one of the Justices of the Supreme Court, within five days after
such notice of exception. the appeal shall be regarded as if no undertaking had been given. The
. justification shall be upon a notice of not less than one day. .
§ 268. For the purpose of justification, each of the sureties shall attend before the J ulge at the time
and place mentioned in the notice of justification, and may be examined on oath on the part of the
respondent touching his sufliciency, in such manner as the Judge, in his discretion, may think
proper. .
§ 269. If the Judge or Clerk find the sureties sufficient, he shall make a certiticate of the
allowance of them, and such certificate, together with their examination, shall be tiled in the
Court. i
§ 270. When a party shall give, in the manner prescribed in this Act, in good faith, notice of appeal
from a judgment, and has omitted, or shall omit, through mistake, to do any other act necessary to
perfect the appeal, or to stay proceedings, the Supreme Court, and each of the Justices thereof, in
vacation, may permit an amendment upon such terms as shall be just. .
§ 271. On the trial in the Court below, any party may require the Clerk to take down a testimony
in writing; when so taken down, it shall serve as a statement of facts, unless the parties afterwards
agree to one.
§ 27 2. When the testimony has not been taken down, a statement of facts proved on the trial, or of
the testimony given, may be prepared by the appellant, and a copy thereof served on the adverse
party, or his attorney, within five days after the trial. The respondent may, within three days
thereafter, prepare amendments thereto, and serve a copy on the appellant, who may then, within two
days, serve the opposite party with a notice to appear, within not more than four'nor less than two
days, before the Judge who tried the cause, to have the statement and amendments settled ; and such
Judge shall thereupon settle and correct the same as he shall deem to Consist with the truth of the
facts, and cause it to be tiled in the proper ofiice.

§ 273. If the appellant shall omit to make a statement within the time above limited, he shall be
deemed to have waived his right thereto; and when a statement is made, and the parties shall omit
within the several times above limited—the one party to propose amendments, the other to notify an
appearance before the Judge,—they shall respectively be deemed, the former to have agreed to the
statement as proposed, and the latter to have agreed to the amendments as proposed.

§ 274. The several periods of time, above limited, may be enlarged, upon good cause shown, by the
Judge before whom the cause was tried, or by one of the Justices of the Supreme Court.

§ 275. As soon as an appeal has been taken and perfected, as prescribed by this Chapter, and so
soon as a statement of facts has been filed, or the time has expired within which it can be filed, the
Clerk of the Court from whose judgment the appeal is taken, shall make up a full and complete
transcript of the record of the cause, which shall comprise the judgment, and all orders of the Court,
all the pleadings, and the papers connected therewith, the testimony if taken down, or statement of
facts if there be one, and all other papers filed in the cause which shall be necessary to preseut‘the
whole cause clearly to the Appellate Court; and he shall certify the same under his hand and the se
of his Court to be a full and accurate transcript of the record. ‘

§ 276. It shall be the duty of the Clerk to file the transcript of the record with the Clerk of the
Supreme Court at the earliest day practicable. The Supreme Court, on motion, if the record be shown
by afiidavit to be incomplete, may require the Clerk of the Court below to certify the same
more fully.

§ 277. The hearing of appeals shall be noticed for the first day of term, by a notice of at least four
days, and may be noticed and brought on by either party. The party giving such notice shall, at‘least

. two days before the first day of term, file with the Clerk 3 note of issue containing the title of the

cause, the date of the judgment appealed from, together with the names of the respective attorneys of
the parties. The Clerk shall make up a calendar of the causes for argument, according to the respective
dates specified in the notes of issue.

§ 278. At the opening of the argument in the Supreme Court, each party shall furnish each of the
Justices, the Reporter, and the adverse party, with a note of the points or questions intended to be
made, with references to the authorities intended to be cited. No other papers whatever shall be
required to be furnished. .

§ 2.79. The Supreme Court may reverse, afiirm, or modify any judgment, order, or determination,
appealed from in whole or in part, and as to any or all of the parties, may grant new trials, and render
such judgment as substantial justice shall require, without regard to formal or technical defects, errors,
or imperfections, not affecting the very right and justice of the case. The Court shall review any
intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment. When from the character
of the record no tangible point is presented for determination, the Court may remand the cause for a
new trial in the Court below. '

§ 280. After an appeal shall have been heard and determined, the judgment or order of the Supreme
Court therein, and all things concerning the same, shall be remitted to the District Court of the proper
county, and thereupon such further proceedings shall be had in that Court as may be necessary to carry
such judgment or order into effect.

§ 281. The opinion of the Supreme Court shall always begiven in writing, and shall be tiled and
preserved in the Court. '

§282. If the judgment of the Court below be aflirmed, it shall be with costs; if reversed, the
appellant shall recover his costs from the respondent. If a new trial he ordered, costs shall be allowed
in the discretion of the Court. .

§ 283. When the judgment of the Supreme Court is remitted to the Court below, the clerk of the
Supreme Court shall certify the costs of the appeal, setting forth each item thereof.

§ 284. If a party appeal from a judgment against him for money, and the Supreme Court be satisfied
that the appeal was taken merely for delay, upon an affirmance of the judgment, such Court may

give judgment against the appellant for twenty per cent. damages upon the amount of the judgment of
the Court below.

§ 285. If any appellant fails to comply With the conditions of his undertaking given by the appeal,
within twenty days after the judgment of the Supreme Court has been remitted to the Court below,
and after a copy of the judgment has been served upon him, judgment in the Court below may be
obtained by the respondent against the parties in the undertaking by motion, upon ten days’ notice
thereof, or the respondent may maintain an action against the parties.

CHAPTER XXII.

Miscellaneous Provisions.

§ 286: All decisions of the Court on any point of law arising in the cause (except final judgments)
may be excepted to.

§ 287. The party excepting to a decision of the Court must draw a bill of exceptions, in which the
question on which the decision has been given, and all facts necessary to a clear understanding of the
same, shall be concisely set forth.

§ 288. The bill of exceptions must be exhibited to the adverse party, who may object to any error
in the statement therein contained. It shall then be presented to the Court, who, after correcting it, if
erroneous, shall sign the same, and direct the clerk to file it among the records of the suit.

§ 289. No bill of exceptions shall be signed by the Judge, unless it is presented to him within live
days after the rendition of final judgment. No more than two days shall be allowed to the Court
for the consideration of the same. Upon the trial, either party may present to the Court written
instructions, and ask that they be given to the jury. If correct and pertinent, they shall be given ; if .
not, refused. ‘

§ 290. Upon each charge so presented, the Court shall endorse its decision. If part be given and
part refused, the Court shall distinguish, showing by the endorsement what part of the instruction was
given and what refused. I

§ 291. The instructions shall then be tiled, and shall form part of the record of the cause; and as to
all questions of law presented therein, and the decision of the Court on each, shall be deemed a bill of
exceptions. .

§ 292. Parties to a question in difference which might be the subject of a civil action, may without
action agree upon a statement of the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission
of the same to any Court which would have jurisdiction if the action had been brought. But it must
appear by affidavit that the controversy is real and the proceedings in good faith to determine the rights
of the parties. The Court shall thereupon hear and determine the same at a general term, and render
judgment thereon as if the action were depending.

§ 293. A judgment by confession may be entered without action, either for money due or to become
due, or to secure any person against contingent liability, on behalf of the defendant or both, in the
following manner :—

lst. A statement in writing must be made by the defendant, for the amount of which judgment may
be entered, and authorize the entry of judgment thereon.

2d. If it be for money due or to become due, it must state concisely the facts out of which it arcsu,
and must show that the sum Confessed therefor is justly due or to become due.

3d. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against liability, it must state concisely the facts
constituting the liability, and must show that the sum confessed therefor does not exceed the same.

§ 294. Either party may exhibit to the other or to his attorney at any time before the trial,
any paper material to the action, and request an admission in writing of its genuinenese. If the
adverse party or his attorney fail to give the admission within four days after the request, and if the
party exhibiting the paper he afterwards put to expense in order to prove the same, and it be finally
proved or admitted on the trial, such expense, to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the party

refusing the admission, unless it appear to the Court that there were good reason for the refusal. The
Court before which an action is pending, or a Judge thereof, may/in their discretion and upon due notice,
order either party to give to the other within a specilied time, an inspection and copy, or permission
to take a copy, of any books, papers, and documents, in his possession or under his control, containing
evidence relating to the merits of the action or the defence therein. If compliance with the order be
refused, the Court on motion may exclude the paper from being given in evidence, or punish the party
refusing, or both. .

§ 295. No action to obtain discovery under oath in aid of the prosecution or defence of another
action shall be allowed, nor shall any examination of a party be had on behalf of the adverse party, except
as herein prescribed.

§ 296. A party to an action may be examined as a witness at the instance of the adverse party, or
of any one of several adverse parties, and for that purpose may be compelled in the same manner, and
subject‘to the same rules of examination, as any other witness,to testify either at the trial, or conditionally,
or upon commission.

§ 297. The examination, instead of being had at the trial,'may be had at any time before the trial,
at the option of the party claiming it, before a Judge of the Court, a commissioner, or other officer
authorized to take the testimony of a witness. A notice shall be given to the party to be examined,
'and any other adverse party, of at least five days, unless for good cause shown the Judge order
otherwise. But such party shall not be compelled to attend in any other county than that of his
residence. ‘

§ 298. The party to be examined may be compelled to attend in the same manner as a witness," and

. the examination shall be taken and filed by the odicer or person taking the same, and may be read by

either party on the trial.

. § 299. The examination of the party thus taken may be rebutted by adverse testimony.

§ 300. If a party refuse to attend and testify as herein provided, he may be punished as for a contempt,
and his complaint or answer may be stricken out.

§301. A party examined by an adverse party, as herein provided, may be examined on his own
behalf in respect to any matter pertinentto the issue. But if he testify to any new matter not responsive
to the inquiries put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to explain or qualify his answer thereto,
or discharge, when his answer would charge himself, such adverse party may offer himself as a witness
on his own behalf, in respect to such new matter, and shall be so received.

§302. A person for whose immediate benefit the action is prosecuted or defended, though not a
party to the action, may be examined as a witness in the same manner and subject to the same rules as
if he were named as a party.

 303. A party may be examined on behalf of his co-plaintiff or co-defendant; but the examination
thus taken shall not be used on behalf of the party examined; and whenever one of several plaintiffs or
defendants who are joint contractors, or who are united in interest, is examined by the adverse party,
the other of such plaintiffs or defendants may offer themselves as witnesses to the same cause of action
or defence, and shall be so received. ,

§ 304. N 0 person offered as a witness shall be excluded by reason of his interest in the event of the
action.

§305. The last section shall not apply to a party to the action, nor to any person for whose
immediate benefit it is prosecuted or defended, nor to any assignor of a thing in action, assigned for the
purpose of making him a witness. . I

§ 306. No black, or mnlatto person, or Indian, shall be permitted to give evidence in any action to
which a white person is a party, in any Court of this State. Every person who shall have one eighth
part or more of negro blood, shall be deemed a mulatto; and every person who shall have one half
Indian blood, shall be deemed an Indian.

§ 307. The time within which an act is done, as herein provided, shall be computed by excluding
the first day and including the last; if the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.

