SEC. 1. distinction between actions at law and equity and the distinct forms of actions are abolished and there shall be in this state but one form of civil action for the enforcement or protection of private rights, and the redress or prevention of private wrongs, which shall be the same at law and in equity, and which shall be denominated a civil action, and which shall be prosecuted and defended as prescribed in this act.

SEC. 2. In such action the party complaining shall be known as the plaintiff and the adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 3. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in this act.

SEC. 4. In the case of an assignment of a thing in
,action,the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice
to any set-off or other defence existing at the time of or
before notice of assignment; but this section shall not apply
to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange transferred in good faith and upon good consideration before due. ,

SEC. 5. An executor or administrator, or trustee of
fan express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
statute, may sue without joining with him the person or
persons for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A
trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this section, shall be construed to include a person with whom or
in whose name a contract is made for the benefit of another.

SEC. 6. When a married woman is a party, her husband shall be joined with her, except that, Ist, When the
action concerns her separate property she may sue alone;
2d, When the action is between herself and her husband,
she may sue or be sued alone.

SEC. 7. If a husband.and wifebe sued together; the
wife may defend for her own right.

SEC. 8. When an infant is a party he shall appear by}
next friend of his own selection, or by guardian, who may
be appointed by the court in which the action was prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or a county judge.

SEC. 9. The guardian shall be appointed as followstf
First, when the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of l

.the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years; or if

of the infant; second, when the infant is defendant, u on
the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen
years, and apply within ten days after the service of the
summons; if he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so.
to apply, then upon the application of any other party to
the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant.

under that age, upon the application of a relative or fgnd

SEC. 10. A father, or in case of his death or desertion
of his family, the mother may maintain an action for the
injury or death of a child, and a guardian for the_injury or

death of his ward. T

SEC. 11. All persons having an interest in the subject
of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be
joined as plaintiffs, except’ as otherwise provided in this
act.

SEC. 12. Any person may be made a defendant who
has or claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the

plaintiff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the question involved therein.

SEC. 13. Of the parties to the action, those who are
united in interest shall be joined as plaintiffs or defendants;
but if the consent of any one who should have been joined
as plaintiff cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant,
the reason thereof being stated in the complaint; and when
the question is one of a common or general interest of
many persons, or when the parties are numerous and it is
impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or
more may sue or defend for the benefit of all, and the court

may make an order that the action be so prosecuted or
defended.

SEC. 14. Persons jointly or severally liable _upon the
same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills

of exchange and promissory notes, and sureties on the same
or separate instruments, may all or any of them be included
in the same action, at the option of the plaintiff.

SEC. 15. An action shall not abate by the death or

other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest

therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case

of the death or other disability of a party, the court, on .

motion, may allow the action to be continued by or against
his representative or suceessor in interest. ‘In case of any
other transfer of interest, the action may be continued in
the name of the original party, or the court may allow the
person to whom the transfer is madeto be substituted in the
action.

SEC. 16. The court may determine any controversy
between parties before it, when it can be done without

"prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights;

but when a complete determination of the controversy
cannot be had‘ without the presence of other parties, the
court shall order them to be brought in.

SEC. 17. When in a civil action a person not a party
thereto, but having an interest in the subject thereof, makes
application to the court to be made a party, it may order
him to be brought in, and upon due service upon the
adverse party of his complaint, or answer, the same proceedings shall be had as if he had been an original party to
the action.

SEC. 18. A defendant against whom an action is
pending upon a‘ contract, or to recover specific, real or
personal property, may at any time before answer, upon
affidavit that a person not a party to the action, and without
collusion with him, makes against him a demand for the
same debt or property, upon due notice to such person and
the adverse party, apply to. the court for an order to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him from
liability to either party, on his depositing in ‘court the
amount of the debt, or delivering the property or its value
to such person as the court may direct, and the court may
in its discretion make the order.

SEC. 19. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new cause of action arises therefrom.

SEC. 20. Whenever two or more are pending at one time between the same parties and in the same court, upon causes of action which might have been joined, the court may order the actions to be consolidated into one.

SEC. 21. An action may be brought by one person against another for the purpose of determing a claim, which the latter makes against the former for money or property, upon an alleged liablity, and also against two or more persons for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the other, for which the plaintiff is bound as security.

TITLE II.—CHAPTER II.’
OF THE PLAFIE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

SECTION 22. Actions to be tried in county where property is situated.

23. Actions for statute penalty or against public officer.

24. Other actions—where tried.

25. Actions in counties in which district court not held.

26. Change of place of trial.

27. How place of trial may be changed.

28. Rule of decision on motion and a,6idavits may be used.

SEC. 22. Except when otherwise provided, actions
for the following causes shall be tried in the county in which
the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated,
subject to the power of the court to change the place of
trial, as provided in this act: Ist, For the recovery of real
property or of an interest therein, or for the determination
in any form of such right or interest, and for injuries to
real property. 2d, For the partition of real property.
3d, For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property;
provided, that where such real property is situated partly in
one county and partly in another, the plaintiff shall bring
his action in the county where the greater portion of such
real estate'*is situate, and the county so selected shall be
the proper county for the trial of any or all such actions as
are mentioned in this section.

SEC. 23. Actions for the following causes shall be
tried in the county where the cause, or some part thereof,
arose, subject to the like power of the court to change the
place of trial: Ist, For the ,_ recovery of a penalty or
forfeiture imposed by statute, except that when it is imposed
for an offense committed on a lake, river or other stream of

water, situated in two or more countifs, the action may be

brought in any county bordering on such lake, river or
stream, and opposite to the place where the offense was
committed. 2d, Against a public officer or person pespeciallyi

appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in
virtue of his office, or against a person who by his command, or in his aid, does anything touching the duties of
such oihcer, or for a failure to perform any act or duty
which he is by law required to perform.

SEC. 24. In all. other cases the action shall be ried inf
the county in which the defendants, or any of them, may
reside at the commencement of the action,’ or where the
plaintiff resides, or where the defendant may be found; or,
if none of the defendants reside in the State, or if residing
in the State, the county in which they so reside be unknown
to the plaintiff, the same may be tried in any county which
the plaintiff may designate in his complaint; and if any
defendant or defendants may be about to depart from the
State, such action may be tried in any county where_either
of the parties may reside, or service be had. Actions upon
contracts may be tried in the county in which the contract
was to be performed; actions upon notes or bills of exchange
in the county where the same are made payable; and actions
for torts in the county where the tort was committed,
subject, however, to the power of the court to change the
place of trial as provided in this act.

SEC. 25. Whena county shall be attached to another;
county for judicial purposes, actions arising or triable§
therein’, of which a district court shall have exclusive jurisdiction, shall be commenced and tried in the county to
which such county may be so attached.

SEC. 26. The court may, on good cause shown, change:
the place of trial in the following cases: Ist, When the
county designated in the complaint is not the proper county.
2d, When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial
cannot be had therein. 3d. VVhen the convenience of
witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the
change. ~ 4th, When, from any cause, the judge is disqualified from acting in the action; provided, the court
shall not change the place of ' trial for the disqualification of
the district judge in any case where a competent judge of
another district court will appear and try the action.

 SEC. 27. If either party, in any civil action which may

be depending in any district or county court, shall fear that
he will not receive a fair trial in the court in which the
action is pending, on account that the judge is interested
or prejudiced, or is related to, or shall have been of counsel
for either party, or that the adverse party has an undue
influence over the minds of the inhabitants of the county
wherein the action is pending, or that the inhabitants of the
county wherein the action is pending, are prejudiced against
the applicant, so that he cannot expect a fair trial, such party
may apply to the court in term time, or the judge thereof
in vacation, by petition, setting forth the cause of application, and praying a change of venue, accompanied by an
affidavit verifying ‘the facts in ‘the petition stated, and
reasonable notice of the application having been given to
the other party, or his attorney.

SEC. 28. If the court to which, or judge to whom

’such application is addressed, shall be of opinion that the

cause alleged in the petition as a ground for changing the
venue exists, the venue shall be changed according to the
prayer of such petition. But if the court or judge shall be
of opinion that such cause does not exist, the application
shall be denied, and in that case the petitioner may except
to the ruling of the court, and assign error thereon in the
supreme court. And such petition may, be supported by
the affidavits of persons who are not parties to the cause,
if ‘the petitioner shall desire to file such afhdavits, and
counter afhdavits may be read by the defendant on the
hearing. And there shall be but one change of venue in
any action.

TITLE III.—CHAPTER III.
OF THE MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

SECTION 29. Actions-—how commenced.
30. Complaint—how endorsed and filed.
31. Summons—requisites of.
32. Summons—time to answer.
33. Summons—notice to be inserted in.
34. Notice of pendency of action.
35. Summons by whom served.

36. Clerk to make out copy oi’ complaint on request of the
defendant.

37. Summons—how served.

38. Summons to be issued to different counties.
39. Acknowledgment of service sufiicient.

40. Offer to execute summons—when sufiicient.
41. ' When service made by publication.

42. A What order of _ publication to contain.

43. How action to proceed against one or more defendants.
44. Proof of service—how made.

45. Time and place of service to be stated.
46. When court deemed to have acquired jurisdiction.

SEC. 29. Civil actions in the district courts and;
county courts shall be commenced by the filing of a com-.
plaint with the clerk of the court in which the action is
brought, and the issuing of a summons therein; provided,
that afterthe filing of the complaint a defendant in the
action may enter his appearance therein, personally or by
attorney, which appearance shall be equivalent to personal
service of the summons upon him.

SEC. 30. The clerk shall endorse on the complaint‘
the day, month and year the same is filed; and at any time:
within one month after the filing of the same, the plaintiff
may have a summons issued. The summons shall be

signed_ by the clerk and directed to the defendant, and be
issued under the seal of the court.

SEC. 31. The summons shall state the parties to the
action, the court in which it is brought, the county in which
the complaint is filed, the cause and general nature of the

action, and require the defendant to appear and answer .the’

complaint within the time mentioned in the next section,
after the service of the summons, exclusive of the day of
service, or that judgment by default will be taken against
him according to the prayer of the complaint, briefly
stating the sum of money or other relief demanded in the
complaint; and the clerk: shall also endorse on the summons
the names of the plaintiff ’s attorneys.

SEC. 32. The time in which the summons shall‘?equire the defendant to answer the complaint shall ‘be as
follows: Ist, If the defendant is served within the county
in which the action is brought, ten days. 2d, If the defendant is served out of the county but in the district in which
the action is brought, twenty days. 3d, For all other
cases, forty days. '

SEC. 33. There shall also be inserted in the summons
a notice in substance as follows: Ist, In an action arising
on contract for recovery only of money, that the plaintiff
will take judgment for a sum specified therein if the defendant fail to answer the complaint. 2d, In other actions, that
if the defendant fail to answer‘ the complaint, the plaintiff
will apply to the court for the relief demanded therein.

SEC. 34. In an action affecting the title to real
pnoperty, the plaintiff at the time of filing the complaint,
and the defendant at the time of filing his answer, when
affirmative relief ‘is claimed in such answer, or at any time
afterwards, may file with the _recorder of the county in
which the property is situated a notice of the pendency of
the action, containing the names of the parties to and the
object of the action, and a description of the property in
that county affected thereby, and the defendants may also,
in such notice, state the nature and extent of the relief
claimed in the answer. From the time of filing such notice
only shall the pendency of the action be constructive notice
to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property affected
thereby.

SEC: 35. The summons shall be served by the sheriff
of the county where the defendant is found, or by his
deputy, or by a person specially appointed by him, or
appointed by a judge of the court in which the action is
brought. When the summons is served by the sheriff or
his deputy, it shall be returned with the certificate of the
officer of its service to the office of the clerk from which
the summons issued. When the summons is served by any
other person, as before provided, it shall be returned to the
office of the clerk from which it issued, with the affidavit of
such person of its service.

SEC. 36. It shall be the duty of the clerk issuing thei
summons, at the request of either party therefor, to, make‘
out a copy'or copies of any paper or pleading filed in the
action, and to allow parties or their attorneys to make such
copies themselves.

SEC. 37. A summons shall be served, except as
otherwise‘ provided by law, as follows: By delivering:
a copy thereof to the defendant, or by leaving a copy
of the writ at the usual place of abode of the defendant,
with some member of his family, over the age of fifteen
years; when there are several defendants, residents of the
same county, by delivering to each defendant a copy of the
writ, and to such as may be subsequently summoned a copy
of the writ, or by leaving such copy at the usual place of
abode of the defendant with some member of his family
over the age of fifteen years. If the suit be brought against
a corporation, service shall be made by delivering a copy of
the summons to the president, or other head of the corporation, or to the secretary, cashier, treasurer or general agent

-thereof; but if no such officer of the corporation can be

found in the county, service may be had on any stockholder
of such corporation. If the suit be against a foreign
corporation, or a non—resident joint stock company or association, doing business within this State, service shall be
made by delivering a copy of the writ to an agent, cashier
or secretary thereof; in the absence of such agent, cashier,
treasurer or secretary, to any stockholder. If the suit be
against a minor under the age-of fourteen years, service
shall be made by delivering a copy of the writ to such

minor, personally, and also to his or her father, mother or
guardian, or if there be none in the State’, then to any
person having the care or control of such minor, or with
whom he or she resides, or in whose service he or she is
employed. If the suit be against a person judicially declared to be of , unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his
or her own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been

appointed, service shall be had by delivering a copy of the
writ to such guardian.

SEC. 38. When there are several defendants residing
in different counties, a separate summons may be issued to
each county, including all the defendants residing. therein.

SEC. 39. A written acknowledgment of service of

summons upon him by a defendant shall be deemed valid
and sufficient service.

SEC. 40. In all cases when the defendant shall refuse
:to receive a copy of the summons upon the offer of the
officer or other person to deliver a copy thereof, such offer
and refusal shall be sufficient service of such summons.

SEC. 41. When the person on whom the service is to
be made resides out of the State, or has departed from the
State, or cannot, after due diligence, be found within the
State, or conceals himself ‘to ‘avoid the service of summons,
and the fact shall appear by aliidavit filed in the office of
the clerk of the court in which the action is pending, and it
shall‘ in like manner appear that a cause of action exists
against the defendant, in respect to whom the service is to
be made, or that he is a necessary or proper party to the
action, the clerk of such court may grant an order that the
service be made by publication of the summons. S

SEC. 42. The order shall direct the publication to be
rmade in a public newspaper, published in this State, to be
designated as most likely to give notice to the person to be
served; and such publication shall be made at least once a
week for four successive weeks. In case of publication,
where the ~ residence of a non-resident or absent defendant
is known, the clerk thereof shall also direct a copy of the
summons’ to be forthwith deposited in the post ofT1ce,
directed to the person to be served, at his place of residence.

When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of
the summons out of the State shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the post office. In case of such

personal‘ service, the service of summons shall be - deemed S

complete at the expiration of forty days thereafter; and in
case of publication,the service of summons shall be deemed
complete at the expiration of ten days after the expiration
of the time prescribed for publication.

SEC. 43. Where the action is against two or moref
defendants, and the summons is served on one or more, but;
not on all _of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows:
First—If the action be against defendants jointly indebted
upon a contract, he may proceed against the defendants
served, unless the court otherwise direct; and if he recover
judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants thus
jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced
against the joint property of all, and the separate property
of the defendants served. Second—If the action be against
defendants, severally liable, he may proceed against the
defendants served in the same manner as if they were the
only defendants.

SEC. 44. Proof of the service of the summons shall
beasfollows: F irst—If served by the sheriff or his deputy,
the certificate of such sheriff or deputy. Second—If by
any other person,vhis afiidavit thereof. Third—In case of
publication, the affidavit of the editor, publisher, or his
foreman, or his principal clerk, showing the same, and an

_ affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the post

office, if the same shall have been deposited. Fourth-The
written admission of defendant.

SEC. 45. In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate or aiiidavit shall state the time, place.
and manner of the service.

SEC. 46. From the time of the service of the summons ,in a civil action, the court shall be deemed to have
acquired jurisdiction and to have control of all subsequent
proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a defendant shall
be equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him.
If any plaintiff shall allege that there are, or that he. verily

TITLE IV.—-CHAPTER IV.
OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

SECTION 47. Pleadings—what. _

48. Sufficiency of ple.ading—how determined.

49. Pleadings on part of plaintiff and defendant.

50. Complaint—what to contain.

5r. When defendant may demur.

52. Demurrer must specify grounds of objection.

53. Demurrer and answer.

54. Amended comp1aint—how filed and served.

5 5. Objection not appearing on complaint.

.56. Objection—when deemed waived.

57. Answer—-what to contain.

58. Counter claim.

59. Cross demands.

60. Several defences.

61. Replication to answer and sham and irrelevant defence.

_ 62. Pleadings to be verified.

63. Pleadings—how and by whom verified.

64. Items of account—bills of particulars.

65. In real actions—h_ow to describe property.

- 66. _Iudgments——how to be pleaded.

67. Conditions precedent—how to be pleaded. .

68. Private sta.tutes—how to be pleaded.

69. Libel and slander-~ how stated in complaint.

70. Answer in such cases.

71. What causes of action may be joined.

72. Allegations not denied—when to be deemed true.
73. What is a material allegation.

74. Amendments of course and effect» of demurrers.
75. Conditions of amendments—corrections of mistakes-—

extend time to plead——relief from judgment in certain
cases.
76. Fictitious name.
77. Pleadings——how construed,

SECTION 78. No error or defect to be regarded unless it affects the
substantial rights.

SEC. 47. The pleadings in an action are the formal
allegations‘ by the parties? of their respective claims and
defenses’ for the judgment of the court.

SEC. 48. The mode of pleading in civil actions, and

the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings shall be

determined, shall be as prescribed in this act and not
otherwise.

SEC. 49. The only pleadings on the part of the plaintiff shall be the complaint, demurrer, or replication to the
defendant’s answer; and the only pleadings on the part of
the defendant shall be a demurrer to the complaint, or ‘a
demurrer to the replication, or an answer to the complaint.
The pleadings shall be filed with the clerk.

SEC. 50. The complaint shall contain, 1st, The title

of the action, specifying the name of the court and the

name of the county in which the action is brought, and the
name of the parties to the action, plaintiff and defendant.‘
2d, A statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise language, without unnecessary repetition. 3d, A demand for the relief which plaintih‘

claims, and if the recovery of money or damages be‘

demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated.

SEC. 51. The defendant may demur to the complaint
‘within the time required in summons to answer, when it
appears upon the face thereof; either, Ist, That the court
"has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant or the

subject of the action; or, 2d, That the plaintiff has no_

legal capacity to sue; or, 3d, That there is another action
pending between the same parties for the same cause; or,
4th, That there is a defect or misjoinder of parties, plaintiff
or defendant ; or, 5th, That several causes of action have
been improperly united; or, 6th, That the complaint does
not state facts sufficient to bonstitute a cause of action; or,
7th, That the complaint is-ambiguous, unintelligible or
uncertain. ‘T

SEC. 52. The demurrer shall distinctlf specify the

grounds upon which any of the objections to the complaint
are taken; unless it do so, it may be disregarded.

SEC. 53. The defendant may demur to the whole
complaint, or to one or more of several causes of action
stated therein, and answer the residue, or may demur and
answer at the same time;' provided, that a demurrer and
answer shall, in no case, be filed at the same time to the
same cause of action; but demurrers must be disposed of
before any other pleading to the same cause of action shall
be filed. If a demurrer be deemed frivolous, the court shall
tax not less than five dollars costs against the party filing
the same, to be paid before answer.

SEC. 54. If the complaint be amended, a copy of the

amendments shall be filed, or the court may, in its discretion, require the complaint as amended to be filed. The
defendant shall answer in such time as may be ordered by
the court, and judgment by default may be entered upon
failure to answer, as in other cases.

SEC. 55. When any of the matters enumerated in section fifty-one do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer.

SEC. 56. If no such objection be taken,'either by

demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have
waivedthe same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the complaint
does not state facts suliicient to constitute a cause of action,
which objections may be raised at any time.

SEC. 57. The answer of the defendant shall contain a:

specific denial to each allegation in the complaint intended
to be contro_verted by the defendant, and may contain a
statement of any matter in avoidance or a counter claim
constituting a defence, or the subject matter of cross complaint which may entitle the defendant to relief against the
plaintiff alone, or against a defendant or co-defendants. In
denying any allegation in the complaint not presumptively
within the knowledge of the defendant, it shall be sulhcient
to put such allegation in issue for the defendant to state, as
to any such allegation, he has not and cannot obtain sufficient
knowledge or information upon which to base a belief.

SEC. 58. The counter claim mentioned in the last section shall be one existing in favor of the defendant or’
plaintiff and against a plaintiff or defendant between whom
a several judgment might be had in the action, and arising
out of one of the following causes of action: First——A
causeof action arising out of the transaction set forth in
the complaint or answer as the foundation of the plaintiff ’s
claim or defendant’s defence, or connected with the subject
of the action. Second—In an action arising upon contract,
any other cause of action arising also upon contract and
existing at the commencement of the action.

SEC. 59. When cross demands have existed between.

persons under such ‘circumstances that if one had brought
an action against the other, a counter claim could have been
set up, neither shall be deprived of the benefit thereof by‘.
the assignment or death of the other; but the two demands
shall be deemed compensated so far as they equal each

other.
SEC. 60. The defendant may set forth by answer, or

-cross complaint, as many defences and counter claims or

set—offs, as he may have, whether the subject matter of such
defences be such as were heretofore denominated legal or
equitable, or both—they shall each be separately stated; and
the several defences shall refer to the causes of action which
theyare intended to answer in a manner by which they may
be intelligibly distinguished.

SEC. 61. When the answer contains new matter, constituting a defense or a counter claim, or cross complaint or
set-off, the plaintiff shall, within ten days (said days to be
computed ‘from the time of the filing of such answer) reply

“or demur to the same for insuiliciency, stating in his

demurrer the grounds thereof; and he may also, within the
same time, demur to one or more defences, set up in the
answer; sham and irrelevant answers and defences, and so
much of any pleading as may be irrelevant, redu ‘ant,
immaterial or insuflicient, may be stricken out on delfa ,
and upon such terms as the court, in its discretion, may
impose. ‘. W” ,.

SEC. 62. Every pleading s-ha-H be subscribed by the
party, or his attorney, and shall be verified. by oath, except}
as provided in this act.

SEC. 63. All complaints, answers and replications,‘
shall be verified as provided in this section, except that‘
when an admission of the truth of the allegation might
subject the partyto a prosecution for felony or misdemeanor,
or when the action is by the district attorney in behalf of
the State or county, the verification may be omitted. The
affidavit of verification shall state that the facts stated in
‘the pleading are true to the knowledge of the person making
it, except as to those matters which are therein stated on
his information and belief, and as to those matters, that he
believes it to be true. Such verification shall be made by
the party, or if there are several parties united in interest
or pleading, by one, at least, of such parties acquainted
with the facts, if such party is in the county and capable of
making the aiiidavit. The verification may also be made
by the agent or attorney of the party, if the party is absent
from the county where the attorney resides, or is from any
other cause unable to verify the pleading, and in such case
the verification shall state that the affiant is the agent or
. 'ttorney of the party, and the reason why such verification
as made by such agent or attorney, and that the facts stated
in the pleading are true to the best knowledge, information
and belief of such agent or attorney. When a corporation
is a party, the yerification may be made by any oiiicer or
agent thereof, and shall state what officer he is,,and that the
° facts stated in the pleading are true to the best knowledge,
information and belief of such officer.

SEC. 64. It shall not be necessary for a party to set
forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged ;.
but he shall deliver to the adverse party, within five days
after a demand thereof in writing, a copy of the account, or
be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or
judge thereof, may order a further account when the one
delivered is too general, or is defective in any particular.

SEC. 65. In an action for the recovery of real property,
such property shall be described by legal subdivisions, or
by its metes and bounds in the complaint.

SEC. 66. In pleading a judgment or other determina-—'
tion of a court or officer of especial jurisdiction, it shall not
be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but
such judgment or determination may be stated to have been
duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted,
the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial
the facts conferring jurisdiction.

SEC. 67. In pleading the performance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts showing such performance, but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on
his part; and if such allegations be controverted, the party
pleading shall establish on the trial the facts showing such
performance.

SEC. 68. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute
by its title and the day of its approval, and the court shall
thereupon take judicial notice thereof;

SEC. 69. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not
be necessary to state in the complaint any ‘gctrinsic facts
for the purpose of showing the application to the plaintiff
of the defamatory matter out of which the cause of action
arose; but it shall be sufficient to state generally that the
same was published or spoken concerning the plaintiff; and
if such allegation be controverted, the plaintiff shall establish
on the trial that it was so published or spoken.

SEC. 70. In the actions mentioned in the last section, ‘

the defendant may in his answer allege both the truth of the
matter charged as defamatory and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of damages; and whether he
prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the
mitigating circumstances.

SEC. 71. The plaintiff may unite several causes of ac'tion in the same complaint when they all arise out of any
one of the following named classes; provided, they affect
all of the same parties both plaintiff and defendant and affect
them in the same character and capacity, and provided they
do not require different places of trial, to-wit :—

CLASS FIRsT—Actions to recover specific real property

whether the same be claimed by virtue of superiority of title or by superiority of possessory right, or on account of
unlawful detainer or forcible entry; and with such claims
may be united any and-all claims for damages, for rents in
arrear, for profits during any unlawful occupation thereof,
and for any waste committed thereon; provided, That all
such claims arise from the same property for the recovery
of which the suit is brought.

CLASS SECOND-—Actions to recover specific personal
property, with which may be joined any and all claims for
damages for the unlawful detention of the same, or for the
forcible taking of the same, including in proper cases, claims
for exemplary damages, and in case the property can not be
recovered in specie, damage for the unlawful conversion

thereof.

CLASS THIRD———All actions sounding only in damages,
whether the same be for breach of contract, sealed or parol,
express or implied, or for injuries to property, person or
‘character, or for any two or more of these causes, and in all
cases it shall be necessary to state separately in the complaint, the different causes for which the action is brought
and in all cases equitable relief may be granted.

SEC. 72. Every material allegation of the complaint;
or answer, not controverted by the answer or replication‘
thereto, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as
true. The statement in the replication of matter in avoidance shall, on the trial, be deemed controverted by the adverse party. .

SEC. 73. A material allegation in a pleading is one:
essential to the claim or defense, and which could not be
stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient.

SEC. 74. After demurrer, and before the trial of the:
issue of law therein, the pleadings demurred to may be‘
amended as of course, and without costs, by filing the same
Q.¥_?1€l1d€d, and serving a copy thereof on the adverse party
E1-= is attorney within ten days, who shall have .ten days
.l1ereafter in which to demur or answer thereto, if in vacation; but if during term of court, the court shall fix the time

by order to expedite the trial, but a party shall not so amend

more than once. A demurrer shall be deemed waived by
the filing of an answer to the same cause of action at the
same -time of filing the demurrer, and when the demurrer to
a complaint is overruled, and there is no answer filed, the
court may upon terms, allow the answer to be filed. If the
demurrer to the answer be overruled, and there be no replication then filed, the court may, upon terms, allow a replication to be filed. When a demurrer to a replication is overruled, new matter in the replication shall be taken as denied.
Where facts occurring subsequent to the commencement of
the action render it proper, the same may by leave of court
be presented by supplemental pleadings, and issue taken

thereon in the same manner as in the case of original plead-.

ings. When a demurrer shall be filed in vacation, the party
filing the same shall immediately give notice to the attorney
of the opposite party, of the time and place when the same
will be set down for hearing before the judge, at chambers,
not more than ten, nor less than five days after such notice,
and the same shall be heard at the time so set, unless for
good cause the judge shall extend the time. At the hearing, either party may argue the demurrer orally, or submit
it upon written argument. If the party demurring shall fail
to give such notice,,within five days after filing such demurrer, he shall be deemed to have waived the demurrer. If
such demurrer shall be sustained at the hearing, the opposite party may amend in such time and upon such terms as
the judge, by. order, shall prescribe, and the amended pleading shall be answered or demurred to within ten days after
such amendrrient. If the demurrer shall be overruled, the
party demurring shall file further pleading within five days
after the demurrer shall be overruled, unless further time
be granted. The judge shall immediately transmit the order
made at the hearing, to the clerk, who shall at once enter
the same in the records of the Court. If any pleading shall
not be filed within the time as prescribed and provided for
in this section respectively default shall be entered against
the defaul-ting party, as in other cases. 

SEC. 75. The court may, on motion, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any
pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name

, of any party; or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party; or a mistake in any other respects [respect], and may

“I-gr like terms, enlarge the time for an answer, replication upon
demurrer, or demurrer to an answer filed. The court may
likewise, u on aflidavit, showing good cause therefore
[therefor], ter notice to the adverse party, allow upon
such terms s may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in any other particulars [particular];
and may, upon like terms, allow an answer to be made
after the time limited by this act; and may, upon
such terms as may be just, and upon payment of costs, relieve a party or his legal representatives from a judgment,
order or other proceeding, taken against him through mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect; and when
for any cause satisfactory to the court, or the judge at
chambers, the party aggrieved has been unable to apply for
the relief sought during the term at which such judgment,
order or proceeding complained of was taken, the‘ court or
judge at chambers, in vacation, may grant the relief upon«
application made within a reasonable time, not exceeding
live months after the adjournment of the term. When, from
any cause, the summons in an action has not been personally served on the defendant, the court may allow, on such
terms as may be just, such defendant or his legal representatives, at any time within six months after the rendition of
any judgment in such action, to answer to the merits of the
original action.

SEC. 76. When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name
of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any
pleading or proceeding by‘ any name; and when his true
name is discovered the pleadings or proceedings may be
amended accordingly. ' 1

SEC. 77. In the construction of a pleading for the pur- <
pose of determining its effects, its allegations shall be liberally construed with a view to substantial justice between the
parties. '

SEC. 78. The court shall, in every stage of an action,
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceed-{
ings which shall not affect the substantial rights of the“
parties, and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect. If upon the trial of an action before the court or jury, the evidence shall vary from the allegations of the pleadings, and either party is surprised thereby, he shall be allowed, on motion, and showing cause therefor, and on such terms as the ccourt may prescribe, to amend his pleading to conform to the proof.

TITLE V.

OF PROVISIONAL AND AUXILIARY REMEDIES IN
CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER V.

CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

SECTION 79. Delivery of personal propei'ty—when it may be claimed.
80. Affidavit and its requisites. _
81. Security and justification——requisition to sheriff.
82. Exception to sureties and proceedings thereon, or on

failure to except.
83. Defendant—when entitled to re-delivery.
84. Justification of defendant’s sureties.
85. Responsibility of the sheriff.
86. Qualification and justification of sureties.
87. Property—how taken when concealed in building or
' enclosure.

88. Property—how kept.
89. Claim of property by third person.
90. Notice and afi‘idavit—when and where to be filed.

SEC. 79. The plaintiff, in an action to recover:
possession of personal property, may, at the time of issuingi
the summons, or at any time before judgment, claim the‘
delivery of such property to him as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 80. Where a delivery is claimed, an afiidavit-I
shall be made by the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf,
showing: First—That the plaintiff is the owner of the
property claimed, particularly describing it, or is lawfully
entitled to the possession thereof. Second—That_ the
property is wrongfully detained by the defendant. ThirdThe alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his

best knowledge, information and belief. Fourth——That the
same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or fine, pur-,

suant to a statute, or seized under an execution or an:

attachment against the property of the plaintiff; or if so,‘
seized, that it is by the statute exempt from such seizure:
and, Fifth—The real value of the property, which affidaviF
shall be tiled with the clerk of the court.

SEC. 81. The plaintiff or his agent shall file with the
clerk of [the] court a written ‘undertaking, executed by two
or more sufficient sureties approved by the clerk, to the
effect that they are bound to the defendant in double the


SEC. 83. that they are bound to the plaintiff in double the value of
the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintiff, for
the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if such delivery be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may
for any. cause be recovered against the defendant. If a
return of the property be not so required within three days
after the taking and service of notice on the defendant, it
shall be delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 85. The sheriff shall be responsible for the‘,
defendant’s sureties until they justify, or until the justifi-'
cation is completed or expressly waived, and may retain the
property until that time. But if they, or others in their
place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he
shall deliver the property to the plaintiff.

SEC. 86. The qualification of sureties and their justification shall be such as are prescribed by this act in respect‘
to sureties on attachment bonds or undertakings.

SEC. 87. If the property, or any part thereof, be
concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall‘
publicly demand its delivery; if it be not w delivered, he
shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open,
and take the property into his possession; and if necessary
he may call to his aid the power of his county.

SEC. 88. When the sheriff shall have taken property,
as in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secured

p_lace, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon
receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary

expenses for keeping the same.

SEC. 89. If the property taken be claimed by any other
person than the defendant, or his agent, and such person
make affidavit of his title thereto, or right to the possession
thereof, stating the grounds of such,title or right, and serve
the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to
keep the property or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the
plaintiff on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the
sheriff against such claim by an undertaking by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits that they are
each worth double the value of the property as specified in
the affidavit of the plaintiff, over and above their debts and
liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution, and
are freeholders or householders in the State; and no claim
to such property by any other person than the defendant or
his agent shall be valid against the sheriff unless so made.

SEC. 90. The sheriff shall file the notice and all undertakings, and aflidavits with his proceedings thereon, with
the clerk of the court in which the action is pending, within
twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein.

CHAPTER V I .
‘ A'l‘’1‘ACHMEN’l‘S,

51-;C'I‘1oN 91, Attachment—when issued.

92, Affidavit required. ‘

93. Undertakings required.

94. Attachment upon debt not due.

95. Attachment—how traversed.

96 Writ of attachment---to whom directed.
97. Shares of stock and debts may be attached.
98. Writ—how executed.

99. Person claiming property may interplead.
I00
50:. Garnishmeut.

102. When garnishee liable to plaintiff.

:03. Garnishee and defendant may be examined.

To be subject to inspection.

(04. Inventory of attached property.
105. Perishable property. \
:06. When property claimed by third party.

107. If plaintiff obtain judgment-_—-how satisfied. .
108. If balance due--How collected.

:09. When suit may be commenced on undertaking.
110- X If defendant recovers judgment.

HI. Attached property--how released.

I12. Undertaking required.

It 3. Defendant may move to discharge attachment.
H4. 9 How discharged.

1 I 5. How writ returned.

116. Pro rata distribution of proceeds.
117. Additional undertaking may be required.

118. When writ executed on Sabbath day.
119. Attachment in aid of trespass suit.
I20. Insufiiciency of affidavit and bond——how cured.

SEC. 91. The plaintiff, at the time of issuing the‘
summons in an action on contract, express or implied, or at
any time afterwards before judgment, may have the property

of the defendant not exempt from execution, attached as
security for any judgment that may be recovered in such
action, in the manner prescribed in this chapter, unless the
defendant shall give good and sufficient security to secure
the payment of such judgment.

SEC. 92. No writ of attachment shall issue unless the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, or some credible person for
him, shall file in the office of the clerk of a district court,
or in the office of the clerk of a county court in the State,
or with the judge of said county court where no clerk is
provided, in cases where said courts have jurisdiction given
to them by law, an affidavit setting forth that any person is
indebted to such creditor, stating the nature and amount of
such indebtedness, as near as may be, and alleging any one
or more of the following causes for attachment, viz:

, First—That the defendant is not a resident of this
State. '

Second—That the defendant is a foreign corporation.

Third—That the defendant is a corporation, whose
chief office or place of business is out of the State.

Fourth—That the defendant conceals himself, or stands
in defiance of an officer, so that process of law cannot be
served upon him, or that the defendant has for more than
four months been absent from the State, or that for such
length of time his whereabouts have been unknown and that
the indebtedness mentioned in the affidavit has been due
during all the said period.

Fifth—That the defendant is about to remove his
property or effects, or a material part thereof, out of this
State, with intent to defraud, or hinder or delay his creditors, or some one or more of them.

Sixth—That the defendant has fraudulently conveyed.
or transferred, or assigned his property or effects, so  
hinder or delay his creditors, or some one or more of tlvmgfi

Seventh—That the defendant has fraudulently concc '
or removed, or disposed of his property or effects, so 
hinder or delay his creditors, or some one or more of t

Eighth—That the defendant is about fraudulentfifgigj
convey or transfer, or assign, his property or effects, 
to hinder or delay his creditors, or some one or more of
thexr_:_. 

'Ninth—That the defendant is about fraudulently to
conceal or remove, or dispose of his property or effects, so
as to hinder or delay his creditors; or that such debtor has
departed, or is about to depart from this State, with the in.tention of having his effects removed from this State.

Tenth—That the defendant has failed or refused to pay
the price or value of any article or thing delivered to him,
which he should have paid for upon the delivery thereof.

Eleventh—That the defendant has failed or refused to
pay the price or value of any work or labor done or performed, or for any services rendered by the plaintiff, at the
instance of the defendant and which should have been paid
at the completion of such work, or when such services were

fully rendered.

Twelfth—That the defendant fraudulently contracted
the debt, or fraudulently incurred the liability respecting
which the suit is brought, or by false representations or
false pretenses, or by any fraudulent conduct, procued
money or property of the plaintiff.

Thirteenth—In every case where any affidavit shall be
made and filed as aforesaid, it shall be lawful for such clerk
to issue a writ of attachment, directed to the sheriff of the
county, or to any other county as hereinafter provided,
returnable like other writs or process in this act, commanding him to attach the lands, tenements, goods, chattels,
rights, credits, moneys and effects of said debtor, of every
kind, or so much thereof as will be sullicient to satisfy the
claim sworn to, with interest and costs of suit, in whose
hands or possession the same may be found.

SEC. 93; Before issuing the writ of attachment the;

mwwlmlilnggaquire a written undertaking on the part of the

  uwggammmi sufficient surcties,to be approved by the clerk,
mu

   
  
  

h E" ot less than double the amount claimed by the
Wlaihe effect that if the defendant recover udgment,

sglllprt shall finally decide that the plaintiff was not

an attachment, the plaintiff will pay all costs
‘ ,  awarded to the defendant, and all damages he

 

may sustain by reason of the wrongful suing out of the
attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the under-»
taking, Said sureties may be required by the defendant, to
satisfy the clerk of the court that each for himself is worth
the amount -fo.r which he is willing to become security in
the undertaking, over and above his "j ust debts and liabilities,
in property not by law exempt from execution in this State;
provided, where it is stated in the aflidavit that the writ of
attachment is to be levied only upon real estate, the under;
taking required by this section shall be in a sum sufficient
to cover the costs of suit, and to be fixed by the clerk,
which undertaking shall be conditioned accordingly; and,
provided further, whenever a writ of attachment is to be

levied upon personal property as well as real estate, the‘

aihdavit shall state, as near as may be, the value of the
personal property about to be attached, in which case the
undertaking shall be in double the sum of the estimated
value of such personal property. '

SEC. 94. Actions may be commenced and‘ writs of
attachments issued as prescribed in this chapter, upon debts
or liabilities not yet due, if the affidavit states any of the
cases mentioned in the preceding sections [section ninetytwo], ‘except the first (I), second (2), and third (3) subdivisions of said section; provided, that any ‘judgment
obtained under the provisions of this section shall be with
a rebatement of the interest from the time such judgment

is rendered until the time at which said debt or liability
would have become due.

SEC. 95. y-five or said t 9'
ing shall stanb
Hive: :33’
it whom a writ
igent or attorne.°~§
3 from the servi 3?’
in amdavlt, trav~_ K,
alleged in the a.§>°-5,
ient is based, and .0 re
lte either one or the car?
:he said attachments ..,
the same shall be dis
for which the action a.
action shall bedlsmiss
tmed by the atiidavlts sh

ry is waived by the part
16 action may proce

The defendant against whom a writ of
as issued, or his agent or attorney, may, at any
swering the complaint by an affidavit, traverse
the matters alleged in the affidavit on which
is based, and if the plaintiff shall substanf the causes alleged in said affidavit, the
all be sustained, otherwise the same shall
if the debt for which the action is brought

ction shall be dismissed. The trial of the
;*:.:é:,:1,2.g:g:;s,:2:g:g~ l he affidavits shall be by jury, unless a jury
is waived by the parties. ‘But if. the debt is due, the action
may proceed to judgment after the attachment is dissolved,
as in other actions where no attachment is issued. _

SEC. 96. The writ shall be directedito the sheriff of
any county in which property of such defendant may be,
and require him to serve a copy of the writ ‘on the defendant, and to attach and safely keep all the property of such
defendant within his county, not exempt from execution, or
so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff ’s
demand, the amount of which shall be stated in conformity
with the affidavit, and alias writs may issue at any time,
unless the defendant deposit the amount or give him security by the undertaking of at least two suihcient sureties, in
an amount suihcient to satisfy such demand, besides costs,
or in amount equal to the value of the property which has
been or is about to be attached, in which case the sheriff
shall take such undertaking. Several writs may be issued
at the same time to the sheriffs of different counties.

SEC. 97. The rights or shares which the defendant
may have in the. stock of any corporation or company,
together with the interests and proiits thereon, and all debts
due such defendant, and all other property in this State of
such defendant, not exempt from execution, may be attached,

and if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judg- r  "'1 t ihtotsaidaétis‘
ment and executlom hereby lgpealed, andntrllfeyfglgorilpg shall stand in 
lieu thereof as section ninety-e g t:
i h th iti directed and desEC° 98' The Shq llV'£l'leedSS11ll%I.llnt'3}E((;cVlvlte0I?he iizlviiie viithout delay, and

' 1' th 'd rt kl i tloned in this chapterbe
dehvered Shall executl hot givgii bey tzllie Idgfelhlflgilnt. then as follows:

' ' . —- 1 rt , t' di pen the records
undertaking mentlone otFt‘l'iStJ3tco%?i€:yli)1l1.0tII)i(:a Ilya.l§1:!u(1)f illligeudefendant, shall

be attached by filing a copy of the writ, together
defendant’ then as fon with a description oi! the property attached. with I

F. 11 RC l th§Rec(<)ird§%l'e(z)tl1t)111'<‘;ci§,)1}il:;'mdr any interest therein ?
its -—- a 1'0 GOOD — v ' ‘ . *
p P belonging to the de endant, and held by any other

' . o , or standing upon the records oi‘. the county
County In the name of i)t(:rtlielname of any other person (but belonging to

’ th (1 I da t , shall be attached by leaving with;
61mg a’ copy of the Wr sugh gtfxgonnoi his agent a copy of the writ and a.- - n "l rt ( vi adescription
property attached! Wlt ?i?§i‘;%iii“§n'ii'?in§ii‘it§’r'§§‘i€ih§i-51:}; tb;§1on§:1in% to the
defendant, are attached pursuan suc w -,an
Second—Real pro tiling a copy or such w’i~it and notice with the Re.
comer of the county.

in t the defendant 'I‘hi,d——Pdrsonal property capable of manna‘;g 0 ' delivexry shall be attached by taking it into custody.

' F urth-Debt d edits. and other persona
standlng upon the re progerty not cas1)aible ogrmanual delivery, shall b

' - tt h d b 1 vin with the person owing such.
any other person (but degtgeor liyavieillg ig his possession or under his‘

‘ co trol such credits and other personal property,
attached by leavmg 5 orlwith his agent, a notice that the debts owing by
him to the defendant, or the credits and other personal property itn hills p3ssessjlon£ or undptr hills gop- .tro1,be1ongingote e'enan,areaace. n
hon thereof): and an pursuance of the writ of attachment issued in said

08.1188.

writ and a notice that

defendant, are attached, pursuant to such writ, and filing a
copy of such writ‘ and notice with the recorder of the

county.

Third—-Personal property capable of manual delivery
shall be attached by taking it into custody.

Fourth—Debts and credits and other personal property
not capable of manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving
with the person owing such debts, or having in his possession, or under his control, such credits and other personal
property, or with his agent, a copy of the writ, and a notice
that the debts owing by him to the defendant, or the credits
and other personal property in his possession, or under his
control, belonging to the defendant, are attached in pursuance of such writ. ' '

SEC. 99. In all cases of attachment, any person other
zthan the defendant, claiming any of the personal property
- attached, may interplead without giving bail, but the property attached shall not thereby be replevied; and the courts
shall immediately (unless good cause be shown by either
party for continuance), direct a jury to be empaneled to inquire into the right of property; in all cases where the jury
find for the claimant, they shall also find the damages the
party has suffered by reason of the levy on the property
attached. Such claimant shall be entitled to his costs, and
where the jury find for the plaintiff in the attachment, such
plaintiff shall recover his costs against such claimant.

SEC. 100. It shall be the duty of the county recorder
to file and safely keep such copy of the writ and description
of the roperty subject to the inspection of all persons, and
record ‘ e same in abook to be kept for that purpose, and to
index the same in the records; and such recorder shall receive a fee of twenty—five cents for such filing and safe—keeping of said lists, and the further fee for recording as is prescribed by law, to be paid by- the plaintiff in the action, and
taxed and allowed to him as other costs and disbursements
in the action.

SEC. 101. Upon receiving information in writing from
 attorney, that any person has in his pos'l,E1ll(l 

property belonging to the defendant, or is owing any debt
to the defendant, the sheriff shall serve upon such person a
copy of the writ, and a notice that such credits or other
property or debts, as the case may be, are attached in pursuance of such writ, and every municipal or other corporation or quasi corporation, sheriff or other public officer or
trustee shall be liable to garnishment under the provisions
of this chapter. 

SEC. 102. 
having in their possession, or
 credits or other personal property
 or owing any debts to the detatthetlmeotservlceuponthemob
 service upon them of a copy of the

such property be delivered tram! . . .
n the last section, shall be, unless
 up or transferred, or such debts

 bil.i'i.m.niemu°“°i, liable to the plaintiff for the amount of
such credits, property or debts until the attachment be discharged, or any judgment recovered by him in the action
be satisfied. '

SEC. 103. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or
having in his possession, or under his control, any oredits
or other personal property belonging to. the defendant, may
be required to attend before the court or judge, or a referee
appointed by the court or judge, and be examined on oath
respecting the same. The defendant may also be required
to attend for the purpose of giving information respecting
his property, and may be examined on oath. The court or
judge may, after such examination, order personal property
capable of manual delivery to be delivered to the sheriff
upon suchiterms as may be just, having reference to any
liens thereon, or claims against the same; and a memorandum to be given of all other personal property, containing

the amount and description thereof.

SEC. 104. at The sheriff shall make a full inventory of section onehundnedand four ajugnd return the same, with the writ;

‘iii
limb! repealed. and the follow! .
- lieu thereofassectionone nun:i'§a%such return as to debts and credits
lf Egg st, at lthe tigre of servicle, the party
 to give im a state- _~-p:  shall be, sworn to by the party, his
' i ‘ . 0 W . '

- . m,,,,,,, M,’ W mgiatemenc ng the amount and description of

 the amount a  be refused, he shall return the
fact of refusal with "the writ. The party refusing to give
the statement may be required to_ pay the costs of any
proceedings taken for the purpose of obtaining information
respecting the amount of such debt or credit, and may be
ordered to furnish such statement under penalty of contempt.

SEC. 105. If any of the property attached be perishable, the sheriff “ shall sell the same in the manner in which.

such property is sold on execution. The proceeds, and
other property attached by him, shall be retained by him to
answer any judgment that may be recovered in the action,
unless sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment.
Debts and credits attached may be collected by him, if the
same can be done without suit. The sheriff ’s receipt shall
be a sufficient discharge for the amount. paid.‘

SEC. 106. If any personal property attached‘ be
claimed under oath by a third party as his property, the
sheriff shall deliver the property to such third party within
five  days, if the plaintiff resides within the county,
otherwise ten days after notice to plaintiff ’s attorney, unless
the plaintiff give the sheriff good and sufficient bond to
indemnify him against any loss or damage by reason of
holding such property.

SEC. 107. If judgment be recovered by the plaintiff,
the' sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the property
attached by him, which has not been delivered to the
defendant or claimant as hereinbefore provided, or subjected
to execution on another judgment recovered previous to
the issuing of the attachment, if it be sufficient for that

purpose.

Fjrst—By paying to the plaintiff the proceeds of all
sales of perishable property sold by him, or any debts or
credits collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary
to satisfy the judgment.

Second—If any balance remain due, and an execution
shall have been issued on the judgment, he shall sell, under
the execution, so much of _the property, real or personal, as
may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that
purpose remain in his hands. Notices of the sales shall be

given and‘°the sales conducted as in other cases of sales on
execution.

SEC. 108. If, after selling all_the property attached by
him remaining in his hands, and applying the proceeds,
together with the proceeds of any debts or credits collected
by him, deducting his fees, to the payment of the judgment, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff shall proceed to collect such balance as upon an execution in other
cases. Whenever the judgment shall have been paid, the
sheri1T, upon reasonable demand,shall deliver over to the
defendant the attached property remaining in his hands,and
any proceeds of the property attached unapplied on the
judgment. '

SEC. 109. If the execution be returned unsatisfied in
whole or in part, the plaintiff may prosecute any undertaking given pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and
he may proceed as in other cases, upon the return of an
execution unsatisfied.

SEC. 11O. If the defendant recover judgment against
the plaintiff, any undertaking received in the action, all the

- proceeds of sales and money collected by the sheriff, and

all the property attached remaining in the sheriffs hands,
shall be delivered to the defendant or his agent, the order
of attachment shall be discharged and the property released
therefrom.

SEC. 111. The defendant may, at any time, release,

any property in the hands of the sheriff, by virtue of any
writ of attachment, by executing an undertaking as provided for in the next section; and all the proceeds of sales
and money collected by the sheriff, and all the property
attached remaining in his hands, shall be released from the
attachment, and delivered to the defendant upon the justification of the sureties in the undertaking.

SEC. 112. Before releasing such attached property, as;

aforesaid, to the defendant, the sheriff shall require an
undertaking executed by the defendant to the plaintiff, and
at least two sureties, residents .and freeholders, or householders in this State, to the effect that in case the plaintiff

recover judgment in the action, and the attachment is not

dissolved, defendant will, on demand, re-deliver such
attached property so released to the proper officer, to be
applied to the payment of the judgment, and that in default
thereof, the defendant and sureties will pay to the plaintiff
the full value of the property so released. The sheriff may
fix the sum for which the undertaking shall be executed,
and if necessary, in fixing such sum, to know the value of
the property released, the same may be appraised by three
disinterested persons, to be appointed by the sheriff; and if
any sheriff shall release any property held by him, under
or by virtue of any writ of attachment, without first taking
such bond as herein required, or shall take an insufhcient
bond, he and his sureties shall be liable for the value of
such property so released.

SEC. 113. The defendant may also, at any time before
the time for answering expires, apply on motion, upon
reasonable notice to the plaintiff, to the court in which the
action is brought, or to the judge thereof, that the attachment be discharged on the ground that the writ was improperly issued for any reasons appearing upon the face of
the papers and proceedings in the action.

SEC. 114. If, on such application, it shall satisfactorily

-appear that the writ of attachment was improperly issued,

it shall be discharged.

SEC. 115. The sheriff shall return the writ of attachment with the summons, if issued at the same time; otherwise within twenty'days after its receipt, with a certificate
of his proceedings endorsed thereon or attached thereto.

SEC. 116. In all cases where more than one attachment shall be issued against the same person or persons
and returned to the same term of the court to which they
are returnable, or when a judgment in a civil action shall
also be rendered at the same term against the defendant,
who is the same person and defendant in the attachment or
attachments, the court shall direct the clerk to make an
estimate of the several amounts each attaching or judgment
creditor will be entitled to, out of the property of the defendant attached, either in the hands of the garnishee or
otherwise, after the sale and receipt of the proceeds thereof

by the sheriff, calculating such amount in proportion to the
amount of their several judgments, with costs, as the same
will respectively bear to the amount of the sum received,
so that each attaching and judgment creditor will receive
his just part thereof ‘in proportion to his demand ,j the clerk
shall thereupon certify the several amounts thereof to the
sheriff, who shall pay over to the respective parties the

several sums so certified, and endorse such payments on
their respective executions; provided, that when the property sought to be attached shall have been removed from
the county in which the attachment issued, and shall be
overtaken and returned to such county, the claim of such
attaching creditor or creditors shall have priority over other
attachments or judgment.

SEC. 117. If at any time pending a suit, where attachment has been issued in aid thereof, as provided in this chapter, it shall appear to the court or judge thereof in which
the suit is pending, that the bond or undertaking given is
insuHicient, or that any security therein has died, or has
removed from this State, or has become, or is likely to
become insolvent, said court or the judge thereof in vacation, shall order another bond or undertaking, or such other
and further security to be given as shall seem proper, ten
(10) days’ previous notice in writing having been given to
the plaintiff, or any one of the plainti1Ts, his or their agent
or attorney, of the application for such order, and if the
plaintiff or plaintiffs, his or their agent or attorney, or other
person for him or them, shall fail to comply with such order
within twenty (20) days after the same shall be made, all or
any writs of attachment issued therein shall be quashed.
The additional undertaking herein required shall be the
same, and executed in the same manner as the original,

_required in this chapter, and the sureties therein shall be

jointly and severally liable with those in the original undertaking.

SEC. 118. If the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall
make and file with the clerk, an affidavit in the action, stating that it is necessary to execute the writ of attachment
on the Sabbath day to secure property sufficient to secure

the judgment to be obtained, the clerk shall endorse on the

writ an order to the officer directing the writ to be executed
on the Sabbath day. '

SEC. 119. In all suits hereafter brought -in this State
to recover damages, for trespass on any lode or mining
property,'the party bringing such suit, or his agent or
attorney, may make an affidavit setting forth that the defendant or defendants in such suit, have committed a trespass
or trespasses upon any lode or mining property owned or
possessed by the plaintiff or plaintiffs in such suit, describing such lode or mining property, and that such plaintiff
or plaintiffs have sustained substantial damage, and that he,
she or they, believe that such plaintiff or plaintiffs will
‘recover, and ought to recover, any specified sum exceeding
twenty dollars, stating the amount that he, she or they
expect will and ought to be recovered, a writ of attachment shall issue against the goods, chattels, and real 'estate
of such defendant or defendants, returnable as in other cases
of attachment prescribed in this chapter, and the plaintiff
or plaintiffs, in such writ of attachment, may cause such
writ of attachment to be levied on the ore or quartz taken
from such lode or mining property by the defendant.

SEC. 120. No writ of attachment shall be quashed, nor any
lgarnishee discharged, nor any undertaking given by any person or persons under proceedings by attachment be rendered
invalid, nor any rule entered against a sheriff discharged on
account of any informality or insufliciency of the original
affidavit, or of the original undertaking given for the attachment, if the plaintiff or plaintiffs, or some credible person,
or his or their agent or attorney for him or them, shall file
a sufficient affidavit in the cause, or if the plaintiff or plaintifis, or some credible person, or his or their agent or attorney for him or them, shall make, with such security as is

required by this act, an undertaking to be approved by the
court in which said suit may be pending. And when a

writ of attachment shall be held to be defective, the same
shall be allowed by the court to be amended ‘in such time
and manner at it may direct, and thenceforth the suit shall
proceed as if such defective proceedings had been originally

SECTION 121.
122.

I23.
124»
I25.
126.

I270
128.

129.
130.
131.
I 32.

133r 34.
135.
136.

137.

CHAPTER VII.

ON [or] 1°NJUNc'r1oNs.

What is-—by what courts granted.

In what cases granted.

At what time may be granted.

To stay suit or judgm'ent—proceedings where had.
Errors in proceedings enjoined—undertaking required.
Amount of undertaking.

Notice of application for—when and how given.
Disobedience of—how punished.

Motion to dissolve——when made.

Evidence used on application for or motion to dissolve.
Notice what to contain—evidence on hearing.

Motion to dissolve — when no notice of application

given. .

How addressedand served.

Undertaking required upon granting.

Complaint when to be filed.

Defendant may obtain.

Additional powers given to the court.

138. That without notice having effect of writ of restitution.

139Suits upon the undertaking.

SEC. 121. An injunction is generally an order requiring a person to refrain from doing a particular act, but
where simply refraining from doing a particular act will not
effectuate the relief to which the plaintiff is entitled, the
injunction may be made mandatory, and require such acts
to be done as will give the plaintiff the full protection which
he may be entitled to. The district court in term time, and
any judge thereof in vacation, shall have power to grant
and to dissolve writs of injunction, ‘except as hereinafter

limited.

In case of a vacancy in the oliice of any district

judge, or in case of his absence from his district, or in case
such judge has an interest inthe subject matter of litigation,

or if from sickness, or any other cause, he is unable to discharge the duties of his office, then the district judge of
any other district may grant and dissolve such writs, or
upon the happening of either of the events above enumerated, or in case of the absence of the district judge from
any county of his district, then the county judge of such
county, in causes of . action arising therein, may grant such
writs, which writ shall issue out of thedistrict court the
same as though granted by the court or district judge, except that the county judge shall not have power to grant
any such writ against the working of any mining claims.

SEC. 122. An injunction may be granted in the following cases :

F irst—When it shall appear by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief,
or some part thereof, consists in restraininghthe commission
or continuance of the act_ complained of, during the pendency of the. litigation, or for a limited period, or perpetually.

Second—When it shall appear by the complaint or

aHidavit that the commission or continuance of some act

would produce great or irreparable injury during the litigation.

Third—When it shall appear at any time in any character of an action during the litigation, by aflidavit or
otherwise, that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is
about to do some act, or ii procuring, or suffering to be
done, some act in violation of the plaintiff ’s rights respecting the subject matter of the action, -and tending to render
the judgment ineffectual, and in such other cases as courts
of equity have heretofore granted relief by injunction, or
which may be specially provided for in this act. '

SEC. 123. The injunction may be granted at- or before
the time of filing the complaint and issuing the summons,
or at any time afterwards before judgment, upon affidavits.
The complaint in the one case and the affidavits in the
other shall show that satisfactory grounds exist therefor.
The complaint shall be verified by the oath of the plaintiff,
or some one in his behalf, as other complaints are required

to be by this act. Also answers filed under this chapter
shall be verified as other answers are required to be in this

act.

SEC. 124. When any injunction’ shall be granted to
stay a suit or judgment at law, the proceedings shall be had
, in the county where the judgment was obtained or the suit

is pending, or the writ of summons may be sent in the first

instance into any other county in this State, where the defendant resides. No writ of injunction shall be. granted to
stay proceedings under a judgment obtained before a justice

of the peace, for a sum not exceeding twenty dollars, exclusive of costs. 

SEC. 125. No injunction shall be granted ‘to stay judgment at law for a greater sum than the complainant shall
;Sl1OW himself equitably not bound to pay, and so much as
shall be sufficient to cover costs. Every injunction, when
granted, shall operate as a release of all errors in the proceedings at law that are prayed to be enjoined. No injunction shall be issued in such cases, unless the complainant,
or some person in his, her or their behalf, shall have pre'viously executed an undertaking, with sufficient surety to
the defendant, approved by the court, district, or county
judge, or the clerk, where the court, or judge. granting such
injunction so orders, and filed with the clerk, in double
the sum directed to be enjoined, conditioned for the payment of all money and costs due, or to be due, to the plaintiff in the action of law, and also all such costs and damages as shall be awarded against the complainant incase the
injunction shall be dissolved._ If the injunction be dissolved,
in whole or in part, the complainant shall pay, exclusive of
legal interests and costs, such damages as the court shall
award, not exceeding ten per centum on such part as may
be released from the injunction; and the clerk shall issue
execution for the same when he issues on such judgment. '

SEC. 126. In case of granting a writ of injunction
other than those to stay a suit or judgment at law, the court,
district, or county judge granting the writ, shall make an
order fixing the amount of the undertaking, which shall be
in a reasonable sum; and no injunction shall be issued

until complainant or complainants, or some one for him,
her or them, shall have previously executed such undertaking
with sufficient surety, payable to the defendant or defendants,
approved by the court or judge granting the writ,orthe clerk
of the court out of which ‘the writ is to issue when the
order so directs, and filed with the clerk; which undertaking shall be conditioned to pay all ‘such costs and damages
as shall be awarded against the complainant or complainants, in case the injunction shall be modified or dissolved,
in whole or in part. V '

SEC. 127. Whenever application shall be made for a‘
writ of injunction, the party intending to make such appli-4
cation, except as hereinafter provided, shall give notice to
the opposite party, of the time and place of making such
application prior to making the same; provided, that if
such application shall be made to the court in term time, in
a cause pending in such court, in which the defendant or
defendants shall have been served with process ten days
prior to the term at which such application shall be made,
or if the complainant shall file an aflidavit showing that
irreparable mischief or injury will result to him if notice be
given, or that the case is too urgent to admit of delay incident to giving notice, or where it appears from the -bill of
complaint that the defendant or defendants may commit the
acts concerning which injunctive relief is sought, before the
motion can be heard, no such notice shall be required, but
the court or judge shall proceed to hear the application
extarte; and, provided further, that any writ of injunction
issued against the working and mining of a lode or mining
claim without notice to the opposite party shall be void;
The notice to be given shall be in proportion to the urgency
of the case. If the party against whom the writ is to run,
desires further time to prepare his defence, the court, or
judge, may grant such time as may seem proper, not
exceeding in any case five days; and may in the mean
time issue a temporary injunction until the determination
of said application; and the court, or judge, may require
complainant or complainants to give an undertaking during
the existence of such temporary injunction, conditioned as

in section one hundred and twenty-six of this act. -No
motion to dissolve an injunction shall be heard in vacation
when granted upon mining claims after answer iiled.

SEC. 128. If any person against whom a writ of
F injunction, or temporary injunction shall be issued shall,
‘after the service- thereof, be guilty of disobedience to‘ and
breach of the injunction, or temporary injunction, it shall
be lawful for the judge granting the same, or for the judge
of the district in which the writ.or order issued, or if the
same we-re granted ‘in open court, then for any district
judge in vacation to issue an attachment against said person
or persons for a contempt. Upon his or their being brought
before the said judge, unless he or they shall disprove or
purge the said contempt, the said judge may in his discretion commit him or them to jail until the sitting of the
court in which the said injunction is pending, or take bail
for his appearance at the said court at the next term thereof
"to answer for the said contempt, and to abide the order of
the court thereon.

SEC. 129. In all cases in which injunction shall be
issued exparte, the defendants may, at any time after filing
a demurrer or answer to the complaint, move the court, or

judge thereof, upon five days notice to the opposite party, ‘

to dissolve or modify the injunction. '

SEC. 130. Upon the hearing of an application to grant
an injunction on notice, where the defendant files his answer

before the hearing, or on motion of the defendant to dis-_

solve an injunction on filing an answer, either party may
examine witnesses orally before the court or judge, and the
application for an injunction, or the motion to dissolve an
injunction, may be supported or opposed by affidavits as
prescribed in the next section.

SEC. 131. The party, in his notice of application for
an injunction, or in his notice of motion to dissolve, shall
state whether he proposes to rest his application on the
complaint, answer, or demurrer, or to introduce aflidavits in
support of his application, or to introduce oral testimony;
and the hearing shall be confined to the character of testimony stated in such notice, except as herein mentioned;

but if the party on whom notice is served desires to introduce different evidence from that proposed in such notice,
he may serve notice on the opposite party, stating what
evidence he proposes to introduce in opposing the applicatioa or motion, and that shall entitle him to introduce the
character of testimony stated in his notice, and entitle the
adverse party to oppose it with the same character of evidence. And if oral testimony is to be introduced, it°shall
be the duty of the court or judge before whom‘ application
for an injunction or a motion to dissolve, as prescribed in
this section and the next, is made, toohear the testimony of
witnesses and other competent evidence as speedily as
practicable, and without unnecessary delay to decide whether

or not an injunction shall issue or be continued.
SEC. 132. In all causes in which writs of injunction;
may be issued without notice, defendant or defendants may‘

at any time after filing a demurrer, or answer to the complaint, and whether in term time or in vacation, move the
court, or if application shall be made in vacation, the judge
thereof, to dissolve the injunction. If the defendant or
defendants shall have filed an answer to the complaint, it
shall be lawful for the parties respectively, upon the hearing
of such motion, to introduce testimony in support of the
complaint or answer, and the court or judge shall decide
such motion upon the weight of testimony, without being
bound to regard the answer as absolutely true. If at or
before the time designated for. the hearing of such motion,
either party or some credible person for ‘him, shall make
and file in the court an affidavit showing that such party
hath a witness or witnesses by whom he can disprove the
complaint or answer (as the case may be), or some material
part thereof, giving the name or names of such witness or
witnesses, his or their place of abode, and the particular
facts which the party will prove by him or them, and that
such party has had no opportunity to procure the testimony
of such witness since the coming in of the answer, the
court or judge, if satisfied that the testimony of such witnesses will be material upon the hearing of such motion, shall
grant a continuance of the ‘hearing for such reasonable
time as may be necessary to enable the party to procure the

testimony of such witnesses. Afiidavits filed with the com-.
plaint or answer, and the deposition of witnesses in writing,
taken and certified as in. other cases in chancery proceedings, may be heard and shall be considered by the court or
judge upon’ the hearing of such motion, and depositions.
taken for the purpose of being read at such hearing may be
read on final hearing of the cause in which they have been,
taken; provided, that in any cause where any injunction
shall have been awarded after notice, as provided by section
one hundred and twenty-seven of this act, no motion forthe dissolution of such injunction shall be heard or made in;
vacation.

SEC. 133. The order of injunction shall be addressed

to the party enjoined, and shall be issued by the clerk in.

accordance with the direction of the court or judge. The

order of injunction may be served in the same manner, and
by any person or ofiicer authorized to serve a summons.
And an order of injunction shall bind the party from the

time of such service, or from the time he has actual notice

that it is ordered by the judge or court.

SEC. 134. On granting an injunction, the court orjudge shall require, except where the State, or a county in
the State, or a municipal corporation is the party, a written
undertaking on the part of the party in whose favor an
injunction is granted, with one or more sufficient sureties,
to the effect that the plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined
all damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, as
such party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if
the court finally decides that the party in whose favor the
injunction was issued was not entitled thereto. A party
enjoined may at any time before judgment, upon reasonable
‘notice to the party who has obtained the injunction, move
the court or judge for additional security. And if it appear
that the surety has removed from the State, and the security
is thereby impaired, or is otherwise insufficient, the court
may vacate the injunction unless in a reasonable time sufficient surety is given.

SEC. 135. It shall not be necessary to the granting of
an injunction that the complaint be first filed in the court

out of which such writ is prayed; but the order of the
judge, or any court to whom any complaint is presented
praying such injunction, may direct the same to issue, upon
the filing of the complaint with the undertaking required
by sections I2 5 and 127 (as the case may be).

SEC. 136. The defendant may, at any time during the‘?
pendency of a suit against him, by setting forth in his
answer subject matter in the nature of a ’cross complaint
which shows that he is entitled to an injunction against the
plaintiff, or by filing afhdavits showing that he is entitled to
such relief, apply for and obtain an injunction in the same
manner as prescribed in this chapter for the plaintiff to
obtain an injunction.

SEC. 137. The said district court of the State, or anyi
judge thereof, shall have, in addition to the power already‘
possessed, power to issue writs of injunction, for afHrmative relief, having the force and effect of a writ of restitution,
restoring any person or persons to the possession of any
mining property, or premises from which he or they may
have been ousted by fraud, force or violence, or from which
he or they are kept out of possession by threats, or by
words, or actions, which have a natural tendency to excite
fear or apprehension of danger, or whenever such possession
was taken from him or them by entry of the adverse party
on Sunday, or a legal holiday, or while the party in possession was temporarily absent therefrom ; the granting of such
writ to extend only to the‘ right of possession under the
facts of the case in respect to the manner in which the
possession was obtained, leaving the parties to their legal
rights on all other questions as though no such writ had
issued; provided, that no such writ shall issue except upon.
notice in writing to the adverse party of at least five days,
of the time and place of making such application, if made
in vacation, and if made in term time, not before defendant
or defendants have been duly served with process, and required to appear and answer by virtue of such service. And
if the defendant or defendants shall file an answer to the
complaint upon which such application is founded, denying
under oath the material averments in said complaint con~tained, the said court or judge thereof shall ‘hear evidence
in support of said complaint or answer or may cause the
said application to be referred to a referee, to take such
proofs in support of said complaint and answer and shall
direct the said referee to report the proofs to the said court
or judge within a reasonable time, allowing to the complainant and defendant a reasonable time in which to take
proofs; and the time so allowed by said court or judge for
the purpose of taking testimony shall be equally divided
between said complainant and defendant; and it shall be _the
duty of the complainant or complainants to take his, her or
their testimony first, and the defendant or defendants shall
proceed to take his, her or their proof within the - last half
of said time so allowed, and the said court or judge shall
adjourn the hearing of the said application until some day
Within a reasonable time after the time of taking and completing said proofs, and at such time, upon the hearing of
said referee’s report, shall grant or refuse said writ, as the
pleadings and evidence in said cause or proceedings may
warrant or require; and, provided further, that no such
writ shall issue in favor of any person or persons, to restore
to such person or persons possession of any mining
property, if the said person or persons shall have obtained
or procured possession of said property by violence, or by
fraud, or by taking possession of the same while the adverse party in possession was temporarily absent therefrom;
and provided further, that appeal, as in other cases, shall
be allowed from any final order or decree granting an injunction under the provisions of this section ; but such appeal shall not have the effect to suspend the operation of
said writ after anorder or decree is made by the court or
judge granti_ng the same, nor to continue one in force after
an order or decree is made dissolving any injunction pending the appeal. When application is made for such an injunction for affirmative relief, as contemplated in this section,
the court or judge shall immediately, on the filing of the
complaint, issue .a temporary injunction, as provided for in section 126 of this act.
SEC. 138. No writ of injunction for affirmative relief,

having the force and effect of a writ of restitution, shall be valid or have any force whatsoever, if issued without notice and without complying with the provisions and conditions of the preceding section.

SEC. 139. That in suing on any undertaking provided for in this act, it shall not be necessary to bring suit int eh first instance against the principal on such undertaking to ascertain the amount of dmaages sustained or awarded by the court, but the principal and surety may be sued together, and at the trial damages may be assessed and awarded against principal and surety in the action.

CHAPTER Vlll.
DEPOSIT IN COURT AND RECEIVER.

SECTION 140. Deposit in court.
14!. Appointment of receiver.
142. How application made.
:43. Bond required of receiver.

SEC. 140. When it is admitted by the pleadings
or examination of a party that he has in his possession, or
under his control, any money or other thing capable of
delivery, which, being the subject of litigation, is held by
him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due
to another party, the court may order the same, upon motion, to be deposited in court or delivered to such party,
upon such conditions as may be just, subject to the further
direction of the court.

SEC. 141. A receiver may be appointed by due court
in which the action is pending, or by a judge thereof:

First—Before judgment, provisionally, on application
of either party, when he establishes a prz'mafacz’e right to the
property, or to an interest in the property which is the subject of the action, and which is in possession of i an adverse
party, and the property, or its rents and profits, are in danger of being lost or materially injured or impaired.

Second—Alter judgment, to dispose of the property
according to the judgment, or to preserve it during the
pending of an appeal; and,

Third—In such other cases as are in accordance with ’

the practice of courts of equity jurisdiction.

SEC. 142. The application for the appointment of a
receiver shall be made by filing a petition at any time in the
action in which a receiver is desired, setting forth the facts
upon which the application is based, which petition shall be verified as complaints are required to be by this act. And the party opposing the appointment of a receiver shall do so by filing an answer to the petition, verified as answers to complaints are required to be by this act. And the court or judge may hear evidence to determine the issues made by such petition and answer, and decide the same like any issues formed by pleadings in a cause.

SEC. 143. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or more sureties, approved by the court or judge, execute an undertaking to such person and in such sum as the court or judge shall direct, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and obey the orders of the court therein. 

TITLE VI.
OFJUDGMENTSANDTHHALS

 . -_..__

.'_ CHAPTERIX.
, Q

JUDGMENT IN GENERAL.

SECTION 144. Judgment—def1nition of.
I45. Judgment may be for or against either of the parties.

146. Judgment may be against one party and action proceed
as to the others.

147. The relief to be awarded to the plaintiff.
148. Action may be dismissed or nonsuit entered.

I49. Judgment on the merits—when.

SEC. 144. A judgment is the final determination
of the rights of the parties in the action or proceedings, and
may be entered in a term or vacation.

SEC. 145. Judgment may be given for or against one
or more of several plaintiffs ; and for or against one or more

of several defendants; and it may, when the justice of the

case require it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties
on each side as between themselves.

SEC. 146. In an action against several defendants, the
court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or
more of them, allowing the action to proceed against the
others, whenever a several judgment is proper.

SEC. 147. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there
be no answer, shall not exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint; but in any other case the court
may grant him any relief consistent with the case made by
the complaint and embraced within the issue. '

SEC. 148. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment
of nonsuit entered in the following cases:

First—By the plaintiff himself, at any time before trial,

upon the payment of costs, if a counter claim has not been
made. If a provisional or ancillary [auxiliary] remedy has
been allowed, the undertaking shall thereupon be delivered
by the clerk to the defendant, who may have his action

thereon.

Second—By either party, upon the written consent of
the other. , '

Third—By the court when the plaintiff fails to appear
on the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal.

Fourth§——by the court when, upon trial, and before the
final submission of the case, the plaintiff abandons it.

Fifth—By the court, upon motion of the defendant,
when, upon the trial, the plaintiff fails to’ prove a sufficient
case for the jury. ' q

The dismissal mentioned in the first two sub-divisions
shall be made by an entry in the clerk’s register. Judgment
may thereupon be entered accordingly.

SEC. 149. In every case, other than those mentioned?

in the last section, the judgments shall be rendered upon the
merits.

CHAPTER X.

JUDGMENT  FAILURE TO ANSWER.

SECTION 150. Judgment may be had if the defendant fail to answer
' the romplaint.

SEC. 150. Judgment may be had if the defendant
fail to answer the complaint, as follows:

First——In an action arising upon contract for the recovery
of money or damages only; if no» answer or demurrer has
been filed with the clerk of the court within the time

specified in the summons, or such future time as may have

been granted, the clerk, upon the application of the plaintiff, shall enter the default of the defendant, and immediately
thereafter enter judgment for the amount specified in the
summons, including the costs, against the defendant, or
against one or more of several defendants, in the cases
provided for in the first subdivision of section thirty-three, chapter three, of this act. 4

_ Second—In other actions, if no answer has been filed
with the clerk within the time specified in the summons, or
such further time as may have been granted, the clerk shall
enter the default of the defendant, and thereafter the plaintiff
may apply at the first or any subsequent term of the court
for the relief demanded in the complaint.

If the taking of an account or the.proof of any fact be
necessary to enable the court to assess the damages or give
judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the court
may take the account or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion, upon consent of parties, order a reference for that
purpose, and where the action is for the recovery of damages in whole or in part, the court may order the damages

to be assessed by a jury, or they may be assessed by the
court, or, if to determine the amount of damages, the examination of a long account be necessary, by a reference, as
above provided.

Third—In actions where the service of the summons
was by publication, the plaintiff, upon the expiration of the
time designated in the order of publication, may, upon proof
of the publication, and that no answer has been filed, apply
for judgment, and the court shall thereupon require proof
to be made of the demand mentioned in,the complaint, and
if the defendant be not a resident of the State, shall ‘require
the plaintiff 'or his agent to be examined on oath respecting
any payments that have been made to the plaintiff, or to_any
one for his use, on account of such demand, and may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover.
If the answer in any case denies or controverts only a part
of the cause or causes of action alleged in the complaint,
the plaintiff may take judgment by default for the undisputed portion, leaving the action to proceed as to the part
controverted by the answer.

CHAPTER XI.

OF ISSUES AND OF THEIR DISPOSITION.

SECTION 151. Issue—when arises.
I 52. Issue of law.
153. Issue of fact.
154. Issue of law—how tried--and of fact.
I 55. Issue of law lirst disposed of.
I 56. Causes to be entered on calendar according to date.
I 57. Either party may bring issue to trial.
I 58. Motion to postpone.

SEC. 151. An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party and is controverted by the other. Issues are of two kinds:

First—Of law; and
Second—of fact.

SEC. 152. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to
the complaint or answer, or replication, or to some part
thereof.

SEC. 153. An issue of fact arises—

First——Upon a material allegation in the complaint,
controverted by the answer, and

Second—Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the replication, or upon new matter in the replication.
Third-issue of law is joined thereon.

SEC. 154. An issue of law shall be tried by the court, or entered upon consent, as provided in this title. An issue of fact, in an action at decided by a jury, unless a jury be waived, or a as provided in this act.

SEC. 155. When there are issues both of law and

fact to the same complaint, the issues of law shall be first
disposed of.


SEC. 156. The clerk shall enter causes upon the cal-f
endar of the court, according to the date of the issue.f
Causes once placed upon the calendar for a general or a
special term, if not tried or heard at'such term, shall remain
upon the calendar from court to court until finally disposed of.

SEC. 157. Either party may bring the issue to a trial,
or to a hearing, and in the absence of the adverse party,‘
unless the court for good cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his case and take a dismissal of the action or verdict or a judgment as the case may require.

SEC. 158. A motion to postpone a trial on grounds of;
the absence of evidence, shall only be made upon affidavit
showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to procure it.‘

The court may also require the moving party to state
upon affidavit the evidence which he expects to obtain, and
if the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence
would be given, and that it be considered as actually given
on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial
shall not be postponed; and, upon terms, the court‘ may, in
its discretion, upon good cause shown, and in furtherance
of justice, postpone a trial or proceeding upon other grounds
than the absence of evidence. '

CHAPTER XII.

FORMATION OF THE JURY.

SECTION 159. ]ury—how drawn.

I60. Oath.

161. Challenge. .

":62. Challenge for cause.

163. Challenge for cause--how tried.
I64. Challenge—order of

I65.‘ Vacancy——how filled.

166.. Challenge to array.

SEC. 159. When the action is called for trial by jury,
the clerk shall prepare separate ballots containing the names
of the jurors summoned who have appeared and not been
excused, and deposit them in a box.

Heoshall then draw from the box twelve names, and
the persons whose names are drawn shall constitute the
jury. If the ballot becomes exhausted before the jury is
complete, or if from any cause a juror is excused or discharged, the clerk shall, under direction of the court, draw
from the box furnished by the county commissioners, as
provided‘ by law, so many additional names as shall be
necessary, in the manner provided by law, ‘and if the names
in the box are exhausted before the jury is complete, the
sheriff shall summon, under the direction of the court, from
the citizens of the county, so many qualified persons as may
be necessary to complete the jury. The jury shall consist
of twelve persons, unless the parties consent to a less number. The parties may consent to any number not less than

three. Such consent shall be entered by the clerk in the_

minutes of the trial.
SEC. 160. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath

_ or affirmation shall be administered to the jurors in substance: That they, and each of them, will well and truly try

the matter at issue between , the plaintilf, and _ ,
the defendant, and a true verdict.render according to the
evidence.

SEC. 161. Either party may challenge the jurors, but
when there are several parties on either side, they shall join
in a challenge before it can be made. The challenge shall
be to individual jurors, and shall be either peremptory or
for cause. Eachiparty shall be entitled to four peremptory
challenges.

SEC. 162. Challenges for cause may be taken on one
or more of the following grounds 2

First-—A want of any of the qualifications prescribed
by statute ‘to render a person competent as a juror.

Second—Consanguinity or a'Hinity within the third
degree to either party.

Third—Standing in the relation of guardian and ward,
master "and servant, employer and clerk, or principal or
agent to either party, or being a member of the family' of
either party, or a partner in business with either party, or
being security on any bond or obligation for either party.

Fourth—I-Iaving served as a juror or been a witness
on a previous trial between the same parties for the same
cause of action.

Fifth—Interest on the part of the jurors in the event
of the action, or in the main question involved in the action,
except the interest of the juror as a member or citizen of a
municipal corporation.

Sixth——Having formed or expressed an unqualified
opinion or belief as to the merits of the action.

Seventh—The existence of a state of mind in the
juror evincing enmity against orbias to either party.

SEC. 163. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the
court. The juror challenged, and any other person, may
be examined as a witness on the trial of the challenge.

SEC., I64._ The plaintiff first, and afterwards the defendant, shall complete his challenges for cause. They

may then alternately, in the same order, have the right to
challenge peremptorily.

CHAPTER XIII.

CONDUCT‘ OF TRIAL.

SECTION 167. Order of procedure. ' _ 1

I68. Exceptions to instructions—formal bill not required.
169. Jury may view property or place.

I70. If juror becomes sick, how to proceed.

171. Jury to be kept together after returning [retiring.]
172. What papers may be taken by jury.

173. If jury disagree as to testimony.

174. If jury disagree, action to be tried again.

175. Adjournment of court, sealed verdict, etc.

176. When jury have agreed.

, 177. Verdict—if informal or insufiicient.
178. Verdict—when complete.

SEC. 167. When the jury has been sworn, the trial;
shall proceed in the following order, unless the court, for
good cause and reasons, otherwise directs:

F irst—The party on whom rests the burden of the issues
may briefiy state his case, and the evidence by which he
expects to sustain it.

Second-—The adverse party may then briefly state his
defense, and the evidence he expects to offer in support
of it.

Third-—The party on whom rests the burden of the
issues must first produce his evidence, the adverse party will
then produce his evidence.

F ourth—The parties will then be confined to rebutting
evidence, unless the court, for good reasons,‘:_in;furtherance
of justice, permits them to offer evidence in their original
case.

Fifth——When the evidence is concluded, and either
party desires special instructions to be given to the jury, such
instructions shall be reduced to writing, numbered and signed

‘by the party or his attorney, asking the same, and delivered

to the court.

And before the argument of the cause is begun, the
court shall give such instructions upon the law to the jury
as may be necessary, which instructions shall be in writing,
and be numbered and signed by the judge.

Se’venth—Where either party asks special instructions
to be given to the jury, the court shall either give such instructions as requested, or positively refuse to do so-; or

give the instructions with the modifications, and shall markor endorse upon each instruction so offered in such manner
that it shall distinctly appear what instructions were given
in whole or in part, and in like manner those refused, so
that either party may except to the instructions as given or
refused or modified, or to the modification. All instructions
given by the court must be filed together with those refused
as a part of the record. :

SEC. 168. A party excepting to the giving of the instructions, or the refusal thereof, shall not be required to
file a formal bill of exceptions, but it shall be sufficient to
write at the close of each instruction to which exception is
taken, the [words “excepted to,” which shall be signed by
the judge.

SEC. 169. Whenever, in the:opinion|of the court, it is

proper for the jury to have a view of the property which. is

the subject of litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order them to be] conducted in a
body, under the charge of an officer, to the place which
shall be shown to them by ‘some person appointed by the
court forjthat purpose.

While the jury are thus absent, no person, other than

the person so appointed, shall speak to them on any subject
connected with the trial.

SEC. 170. If, after thedempaneling the jurywand before

=verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform

his duty, the_court may order him to be discharged.

In that case, the trial may proceed with the other
jurors, or a new jury may be sworn and the trial begun

anew, or the jury may be discharged and a new jury then
or afterwards empaneled, as the parties may agree.

SEC. 171. After hearing the charge, the jury may
either decide in court, or retire for deliberation.

If they retire they shall be kept together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient place, under the
charge of one or more oiiicers, until they agree upon their
verdict, or are discharged by the court.

The officer shall, to the utmost of his ability, keep the
ury together separate from other persons ; he shall not
suffer any communication to be made to them, or make any
himself, unless by order of the court, except to ask them if
they have agreed upon their verdict ; ' and he shall not, before
the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state
of their deliberations orithe verdict agreed upon.

SEC. 172. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may
take with them all papers except depositions, accounts oraccount books, which have been received as evidence in the
case, or copies of such papers as ought not, in the opinion
of the court, to be taken from the person having them in
possession; and they may’ also take with them notes of the
testimony, or other proceedings on the trial, taken by themselves or any of them, but none taken by any other person.

SEC. 173. After the jury have retired for deliberation,
if they desire to be informed of any point of law arising in
the cause, they may require the officer to conduct them into
court; upon their being brought into court, the information
required shall be given in presence of, or after notice to, the
parties or counsel. S

SEC. 174. In all cases where a jury are discharged or;
prevented from giving a verdict by reason of accident or‘
other cause, during the progress of the trial,'or after the
cause is submitted to them, the action may be again tried
immediately or at a future time, as the court shall direct.

SEC. 175. While the jury are absent the court may:
adjourn from time to time, in respect to other business, but
it shall be nevertheless deemed open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the jury, until a verdict
is rendered or the jury discharged. S I

The courtmay direct the jury to bring‘ in a sealed verdict at the opening of court in case of an agreement during
a recess or adjournment for the day.

A final adjournment of the court for the term shall discharge the jury. . ’

SEC. 176. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict they shall be conducted into court by the officer having
them in charge.

, Their names shall then be called, and they shall be
asked by the court or the clerk whether they have agreed
upon their verdict, and if the foreman answers in the
afiirmative, they shall, on being required, declare the same.

SEC. 177. If the verdict be informal or insufficient, in
not covering the whole issue ‘or issues submitted, or in any
particular, the verdict may be corrected by the jury, under
the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out.

SEC. 178. When the verdict is given and is not informal
or insufiicient, the clerk shall immediately record it in full in

the minutes, and shall read it to the jury, and inquire of
them whether it be their verdict.

If any juror disagree, the jury shall be. again sent out ;
but if no disagreement be expressed, the verdict shall be
complete, and the jury shall be discharged from the case.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE VERDICT.

 179. Special verdict—-what‘. General verdict— what.
180. Actions for recovery of money or specific property—either. In all other cases.
181. Jury shall find amount when action for money.

182. Specific property—shall find value.
~ 183. Entries to be made by the clerk.

SEC. 179. The verdict of a jury is either general or‘
special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce
generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of
plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which!
the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the
court.

The special verdict shall present the conclusions of
fact, as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to
prove them; and these conclusions of fact shall be so presented as that nothing shall remain to the court but to draw
from them conclusions of law.

SEC. 180. In an action‘ for the recovery of money
only, or specific property, the jury, in their discretion, may
render a general or special verdict. ,

In all other cases the court may direct the jury to find
a special verdict in writing, upon all or any of the issues,
and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a general
verdict, to find upon particular question of fact, to be stated
in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon.

The special verdict or finding shall be filed with the
clerk and entered upon the minutes. A

Wherea special finding of facts shall be inconsistent
with the general verdict, the former shall control the latter,
and the court shall give judgment accordingly.

SEC. L181. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff, in

an action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant,

when a counter claim for the recovery of money is established, exceeding the amount of the plaintiff’s claim as
established, the jury shall also find the amount of the
recovery.

SEC. 182. In an, action for the recovery of specific
personal property, if the property has not been delivered.to
the plaintiff, or the defendant, by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in favor of the
plaintiff, or, if being in favor of the defendant, they also
find that he is entitled to a return thereof, shall find the
value of the property; (but failure to find all of the facts

mentioned in this section shall not invalidate the verdict),

and may, at the same time, assess the damages, if any are
claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing
party has sustained by reason of the taking or detention of
such property.

SEC. 183. Upon receiving a verdict an entry shall be
made by the clerk in the minutes of the court, specifying
the time of trial, the names of the jurors, and witnesses, and
the verdict; and where a special verdict is found, either the
judgment rendered thereon, or if the case be reserved for
argument or further consideration, the order thus reservign it.

CHAPTHER xv.

TRIAL BY COURT.

Sncrzon 184. When trial by jury waived.
I85. Judgment to be entered in accordance with findings of
court. '
186. When reference may be ordered.

SEC. 184. Trial by jury may be waived by the several‘.

parties to an issue of fact, in actions arising on contract,
and with the assent of the court; in other actions in the
manner following:

First—By failing to appear at the trial.

Second—By written consent, in person or by attorney,
filed with the clerk.

Third—By oral consent, in open court, entered in the
minutes. The court may prescribe, by rule, what shall be
deemed a waiver in other cases. i

SEC. 185. Upon a trial of issue of fact by the court,;
judgment shall be entered in accordance with the finding:
of the court, and the finding, if required by either party,
shall be reduced to wriQing and filed with the clerk.

In the finding filed, the facts found and the conclusions
of law shall be separately stated.

In such cases, no judgment shall be reversed on appeal
for want of a finding in writing, at the instance of any party
who, at the time of the submission of the cause, shall not
have requested a finding in writing, and had such request

‘entered in the minutes of the court; nor in cases tried ‘by

the court, by a commissioner, or a referee, shall the judgment be reversed on appeal, for defects in the finding, unless
exceptions be made in the court below for a defect in the
finding; and in cases of exceptions for defective findings,
the particular point or issue upon which the party requires

a finding to be made,or the particular defect to be remedied, \
shall be specifically and particularly designated; and upon

failure of the court to remedy, or when tried by a commissioner or referee, to cause to be remedied, by such commissioner orreferee, the alleged defect, the party moving shall

be entitled to his exceptions, and the same shall be settled

by the judge as in other cases; provided, that such exceptions shall be filed in the court and served on the attorney

of the adverse party within five days afterreceiving from or

giving to the adverse party written notice of the filing and

finding; provided, that ‘when any cause is tried and submitted upon a written statement of facts, agreed to by the

parties or their attorneys, such statement shall have the
effect of a special verdict or finding of facts, and judgment
shall be pronounced thereon as upon a special verdict or
finding of facts. And in such case no finding of facts shall

be made unless such statement shall fail to embrace all the
facts proved and in issue, in which case any additional fact
may be found upon evidence which is not repugnant to the
agreed statement. 4

SEC. 186. Ona judgment upon an issue of law, if the

:taking of an account be necessary to enable the court to

complete the judgment, a reference may be ordered, by
consent of parties.

CHAPTER XVI.

OF REFERENCES AND TRIALS BY REFEREES. _

SECTION 187. Reference—when ordered.

I88. ' When court may direct reference with consent of parties.
I89. Reference—to whom ordered.

I90. Objections—-on what ground.

19!. ' Objections—how disposed of.

192. Referees—when to report.

193. How brought to hearing. '

SEC. 187. A reference may be ordered upon the;
agreement of theparties, filed with the clerk, or entered on
the minutes:

’ First-—To try any or all of the issues in action or proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to report a énding
and judgment thereon. V

Second—To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the
court to proceed and determine a case.

SEC. 188. judgment, or forlcarrying a judgment or order into effect.

Third—When a question or fact, other than upon the
pleadings, arises upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of
the action; or,

Fourth—When it is necessary for the information of
the court in a special proceeding.

SEC. 189. A reference may be ordered to any person
or persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties.
If the parties do not agree, the court or judge shall appoint

one or more referees, not exceeding three, who reside in the .

county where the action or proceeding is triable, and against
whom there is no legal objection; or the reference may be
made to a referee of the county where the cause is pending.
Every referee, before acting as such, shall take and subscribe
an oath or affirmation before some authorized ofhcer, which
shall be filed with the clerk of the court by which he is appointed, that he will honestly, impartially and faithfully perform the duties of referee in the action or matter referred
to him, as required by law, to the best of his knowledge
and ability.

SEC. 190. Either party may object before hearing on
reference to the’ appointment of any person‘ as referee, ‘on
one or more of the following grounds:

First—A want of any of the qualifications prescribed
by statute to render a person competent as a juror.

Second—Consanguinity or affinity within the third
degree to either party.

Third—Standing in the relation of guardian and ward,
master and servant, employe and clerk, or principal and
agent to either party, or being a member of the family of
either party, or a partner in business with either party, or
being security on any bond or obligation for either party.

Fourth—Having served as a juror or been awitness on
any trial between the same parties for the same cause of
action.

Fifth—Interest on the part of such person, in the event
of the action, or in the main question involved in the action.
Sixth—Having formed or expressed an unqualified
opinion or belief as to the merits‘ of the action.
Seventh—The existence of a state of mind in such
person, evincing enmity against, or bias to, either party.
SEC. 191. The objection taken to the appointment of
'any person as a referee shall be heard and disposed of

the court, or judge thereof in vacation. Affidavits may be
read, and‘ any person examined as a witness, as to such
objections.

SEC. 192. The referees shall report their findings“?
together with all the evidence and objections thereto, in
writing to the court, within ten days, (or within such further
time as may be allowed by the court),'after the testimony
shall have been closed and the _facts found, and the conclusions of law shall be separately stated therein. The finding
of the referees upon the whole issue shall stand as the finding of the court, unless excepted to by either party and
received [reviewed] bythe court, and upon filing the finding
with the clerk of the court, judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the action had been tried by
the court. The finding of the referees may be excepted to
and reviewed by the court, on the filing of exceptions to the
report and findings by either party. When the reference is
to report the facts, the finding reported shall have the effect
of a special verdict. ‘

SEC. 193. After a cause or question of fact has been:
referred to referees, either party may bring the matter to a
hearing on giving the opposite party five days’ notice, and
the court or judge may, on motion, fix a time when the
testimony shall be closed, and the report made.

CHAPTER XVII.

OF‘ EXCEPTIONS AND BILLS OF EXCEPTIONS.

SECTION 194. Exception—what constitutes it.
195. Point to be particularly stated. ;
196. No particular form required. , _

. 197. Special notice not necessary on motion for a new trial.

SEC. 194. An exception is an objection taken at the
trial to a decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial
be by jury, court or referees, and whether the decision be
made during the formation of a jury, or in the admission 0 f
evidence, or in the charge to a jury, or at any other time,
from the calling of the action for trial to the rendering of
the verdict or decision. But no exceptions shall be regarded
on a motion for a new trial, or an appeal, unless the exception be material and effect [affect] the substantial rights of the
parties. ‘

SEC. 195. The point of the exception shall be particularly stated, except as provided‘ in relation to instructions, and may be delivered in writing to the judge, or if
the party require it, it shall be written down by the clerk.
When delivered in writing, or written down by the clerk, it
shall be made conformable to the truth, or be at the time
corrected, until it is made so conformable. When not
delivered in writing, or written down as above, it may be
entered in the judge’s minutes, and afterwards settled in a
statement of the case as provided in this act; provided, in
all actions in the district or county courts, tried or heard
therein, or tried or heard before a referee, or the ruling on
any motion or hearing, by_ a judge or referee, at chambers,
when either party shall except to any ruling, decision or
opinion of the court, judge or referee, and shall rechice such
exception to writing, or when either party embodies the
evidence offered or received in the trial of an action, or
hearing of any action, or motion or hearing before the

court, judge, referee or jury, or before the judge or referee,
at chambers, in a bill of exceptions, which shall be deemed
and held a-statement of the evidence and exceptions in the
case, or on the hearing, it shall be the duty of the judge or
referee to allow the same and to sign the same, atgany time
during the term of the court at which such exceptions were
taken, or at any time thereafter, to be fixed by the court,
judge or referee. Exceptions taken to opinions or decisions
of the district or county courts, judge or referee, on any
motion for continuance, new trial, in arrest of judgment, or
otherwise, shall be allowed, and the party excepting may
assign for error any opinion so excepted to. And at any
time when any judge or referee shall neglect or refuse to
allow and sign such statement, then it shall be lawful for
the suitor or his attorney to make and attach to such statement the affidavit of two‘ or more attorneys of ‘the court, or
other persons who were present at the time of the trial or
hearing, and when such exceptions were taken, stating that
such statement is correct and true, and when such statement is so allowed and signed by the judge, or agreed uponby the attorneys to the cause, or so attested and approved
by affidavits, it shall be filed, and become part of the record
of such action.

SEC. 196. No particular form of exception shall be;
required. The objection shall be stated, with so much of

’ the evidence or other matter as is _necessary to explain it,

but no more, and the whole as briefly as possible.
SEC. 197. When a cause has been tried by the court or,

‘by the referees, and the decision or report is not made.

immediately after the closing of the testimony, the decision
or report shall be deemed excepted to on motion for a new
trial, or on appeal, without any special notice that an exception is taken thereto. ‘

CHAPTER XVIII.

NEW TRIALS. '

Sl:‘.C'l‘)r)N 199. New tria1—wha.t is.

I99. Former verdict or decision—how vacated.
200. App1ications—when made on affidavit.
201. What notice required.

202. Whatqpapers used on argument.

203. Judge shall give grounds of decision.

SEC. 198. A new trial is a re-examination. of an.
issue of fact in the same court, after a trial and decision by.
a jury, court, or referees.

SEC. 199. The former verdict or other decision, or
judgment of the court, may be vacated, and a new trial
granted on the application of the party aggrieved, for any
of the following causes, materially affecting the substantialrights of said party:

F irst-—Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury
or adverse party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a
fair trial.

Second—Misconduct of the jury, and when any one or
more of the jurors shall have been induced to assent to any
general or Special verdict, or to a finding -on any question
or questions submitted to them by the court, by a resort to
the determination of chance, such misconduct may be proved
by the afiidavits of any one or more of the jurors.

Third——Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against.

Fourth—Newly discovered evidence, material for the
party making the application which he could not, with
reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the
trial.

Fifth—Excessive damages appearing to have been given
-under the influence of passion or prejudice.

7

Sixth——‘Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict, or other decision, or that it is against law.‘

a

Seventh-—-Error in law, occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party making the application.

SEC. 200. When the application is made for a cause;
mentioned in the first, second, third and fourth subdivisions‘
of the last section, it shall be made upon affidavit; for any

other cause it shall be made upon a statement ‘prepared as
provided in the next section.

SEC. 201. The party intending to move fora new trial 3
shall give notice of the same as follows: When the action
has been tried by a jury, within five days after the rendition
of the verdict; and when tried by a referee or by the court,
within ten days‘ after receiving written notice of the filing of
the finding of the‘referee or court, when written findings
are filed by the court, or upon the rendering of the decision
of the court, when no findings are filed, provided the decision
be rendered in open court; provided always, the motion for
a new trial and decision thereon shall be made and had at
the same term the findings were made or the verdict rendered;
and if rendered in vacation, within ten days after receiving
written notice of the filing thereof; and when amendments
are filed to remedy defects in the findings, within ten days
after receiving written notice of the filing of such amendments. The notice shall state, generally, that a motion for
a new°trial will be made. Within five days after giving such
notice, or within such further time, as the court or judge
thereof may grant, the said party shall prepare and file with
the clerk, a motion‘ in writing stating the reasons for a new
trial; provided, if either party will give notice to the court,
at the time of its decision, or that of the referee, or at the
time the verdict is received, that he will move for a new
trial, then no further notice need be given, and the motion

may be supported by affidavits if the party so desire.

SEC. 202. On the argument of the motion for a new
trial, reference may also be made to the pleadings, depositions, and evidence, and to the minutes of the court. If the application be made upon affidavits filed, the adverse party may use counter affidavits on the hearing. Any counter affidavits shall be filed with the clerk one day at least previous to the hearing.

SEC. 203. The application for a new trial shall be made at the earliest period practicable after filing of the motion, and the court or judge granting or refusing a new trial shall state in writing the grounds upon which the same is granted or refused.

CHAPTER XIX.

 
 

/X‘ E 1\ NNER OF GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.

SEC N 204. When entered.

205. When case reserved for argument may be brought up by
other [either] party.
206. If counter claim established.

207. Judgment for value in case delivery cannot be had.
208. Judgment book—clerk shall keep. '
2o9. If party die. '

210. What papers shall constitute judgment roll.

211. Lien——-how long to continue.

.1‘
i 212. Docket—what constitutes. '
213. Docket shall be kept open.
214. Transcript may be filed with county recorders.

215. Satisfaction'of judgment.

216. Transcript—when shall become lien.
217. How judgment revived.

218. How defendant served.

219. Evidence in [on] hearing.

22o. Decision and proceeding.

SEC. 204. When trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict,
within twenty-four hours after the rendition of the verdict,
unless the court order the case to be reserved for argument
or further consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings.

SEC. 205. When the case is reserved for argument or
further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it}
may be brought by either party before the court for argu—'
ment.

SEC. 206. If a counter claim, established at the trial,j
exceed the plaintiff ’s démand so established, judgment for
the defendant «shall be given for the excess, or if it appear
that the defendant is entitled to any other aliirmative relief,
judgment shall be given accordingly.

SEC. 207. In an action to recover the possession of
personal property, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the
possession or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannotbe
had, and damages for the detention. If the property has
been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant. claim a
return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property or the value thereof, in case a return
cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding the
same.

SEC. 208. The clerk shall keep among the records of
court a book for the entry of judgments, to be called the
“Judgment Book,” in which each judgment shall be entered,
and shall specify clearly the relief granted or other determination of the action. .

SEC. 209. If a party die after a verdict or decision
upon any issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may,
nevertheless, render judgment thereon. Such judgment
shall not be a lien on the real property of the deceased
party, but shall be payable in the course of administration
on his estate. '

SEC. 210. Immediately after entering the judgment,
the clerk shall attach together and file the following papers,
which shall constitute the judgment roll:

First—In case the complaint be not answered by any
defendant, the summons, with the affidavit or proof of service, and the complaint, with a memorandum endorsed upon
the complaint, that the default of the defendant. in not
answering was entered, and a copy of the judgment.

Second—In all other cases, the summons, pleadings,
verdict of the jury, or finding of the court, or referee, all

bills of exceptions taken and filed in said action, copies of .

orders sustaining or overruling demurrers, a copy of the
judgment, and copies of any orders relating to a change of
parties.

SEC. 211. docket filed with the recorder of the county, it shall become
alien upon the real property of the judgment debtor, not
exempt from execution in the county, owned by him at the
time, or which he may afterwards acquire, until said lien
expires. The lien shall continue for six years from the

entry of judgment, unless the judgment be previously satislied. '

SEC. 212. The docket mentioned in the last section is;

a book which the clerk shall keep in his office, with each
page divided into eight columns, and headed as follows: judgment debtors; judgment creditors; judgment; time of entry;
where entered in the judgment book; motion for new trials
and appeals, when taken; judgment of appellate court;
satisfaction of judgment, when entered. If judgment be
for the _recovery of money or damages, the amount shall be
stated in the docket, under the head of judgment; if the
judgment be for any other relief, a memorandum of the
general character pf the relief granted shall be stated. The
names of the defendants shall be entered in the docket in
alphabetical order.

SEC. 213. The docket kept by the clerk shall be open
at all times during office hours for the inspection of the
public, without charge; and it shall be the duty of the clerk

to arrange the several dockets kept by him in such manner
as to facilitate their inspection.

SEC. 214. A transcript of the original docket‘ entry,
as contemplated by section two hundred and six, certified
by the clerk, may be filed with the recorder of any other
county, and, from the time of filing, the judgment shall
become a lien upon all the real property of such judgment
debtor, not exempt from execution in such county, owned
by him at the time, or which he may afterwards acquire
until the said lien expires. The lien shall continue for six

years from the entry of judgment, unless the judgment be
previously satisfied.

SEC. 215. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered
in the clerk’s docket upon an execution returned satisfied,
or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the
clerk, made in the manner-of an acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property by the judgment creditor, or’
within one year after the judgment by the attorney, unless
a revocation of his authority be previously filed. Whenever
a judgment shall be satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon
execution, it shall be the duty of the party or attorney to
give such acknowledgment; and, upon motion, the court
may compel it or may order the entry of satisfaction to be
made without it.

SEC. 216. A transcript of any judgment rendered by
any justice of the peace, duly certified by said justice, may
be filed with the recorder of the county in which such judgment shall have been rendered, and from the time of filing
such transcript such judgment shall become a lien upon all
of the property of the judgment debtor, except personal
property and property exempt from execution in such
county, in the same manner and to the same extent as if
such judgment had been originally’ rendered in a court of
record. Said lien shall continue for six years from the entry
of judgment, unless the judgment be previously satisfied.

SEC. 217. A judgment in a civil action may be re_vived by filing a petition in the action alleging the time the

judgment was rendered, that it remains unsatisfied in whole
or in part, stating the amount it is claimed the judgment
should be revived for; which petition shall be verified as
complaints are required to be by this act.

SEC. 218. Upon tiling such petition, the clerk shall
issue an order to show cause why such judgment shall
not be revived, if any there be, which order to show
cause shall be directed to and served on the defendants in
the same manner as summons are required’ to be served.
The order to show cause shall require the defendants to
appear and show cause within ten days after service on
them.

SEC. 219. The defendant may appear and answer the
petition in the same manner complaints are required to be
answered, and the court shall try and determine. any issue
so formed the same as any issues made by pleadings are
required to be tried and decided, and hear any evidence
necessary to decide the same.

SEC. 220. If the court decide to revive the judgment in whole or in part, it shall so order, and the papers an dproceedings shall be attached to the original judgment roll and the entry of revivor made in the judgment docket and judgment book, and if the petition is filed before the liens created by the original judgment have expired, all rights under such judgment shall continue, and execution may issue on such revived judgment the same as on the original judgment. 

TITLE VII.

CHAPTER XX.

PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO EXECUTION.

SECTION .221. When execution returned unsatisfied, judgment creditor
may compel judgment debtor to appear before a judge
and answer concerning his property; debtor not to go
out of his county. V

222. Proceedings to compel debtor to appear; in what case
he may be arrested ; what bail may be given.

223. . Every debtor of the judgment debtor, or of those having
property belonging to him, may pay.

224. Examination of debtors, or of judgment debtors, or} of
those having property belonging.

225. Witness required to testify.

226. Judge may order property to be applied on execution.

227. Proceedings upon claim of another party to property,
or on denial of indebtedness to judgment debtors.

228. Disobedience of order——how punished.

SEC. 221. When an execution against propertyof
the judgment debtor or any of several debtors in the same
judgment issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides, or if he does not reside in this State, to the sheriff of

the county where the judgment roll is filed, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor at any

time after such return is made, shall be entitled to an order
from the judge of the court or county judge, requiring such
judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his property before such judge, or a referee appointed by him, at a
time and place specified in the order; but no judgment
debtor shall be required to attend before a judge or referee
out of the county in which he resides, when’ proceedings
are taken under theprovisions of this chapter.

SEC. 222. After issuing an execution against property,
and upon proof by affidavit by a party, or otherwise to the
satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof, that any judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to apply
towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or
judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to
appear at a specified time and place before such judge or
referee appointed by him, to answer concerning the same.
And such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application ol the property of the judgment debtor, toward the
satisfaction of the judgment as are provided upon the return
of an execution. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, the judge may, upon affidavit
of the judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, if it appear
to him that there is danger of the debtor absconding, order
the sheriff to arrest the debtor and bring him before the judge.
On being brought before the judge, he may be ordered to
enter into an undertaking, with surety that he will attend
from time to time before the judge or referee, as shall be
directed, during the pendency of the proceedings, and until
the final determination thereof; and will not, in the meantime, dispose of any portion of his property not exempt
from execution.

In default of entering into such undertaking, he may
be committed to prison.

SEC. 223. After the issuing of an execution against

property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may

pay to the sheriff -the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary. to satisfy the execution, and the
sheriff ’s receipt shall be a suliicient discharge for the amount
so paid.

SEC. 224. the issuing or return of an execution
Id act is hereby rename}! red and twentmom. of

a and the following shall

ant:-tour: °“‘°n two him lnai-issninga return or ~ W ‘*l1d:nt and upon proof by affidavit,

an °*0°|1tlo . .
. M zinyoiie ggfttlon of the judge, that any pernew , am: or otherwise tgment. and upon .
 of such judgment debtor
Wt 800 mi r“ i .
 amount exceeding fifty dollars,

* may. by an orde. i five don .
, require such person or Corporaplace 97001. 8 mm‘, him, and ggsfgrgr iggiper thereof, to appear at a Sp€‘Cl-.

ient debtor, or any one of severaltied time and place, before him, or a referee appointed by him,
and answer concerning the same.

SEC. 225. Witnesses may be required to appear and
‘testify before the judge or referee upon any proceeding
under this chapter, in the same manner as upon trial of an
issue.

SEC. 226. The judge or referee may order any prop’erty of the judgment debtor, ‘not exempt from execution, in
‘the hands of such or or any other person, or due to the
 applied towards the satisfaction of
3° 35 *"°°“°“ ‘“’° ““"‘"°° an at the earnings of the debtor for his

31 - der any property 01' - - - .z§’i-i iiiiiggagipt from executlonm time within sixty days next prenot be so applied, when it shall be
debtor's aftidavit, or otherwise, that

debtor or any Other De1‘S0"- 01'
int debtor. tobe applied toward
sary for the use of a family supported

  
   
 
 
 

dgm . t,~ cept that the
 services to
‘enty-rive dollars shall not be so

ii be die to appear by the
gygthemulhia than such earnings
»r the use of a family suDIJ01'tv¢_5d labor,
_
SEC. 227. If it appear that a person or corporation

alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or in'debted to him, claim an interest in the property adverse to
"him, or denies the debt, the court or judge may authorize,
by an order made to that effect, the judgment creditor to
institute an action against such person or corporation for
the recovery of such interests or debts.

And the court or judge may, by order, forbid a transfer
or other disposition of such interest or debt, until an action
can be commenced and prosecuted to judgment.

Such order may be modified or vacated by the judge
granting the same, or the court in which the action is
brought, at any time, upon such terms as may be just.

SEC. 228. If any person, party, or witness, disobey an
‘order of the referee, properly made, in the proceeding before him under this chapter, he may be punished by the
court or judge ordering the reference, for a contempt.

CHAPTER X X I.
ACTIONS FOR THE FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES.

SECTION 229. Proceedings in foreclosure suits.
230. Surplus money to be deposited in court.
23!. Proceedings when debts secured fall due at different times.

SEC. 229. There shall be but one action for the
recovery of any debt, or the enforcement of any right secured by mortgage upon real estate or personal property,
which action shall be in accordance with the provisions of

this chapter.

In actions for the foreclosures of mortgages, the court
shall have the power, by its judgment, to direct a sale of;
the encumbered property, or as much as may be necessary,,7
and the application of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costs of the court and expenses of the sale, and
the amount due to the plaintiff ; and if it appear from the
sheriff’s return that the proceeds are insufficient, and a balance still remains due, judgment shall be docketed for such
balance against the defendant or defendants personally liable
for the debt, and shall then become a lien on the real estate
of such judgment debtor, as in other cases in which execution_ may be issued.

No person holding a conveyance from or under the,
mortgagor, or of the property mortgaged, or having a lienj
thereon, which conveyance or lien does not appear on record}
in the proper office at the time of the commencemen _of the:
action, need be made a party to such action, and th _ ‘lgment therein rendered, and the proceedings therein had,
shall be as conclusive against the party holding such unrecorded conveyance or lien, as if he had been made a party
to said action, and shall in all respects have the same force
and effect.

SEC. 230. If there be surplus money remaining after
[payment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien or encumbrance, with costs, the court may cause the same to be paid
to the person entitled to it, and in the meantime may direct
it to be deposited in court.

SEC. 231. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien or
encumbrance is held, be not all due, so soon as suihcient of
=the property has been sold to pay the amount due with costs,
the sale shall cease, and erwards as often as more becomes
due for principal or interest,‘ the court may, on motion, order
more to be sold.

But if the property cannot be sold in portions, without
:injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered to be sold
in the first instance, and the" entire debt and costs paid,
there being a rebate of interest where such rebate is proper.

CHAPTER XXII.

ACTIONS FOR NUISANCE, WASTE AND WILFUL TRESPASS IN
CERTAIN CASES.

SECTION 232. Nuisance defined and actions for.
233. Waste—actions for.

234. Trespass for cutting or carrying away trees, and actions

for. ,

.235. Measure of damages in certain cases under the last section.

236. Damages in actions for forcible entry, etc., may be
tabled [trebled].

SEC. 232. Anything which is injurious to health,3
or indecent, or offending to the senses, or an obstruction to‘
the free use of property so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life oriproperty, is a nuisance and the
subject of an action. Such action may be brought by any
person whose property is injuriously effected [affected],
or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance ;
and by the judgment the nuisance may be enjoined or
abated as well as damages recovered.

SEC. 233. If a guardian tenant for life ‘or years, joint,
tenant or tenant in common of real property commit waste
thereon, any person aggrieved by the waste may bring an
action against him therefor, in which action there may be
judgment for triple damages.

SEC. 234. Any person who shall cut down or carry
off any wood or underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or
otherwise injure any tree or timber on the land of another
person, or- on the street or highway in front of any person’s
house, town or city lot, or cultivated grounds, or on the
common or public grounds of any city or town, or on the
street or highways in front thereof, without lawful authority,
shall be liable to the owner of such land, or to such city or

CHAPTER XXIII.

ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL ESTATE.

SECTION 237. Parties to an action to quiet title.
238. When plaintiff shall not recover cost.
239.‘ If plaintiff’s title terminates pending this suit, what he
may recover and how verdict and judgment.
240. When value of improvements shall be allowed as a
set-off.
241. Order for- survey or measurement.
242. Order—what to contain and how served, if unnecessary
C injury done the party surveying to be liable therefor.

243. A mortgage shall nor be deemed_a conveyance, whatever
its term.

244. When court may grant an injunction during foreclosure,
after sale on execution before conveyance.
245. Damages may be recovered for injury to the possession
after sale and before delivery of possession.
246. Action not to be prejudiced by alienation pending suit.

SEC. 237. An action may be brought by any
person in possession, by himself or his tenant, of real

property against any person who claims an estate or interest
therein adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such
adverse claim, estate or interest. C

SEC. 238. If the defendant in such action disclaim in
his answer any interest or estate in the property, or suffer
judgment to be taken against him without answer, the
plaintiff shall not recover costs.

SEC. 239. If an action for the recovery of real property, where the plaintiff shows the right to recover at the
time the action was commenced, but it appears that his
right has terminated during the pendency of the action,

the verdict and judgment shall be according tolthe fact, and
the plaintiff may recover damages for withholding the

property.

SEC. 240. When damages are Claimed for withholding
the property recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been made by a defendant, or those under whom
he claims, holding under color of title adversely to the
claims of the plaintiff, in good faith, the value of such
improvements shall be allowed as a set-off against such
damages, except improvements made upon mining property.

SEC. 241. The court in which action is pending for
recovery of real property, or a judge thereof, may, on motion, upon notice by either party, for good cause shown by
affidavit, grant an order ’allowing to such party the right to

enter upon the property and make a survey and measurement thereof, for the purpose of action.

SEC. 242. The order shall describe the property, and
a Copythereof shall be served on the owner or occupant,
and thereupon such party may enter upon the property
with necessary surveyors and assistants, and may make such
survey and measurement; but if any unnecessary injury be
done to the property he shall be liable therefor.

SEC. 243. A mortgage of real property shall not be
Ldeemed a ‘conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable
the owner of the mortgage to recover possession of the real
property, without foreclosure and sale,-and the fact of a
deed being a mortgage in effect, may be proved by oral
testimony; but this section shall not apply to trust deeds
with powers of sale.

SEC. 244. The court may, by injunction, on good
fcause shown, restrain theparty in possession from doing
‘any act to the injury of real property during the foreclosure
‘of a mortgage thereon, or after a sale on execution before a

conveyance.

SEC. 245. When real property shall have been sold
gon execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who may
have succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes

CHAPTER XXIV.

ACTIONS TO RECOVER THE POSSESSION OF REAL PROPERTY AND
DAMAGES FOR DETENTION THEREOF.

SECTION 247. When actions for the recovery of the possession of real
property may be brought.

248. Who shall be made defendants.

249. What plaintiff shall set forth in his complaint and what
damages shall be recovered.

250. What the answer to complaint shall deny or what it
may state.

251. How verdict shall be rendered.

252. The action shall not abate by reason of death of either
party.

253. The judgment, what it must accord with or what it
must particularly specify.

254. Second trial of right; damages where possession recovered under former statute.

255. Plaintiffs who recover, entitled to special execution in
nature of writ of possession, also to make damages ;
defendant who recovers shall recover costs.

256. What evidence must be confined to, in actions for recovery of lands, the legal fee title to which remains in
the United States. ‘

257. By whom actions may be brought against a tenant.

258. What is necessary for plaintiff to prove if defendant
makes other answer or defence than disclaimer of title or right.

259. Rules of practice applicable to this chapter; notice of
It’: pendens.

SEC. 247. An action to recover the possession of
real property may be brought in any case when an action
of ejectment or a writ of right might have been brought at
common law, and in any case where the plaintiff claims a

legal estate in real property or lands, in fee, or for life, or

for years, or claims the legal right to occupy and possess
the same; provided, however, in all actions relating to the
possession of real estate, those of forcible entry or unlawful
detainer, ‘shall be deemed and held concurrent remedies
herewith, and may be prosecuted in accordance with the
law of this State relating-to forcible entry and detainer.

SEC. 248. If the premises for which the action is
brought are continually occupied, such actual occupant
shall be made defendant in the action, together with any
person claiming title to, or an interest in the premises adversely to the plaintiff. If the premises are not occupied,
the action shall be‘ brought against any person exercising
acts of ownership on or over the premises claimed, or who
claims title thereto, or some interest therein, at the time of
the commencement of the action.

SEC. 249. The plaintiff, in his complaint, shall set
forth the nature and extent of his estate in the property,
and state whether it be in fee, for life, or for the life of
another, or for a term of years, and specifying such life or
the duration of such term ;. or, if suchplaintiff claims the
legal right to occupy and possess the premises under the

.local laws and rules of any mining district, or of theUnited

States, the State of Colorado, or otherwise, the complaint
shall contain a brief statement of such possessory claim,
and whether the right claimed is by pre-emption or purchase or by right of actual prior possession on the public
domain of the United States. If the plaintiff claims any
undivided interest in the premises, as tenant in common or
otherwise, he shall state particularly the interest he claims.
The plaintiff shall also state that he is entitled to the possession of the premises, and that the defendant wrongfully
ousted the plaintiff, or wrongfully withholds the premises:
from him, or both, as the facts may be, and state the dam-1
ages claimed for the ouster, or detention or both, which
damages shall be recovered and assessed by the court or
jury in the same action.

SEC. 250. The answer to a complaint filed under this; chapter shall either specifically deny the material allegationsf
of the complaint, or may disclaim any interest in or posses-‘

sion of the property claimed, or any part thereof. The
answer may also state, generally, as in the complaint, the
character of the estate in the premises, or any part thereof,
which the defendant claims, or any right of possession or
occupancy he claims. T

SEC. 251. The verdict may’ be for or against either of
the plaintiffs or defendants, and shall be rendered as follows:

First—If it be shown on the trial that all the plaintiffs
have a right to recover the possession of the premises, the
verdict in that respect shall be for the plaintiffs generally.

Second—If it appear that one or more of the plaintiffs
have a right to the possession of the premises, and that one
‘or more have not such right, the verdict shall specify for

which plaintiff the jury find, and as to which plaintiff they
find for the defendant. ' \

Third—If the verdict be for any plaintiff and there be
several defendants, the verdict shall be rendered against such

of them as were in possession of the premises, or as claimed title thereto, at the commencement of the action.

Fourth—If the verdict be forall the premises claimed, as
specified in the complaint, it shall in that respect be for such
premises generally.

Fifth—If the verdict be for a part of the premises
described in such complaint, the verdict shall particularly
specify such part, as the same shall have been proved, with
the same certainty hereinbefore required in the description
of the premises claimed.

Sixth—If the verdict be for an undivided share or inrterest in the premises claimed, it shall specify such share or
interest, and if for an undivided share in a part of the premises claimed, it shall ‘specify such share, and shall describe
such part of the premises as hereinbefore required.

Seventh—The verdict shall specify the estate which
eshall have been established on the trial by the plaintiff in
“whose favor it shall be rendered, whether ‘such estate be in

fee for his owii life, or for the life of another, stating such
lives, or whether it be for a term of years, specifying the
duration of such term, or whether the plaintiff hath estab-'

lished only his right to the possession and occupancy of
the premises in controversy. ’ ,

The verdict shall also,. if for the plaintiff, find the
amount of damages he is entitled to for the ouster or detention or both.

SEC. 252. The action for the recovery of real property shall not abate by the death of either or all the parties
thereto, but may be revived in the name of the heirs, representatives, or successors in interest in the manner other
civil actions are revived by this act.

SEC. 253. The judgment in an action brought under
this chapter shall be in accordance with the verdict, or if
tried by the court, the judgment. shall particularly specify
the findings of the court the same as the jury are by this chapter required to specify in their findings in the verdict,
and if judgment be rendered for the plaintiff it shall specify

the amount of damages to be recovered.
SEC. 254. Whenever judgment shall be rendered

against either party under the provisions of this Chapter, it
shall be lawful for the party against whom such judgment
is rendered, his heirs, or assigns, at any time before the first
day of the next succeeding term, to pay all costs recovered
thereby, and upon application of the party against whom
the same was rendered, his heirs or assigns, the lzourt shall
vacate such judgment and grant a new trial in such case;
but neither party shall have but one new trial, in any case,
as of right without showing cause. And after such judgment is vacated, the cause shall stand for trial the same as
though it had never been tried. And in case possession
may have been recovered under the action for possession or title, brought or prosecuted under the provisions of this chapter, the plaintiff may bring his action for the rents and
profits thereof, and in such action the measure of damages
shall be the same as in action of trespass for mesne profits
at common law. And in case such premises recovered be
a lode, vein, or mining claim, the defendant shall not be entitled to any offset for any timbering, cribbing, improvements or developments made upon the same, neither shall
the damages be abated or lessened by reason of such im
provements or developments.

SEC. 255. ‘The plaintiffs who recover, or either of
them, shall be entitled to a special execution in the nature
‘of a writ of possession, directing the sheriff to put them or

him into the immediate possession of the premises recovered, describing the premises, with the certainty required in.

the complaint, and which execution shall also direct the
sheriff to make any' sum or sums of money adjudged to be
,paid the plaintiff as damages or costs. The defendants, or
either of them, who recovershall _ be entitled to their costs.

SEC. 256. In every action hereafter brought for the
_recovery of lands, the legal fee title to which remains in the
*United States, the plaintiff and defendant shall be confined
in their evidence, to their respective rights and claims and
the «rights and claims of their grantors and privies in interest, and_ the action shall not be affected by any right or
claims of third persons not in privity with either party to
the premises, or by reason of the fee remaining in the United
States; provided, the fee being in the United States shall not
prevent a person from recovering lands, premises, lodes,
ledges or mining claims upon the receiver's duplicate receipt. ‘

SEC. 257. The action may be brought by one or more
tenants in common against their co-tenants, and in that case
the plaintiff shall, in addition to other evidence, be required
to prove that he actually ousted such plaintiff, or did some
act or acts amounting to a denial of his right as such cotenant.

SEC. 258. If the defendant files or makes any other
ianswer or defense than a disclaimer of title or right of possession, it shall not be necessary for the plaintiff to prove
him in possession of the premises at the time of the commencement of the action, or at any time.

SEC. 259. All the rules of practice and pleading and

’ proceedings prescribed in this act of civil procedure, and.

not otherwise specially provided in this chapter, shall be applicable to actions brought under this chapter ; and notice
of pendency of action must be filed with the recorder, as

prescribed in this act.

CHAPTER XXV.

ACTIONS FOR THE USURPATION OF AN OFFICE OR FRANCHISE.

SECTION 260. Action may be brought, any party usurping, *etc., any
ofiice or franchise.

261. Name of person entitled to office may be set forth in
complaint. If fees have been received by the usurper, he may be arrested.

262. Judgment may determine the rights of both incumbent
. and claimant.

263. When rendered in favor of applicant.

' 264. Damages may be recovered by successful applicant.
265. When several persons claim the same office, their rights
may be determined by a single action.
266. If defendant found guilty, what judgment to be rendered

against him.

SEC. 260. An action may be brought by the district attorney, in the name of the people of this State, upon
his own information, or upon the relation and complaint of
a private party, against any person who usurps, intrudes into,
or unlawfully holds or exercises any public office, civil or
military, or any franchise within his district in the State,
and it shall be the duty of the district attorney to bring the
action -whenever he has reason to believe that any such
oflice or franchise has been usurped, intruded into or unlawfully held or exercised by any person, or when he is directed
to do so by the governor, and, in case such district attorney
shall neglect or refuse to bring such action upon the complaint of a private party, such action may be brought by

such private party, upon his own relation, in the name of
the people of the State.

SEC. 261. Whenever such action is brought, the district attorney or relator, in addition to the statement of the
cause of action, may also set forth‘ in the complaintthe

name of the person rightly entitled to the oilice, with a
statement of his rights thereto.

SEC. 262. In every such case, judgment may be rensdered upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the
right of the party so alleged to be entitled, or only upon
the right of the defendant, as justice shall require.

SEC. 263. If the judgment be rendered upon the
right of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same
be in favor of such person, he shall be entitled, after taking
the oath of office and executing such official bond as may
be required by law, to take upon himself the execution of

the office. I

SEC. 264. If judgment be rendered upon the right of
the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in

' favor of such person, he may recover by action the damages‘

which he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpation
of the office by the defendant. "

SEC. 265. When several persons claim to be entitled
to the same office or franchise, one action may be brought
against all such persons, in order to try their respective
rights to such office or franchise.

SEC. 266. When a defendant against whom such
action has been brought is adjudged guilty of usurping or
intruding into, or unlawfully holding any office, franchise
or privilege, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant

be excluded from such ofEce,‘franchise or privilege, and that he pay the cost of the action.

The court may also, in its discretion, impose upon the
defendant a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, which
fine, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the
State.

CHAPTER XXVI.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS.

SECTION 267. Parties not summoned in action on joint contract may
be summoned after judgment.

268. Summons, in that case-— what to contain and how served.

269. Affidavit to accompany summons.

270. Answer——when filed, and what it may contain.
271. What will constitute the pleadings in the case.
272. Issues, how tried, and verdict, what to be.

SEC. 267. When a judgment is recovered against
one or more of several persons, jointly indebted upon an
obligation, by proceeding as provided in section 43, chapter
3 of this act, those who were not originally served with the
summons, and did not appear to the action, may be summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by
the judgment in the same manner as though they had been
originally served with the summons.

SEC. 268. The summons, as provided in the last section, shall describe the judgment and require the person
summoned to show cause why he should not be bound by
it, and shall be served in the same manner and returnable
within the same time as the original summons.

It shall not be necessary to file a new complaint.

SEC. 269. The summons shall be accompanied by an
affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent, representative, or attorney,
that the judgment or some part thereof remains unsatisfied,
and shall specify the amount due thereon.

SEC. 270. Upon such summons, the defendant may
answer within the time specified therein, denying the judgment or setting up any defence which may have arisen subSequently, or he may deny his liability on‘ the obligation
upon which the judgment was recovered, for any cause, except a discharge from such liability by the statute of limitation.

SEC. 271. If the defendant in his answer deny the judgment or set up any defence which may have arisen subsequently the summons with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall consitute the allegations in the case; if he deny his liability on the obligation upn  which the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and judgment, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall constitute such written allegations.

SEC. 272. The issues formed may be tried as in other cases, but when the defendant denies, in his answer, any liability on the obligations upon which the judgment was rendered, if a verdict be found against him, it shall be for the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original judgment, with interest thereon. 

CHAPTER XXVII.

CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT_ WITHOUT ACTION.

SECTION 273. Judgment may be confessed for debt due, or contingent
liability.
274. Statement in writing, and form thereof.
275. Filing statement and entering judgment.

SEC. 273. A judgment by confession may be en-,

tered without action, either for money due or to become due,

' or to secure any person against contingent liabilities, on

behalf of the defendant or both, in the manner prescribed
by this chapter.

SEC. 274. A statement in writing shall be made and

signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect:

First—It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a

specified sum.

Second—If it be for money due or to become due, it
shall state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and shall
show that the sum confessed therefor is justly due or to become due.

Third—If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against a contingent liability, it shall state concisely the
facts constituting the liability, and shall show that the sum
confessed therefor does not exceedthe same.

SEC. 275. The statement shall be filed with the clerk
of the court, in which the judgment is to be entered, who.
shall endorse upon it and enter in the judgment book a
judgment of such court for the amount confessed, with
costs. The statement and affidavit, with -the judgment
endorsed, shall thereupon become the judgment roll.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION.

SECTION 276. Controversy: how submitted without action.

277. Judgment on, as in other cases, but without cause prior
[to notice of trial.

278. Judgment may be enforced or appealed from, as in an
action.

SEC. 276. Parties to a question in difference which
might be the subject of a civil action, may, without action,
agree upon ancase containing the facts upon which the controversy depends and present a submission of the same to
any court which would have jurisdiction, if an action had
been brought, but it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith to determine the rights of the parties. The court shall thereupon
hear and determine the case and render judgment thereon,
as if an action were depending.

SEC. 277. judgment shall be entered in the judgment
book as in other cases, but without costs for any proceeding
prior to the trial.

_The case, the submission and a copy of the judgment
shall constitute the judgment roll.

SEC. 278. The judgment may be enforced in the same
manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be
in the same manner subject to appeal.

CHAPTER Xx1X'.
OF ARBITRATIONS.

SECTION 279. Who may submit controversies to arbitration 
exceptions.

28o. Submissions to arbitration shall be in writing.

281. Submission may be entered as an order of court—revocation.

282. Powers of arbitrators. ‘
283. Majority of arbitrators may determine any question-—
they shall be sworn.
284. Award to be in wr1tinq—when judgment to be entered.
- 285. lAward may be vacated in certain cases.
286. Court may, on motion, modify or correct the award287. Decision on the motion subject to appeal, but not the
' judgment entered before motion.
288. If submission be revoked and an action be brought,

what to be recovered.

SEC. 279. Persons capable of contracting may
submit to arbitration any controversy which might be the
subject of a civil action between them, except a question of title to real property in fee or for life. This qualification
shall not include questions relating merely to the partition
or boundaries of real property.

SEC. 280. The submission to arbitration shall be in
writing, and may be to one or more persons.

SEC. 281. It may he stipulatedlin the submission that
it be entered as an order of county court, or of / the

district court, for which purpose it shall be filed with the
clerk of the court. '

The clerk shall thereupon enter in his register of
actions a note of the submission, the names of the parties,
the names of the arbitrators, the date of the submission,

when filed, and the time limited by the submission, if any,
within which the award shall be made. .

When so entered, the submission shall not be revoked
without the consent of both parties.

The arbitrators may be compelled by the court to
.make an award, and the award may be enforced by the
court in the same manner as a judgment.

lf the submission be not made an order of the court it
may be revoked at any time before the award is made.

SEC. 282. Arbitrators shall have power to appointa
time and place for hearing; to adjourn from time to time;
to administer oaths to witnesses; to hear the allegations
and evidence of the parties,'and to make an award thereon.

SEC. 283. All the arbitrators shall meet and act
together during the investigation; but when met, a majority
may determine any question. ’ '

Before acting, they shall be sworn or aflirmed before
an oliicer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and
fairly to hear and examine the allegations and evidence of
the parties in relation to the matter in controversy, and to
make a just award according to their understanding.

SEC. 284. The award shall be in writing, signed by
the arbitrators or a majority of them, and delivered to the
parties.

When the submission is made an order of the court,

the award shall be filed with the clerk, and a note thereof
made in the register.

After the expiration of five days from the filing of the
‘ award uponnthe application of a party, and on filing an affidavit showing that notice of filing the award has been served
on the adverse party, or his attorney, at least four days prior
to such application, and that no order staying the entry of
judgment has been served, the award shall be entered by
the clerk in the judgment book, and shall thereupon have the
effect of _a judgment. . ’

SEc. 285. The court, on motion, may vacate the
award upon either of the following grounds:

First—That it was procured by corruption or fraud.

Second—That the arbitrators were ‘guilty’ of misconduct, or committed gross error, in refusing, on cause shown,
to postpone the hearing or refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or otherwise acted improperly, in a manner by which
the rights of the party were prejudiced.

Third—That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in
making their award, or that they refused or- improperly
omitted to consider a part of the matter submitted to them,
or that the award is indefinite or cannot be performed.

SEC. 286. The court may, on motion, modify or correct the award where it appears:

First—That there was a miscalculation in figures upon
which it was made, or that there is a mistake in the description of some person or property therein.
\

Second—That apart of the award is upon matters not
submitted, which part can be separated from other parts,
and does not affect the decision on the matters submitted.

Third—That the award, though imperfect in form,
could have been amended if it had been a verdict, or the
imperfection disregarded. '

SEC. 287. The decision upon the ‘motion shall be
subject to appeal in the same manner as an order which is
subject to appeal in a civil action; but the judgment entered
before motion is made, shall not be subject to appeal.

SEC. 288. If a submission to arbitration be revoked
and an action be brought therefor, the amount to be recovered shall only be the costs and damages sustained in preparing for and attending the arbitration.

SEC. 289. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintiff an offer to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property, or to the effect therein specified. If the plaintiff accept the offer and give notice thereof within five days, he may file the summons, complaint and offer, with an affidavit of notice of acceptance, and the clerk shall thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence; and if the plaitniff fail to obtain a more favorable jdugment, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay the defendant's costs from the time of the offer.

CHAPTER XXXI. .

OF THE WRIT OF CERTIORARI ‘AND PROHIBITION.
I

0

SECTION 290. The writ of Certiorari—denomination of.

291. This writ may be issued by a superior court to an infee
rior tribunal—in what cases.

292. The application shall be made on atlidavit with notice or
without.

293. The writ to be directed to the inferior tribunal.

294. The contents of the writ.

295. Proceedings in the inferior court, &c., may be stayed or
not.

296. Service ofthe writ.

- 297. The review under the writ—extent of.

298. A defective return of the writ may be perfected—hearing
and judgment.

299. Copy of judgment shall be sent to the inferior tribunal, &c.

300. Judgment roll—appeals may be taken as in civil cases.

SEC. 290. The writ of certiorari may be denominated the writ of review.

SEC. 291. The writ may be granted on application by
any court of this State excepta justice’s, county, or mayor’s
court. The writ shall be granted in all cases where an in-A
ferior tribunal, board or officer exercising judicial functions
has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board or
officer, and there is no appeal, nor in the judgment of the
court any plain, speedy and adequate remedy.

SEC. 292. The application shall be made on affidavit,
by the party beneficially interested; and the court may require a notice of the application to be given to the adverse
party, or may grant an order to show cause why it should
not be allowed, or may grant the writ without notice.

SEC. 293. The writ may be directed to the inferior
tribunal, board or officer, or to any other person having the
custody of the record or proceedings to be certified. When
directed to a tribunal, the clerk thereof, if there be one,
shall return the writ with the transcript required.

SEC. 294. The writ of review . shall command‘ the
party to whom it is directed, or tribunal, to certify fully to
the court issuing the writ, at a specified time and place, and
annex to the writ-a transcript of the record and proceedings
(describing or referring to them with convenient certainty),
that the same may be reviewed by the court, and requiring
the party or tribunal, in the-meantime, to desist from further
proceedings in the matter to be reviewed.

SEC. 295. If a stay of proceedings be not intended,
.the' words requiring the stay shall be omitted from the writ.
These words may be inserted or omitted in the sound discretion of the court; but if omitted,'the power of the inferior court or officers shall not be suspended nor the-proceedings stayed.

SEC. 296. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons in civil actions, except when otherwise
expressly directed by the court.

SEC. 297. The review upon the writ shall not be ex'tended further than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, board or officer has regularly pursued the authority of
such tribunal, board or officer.

SEC. 298. If the return of the writ be defective, the
‘court may order a further return to be made.

When a full return has been made, the court shall proceed to hear the parties, or such of them as may attend for
that purpose,and may thereupon give judgment, either
affirming or annulling or modifying the proceedings below.

SEC. 299. A copy of the judgment, signedby the
clerk, shall be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board or
officer having the custody of the record or ‘proceeding
certified up.

SEC. 300. A copy of the judgment, signed by the
clerk, entered upon or attached to the writ and returned,
shall constitute the judgment roll.

CHAPTER XXXI‘I..

THE WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

SECTION 301. The writ may be issued by a superior court to an inferior tribuiial, etc.—~in what cases. i
302. The writ shall issue on aiiidavit where there is no adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law.
303. Shall be either alternative or peremptory substance of
the writ.
304. If the application beiwithout notice the alternation
[alternative], writ shall issue; otherwise, the peremptory-—notice and default. .

, 305. ,, The adverse party may answer under oath.

306. If an essential question of fact is raised, the court may
order a jury trial.

307. The applicant may demur to the answer or controvert it
by proof.

308. Either party may move for a new trial. Two verdicts’

for the same party shall be conclusive.
309. The clerk shall transmit the verdict to the court where
the motion is pending, after which, the hearing shall
be had on motion. A
310. If no answer be made, or if the answer raise no material
issue of fact, the hearing shall be before the court.
311. If the applicant succeed, he may have damages, costs
and a peremptory mandate. p
312. Service of writ.
313. Penalty for disobedience to the writ of mandate.
314. Writmay restrain acts. .

SEC. 301. The writ of mandamus may be issued by

; any court or judge thereof in this State, except a justice’s,

county, or mayor’s court, to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board, officer or person, to compel the performance
of an act which the law specially enjoins as a duty resulting
from an office, trust or station, or to compel the admission

I

of a party to the use and enjoyment of a right or oiiice to
which he is entitled, and from which he is unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, board, officer
or person. V

SEC. 302. The writ shall be issued in all cases where.
there is not a plain, speedy and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law.

It shall be issued upon petition and affidavit. on the ap-,
plication of the party beneficially interested.

SEC. 303. The writ shall be either alternative or peremptory. The alternative writ shall state generally the allegation against the party to whom it is directed, and command such party, immediately after the receipt of the writ,
or at some other specified time, todo the act required to be
performed, or to show cause before the court or judge, at a
specified time and place, why he has not done so.

The peremptory writ shall be in a similar form, except"
that the words requiring the party to show cause Why he
has not done as commanded shall be omitted, and a return’

' day shall be inserted.

SEC. 304. When the application to the court or judge,
is made without notice to the adverse party, and the writ be?
allowed, the alternative shall be first issued; but if the ap-3
plication be upon due notice, and the writ be allowed, the

peremptory writ may be issued in the first instance. ,

The notice of the application, when givengshall be at
least ten days. ,

The writ shall not be granted by default.

The case shall be heard by the court or judge, whether
the adverse party appear or not.

SEC. 305-. On the return of the alternative, or the day;
on which the application of the writ is noticed, or such‘
further day as the court or judge may allow the party on
whom-the writ or notice shall have been served, may show
cause by answer under oath, made in the same manner as
an answer to a complaint in a civil action.

SEC. 306. If an answer is made which raises a ques-,
tion as to a matter of fact essential to the determination of 1
the motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the parties,

and upon the supposed truth of the allegation on which the
application for the writ is based, the court or judge may, in
its discretion, order the question to be tried before a jury,
and postpone the argument until such trial can be had and
the verdict certified to the court or judge.

The question to be tried shall be distinctly stated in the

order for trial, and the county shall be designated in which
the same shall be had.

The order may also direct the jury to assess any damages which the applicant may have sustained, in case they
find for him.

SEC. 307. On the trial, the applicant shall not be precluded by the answer of any valid objection to its sufficiency,
and may controvert it by proof, either in direct denial or by
way of avoidance.

SEC. 308. If either party be dissatisfied with t the
verdict of the jury, he'may move for a new trial upon a

statement prepared as provided in the chapter on new trials
of this act.

The motion for a new trial may, upon reasonable notice,
be brought on before the judge of the court in which the
cause was tried, either in term or vacation.

If a new trial be granted the jury shall, within live

days thereafter, unless the parties agree upon a longer time,

be summoned to try the issues. After a second verdict in
favor of the same party a new trial shall not be had.

SEC. 309. If no notice for a new trial be given, or if
given, it be denied, the clerk, within five days after the rendition of the verdict or denial of the motion, shall transmit
to the court, in which the application for the writ is pending,
a certified copy of the verdict attached to the order of trial,
after which either party may bring on the argument of the
application upon reasonable notice to the adverse party.

SEC. 310. If no answer be made, the case shall be
heard on the papers of the applicant. If an answer be made

-which does not raise a question such as is mentioned above

in this chapter, but only such matters as may be explained
or avoided by a reply, the court or judge ‘may, in its discretion, grant time for replying. If the answer, or answer
and reply, raise only questions of law, or put in issue immaterial statements not affecting the substantial rights of
the parties, the court or judge shall proceed to hear or fix
a day for hearing the argument of the case.

SEC. 311. If the judgment be given .for the applicant
he shall recover the damages which he shall have sustained,
as found by the jury, or as may be determined by the court,
judge or referees upon a reference to be ordered, together
with costs; and for such damages and costs, an execution
may issue and a peremptory mandate shall also be awarded
without delay. ‘ /

SEC. 312. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons in a civil action, except when otherwise
expressly directed by order of the court or judge.

SEC. 313. When a peremptory mandate has been
issued and directed to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board or person, if it appear to the court that any member
of such tribunal, corporation, board or such person upon
whom the writ has been personally served, has, without just
excuse, refused or neglected to obey the same, the court

may, upon motion, impose a fine not exceeding one thousand
dollars.

In case of a persistence in a refusal of obedience, the
court may order the party to be imprisoned for a period not
exceeding three months, and may make any orders necessary and proper for the complete enforcement of the judgment.

SEC. 314. The writ of mandate may also, in the court’s
discretion, restrain the person or tribunal against whom or
which it is issued, from doing or exercising any act or acts,
to prevent the object for which it issues, and to give full
effect to the judgment of the court.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

or PROCEEDINGS TO P.ERPETUATE TESTIMONY.

 315. Testimony may be perpetuated.
316. The applicant shall present verified petition to a judge—
granting and service of order.

317 Upon due service of notice the deposition of witness may
be taken. 31 8. Manner of taking depositions and filing thereof.
319. Aiiidavits, &c., filed with depositions, shall be primafacie
proof of the facts therein stated.
320. Manner of using such deposition, if trial be had. .

SEC. 315. The testimony of a witness or witnesses
may be taken and perpetuated as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 316. The applicant shall present to a district or

county udge a petition, verified by the oath of the applicant, stating:

° First—That the applicant expects to be a party to an
action in a court in this State, and in such case the name or

names of the person or persons whom he expects will be
adverse parties; or,

Second—That the proof of some fact or facts is necessary to perfect the title to. property in which he is interested,
or to establish marriage, descent, heirship, or any other
matter which may hereafter become material to establish,
though no suit may at the time be anticipated; or if anticipated, he may not know the parties to such suit; and,

Third—-The name or names of ‘the witness or witnesses
to be examined at his or their place of residence, and a
general outline of the facts expected to be proved.

The judge to whom such petition is presented shall
make an order allowing the examination, and prescribing
the notice to be given; which notice, if parties are known

to reside in this State, shall be personally served on them;
and if unknown, each notice shall be served on the clerk of
the county where the property to be effected by such evidence is situated, and notice thereof be published in some
newspaper to be designated by the judge making the order.

SEC. 317. Upon proof of the service of the notice,as]
provided in the last section, it shall be the duty of thei

judge before whom the depositions are taken, to proceed to‘
take the depositions of the witnesses named in said petition
upon the facts therein set forth; and the taking of the same
may be continued from time to time in the discretion of
the judge. ‘

SEC. 318. The examination shall be by question and
answer‘ unless the parties otherwise agree. The deposition
when taken shall be carefully read to and subscribed by_ the
witness, then certified by the judge, and immediately thereafter iiled in the olhce of the clerk of the district court of
the county where the same was taken, together with the
order for the examination, the petition on which the same
was granted, and the proof of service of notice.

SEC. 319. The aihdavit or other proofs filed with the

depositions, or certified copies thereof, shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts therein stated.

SEC. 320. If a trial be had between the parties named
in the petition, as parties expectant, or their successors in
interest, or between any parties wherein it may be material
to establish the facts which such deposition prove or tend
to prove, upon proof of the death or insanity of the witness
or witnesses, or of his or their inability to attend the trial
by reason of age, sickness or settled infirmity, the deposi_tion or depositions, or certified copies thereof, may be ‘used
by either party subject to all legal objections.

But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall be made at the
trial, unless the same was stated at the examination.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

OF CONTEMPTS AND THEIR PUNISHMENTS.

SECTION 321. Contempts»—-what shall be deemed.

322. A contempt committed in the presence of the court may
be punished summarily—when not so committed, an
affidavit or statement shall be made.

323. A warrant of attachment to answer may issue; or notice
[to] show cause.

324. Bail may be given by a person arrested under such
‘warrant.

325. Sheriff shall, upon executing the warrant, arrest and detain the person'_'until discharged.

326. Bail'_bond—form and condition of.

327. Officers shall return warrant and bail bond, if any.

328. Hearing.

329. Judgment and penalty, if guilty.

330. If the contempt is the omission of any act, the person
may be imprisoned until performed.

331. Persons in contempt may also be indicted, if an indictable

offence. . ,
332. If the party fail to appeal, proceedings.

333. Illness suliicient excuse for non-appearance of party
arrested—confinements under arrest for contempt.
334. Judgments and orders in such cases fmal—extent of pun- ishmeht.

SEC. 321. The following acts or omissions shall
be deemed contempt:

First—Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior
"toward the judge whilst holding court, or engaged in ‘his
_ judicial duties at chambers, or towards referees or arbitraiitors, while sitting on a reference or arbitration, tending to
interrupt the due course of a trial, reference or arbitration
or other judicial proceedings.

Second—A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct or
violent disturbance in the presence of the court, or its immediate vicinity, tending to interrupt the due course of a
trial or judicial proceedings.

Third—Disobedience or resistance to any lawful writ,

order, rule or process issued by the court or judge at
chambers.

Fourth—Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or
refusing to be sworn or answer as a witness.‘

Fifth—Rescuing any person or property in the custody
of an officer, by virtue of an order of [or] process of such
court or judge at chambers.

SEC. 322. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and presence of the court or judge at chambers, it may be punished summarily, for which an order
shall be made, reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view and presence, adj udging that the person proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he
be punished as therein prescribed.

When the contempt is not committed in the immediate
view and presence of the court or judge at chambers, an
afiidavit shall be presented to the court or judge, of the facts
constituting the contempt,‘or a statement of the facts by the
referees or arbitrators. _ H 1

SEC. 323. When the contempt is not committed in
the immediate view and presence of the court or judge, a
warrant or [of] attachment may be issued to bring the person
charged to answer; or, without a previous arrest, a warrant
of commitment may, upon notice, or upon an order to show
cause, be granted ; and no warrant of commitment shall be
issued without such previous attachment to answer, or such
notice or order to show cause.

SEC. 324. Whenever awarrant of attachment is issued
pursuant to this chapter, the court or judge shall direct,
by an endorsement ‘ on such warrant, that the person
charged may be let to bail for his appearance in an amount
to be specified in such endorsement.

SEC. 325. Uponexecuting the warrant of attachment,j
the sheriff shall keep the person in custody, bring him.‘

before the court or judge, and detain him until an order
may be made in the premises, unless the person arrested
entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next section.

SEC. 326. When a direction to let a person arrested
to bail is contained in the warrant of attachment, or endorsed thereon, he shall be discharged from the arrest upon
executing and delivering to the officer, at any time before
return day of the warrant, a written undertaking, with two
sufficient sureties, to the effect that the person arrested will
appear on the return of the warrant, and abide the order of
the court or judge thereon, or that they will pay, as may
be directed, the sum specified in the warrant.

SEC. 327. The officer shall return the warrant of
arrest and undertaking, if any received by him from the
person arrested, by the return day specified therein.

SEC. 328. When the person arrested has been brought
up or appeared, the court or judge shall proceed to investigate the charge, and shall hear any answer which the

person arrested may make to the same, and may examine‘

witnesses for or against him, for which an adjournment may
be had from time to time if necessary.

SEC. 329. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the court
or judge shall determine whether the person proceeded against
is guilty of the contempt charged, and if it be adjudged
that he is guilty of the contempt,a fine may be imposed
upon him, not exceeding five thousand dollars.

SEC. 330. When the contempt consists in the omisrsion to perform an act which is yet in the power of ‘the
lperson to perform, he may be imprisoned‘ until he shall
i have performed it, and in that case the act shall be specified

in the warrant of commitment.

SEC. 331. Persons proceeded against, according to
the provisions of this chapter, shall also be liable to indictment for the same misconduct if it be an indictable offense,
but the court before which a conviction is had on the indict" ment, in passing sentence shall take into consideration the

punishment before infiicted.

SEC. 332. When the warrant of arrest has been re-i
turned served, if the person arrested do not appear on return‘

day, the court or judge may issue another warrant of arrest
or may order the undertaliing to be prosecuted, or both.

In an action upon the undertaking, the measure of
damages in the action shall be the extent of the loss or
injury sustained by the aggrieved party, by reason of the
misconduct for which the warrant was issued, and the costs
of the proceedings.

SEC. 333. Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, an oliicer is required to keep a person arrested on a
warrant of attachment in custody, and to bring him before
a court or a judge, the inability from illness or_ otherwise of
the person to attend shall be a suflicient cause for not
bringing him up, and the officer shall not confine a person
arrested upon the warrant in a prison or otherwise restrain
him of personal liberty, except so far as may be necessary
to secure his personal attendance.

SEC. 334. The judgment and orders of the court or
judge, made in cases of contempt, shall be final and conclusive. The punishment shall be by fine or imprisonment,
but no line shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars.

SECTION 335.
336.

337338339340.

341.

342349SECTION 3 3 5.

TITLE IX.

CHAPTER XXXV.

APPEALS IN GENERAL. " '

Judgment and order may be reviewed.

An order made out of court, without notice, may be reviewed by the judge who made it.

A party aggrieved may appeal in certain cases.

Within what time appeal may be taken.

Appeal may be made by filing and serving notice
thereof.

The appellant may, within twenty days, prepare statement subject to amendment and settlement.

Omission to make statement or amendment, according
to preceding section shall be a waiver thereof.

Time for preparing statements or amendments may be
enlarged.

Authentication of statement.

Statement shall be annexed to judgment roll or order
appealed from.

Appeals from an order made upon an afiidavit.

An appeal from judgment—the court may review intermediate orders.

Remedial powers of appellate court.

Appellant’s requisite papers.

Records required to be printed.

SEC. 335. A judgment or order in a civil action,

except when expressly made final, may be reviewed by appeal as prescribed by this act, and not otherwise.

SEC. 336. An order made out of court, without notice

to the adverse party, may be vacated'or modified by the
judge who made it, on notice in the manner in which other

motions are made.

SEC. 337. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the
cases prescribed in this title. The party appealing shall be

known as the appellant, and the adverse party as the appel‘lee. But the title of the action shall not be changed in
consequence of the appeal.

SEC. 338. An appeal may be taken,

First—From a final judgment in an action or special

proceeding commenced in the court in which the judgment

jis rendered within six months after the rendition of the
l judgment.

Second—from a judgment rendered on an appeal from
an inferior court within ninety days after the rendition of
the judgment.

. \. .
Th1rd—From an order refusing a new trial; from an

order granting or dissolving an injunction ; but such appeal
shall not suspend the issuing of or the operation of the
writ if ordered to issue, or continue a writ in force if the
same is dissolved; from an’ order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; from an order dissolving or refusing to
dissolve an attachment; or from any special order made
after a final judgment; and from interlocutory judgment in
actions for partition of real property within sixty days after
the order or interlocutory judgment is made and entered in
the minutes of the court.

SEC. 339. The appeal shall be made by filing with the

clerk of the court in which the judgment or order appealed;

from is entered, a notice stating the appeal from the same,
or some specific part thereof, and executing an undertaking
as hereinafter prescribed, and serving a copy of the notice
upon the adverse party or his attorney.

SEC. 340. When the party who has the right to appeal

wishes a statement of the evidence and exceptions saved}

of the case to be annexed to the record of the judgment or
order he shall within twenty days after the entry of such
judgment or order, or within such further time as the court
or judge thereof may grant, prepare such statement, which
shall state specifically the particular errors or grounds upon
which he intends to rely on the appeal, and shall contain so

much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain the
particular errors or grounds specified, and file the same
with the clerk of the court, and give notice to the opposite
party or his attorney of such filing.

The appellee may, within five days thereafter, prepare
amendments to such statement, and file the same, and serve
notice thereof on the opposite party.

The statement and amendments which may be filed,
shall be presented to the judge or court upon notice of two

days to the opposite party, and a true statement shall thereupon be settled by the judge or court._

If no amendments are filed, the statement may be presented to the judge or court without any notice to the
appellee.

SEC. 341. If the party shall omit to make a statement
within the time above limited, he shall be deemed to have

_waived his right thereto, and when a statement is made and

the parties shall omit within the several times above limited,
the one party to propose amendments, the other to notify
an appearance before the judge, they shall respectively be
deemed, the former to have agreed to the statement as prepared, and the latter to have agreed to the amendments as
proposed; butthe judge who heard the cause shall, notwithstanding such omissions, or implied agreement, have
power to correct any mis-statement of facts or of his rulings
which such statement may contain.

SEC. 342. The several periods of time above limited

may be enlarged, upon good cause shown, by the judge before whom the cause was tried.

SEC. 343. The statement, when settled by the judge,
shall be signed by him, with his certificate that the same
has been allowed and is correct. When the statement is
agreed upon by the parties, they or their attorneys shall
sign the same with their certificate that it has been agreed
upon by them, and is correct.

In either case, when settled or agreed upon, it shall be
filed with the clerk.

SEC. 344. A copy of the statement shall be annexed
to a copy of so much of the judgment roll as shall be in-'
‘eluded in the transcript on appeal, if the appeal be from the
judgment. If the appeal be from an order, to a copy of
such order. /

SEC. 345. The provisions of the last five preceding sections shall not apply’ to appeals taken from an order
made upon afiidavit filed, but such affidavit shall be annexed to
the order in the place of the statement mentioned in those sections. , '

SEC. 346. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court
may review any intermediate order involving the merits,
and necessarily affecting the judgment.

SEC. 347. Upon an appeal from a judgment, or order,
the appellate court may reverse, affirm or modify the judgment or order appealed from, in ‘the respect mentioned in
the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of the parties, and
may set aside or confirm, or modify any or all of the proceedings subsequent to, or dependent upon such judgment
or order, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial.

When the judgment or order is reversed or modified,
the appellate court may make complete restitution of all
property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment or
order; and when it appears to the appellate court that the
appeal was made for delay, it may add to the costs such
damages as may be just.

SEC. 348. On an appeal from a final judgment, the
appellant ‘shall furnish the court with a transcript of the notice of appeal, undertaking, or undertakings on appeal, the
pleadings or amended pleadings, asthe case may be, which
form the issues tried in the case, the judgment, and such
other parts of the judgment roll, and no more, as are necessary to present or explain the points relied on; and the
statement, if there be one, certified by the attorneys of the
parties to the appeal, or by. the clerk°or udge to be correct.

On appeal from a judgment rendered on an appeal, or1
from an order, the appellant shall furnish the court with a

copy of the notice of appeal, the judgment or order appealed
from, and a copy of the papers used 911 the hearing in the court below; such copies to be certified in like manner to be correct.
If any written opinion be placed on file, in rendering the judgment or making the order in the court below, a copy shall be furnished.
IF the appellant fail to furnish the requisite papers, teh appeal may be dismissed.
SEC. 349. THe court may prescribe rules for the printing of such part of the record as it may deem necessary to be furnished by the parties under such rules and regulations as the court may prescribe, and the costs of the same shall be paid by the parties as the court may adjudge.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT FROM THE DISTRICT AND
COUNTY COURTS.

SECTION 350. When an appeal may be taken.

351. Appellants shall file undertaking within five days.

352. Undertaking on appeal from a money judgment.

353. Appeal from a judgment for delivery of documents or
personal property.

354, Appeal from a jugdment directing the execution of a
conveyance, etc. i i I

355. An undertaking on appeal from a judgment concerning
real property.

356. Stay of proceedings; the security on appeal may be
limited in case of executor, etc.

357. Undertaking may be in one instrument or several.

358. Justification of sureties on undertaking on appeal.

359. Undertaking in cases not specified above.

360. On judgment on appeal a remittitur shall be certified to
the clerk of the court below.

SEC. 350. An appeal may be taken to the supreme;

court from the district or county courts in the following
cases:

First—From a final judgment entered in an action or
special proceeding commenced in those courts or brought
into those _courts from other courts.

Second—From an order refusing a new trial; from an
order granting or dissolving an injunction, but such appeal
shall not suspend the issuing or operation or the writ if
ordered to issue, nor continue one in force after order made dissolving the same; from an order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; from an order dissolving or refusing to
dissolve an attachment; from any special order made after
final judgment; and from such interlocutory judgment in
actions for partition, as determines the rights and interests
of the respective parties and directs partition to be made;
provided, that no appeal from an interloc_utory judgment or

order shall stay the proceeding in action to the final judgment.

SEC. 351. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose in any case, a written undertaking shall be executed on
the part of the appellant with surety, to the, effect that the
appellant will pay all damages and costs which may be
awarded against him on the appeal; the amount of such
undertaking and the approval thereof shall be as prescribed
by the court or the judge thereof. Such undertaking shall
be filed within such time and under such regulations as the
court or judge thereof may prescribe.

SEC. 352. If the appeal be from a judgment or order
,directing the payment of money, it shall not stay the execu'tion of ‘the judgment or order, unless a written undertaking

be executed on the part of the appellant, by two or more
sureties, stating their places of residence, to the effect that
they are bound in double the amount named in the judgment
or ‘order, that if the judgment or order appealed from,-or
any part thereof, be affirmed, the appellant shall pay the
amount directed to be paid by the judgment or order, or
the part of such amount as to which the judgment or order
shall be affirmed, if affirmed only in part, and all damages
and costs which shall be awarded against the appellant upon
the appeal.

SEC. 353 If the judgment or order appealed from
direct the assignment or delivery of documents or personal
iproperty, the execution of the judgment or order shall not
be stayed by appeal, unless the things required to be
assigned or delivered be placed in the custody of such
offrcer or receiver as the court may appoint; or unless an
undertaking be entered into on the part of the appellant, by
at least two sureties, and in such amount as the court or

judge thereof may direct, to the effect that the appellant

will obey the order of the appellate court upon the appeal.

SEC. 354. If the judgment or order appealed from.
direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument,‘

the execution of the judgment or order shall not be stayed
by the appeal, until the instrument is executed and deposited

.with the clerk with whom the judgment or order is entered,

to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

SEC. 355. If the judgment or order appealed from
direct the sale or delivery of possession of real property,
the execution of the same shall not be stayed unless a
written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by two or more sureties, to the effect that during the
possession of such property by the appellant he will not
commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and
that if the judgment be affirmed he will pay the value of
the use and occupation of the property from the time of the
appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to
the judgment or order, not exceeding a sum to be fixed by
the judge of the court, by which the judgment was rendered or order made, and which shall be specified in the
undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising
upon the sale, the undertaking shall also provide for the
payment of such deficiency.

SEC. 356. Whenever an appeal is perfected as provided in the preceding sections of this title, it shall stay all
further proceedings in the court below upon the judgment
or order appealed from, or upon the matters embraced
therein; and on appeal and filing an appeal undertaking on
appeal from an order discharging an attachment, said
attachment shall not be dissolved and shall remain in full
force until the cause be disposed of on appeal; but the
court below may proceed upon any other matter embraced
in the action and not affected by the order appealed from.

And the court below may in its discretion dispense

‘with or limit the security required by said sections, when‘

the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other

person acting in another’s right; provided, that an appeal
shall not continue in force on an attachment unless an undertaking_be executed and filed on the part of the appellant,
by at least two sureties, in double the amount ‘of the debt
claimed by him, that the appellant will pay all costs and
damages which the appellee may sustain by reason of the
attachment, in case the order of the court below be sustained; and unless, also, notice of the appeal be given
within five days after the entry of the order appealed from,
and such appeal be perfected and the undertaking in this section mentioned be filed within such time as the court
shall direct.

SEC. 357. The undertakings prescribed by the provisions of this chapter may be in one instrument or several,
at the option of the appellant.

SEC. 358. An undertaking upon appeal shall be of
no effect unless it be accompanied by the affidavits of the
sureties that they are each worth the amount specified
therein over and above all their just debts and liabilities,
exclusive of property exempt from execution, except where
the judgment exceeds three thousand dollars, and the
undertaking is executed by more than two sureties, they
may state in their affidavits that they are severally worth
amounts less than that expressed in the undertaking, if the
whole amount be equivalent to that of two sufficient sureties.

The adverse party however, may except to the sufficiency of the sureties to the undertaking or undertakings
mentioned and required by the provisions of this chapter,
at any time within thirty days after the filing of such undertaking, and unless they or other sureties, within twenty days
after the appellant or appellants shall have been served with
notice of such exception, justify before a judge of a court
below, a county judge or clerk of the court, upon five days’
notice to the appellant, execution of the judgment or decree appealed from shall be no longer stayed, unless additional and sufficient surety be given and approved by the
judge or clerk hearing the justification; and in all cases

where an undertaking is required on appeal by the provisions of this act, a deposit in the court below of the amount

of the judgment appealed from, and fifty dollars in addition,
shall be equivalent to filing the undertaking, and in all cases

the undertaking or deposit may be waived by the written

consent of the appellee. ,
SEC. 359. In all cases provided for in this chapter, the

’ perfecting of an appeal by giv-ing the undertaking or undertakings and the justification of the sureties therein, if required, or making the deposit mentioned in thislchapter,
shall stay proceedings _in the court below,.upon the judgment or order appealed from ; except, where it directs the sale
of perishable property, the court below may order the property to be sold and the proceeds thereof to be deposited to
abide the judgment of the appellate court.

SEC. 360. When judgment is rendered upon appeal,
it shall be certified by the clerk of the supreme court to the
clerk with whom the judgment roll is bled or order appealed from is entered. In cases of appeal from the judgment, the clerk with whom the roll is filed shall attach the
certificate of the clerk of the supreme court to the judgment roll, and enter a minute of the judgment of the supreme court on the docket against the original entry. In
cases of appeal from an order, the clerk shall enter at
length in the records of the court the certincate received
from the clerk of the supreme court, and minute against the
entry of the order appealed from, reference to the certificate,
with a brief statement that such order has been affirmed,
reversed or modified, as the case may be, by the supreme
court on appeal. ’

TITLE X.’

OF OATHS, AFFIRMATIONS, DEPOSITIONS AND
INSPECTION OF’DOCUMENTS.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS.

SECTION 361. Authorizing certain persons to administer oaths.
362. A witness may, instead of taking the oath, make an

affirmation.

SEC. 361. Every court of this State, every judge
or clerk of any court, every justice of the peace and every

notary public, county clerk, and every officer authorized to
take testimony or to decide upon evidence in any proceeding, shall have power to administer oaths or affirmations.

SEC. 362. A witness who desires it, may, at his

_ option, instead of taking an oath, make his solemn aBirmation or declaration, by assenting when addressed in the following form:

You do solemnly affirm that the evidence you shall
give in this issue (or matter), pending between and
, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but

the truth.
Assent to this affirmation shall be made by answer.

“I do.”
A false aflirmation or declaration shall be deemed perjury equally with a false oath.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

OF AFFIDAVITS.

SECTION 363. Afiidavits to be used in this State—before whom may be
takeniin this State.
364. If made in another State of the United States-before
whom taken.
365. If made in a foreign country—by whom taken.
366. Certificate of clerk, if taken before a judge of acourt
out of this State.

SEC. 363. An aliidavit, to be used before any

court, judge or ofiicer of this State, may be taken before any:

judge or clerk of any court, or any justice of the peace or
notary public in this State.

SEC. 364. An affidavit taken in another State or Territory of the United States, to be used in this State shall be
taken before a commissioner appointed by the Governor of
this State to take affidavits and depositions in such other
State or Territory, or before any notary public or judge of
a court of record having a seal.

SEC. 365. An aliidavit taken in a foreign country, to be
used in this State, shall be taken before an embassador,
minister, or consul of the United States, or before any judge
of a court of record, having a seal, in such foreign country.

SEC. 366. When an aliidavit is taken before a judge
of a court in another State, or in a foreign country, the genuineness of the signature of the judge, the existence of the

court, and the fact that such a judge is a member thereof,
shall be certified by the clerk of the court, under the seal
thereof. '

CHAPTER XXXIX.

01' DEPOSITIONS TAKEN IN THIS STATE.

SECTION 367. Depositions of witnesses in this State n-ay be taken in
certain cases.
368. Depositions. may be taken before a judge, etc., upon
notice to the adverse party.
369. Manner of taking depositions-—may be used by either
party on the trial.
370. A deposition may be read at any stage of the action or
proceeding.
371. May compel attendance of witness out of county.

372. When may be taken on commission.

SEC. 367. The testimony of a witness in this State
may be taken by deposition in an action at any time after
the service of the summons or the appearance of the defendant; and in a special proceeding, after a question of
fact has arisen therein, in the following cases:

F irst——When the witness is a party to the action or
proceeding, or a person for whose immediate beneht the
action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended.

Second—When the witness resides out of the county
in which his testimony is to be used.

Third—When the witness is about to leave the county
where the action is to be tried, and will probably continue
absent when the testimony is required.

F ourth—When the witness, otherwise liable_to attend
the trial, is, nevertheless, too infirm to attend.

SEC. 368. Either party may have the deposition taken
of a witness in this State before any judge or clerk, or any

: justice of the peace or notary public in this State, on serving on the adverse party previous notice of the time and
place of examination, together with a copy of an affidavit
of the party, his agent or attorney, showing that the case is
one mentioned in the last preceding section. At any time
during the last forty days immediately after the service of
summons by publication has been completed, and at any
time thereafter, when the defendant has ‘not appeared, the
notice .and affidavit required by this section may be served
on the clerk of the court where the action is pending.
Such notice shall be at least five days, and,’ in addition, one
day for every twenty-hve miles of the distance of the place
of examination from the residence of the person to whom
the notice is given-, unless, for a cause shown, a judge, by
order, prescribe a shorter time. When a_ shortertime is
prescribed, a copy of the order shall be served with the notice.

SEC. 369. Either party may attend such examination,
and put such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper.
The deposition, when completed, shall be carefully read to
the witness, and corrected by him in any particular, if desired; it shall then be subscribed by the witness, certified
by the judge or officer taking the deposition, enclosed in an
envelope or ‘wrapper, sealed and directed to the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, or to such person as
the parties in writing may agree upon, and either delivered
by the judge or officer to the clerk or such person, or transmitted through the mail,.or by some safe private opportunity; and thereupon such deposition may be used by eitheri
party upon the trial or other proceeding against any party‘
giving or receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions.
But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to
the form of an interrogafory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the time of the examination. If
the deposition be taken by reason of the absence, or intended absence, from the county, of the witness, or because
he is too infirm to attend, proof, by affidavit or oral testi-1
mony, shall be made at the trial that the witness continues:
absent or infirm,to the best of deponent’s knowledgelor belief.
The deposition thus taken may also be read in case of the

death of a witness.

SEC. 370. When a deposition has once been taken, it
may be read in any stage of the same action or proceeding,
by either party, and shall then be deemed evidence of the
party reading it. 

SEC. 371. The several district and county courts of
this State shall in all cases have power to compel the attendance of witnesses residing beyond the county in which
the court is held; provided, that no subpoenas shall be issued
in any causeitoany foreign county, except upon the order
of the court in term time, or of the judge thereof in vacation,
granted upon showing by affidavit that it is necessary to the
ends of j ustice,that the witness be personally present at the
trial. 

SEC. 372. Depositions of witnesses in this State may
also be taken by the issuing of commissions, with direct

‘and cross interrogatories attached, in the same manner as
provided in the next chapter, for taking depositions of wit~
nesses residing out, of the State.

CHAPTER XL.
or DEPOSITIONS TAKEN OUT OF THIS STATE.

SECTION 373. Testimony of a witness out of the State may be talceri‘
after service of summons or issue joined.
374. Such deposition shall be taken upon commission issued
under seal, upon notice—to whom to issue.
37 5. Proper interrogations [interrogatories], direct and cross,
may be prepared, or may be waived by the parties.
376. Authorities and duties of commissioner.

377. Trial not postponed except in certain cases.

SEC. 373. The testimony of a witness out of the‘

State may be taken by deposition in an action at any time
after the service of the summons or the appearance of the
defendant, and in a special proceeding at any time after a
question of fact has arisen therein.

SEC. 374. The deposition of a witness out of \the‘
State shall be taken upon commission issued by the clerk
of the court under the seal of the court where the suit is
pending, on the application of either party, upon five days
previous notice to the other, which notice shall be accompanied by a copy of the interrogations [interrogatories] to
be attached to the com-mission. It shall be issued to a person
agreed upon by the parties, or if they do not agree to any
judge, or justice of the peace selected by the officer granting the commission, or to a commissioner appointed by the
governor of the State, to take alhdavits and depositions in
other States and Territories, or to _a notary public. The
adverse party may file and have attached to the commission
such -cross interrogatories as he may desire.

SEC. 375. Such interrogatories, direct and cross, as
the respective parties may prepare, may be annexed to the commission; or when the parties agree to that mode, by written stipulation, the examination may be without written interrogatories.

SEC. 376. The commission shall authorize the commissioner to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in answer to interrogatories, or when the examination is to be without interrogatories, in respect to the question in dispute, and to certify the deposition to the court in a sealed envelope directed to the clerk or other person designated or agreed upon, and forwarded to him by mail or other usual channels of conveyance.

SEC. 377. A trial or other proceeding shall not be postponed by reason of a commission not returned, except upon evidence satisfactory to the court that the testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper diligence has been used to obtain it.


SEC. 378. Any court in which an action is pending or a judge therof, may upon notice order either party to give to the other within a specified time, an inspection and copy or permission to take a copy of any book, document, or paper in his possession or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or the defense therein. IF compliance with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book, document, or paper from being given in evidence; or if wanted as evidence by the partyiapplying, may direct the jury to presume it to besuch
as he alleges it to be; and the court may also punish the,
party refusing for a contempt. This section shall not be
construed to prevent a party from compelling another to
produce books, papers or documents, when he is examined
as a witness. , i ,

SEC. 379. There shall be no evidence of the contents
of a writing other than the writing itself, except in the following cases:

First—When the original has been lost or destroyed,

rin which case proof of the loss or destruction shall first be
made. . '

Second—When the original is in possession of the
party against whom the evidence is offered, and he fails to
produce it after reasonable notice.

Third—When the original is a‘ record or other document in the custody of a public officer.

F ourth—When the original has been recorded, and a
certified copy of the record is made evidence by statute.

’Fifth—When the original consists of numerous accounts or other documents which cannot be"e.xamined in

court without great loss of time, and the €VlCl€I‘lCC sought
from them is only the general result of the whole.

SEC. 380. The party producing a writing as genuine

which has been altered, or appears to have been altered .

after its execution, in a part material to the question in dispute, and such alteration is not noted on the writing, -shall
account for the appearance or alteration. He may show
that the alteration was made by another, without his concurrence, or was made with the consent of the parties
affected by it, or otherwise properly or innocently made.
If he do that he may give the writing in evidence, but not
otherwise. ‘

SEC. 381. A judicial record of this State, or of the
United States, may be proved by the production of the
original, or a copy thereof, certified by the clerk or other
person having the legal custody thereof, under the seal of
the court, to be a true copy of such record.

SEC. 382. The records in judicial proceedings of the courts of any other state or territory of the United States, may be proved or admitted in teh courts of this State by the attestation of the clerk and the seal of the court annexed, if there be a seal, together with a certificate of the judge, or presiding magistrate, as the case may be, that the said attestation is in due form.

SEC. 383. A judicial record of a foreign country may be proved by the production of a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, with the seal fo the court annexed, if there be a clerk and seal, or by the legal keeper of the record with the seal of his office annexed, if there be a seal, to be a true copy of such record, together with a certificate of a judge of the court, that the person making the certificate is the clerk of the court, or the legal keepr of the record, and in either case, that the signature is genuine, and the certificate in due form; and also, together with the ceretificate of the minister or embassador of the United States, or of a consul of the United States in such foreign country, that there is such a court, specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the signature of the judge and clerk, or othe rlegal keeper of the record. 
A copy of the judicail record of a foreign country shall be admissable in evidence upon proof:
First-That the copy offered has been compared by the witness with the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of it.
Second-That such original was in custody of the clerk of the court of other legal keeper of the same; and,
Third-That the copy is duly attested by a seal which is proved to be the seal fo the court where the records remain, if it be the record of a court, or if there be no such seal, or if it be not the record of a court, by the signature of the legal keepr of the original.

SEC. 384. Printed copies in volumes, of statutes, codes or other written law, of any Territory or any other STate or foreign government purporting or proven to have been published by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing law in the courts and judicial tribunals of such state, territory or governments, shall be admitted by courts and officers of this state on all occasions as presumptive evidence of such laws.

SEC. 385. A seal of a court or public officer when required to any writ, or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a copy of any record or document,» may be impressed
with wax, wafer, or any other substance, and then attached

to the writ, process or_ proceeding, or to the copy of the
record or document,- or it maybe impressed on the paper
alone.

SEC. 386. In actions respecting mining claims, proof

. shall be admitted of the customs, usages and regulations

established and in force in the mining districts embracing
such claim; and such customs,1usages, and regulations, when
not in conflict with the laws of this State, or of the United
States, shall govern the decision of the action.

SEC. 387. Whenever any person, company or corporation shall have any right to, or interest in any mine, lead,
lode or mining claim, which is in the possession of another
person, company or corporation and for which a cause is

pending in a court of record bringing into question the
right or title to the same, and it shall be necessary for the
ascertainment, enforcement or protection of such right or
interest, that an inspection, examination or survey of such
mine, lead, lode or mining claim, should be had or made,or
whenever an inspection, examination or survey of any mine,

‘lead, lode, or mining claim shall be necessary to ascertain,

protect or enforce the right or interest of any person, company or corporation, in another mine, lead, lode or mining
claim, and the person, company orcorporation in possession
of such mine, lead, lode or mining claim, of which an inspection, examination or survey is necessary, shall refuse,
after three days’ demand thereof, in writing, to allow or permit such inspection, examination or survey to be had or
made, the party, company or corporation desiring an inspcction, examination or survey of such mine, lead, lode or
mining claim, may present to the district court, or the judge
thereof, iof the county wherein the mine, lead, lode or
mining claim, of which an inspection, examination or survey is desired, is situated, a petition under oath, setting out his or their right to, or interest in, such mine, lead, lode, or mining claim, describing it, the possession thereof, or of another mine, lead, lode or mining claim, of which an inspection, examination or survey is necessary by another company or corporation, the reason why it is necessary that such inspection, examination or survey should be had or made, the demand made on teh person, company or corporation in possession to allow or permit such inspection, examination or survey, and his or their refusal to allow or permit the same, and asking an order for the inspection, examination or survey of such mine, lead, lode or ming claim, the court or judge may htereupon appoint a time and place for hearing such petition, and shall order notice thereof to be served on the adverse party, company or corporation, which notice shall be served at least three days before the day of hearing.
At the time and place appointed, the court or judge shall proceed to hear the petition. Either party may read affidavits on the hearing in teh same manner and subject to the same rules as on application to dissolve an injunction. If the court or judge be satisfied that th efacts stated in the petition are true, an order shall be made for an inspection, examination or survey on the mine, lead, lode, or mining claim in question, in such manner, at such time, and by such persons as are mentioned int eh order. Such persons shall thereupon have free access to such mine, lead load or mining claim, for the purpose of such inspection, examination or survey in conformity with the order of the court or judge, and any interference with such persons while acting under such order, shall be a contempt of court and punished accordingly; provided, that only thre witnesses beside the surveyor shall be admitted on the part of the petition and the costs of the proceeding shall abide the result of the suit.

SEC. 388. Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An application for an order is a motion.

SEC. 389. Motions shall be made in teh county in whcih the action is brought, or if at chambers, in any county in teh same district, except as otherwise provided in this act. Written notice of a motion, as provided in this act, shall only be reuqired in a case of a motion made out of term time. Notice of a motion made in term time, except those made during the progress of a trial, shall be entered in a good to be kept for that purpose, and called the "Motion Book," and such motion shall be for hearing after twenty-four hours from the time such motion is entered in teh motion book.

SEC. 390. When a written notice of a motion is necessary, ti shall be given, if the court be held in teh same district with both parties, five days before the time appointed for the hearing; otherwise, ten days. But the court or judge may prescribe a shorter time.

SEC. 391. When a notice of motion is given, or an order to show cause is made returnable before a judge out of court, and at the time fixed for the motion, or on the return day of the order, the jduge is unable to hear the parties, the matter may be transferred by his order to some other judg ebefore whom it might originally have been brought.

SEC. 392. Written notices and other papers, when required to be served on the party or attorney, shall be served in the manner prescribed in the next three sections, when not otherwise provided; but nothing in this title shall be applicable to original or final process, or any proceeding to bring a party into contempt.

SEC. 393. The service may be personal, by delivery to the party or attorney, on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as follows:
First-If upon an attorney, it may be madew during his absense from his office by leaving the notice or other papers with his clerk therein, or with a person having charge thereof; or when there is not person in the office, by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the morning and six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the office; 



or if it be not open, so as to admit of such service, then by
leaving them at the attorney’s residence, with some person
of suitable age and discretion; and if his residence be not

known, then by putting the same, enclosed in an envelope, ’

into the postoffice, directed to such attorney.
Second—If upon a party, it may be made by leaving

the notice or other paper at his residence,between the hours_

of eight in the morning and six in the evening, with some
person of suitable age and discretion; and if his residence
be not known, by putting the same, enclosed in an envelope,
into the postoflice, directed to such party.

SEC. 394. Service by mail may be made, when the
»person making the service and the person on whom it is to
be made reside in different places, between which there is a
regular communication by mail.

SEC. 395. In case of service by mail, the notice or
other paper shall be deposited in the postffice, addressed to
the person on whom it is to be served, at his place of residence,
and the postage paid. And in such case the time of service
shall be increased one day for every twenty-live miles distance between the place of deposit and the place of address:
provided, that service in any case shall be deemed complete

at the end of forty days from the date of its deposit in the
postoflice.

SEC. 396. A defendant shall be deemed to appear in

an action when he answers, demurs or gives the plaintiff a

_written notice of his appearance. After appearance, a deI fendant or his attorney shall be entitled to notice of all

subsequent proceedings of which notice is required to be

given. But when a defendant has not appeared, service of
zhiindred and ninety-seven d not be made upon him.

SEC. 397. When a plaintiff or a defendant who has
idetendantwho 1138 89933" ut of the State and has no attorney in
ding, the service may be made on the
.n the action or I)
when required. 811811 b
party, except of summons, writs, and other process, issued
in the suit, and of papers to bring him into contempt.
me, and has no attorney 111
mg, the service may be made
But in all cases where the .
in all cases where the party has an at, htmse1f.eX08D'5 I - 3'1‘f,e‘:“;"moess issued in the i or proceeding, the service of papers,
wnen required, shall be upon the attorney instead of the
party, except of summons, writs, and other process, issued in the suit, and of papers to bring him into contempt.

SEC. 398. The clerk shall keep, among the records of the court, a register of actions; he shall enter therein the title of the action, with brief notes under it from time to time, of all papers filed and proceedings had therein.

SEC. 399. When there are three referees, or thre arbitrators, two of them may do any act which might be done by all.

SEC. 400. The time within which an act is to be done, as provided in this act, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last; if the last day be Sunday it shall be excluded. When the act to be done relates to the pleadings in the action, or the undertakings to be filed, or the justification of sureties, or the service of notices other than of appeal, or the preparation of statement, or of bills of exceptions, or of amendments thereto, the time allowed by this act may be extended upon good cause shown by the court in which the action is pending, or the judge thereof, or, in teh absence of such judge, from teh county in which the action is pending, by the county judge; but such extention shall not exceed thirty days bbeyond the time prescrbed by this act, without the consent of the adverse party.

SEC. 401. An affidavit, notice or other paper, without the title of the action or proceeding in which it is made, or with a defective title, shall be as valid and effectual for any purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to such action or proceeding.


CHAPTER XLIII.

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

SECTION 402. Supreme and district courts to make all rules of practice
not prescribed by law.
403. Who may certify and take acknowledgements and
affidavits.
404. Action in court not affected by vacancy in office of judge.
405. Written proceedings shall be in the English language.
406. What courts shall have seals.
407. Clerks to keep seal.
408. How seal affixed.
409. Judicial proceedings——what days transacted.
410. Court—what days shall not be held.
41 1. Court—where held.
412. Action against sheriff.
413. Words——how construed.
414. Undertaking'to be accompanied by affidavit. ~
415. Property attached—-—~when to be sold.
416. Copy of record—when read in evidence.
417. Two or more persons‘ associatecl—-«bow summons served.
418. Decisions on appeal to be in writing.
419. Defendant to be discharged on depositing amount
claimed.

420. Any person who has interest entitled to intervene.
421. Third party may intervene.
422. Intervention to be by petition or complaint.

423. Party to pay costs if intervention not sustained.
424. Court may appoint person to take testimony in writing.
425. VVhen trial postponed, testimony of witness of adverse

party may be taken and read on trial.

426.‘ Costs——when party may have execution for.
427. Courts of record———what courts are.
428. Courts sitting to be public.
429. Actions for divorce-trial of issue of fact may be private.
430. What powers courts may have.
431. When judge shall not act.
432. '- When judge shall not act as attorney.
433. Judge of supreme court not to act as attorney.
434. Judge or justice shall not have partner acting as attorney.
435. If application for order refused, no subsequent application to be made.

436. Violation of last section punished as contempt.
437. Courts and judges may issue writs.
438. Where court shall be held.
439. Judges shall transact business at chambers.
440. Cases may be transferred to county court.
441. This act to apply to county courts.
442. Cases may be certified from county to district court.
443. County judge conservator of peace.
444. County judges same power as district.

' 445. Rules of construction to be used in construing this

act.
446. Rule of the common law construction not to apply to
this act. _ O

447. Acts repealed. ‘
448. [When this act shall take effect.]

SEC. 402. The supreme court, and eachgof the
district and county courts, shall respectively have power to

make rules and regulations for governing their practice and

procedure in reference to all matters not expressly provided
for by law.

SEC. 403. The judgesof thesupremecourt,of the district
courts, and of the county courts shall have power, in any
part of the State, and justices of the peace within their respective counties, shall have power to take and certify:

F irst—The proof and acknowledgement of a conveyance of real property, orof any other instrument required
to be proved or acknowledged.

Second—An affidavit to be used in any court of justice
in this State. S

SEC. 404. No action or proceeding in a court of justice in this State shall be affected by a vacancy in the office
of all or any of the judges, or by a failure of a term thereof.

SEC. 405. Every written proceeding in a court of
justice in this State or before a judicial officer shall be in
the English language, but such abbreviations as are now
commonly used in that language may be used and numbers
expressed by figures or numerals, in the customary manner.

SEC. 406. Each of the following courts, and no others,
shall have a seal : ’

First—The "supreme court.

Second—Tl1e district court.

Third—The county court.

Fourth—Any criminal court established by law.

SEC. 407. The clerk of each court shall keep the seal
thereof.

SEC. 408. The seal may be affixed by impressing itupon the paper, or on a substance attached to the paper and
capable of receiving the impression. ‘

SEC. 409. The courts of justice may be held, and ju'dicial business may be transacted, on any day except as provided in the next section’.

SEC. 410. No court shall be opened, nor shall any
judicial business be transacted on Sunday, New Year’s day,
Fourth of July, Christmas day, Washington's birth day,
Thanksgiving day, Fast day and decoration day, or on a general election, except for the following purposes:

First—.To give, upon their request, instructions to a
jury then deliberating on their verdict.

Second—To receive a verdict or discharge a ury.

Third—For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate
' in a criminal action, or in a proceeding of a criminal nature.

, Fourth—When it shall appear by the affidavit of the
plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, in cases for the recovery
of specific personal property, that the defendant is about

SEC. 411. Every court of justice, except a justice's court, shall sit at the county seat of the county in whiich it is held, except as may be otherwise provided by law. No justice of the peace shall hold a court in any other county or city, than the one for which he shall have been elected.

SEC. 412. In an action brought against a sheriff for an act done by virtue of his office, if he give written notice thereof to the surties on any bond of indemnity received by him, the judgment recovered therein shall be sufficient
evidence of his right to recover against such sureties; and
the court, or judge in vacation, may on motion, upon notice
of five days, order judgment to be entered up against them
for the amount so r'ecovered,'including costs.

SEC. 413. Words used in this act in the present tense
shall be deemed to include the future as well as the present;
words used in the singular number shall be deemed to include
the plural, and plural the singular; and words used
to include the masculine gender, shall include the feminine
gender; writing shall be deemed to include printing or
printed paper; oath to include affirmation or declaration;
signature or subscription to include mark, when the person
cannot or is unable to write, his name being written near it,

and witxpessed by a person who writes his own name as a
witness.

SEC. 414. In all cases, where an undertaking, by the
provisions of this act, is required, it shall be the duty of the
person taking the same to use due diligence in ascertaining
the responsibility of the person becoming surety, and to require each of the 'sureties to accompany the same with
afiidavit that he is worth the sum specified in the undertaking, over and above his just debts and liabilities, in.

property not exempt by law from execution ; provided,
that when the amount specified in the undertaking exceeds
one ‘thousand dollars, and there are more than two sureties
thereon, they may state, in their affidavits, that they are severally worth amounts less than that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to the sum specified in the undertaking.

SEC. 415. Whenever property has been taken by an

.officer, under a writ of attachment, in pursuance of the provisions of this act, and it shall be made to appear satisfactorily to the court or a judge thereof, or a county judge,
that the interest of the parties to the action wilL be subserved by a sale thereof, the court or judge, may order such
property to be sold, in the same manner as property is sold
under an execution, and the proceeds to be deposited in
court, to abide the judgment in the action. Such order shall
be made only upon notice to the adverse party or-his attorney, in case such party has been personally served with summons in the action.

SEC. 416. A copy of the record, or document, or paper in teh custody of a public offcer of this STate, or of the United States within this State, certified under the official seal, or verified by the oath of such offcer, to be a true, full, and correct copy of the original in his custody may be read in evidence in an action or proceeding int eh courts of this State, in the like manner, and with the like effect, as the original could be if produced. 

SEC. 417. When two or more persons, associated in any business, transact such business under a common name, whether it comprises the names of such persons or not, the associates may be sued by such common name, the summons in such cases being served on one or more of the associates; but the judgment in such cases shall bind only the joint property of the associates and the separate property of the party served.

SEC. 418. All decisions given upon an appeal upon questions of law only in any appellate court in this STate, shall be given in writing, with the reasons therefo, and filed with the clerk of the court.

SEC. 419. A defendant, against whom an action is pending upon a contract or for specific personal property, may, at any time before answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the action, makes against him, wtihout any collusion with him, a demand upon the same contract or for the same property, upon due notice to such person and the adverse party, apply to the court to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him from liablity to either party, on his depositing in the court the amount claimed on teh contract, or delivering the property, or its value, to such person as the court may direct, and the court may, in its discretion make an order.

SEC. 420. Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an action who has an interest int eh matter in litigation, in the success of either of the parties to the action, or an interest against both. An intervention takes place when a third person is permitted to become a party to an action between other persons, either» in joining the plaintiff in claiming what is soughtby the complaint, or by uniting with the
defendant in resisting the claims of the plaintiff, or by demanding anything adversely to both the plaintiff and defendant.
SEC. 421. Any third person may intervene, either be«

'fore or after issue has been joined in the action.

SEC. 422. The intervention shall be by petition, filed
in the court in which the action is pending, and it must set
forth the grounds upon which the interventionrests. A
Copy of the petition shall be served upon the parties to the
action against whom anything is demanded, who shall
answer as if it were an original complaint in the action.

SEC. 423. The court shall determine upon the intervention at the same time that the action is decided. If the

claim of the party intervening is not sustained, he shall pay

all costs incurred by the intervention.

SEC. 424. On the trial of any action in a court of
record, at the request of either party, the court may, in its
discretion, appoint a competent person to take down the

testimony in writing.
SEC. 425. The party postponing a trial in any court
of record_shall also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse

party, who is in attendance, be then taken before any judge
or clerk of the court in which the action is pending, or before any notary public or other officer authorized to take
depositions, as the court may direct, which shall accordingly
be done; and the testimony so taken may be read on the
trial with the same effect, and subject to the same objections as if the witness was produced.

SEC. 426. Whenever costs are awarded to a party by
an appellate court, such party may have an execution for
the same on filing a remittitur with the clerk of the court
below, and it shall be the duty of such clerk, whenever the
remittitur is filed, to issue the execution upon application
therefor. And whenever costs are awarded to a party by
an order of any court, such party may have an execution
therefor in like manner as upon a judgment.

SEC. 427. The supreme court, the several district courts, and the several county courts and the criminal courts established by law, of this state, shall be courts of record.

SEC. 428. The sittings of every court of justice shall be public, except as provided in the next section.

SEC. 429. In an action for divorce, the court may direct the trial of any issue of fact joined therein to be private, and upon such direction, all persons may be excluded, except the officers of the court, the parties, their witnesses and counsel.

SEC. 430. Every court shall have power--
First--To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence.
SEcond--To enforce order in teh proceedings before it, or before a person or persons empowered to conduct a judicial investigation under its authority.
Third--To compel obedience to its lawful judgments, orders, and process, and to the lawful orders of its judge out of court in an action or proceeding pending therein.
Fourth--To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers.

SEC. 431. A judge shall not act as such in any of the following cases: IN an action or proceeding to which he is a party, or in which he is interested; when he is related to either party by consanguinity or affinity within the third degree; or when he has been attorney or counsel for either party in the action or proceeding, unless by consent of all parties to the action.

SEC. 432. A jduge shall not act as attorney or counsel in a court in which he is a judge, or in an action or proceeding removed therefrom to another court for review; or in any action or proceeding from which an appeal may lie to his own court.

SEC. 433. A judge of the supreme court, or of the district court, shall not act as attorney or counsel in any court, except in an action in which he is a party to the record.

SEC. 434. A judge or justice fo the peace shall not have a partner acting as attorney or counsel in any court in his judicial district, county or precinct, nor shall any county, district or supreme judge make out the papers in any action to be tried before his court.


SEC. 435. If anapplication for an order'made to a
I judge of a court in which the action or proceeding is pending, be refused in whole or in part, or be granted conditionally, no subsequent application for the same order shall be
made to any other judge, except of a higher court; provided,
that nothing in this section shall be so construed as to apply
to motions refused for any informalitics in the papers or proceedings necessary to obtain an order.

SEC. 436. A violation of the last section may be pun_ished as a contempt, and an order made contrary thereto,
may be revoked by the judge who made it, or vacated by a
judge of a court in which the action or proceeding is
pending.’ .

SEC. 437. The courts and judges thereof shall have
,power to issue all writs necessary and proper to the complete exercise of the power conferred on them by the constitution and laws of - this State.

SEC. 438. The terms shall be held at such times and
places as provided by law. If a room for holding the court
be not provided by the county, together with attendants,
fuel, lights and stationery, suitable and sufficient for the
transaction of business, the court may direct the sheriff to
provide such room, attendants, fuel, lights and stationery,
and the expense shall be a county charge.

SEC. 439. The district judges shall, at all reasonable

._times, when not engaged in holding courts, transact such

business at their chambers as may be done out of court. At
chambers’ they may hear and dispose of all applications for
orders and writs which are usually granted in the first instance upon an ex parte application, and may, in their discretion, also hear applications to discharge such orders and
writs. T

SEC. 440. When an action or proceeding is commenced in a district court in which a county court has
concurrent jurisdiction, the district court may, if the parties agree, by order, transfer the same to the county court of the same county. Upon such transfer, the county court shall have and exercise over such action or proceeding the same jurisdiction as if originally commenced therein.

SEC. 441. The provisions of this act, as far as applicable, shall be aplied and enforced in all of the county courts of this State.

SEC. 442. If the county judge be disqualified for any cause, from sitting on the determination fo any action or proceeding pending before him, the cause shall be certified, with the original papers, to be district court of the same county, which shall proceed thereon to final jdugment and determination.

SEC. 443. That all jduges of courts of record shall be conservators of the peace.

SEC. 444. In all civil actions within their jurisdiction, the county courts and the judges thereof shall have the same power to grant all orders and writs and process which the district courts or the judges thereof have power to grant within their jurisdiction, and to hear and determine all questions arising from their jurisdictions, as fully and completely as the district courts and the jduges thereof have power to do under the laws fo this state, except as otherwise provided in this act.

SEC. 445. In the construction of this act, the following rules shall be observed when consistent with the context: 

The word “ person” extends to bodies politic and corporate.

The phrase “under legal disabilities” includes persons
within the age of twenty-one years, or of unsound mind, or
imprisoned, or out of the United States.

The word “ bond,” or “ undertaking,” as used in this
act, does not necessarily imply a seal, but in other respects
means the same kind of instruments as heretofore.

The word “land,” and the phrases “ real estate” and
“real property,” include lands, tenements and hereditaments.

The phrase “ personal property includes goods, chattels, evidences of debt, and things in action.

The word “property” includes personal and real
property. V

The word “judgment” means all final orders,‘ decrees,
and determinations in an, action ; also, all orders upon which

executions may issue.

The phrase “money demands on contract,” when used
in reference to an action, means any action arising out of
contract, where the relief demanded is a recovery of money
only.

The word “attorney” includes a counsellor, and every
other person authorized to appear and represent a party in
an action or special proceeding in any stage thereof.

The word “ verified” when applied to pleadings, means
supported by oath or affirmation.

Words importing the’ singular number only, may also
be applied to the plural of persons and things; and words
importing the masculine gender only, may be extended to
females also.

The provisions of this act shall be liberally construed,
and shall not be limited by any rules of strict construction.

SEC. 446. The rule of the common law, that statutes
L in derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no application to this code. Its provisions, and all proceedings
under it, shall be liberally construed, with a view to promote
its object, and assist the parties in obtaining justice.

SEC. 447. That the following several chapters and acts.

contained in the Revised Statutes of the Territory, now
State of Colorado, entitled as follows, viz:

CHAPTER ' I.—-“ Abatement.”
CHAPTER IV.——“Amendments and jeofails.”
CHAPTER V.—“ Arbitration and awards.’
CHAPTER VI.--“ Attachments.” ‘
CHAPTER XIII. —‘ ‘ Chancery. ”
CHAPTER XXVII.——“ Ejectment.”

' CHAPTER XILIII.--“ Injunctions”
CHAPTER LVII.—“ Mandamus. ”
CHAPTER LXX.—“ Practice.”
CHAPTER LXXIII.—“ Quo warranto.”

CHAPTER LXXIV.——“ Replevin.”
CHAPTER l.XXXVIII.—“ Venue.”

Also the following acts passed by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory, now State of Colorado, which convened at Denver on the third day of January, A. D. 1870,
and entitled as follows, viz. : “ An act to amend Chapter 70
of ‘Revised Statutes of Colorado Territory ;’ " also “An
act to amend Chapter 88 of the Revised Statutes of Colorado, concerning venue ;”p also “An act to amend an act
entitled an act providing for changes of venue in civil cases ;”
also “ An act to amend Chapter 70 of the Revised Statutes
of Colorado Territory entitled ‘practice,’ ” on page 99 of
the laws of 1872; also “an act to amend Chapter 27 of the
Revised Statutes of Colorado, entitled ‘ejectments,’ ” on
page 101 of said laws ; also “ An act concerning judgments
and liens,~” on page I 12 of said laws; also “ an act concern=
ing actions on bonds, bills, notes, and other instruments in
writing,” on page 113 of said laws; also “ An act to amend Chapters 6 and 48 of the Revised Statutes of Colorado,” on

pages 113 to 116; also “An act defining further causes of '

attachment,” on pages I16 and I17 of said laws; also “An
act concerning variances and amendments,” on pages 118
and 119 of said laws; also “An act to amend Chapter 88
of the Revised Statutes entitled ‘Venue,”’ on‘ pages 120,
I21 and 122 of said laws.

Also the following acts passed by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory, now State, of‘ Colorado, which convened

at Denver on thelifth day of January, 1874, and entitled as
follows, viz: “ An act concerning actions on bonds,'bills and
promissory notes,” on page6I of the laws of I874;” also “ An
act concerning cases pending in the District Court, the
venue of which has been changed thereto, on page 94 of
said laws; also “ An act to authorize the courts to summon
witnesses from foreign counties,” on page 95 of said laws;
also “An act to amend an act entitled an act concerning
judgments and liens, approved February‘ 8, I872,” on pages
168 and 169 of said laws; also “ An act to authorize the
allowance of the alternative writ of mandamzzs during vacation,” on pages 180 and 181 of said laws; also “An act
concerning practice," on pages 208 and 209 of said laws;
also “An act concerning the practice of the courts,” on
page 210 of said laws; also “ An act concerning practice in
courts of record,” on page 21 I of said laws. ’

Also, the following acts passed by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory, now State, of Colorado, which convened at Denver on the third day of January, A. D. 1876,
and entitled as follows, viz.: “An act to allow the assignment of claims,” on page 19 of said laws passed in 1876.

Also “ An act to amend chapter 6 of the Revised
Statutes of Colorado Territory entitled ‘ Attachments,”’ on
pages 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29 of said laws.
Also “ An act relating to bonds, bills of exchange and promissory notes,” on page 30 of said laws; also “ An act in regard to bonds given in legal and equitable proceedings,” on
pages 31 and 32 of said laws; also “ An act to amend section I9 of chapter I 7 of the Revised Statutes of Colorado
concerning conveyances,” on page 40 of said laws; also
“An act concerning ejectments,” on page 69 of said laws;

also, “ an act to amend chapter 30 of the Revised Statutes
of Colorado entitled ‘ evidence and depositions,’ ” on page
71 of said laws.
Also “ An act concerning equitable liens,” on pages 90
and 91 of said laws; also “An act in regard to the foreclosure of mortgages,” on page 95 of said laws; also “ An act
concerning practice,” on page 103 of said laws; also “An
act concerning practice in the district and probate courts,”
on pages 103, I04 and 105 of said laws; also, “An act to
amend chapter 70, of the Revised Statutes of Colorado Territory, entitled ‘practice,”’ on page 105 of said laws; also
“And act in regard to practice at law and in chancery,” on
pages 105 and 106 of said laws; also, “An act concerning
replevin,” on page I 16 of said laws ; also “ An act to amend
an act entitled an act to amend chapter 88 of -the Revised
Statutes entitled ‘ Venue,’ ” pages 18 and 186 of said laws,
and all other acts or parts of acts in confl1cT with the provisions of this act, be and the same are hereby repealed i provided, that the repeal of such acts and parts of acts, or any of i
them, shall not be construed to abate or effect [affect] any
suit, action or proceeding, instituted or pending in any court
of this State or other -tribunal, begun prior to the 1st day of
October, A. D. 1877, under any of the laws so repealed ; but
all such suits, actions or proceedings may be prosecuted to
final determination under the laws so repealed; neither shall
the repeal of any such law or parts of law, in anywise affect,
deny, abridge, divest or impair any right, action or cause of
action accrued or arising under the laws hereby repealed;
but such right, action or cause of action so accrued or
arising, shall be brought and prosecuted to final determination under the laws so repealed, unless the provisions of
this Code give a remedy, or prescribe'a mode whereby such
right, action or cause of action, may be broughtand prosecuted to final determination.
SEC. 448. This act shall take effect and be in force on
and after the first day of October A. D. 1877.
Approved March I 7, I877.

