Sec. 1. That the dtstinctton hrtwacn artmna at law and wit to
1-quity, and the distinct forms of ortu-nu. and nut.-\ hen-tnforv ranting. an
ulmlinhed, and them shall be in "-1- Mntv but one form n( t‘t\‘tl artton for the

SEc. 2. ('Ill or protection oi prn-utv rt-,;hta and the n--lmn or prc\'ontion of
private wrongs, Which shall ho tho ~mm~ at law and In oqutty. and whtrh
'-hull be donotninntul a civil action. and \rhwh ahall ho pt'IlN\tl\t'I| md
th-ft-mlul as |vre.!tt'l’iht~1l in this act
“Wm I-D.‘ M. hmun. ‘MIG. M-ﬂmmmm

[Parth-. hon dr~|rnatv-4.]
5|-:1 ‘L in such action tho party mm tlttllllllﬂ nhall ho knorn AU tho
phnntitf, and the mlverao party as tho tlt'fl'tlt ant
[Red party In lot:-rnt prou-rote. ru~r’t, rte-.]

Sec. 3. Every action shall he l|ﬂI~('(‘l"l1l in the "amp of the ml Party
in interest, oxu-pt us‘ otlmrwtso ‘)")\'it‘('I| in thn art
w-mama-nnnphacueum-Mama M “J Ila tttun un.mu.n
[Artloa by anlnm without pnjodleo tn wt ntt, ruvphl

Sec. 4. ln the case of an amignnu-nt of n thmg Ill ltvtmn, tho nrtwn by
tho nsaignee shall be without projmlico to any not-0" 0|‘ otln-r 1|l‘fHtt'l‘ c-xx-tmg
at the time of or before native of l\'ll|lI\IIlt'ltl ; hut thit sortmn shall Itot a ‘pl
to u negotiable protnisunv note or hill of oxrlinngr tramfvrrwl in good inlth
and upon good conai(l(~rntion boforo duo.
Iurlkhtlolunaiserlncaarot-nlonla'ttto.-¢i GLGQ M.“
ti-on tJ.6.‘l.8.t& 9.0n.t!at.Uaab.htlh.@h

[Ad-hhtrator, rvcutor or trtutoe nu door

Sec. 5.

Tra~t~ of npn-a trnt -Wind.)

An executor or administrator. or trtuta-0 of an oxpn-Q trunk 0|’

a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue mtlmut joimng with him
the person or persons for whose beneﬁt tho avtion i.-I pnnocutnl A trustne of

on express trust, wnthm the meanin of this nation, shall he 0on.\tru€'d W
mclude a person with whom or in w on name a mntmt is made fot the
beneﬁt of another.
SEC. 8. (9.) The guardian shall be appointed as follows: First, when
the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age
of fourteen years; or if under that age, upon the application of a relative or
friend of the infant; second, when the infant is defendant, upon the applica
tion of the infant, if he be of the ’age of fourteen years, and apply within ten
days after the service of the summons; if he be udder the age of fourteen, or
neglect so to apply, then upon the application of any other party to the action,
or of a relative or friend of the infant.
See ch. 48. guardian and ward. Gen. Slut.

iWhat action survives to parent or guardian.]

SEC. 9. (10.) A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family,
the mother, may maintain an action for the injury or death of a child, and a
guardian for the injury or death of his ward.
See sa. 1 to tour, ch. 27, damages, Gen. Stat.

[Parties interested join us plaintiﬂis, except]

SEC. 10. (11.) All persons having an interest in the subject of the action,
and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs, except as
otherwise provided in this act.
[Who may be made defendants]

_

SEC. 11. (12.) Any person may be made a defendant who has or clanns
an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a necessary
party to a complete determination or settlement of the question mvolved
t erein.
[What parties may be made plaiutiif or defeudant—Suing on behalf of others]

_

SEC. 12. (13.) Of the parties to the action, those who are united in
interest shall be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but if the consent of any
one who should have been joined as plaintiff cannot be obtained, he may be
made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint; and
When the question is one of a common or general interest of many persons,

OI‘ When the parties are numerous and it is impracticable to brmg them all

before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the beneﬁt of all, and the
court may make an order that the action be so prosecuted or defended.
See s. 5. ch. 36. evidence, Geu._ Stat. as to action by partners. etc.
Actions for possession, etc, may be brought by tenants in common against each other, 5. 277, ch. 23. post.
In partition any one interested may appear and answer, etc. sec. $6, chap. 24, partition, Dost

iJoiut and several liability on bills, notes, etc-'|
SEC. 13. (14.) Persons jointly or severally liable upon the same obliga
tion or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and pI'0iI1iSS0l‘_);_
notes, and sureties on the same or separate instruments, m_ay_all or any 0
t119111 be included in the. same action, at the option of the plaintiff.
As to Proof 01' Joint liability of defendants, see 5. 6, ch. 86, evidence. Gen Stat.
Persons associated may be sued by common name. sec. 14, below.

{Associates under common name ——HOW sued——Jil(lglIle"t—Eﬂ'ect'] _
SEC. 14,

When two or more’ persons, associatedin any businte}SS

transact such business under a common name, whether it Collilpnsesmolri

names of such persons or not, the associates may be sued by Sue Com
mum-, tiw -umluolu an rm-h run I- mg nrud on an or mom ul tho unort

Mm. but the judgment in Ittrh (U41 uh--i hm-I only the 1-nnt prop:-rty of tho
unucintun, om! the an-potato |nru||v|'1_\' ut Um party u-rn-I
[Winn nrtt-Q not Mr

fro-hr cl lltlnnt.
O

SEC. 15. An utmn uhnll not liutr h_\ the ill-oth or nthvr iltlntullty
I
party. or by the tnn-for 0! any int:-tut l||t‘"'II|_ if the mun» ot nrtum mm"
or continue. In cm of the dmlh nr utiwf d:uh:Z:t_v --I 0 |nrt)', the mart. 00
lnouon. may nllow the utmn to be nmtmunl by or agnmt hu nqvrnrntntﬂ'i
or nucouor an intorat In an of my mhn tnn-tn of mtunt. tho admit
may ho continued in tho unm of "Ir ongm-I ‘any, or thr murt may LUOI
tlw person to whom tho tron:-Jrr 1- [mule tn ho nuintatutni In tho ortwn
Ibubulaundhncdb-a-.lt.lnt-c_'nw\c\ I No “Q ~
[ﬁnrt -my urirr putt:-\ Mt IL]

SEC. I6. The court may dvt ormuw may CIIIllﬁITffI) hrticvtt |nrttnI MO"
it, whvu it con he done tnthout )ﬁ"tl'it"!‘ to the nghtn ut othr-ti, or by -VII!‘
thoir nghtn; but when noun? note ul~-ta-rniilmuuu of tho n|It"’"\'l‘f‘y 00°“
ho had without the prvnnor 0 othor |nrtim, tho n-urt Mull oninr thnm to bl
brought in.
[0rior oloourt

Party bra“! In

tbnln an adwrv my 1

SEC. 17. When in I civil lvtmn u in-r-m rwt I party thor1'tn,btl\ M7“
an intvrcst in tho auhjwt thermf, mukw lpplimtioli tn tlw murt to ho mud!
a party, it may order him to he brought HI, and ti;-m duo -rnr1~ upon W
min-r.~w Yarty of his comphint. nr am:-u~r tho mnn- I-rv-wwliiign -hall N hld
as if he uni hwn nu originﬂ party tn tho m tum
HI-In nmu.uunnu-|~m|~,u-- 534
(Order for ubvstltltlu at porty—l)t-4-barn

584‘. IS.

bruit.)

A dvft-mhnt lguimt whom an

tract, or to I‘0L'0\'\~l' ap_u~iﬁc, real or pormml prnport_v, may at any tum hofon
answer,
that 1 pr nun nut I party to tho lrtinn, llid Ilthtttﬂ
‘ upon
_ nﬁidmnt
_
collusion with ham, _makoa
must him It denumd for tho sumo debt or pf‘):
erty, upon due Il0lI0t't0lIt1(‘l pornnn and tho ml\'rr-4- putt‘. a|n|)‘ l0
9

court for u_u_ order to aubatituto auvh panama in his plum-. and dim‘ “'8' him
fmm liability to either party, on his dv nailing in murt the ammlnl of 0''
debt, or delivering
‘
_ its
_ discretion
I '
person on tho muﬂ ml!
direct,
and the court may in
mnke the nnh-r
BOQI¢.‘Q.lJ.I!.htI\.\lIDOnIrlcl\o(r_

[Sucre-ulve M-tlom an
SEC. 19. Sm-cossiw
or transaction, who-nevor
therefrom.
[Connolldltlon of or-Hon.)
SE0 ‘)0
mer for money or property, upon an alleged liability, and also against two or
more persons for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the
other, for which the plaintiff is bound as security.
_ Declslons—I)emand due plaintiff in his own right, and as survivor, may be joined; Smith vs. Salom

001. us.
[When third person may Intervene against one or both parties]

SEC. 22. (420.)

Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an action

who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the success of either of the
parties to the action, or an interest against both. An intervention takes
place when a third person is permitted to become a party to an action
etween other persons, either in joining the plaintiff in_claiming what is
sought by the complaint, or by uniting with the defendant in resisting the .
claims of the plaintiff, or by demanding anything adversely to both the
plaintiff and defendant.
[Intervention before or after lssne.]

SEC. 23. (42l.) Any third person may intervene, either before or after
issue has been joined in the action.
[Intervention by petltion—C0py served—Answen]

SEC. 24. (422) The intervention shall be by etition, ﬁled in the court
in which the action is pending, and it must set fort the grounds upon which

the intervention rests. A copy of the petition shall be served upon the par
ties to the action against whom anything is demanded, who shall answer as
_ if it were an original complaint in the action.
[Interventlon—-When declded—CostsJ
SEC. 25. (423.) The court shall determine upon the lnterventlon at the
same time that the action is decided. If the claim of the party mtervenmg

is not sustained, he shall pay all costs incurred by the intervention.
-w rm: run K or nuu. or -tut \~1l-NI
NO\1t~H 8.
Milne u in and -\ 0-Ill! 0510 F g-my .- -1.-In-I

"01 plow 1:! tun] my in ¢\ll‘Il

I1.

KIM I5--nybolllb -~05;-gr ah

"tin urbane ohnv nu-I
AM no 1-Iihol up -I-rt MI‘ -Qu - u bl-I
II, IW -I pipe -1 ind

3‘.

Arﬂom nlv-din; mlty

In what molt);

Sn: 2"». I22.) En-4-pt win-n utln-rIu~o ||rm'ulc~l, urtl-nu for the fnllmnng
causes shall he triul Ill tho i-ounty in n-hn-h the nulqwt of the m tum. or some
pnrt tln-roof. in mtuutul. subject to the |-mvr nl tho murt tn |.h.mgv the plan
of triul,ns |mn'ulul Ill this art, Int, For lhn ru-"wry of not pm mrtp 0!’ Hi I"
interest tlu-rvin, or for the dt'h'|'llllllt\lllIl\ Ill any form of nuvh right or tlihhd.

and for injuries to real pm|u'rt)'

'24]. For tlw p.\rt|'.ion of ml prnpc-rt_\

ltd.

For the ions-losum of n lnortgngv of rvnl ||m|-vrty, I'hmdnl, that when such

real propertf is situated partly in nine muuty and partlv m iumthrr. "10
pluintitl she I bring his action in tho munty whcrv the gn-at’:-r lllﬂllﬂl of ﬂlfh
n-nl estate is situate. and the munty Q0 ~vltu'll'sl shnll he the 1-r"|-"I "'‘l''‘.‘' ""
llm trinl of any or all such u-tions nu urn nu-uumml an thu -u tmn
t\'ennr~-For penalties. lurfelhrn ~lIu~rpt

SM‘ '27. ('13.)

\nln~t public clam]

.\('ti0n.\\ for tho fullotrtug mils:-~ shall he truul tn the

vounty where the t'lttt.\t', or aulttv part tln-rout, nnm», ﬂ||)Jl\‘t ln tlw lthr |-wet

of the oonrt to clmnfv the plum of tnul , lat. For the ru~uvor\- ul e |It'li||ll_\

or forl'en.urn imposu hy statute, except that when it is int]:-maul‘ for an uiTvﬂ""
00IIIm’I'.l4:(l on a lake, river or other stream of tutor. ntnnh-1| In hm or mon

countiea. the action may be brought in any oountv honh-nng an snrh lliv.
ﬁver or -m-emu. end opposite to tho plnce wlu-rv the 0"'l-tue Wu t'||IDl'lIl"l'd
2d,_.\guinst a public oilicer or person uspoctnllv appointed to vlfﬂllt lit
dutios, for an act done b ' _lnm_ tn virtue of his ollicc, or nguimt I |Iﬂ'ﬂ"" "h"

by llltl commundzor in ns anl, does nnything tom-hing the duties M Nd‘
olﬁcer, or for a failure to perform any act or duty whivh he in hy luv n-qnin-I
[Rl6“‘fIt!!‘—-|lr|MI'l|-ll! from Stats foetruh 7 I'0ﬂ\.]

55" 23- $244
in n-hi:-h Hm

in all other ounce the action shall lw tnul Ill the Wul"!


[Of the Place of Trial of Civil Actions‘,

in which the contract was to be performed; actions upon notes or bills of
exchange in the county where the same are made payable; and actions for
torts in the county where the tort was committed, subject, however, to the
power of the court to change the place of trial as provided in this act.
[Counties attached—Jurlsdlctiom]

SEC. 29. (25.) When a county shall be attached to another county for
judicial purposes, actions arising or triable therein, of which a district court

shall have exclusive jurisdiction, shall be commenced and tried in the county
to which such county may be so attached.
[Change of venue~Canses, provism]

SEC. 30. (26.) The court may on good cause shown, change the place of
trial in the following cases: 1st, When the county designated in the complaint

is not the proper county.

2d, When there is reason to believe that an

impartial trial cannot be had therein. 3d, When the convenience of witnesses
and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change. _4th, When, from

any cause, the judge is disqualiﬁed from acting in the_ action; Provided, the
court shall not change the place of trial for the disquahﬁcat1_on _0f the district
judge in any case where a competent judge of another d1str1ct court will
appear and try the action.
[Interest or prejudice of judgc—Ol‘ inhabitants—Aﬂldavit—Contents—1totices4

SEC. 31. (27.) If either party, in any civil action which may be depend
ing in any district or county court, shall fear that he W11] not receive a fair
trial in the court in which the action is pending, on account that the judge is
interested or prejudiced, or is related to, or shall have been of counsel for

either party, or that the adverse party has an undue 1n_fluence_ over the nnnds
of the inhabitants of the county wherein the action 1s pcndmg, or that_thc
inhabitants of the county Wherein the action is pending are prejudiced
against the applicant, so that he cannot expect a fan-_ tnal, such party_may
apply to the court in term time, or the judge thereof In vacation, by petition,
settin forth the cause of application, and praymg a change of venue, accom
panic by an affidavit, verifying the facts in the petition stated, and reasona
lc notice of the application having been given to the other party or his
attorney.
[Exception to ruling of court—Error—A1Iiants not parties-0ne change only.]

SEC. 32. (2.) If the court to Which, or the judge to whom, such applica
tion is addressed shall be of opinion that the cause alleged 1n the petition as a
- ground for changing the venue exist, the venue shall be changed; ‘but if the

court or judge shall be of opinion that such cause does not exist, the applica
tion shall be denied, and in that case the petitioner may except to the rul11_1g_r of
the court, and assi n error therein in the supreme court; and such pet1t1on
may be $l1pp0rted‘%y the aiﬁdavit of persons who are not parties to the cause,
if the petitioner shall desire to ﬁle such afﬁdavits, and there shall be but 091;;
change of venue in any action.
p‘ 10! 0rig- aCt.]
Man-0 0-1 when Inn!
(Aetlou. bow MM

SI--on
,\pmnm 1

SEC. 33. (29.0

(‘iv ll avlmm In "10 dulru~t I-maria nnd mum)‘ muﬂn "M" b’

1;; ofu mluplmlnl vnth llw vlv-rk u{ th~- murt m I'hi1’I U"
the L~~l1i|1g of a !-ulnmum thou-m

I5‘u|'ulld, lhll lflﬂ’

am! a defendant III the art:-||| may 1-nlor Inn QPPOP
_
ll appmnlwv shall lmcqulvulcnl

endorw
on Um one
oumplainl
d1)‘.
8nd year "10 Balm _1!} ﬁ!0<l; and atallany
time wilhm
month the
nﬂor
thelII0"“'
mi"
of the same, the phunl1ﬂ' may have a summons :muvJ. The nummom lhlﬁ
be mgned by the clerk and directed to "W dc-fendnm and be xum-d under "I"
seal of the court.
‘
G\oItkeQnNdﬂ0rofRUun..ﬂ1~.Iu: M.rQ.IJM

[01 the Manner of Commencing Civil Actions.

complaint, brieﬂy stating the sum of money or other relief demanded in the
complaint; and the clerk shall_ also endorse on the summons the names of
the plaintiff ’s attorneys.
'
Summons In condemnation proceeding, sec. 240. ch. 21. post.

[Time allowed for answerlng—'l‘en, twenty, forty days.]

SEC. 36. (32.) The time in whicn the summons shall require the defend
ant to answer the complaint shall be as follows: 1st, If the defendant is
served within the county in which the action is brought, ten days. 2d, If
the defendant is served out of the county but in the district in which the
action is brought, twenty days. 3d, For all other cases, forty days.
See an. 2)-21, ch. 41, General Statutos, as to service in forcible entry and detalncr.

[Notice inserted in snnun0ns—ContentsJ

SEC. 37.

There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice in

substance as follows:

First——-In an action arising on contract, for recovery of money or
damages only, that the plaintiff will take judgment for a sum speciﬁed
therein if the defendant fail to answer the complaint.
Second—ln other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the com

laint, the plaintiff will apply to the court for the relief demanded therein.
FSec. 3, p. 54, acts 1881; subs. for section 33, original act.
When defendant deemed to appear, etc, section 405, ch. 88, post.
. When non-resident defendant has appeared how notice. etc, served, sec. 406, ch. 88, post.

[Notice of 11:; pen(lens—ContcnLs, when, how ﬂled—Ei‘l‘ect.]

SEC. 38. (34.), In an action affecting the title to real pro erty, the

plaintiff at the time of ﬁling the complaint, and the defendant at t e time of
ﬁling his answer, when affirmative relief is claimed in such answer, or at
any time afterwards, may ﬁle with the recorder of the county in which the
property is situated a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the

names of the parties to and the object of the action, and a description of the
property in that county affected thereby, and the defendants_ may also, in
such notice, state the nature and extent of the relief claimed in the answer.
From the time of ﬁling such notice only shall the pendency of the action
be constructive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property

affected thereby.
lsummons, by whom served—Bctnru-Appolntco.]

SEC. 39. (35.)

The summons shall be served by the sheriff of the county

where the defendant is found,‘or by his deputy, or by a person specially

?PPOinted by him, or appointed by a judge of the court in which the action
is brought.

When the summons is served by the sh_er1ﬂ° or‘ his deputy, it

shall be returned with the certiﬁcate of the ofﬁcer of its service to the office
of the clerk from which the summons issued. When the suminons'is served

by any other person, as before provided, it shall be returned to the office of
the clerk from which it issued, with the aﬁidavit of such person of its service.
568 sec. 49, post.

[Summoner how served-Several defendants-—-Col‘l)0l‘8ﬂ0ll5—F0l'°|8"“Insane‘?
_
SEC. 40. (37 .) A summons shall be served, except as otherwise PI‘OVId€d

by law, as follows:

By delivering a copy thereof to the defendant, 01' ﬂy

leaving a copy of the writ at the usual place of abode of the defendant, W1 1

A¢tlonl—hoI mmnmmd
(‘olrlphlnt--how endowed end lllul.
Summons-requisite of.
Hummou—Ume to nnnrer.
Sumnwnu-notice to be inserted in.
Notice of pendency of utinn.
$nmmono—by whom renal.
Summons—how nerved~—eor]nrnuo|u -furergn —|lu-no
Summons to be leaned to diluent eounlun
Acknowledgment of service nuﬂclent.
Offer to en-cute sumnwns—when mﬂlcienl.
When nrvioe by publiculion, onlrr.
On‘ler—oontento—oen-ice by mnil—penmul service our of Stale.

How lctlon to proceed qninnt one or more defeudnnl-I.

Proof of I.-rvioe—how lnldc. '
Time end place of service Iu be nlnted.
When court deemed to how enquired jurl-ilctlon.
Clerk mnkc eopieo—permll ponies to do no.

ance therem,
be his
equivalent
_ personally or by attorney, Which appearance yshall
enter
appml“
to personal service of the summons upon him.
For brmgmg suits on mechanics‘ Ilene. see ch. 65. llena. Gen. Statutes.

and

be signed b
seal of th
[Summ0ns—Contents-—Clerk endorse

SEC. 35. (31.)
.thomy’. mm].
_ The summons shall state the
court m wlnch 1ts brought, the county in which he rties
complaint
ﬁled, the
the
to the is
action,
cause and general nature of the action and r

uire the defendant to B

apd anhswer the complamt wlthm the time lnZ(ll‘|l.l0Iled in the next 8e0‘l°n'

a terttb e servme 0f_ the summons, exclusive of the day of service, or that jlld8'

men

y defaultwﬂl be taken against him accordmg to the prayer of the complaint, brieﬂy stating the sum of money or other relief demanded in the
complaint; and the clerk shall also endorseon the summons the names of
the plaintiﬂ" ’s attorneys.
'
Summons in condemnation proceeding. sec. 240, ch. 21, post.

[Time allowed for amwerlng—Ten, twenty, forty days.]

SEC. 36. (32.) The time in whicn the summons shall require the defend
ant to answer the complaint shall be as follows: 1st, If the defendant is
served within the county in which the action is brought, ten days. 2d, If
the defendant is served out of the county but in the district in which the
action is brought, twenty days. 3d, For all other cases, forty days.
See ss. 2)-21, ch. 41, General Statutes, as to service in forcible entry and detainerv
Sao. 37. (33.)

There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice in

substance as follows:
First—In an action arising on contract, for recovery of money or
damages only, that the plaintiff will take judgment for a sum speciﬁed
therein if the defendant fail to answer the complaint.
Sec0nd—In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the com
laint, the plaintiff will ap ly to the court for the relief demanded therein.
FSec. 3, p. 54, acts 1881; subs. for section 33, original act.
When defendant doomed to appear, etc, section 405, ch. 88. post.
. When non-resident defendant has appeared how notice, etc., served, sec. 406, ch. 38, post.

[Notice of Us pendens—C0ntents, when, hotv ﬂled—Effech]

SEC. 38. (34.), In an action affecting the title to real property, the

plaintiff at the time of ﬁling the complaint, and the defendant at t e time of
ﬁling his answer, when afﬁrmative relief is claimed in such answer, or at

any time afterwards, may ﬁle with the recorder of the county in which the
property is situated a notice of the pendency of the action, c0nta_1nmg the
names of the parties to and the object of the action, and a description of the

property in that county affected thereby, and the defendants_ may also, in
such notice, state the nature and extent of the rehef claimed in the answer.
From the time of ﬁling such notice only shall the pendency of the action
be constructive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property
affected thereby.
[Sunnn0ns, by whom serv'ed—Beturn—App01ntee-]

SEC. 39. (35.) The summons shall be served by the sheriff of the county
Where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by a person specially
?-Ppointed by him, or appointed by a judge of the court _1n which the action
13 brought. When the summons is served by the sher1ﬂ' or. l1lS deputy, it
shall be returned with the certiﬁcate of the ofﬁcer of its service to the oﬂice
Of the clerk from which the summons issued. When the summons is served
by any 0thcr person, as before provided, it shall be returned to the oﬁ"1ce_ of
the clerk from which it issued, with the affidavit of such person of its service.
See sec. 49, post.

Ovided

Snc. 40. 37. A summons shall be served, except as 0 l6I‘W1S6 Pr
by law, as follouis; By delivering a copy thereof to the defendgmt,t or

Y

caving 8. copy of the writ at the usual place of abode of the defen an , W1
Sue. 33. (29.) Civil actions in the district courts and county courts shall be
commenced by the ﬁhng of u. complaint with the clerk of the court in which the
action is brou ht, and the issuin
_ of tie cmuplamt
‘ a. defendant
g of a summons
therein:
that
8116'
the ﬁlmg
in the action
mayProvided,
enter his
appear
ance therein, personally or by attorney, which appearance shall be equivulellt

to personal service of the summons upon him.
For bringing suits on Inechlnlcf Hem. nee ch. 65. Ilene. Gen. Bhtuten.

Sec. 35. (31.)
_

The summons shall state the

court in which its brought, the county
cause and general nature of the action,

in which

arties to the action, the

t 142 complaint is ﬁled, the
‘and require complaint, brieﬂy stating the sum of money or other relief demanded in the
complaint; and the clerk shall_also endorse on the summons the names of
the plaintiﬂ"s attorneys.
Summons In condemnation proceeding. sec. 240. ch. 21, post.

[Time allowed for answerlng—’l‘en, twenty, forty days]

SEC. 36. (32.) The time in Whicn the summons shall require the defend
ant to answer the complaint shall be as follows: 1st, If the defendant is
served within the county in which the action is brought, ten days. 2d, If
the defendant is served out of the county but in the district in which the
action is brought, twenty days. 3d, For all other cases, forty days.
See us. 2)-21. ch. 41, General Statutes, as to service In forcible entry and detalner.

[Notice inserted in summons-Contents]

SEC. 37. (33.)

There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice in

substance as follows:

First—In an action arising on contract, for recovery of money or
damages only, that the plaintiff will take judgment for a sum speciﬁed
therein if the defendant fail to answer the complaint.
Sec0nd—In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the com

laint, the plaintiff will ap ly to the court for the relief demanded therein.
FSec. 3,p. 54, acts 1881; subs. for section 33, original act.
When defendant deemed to appear, etc, section 405, ch. 88. post.

_ When non~x-esldent defendant has appeared now notice, etc.. served, sec. 406, ch. 38, post.
[Notice of lis pendens—C0ntents, when, hotv ﬂ1ed—Eﬂ‘ecL]

SEC. 38. (34.), In an action affecting the title to real pro erty, the

plaintiff at the time of ﬁling the complaint, and the defendant at t e time of
ﬁling his answer, when afﬁrmative relief is claimed in such answer, or at
any time afterwards, may ﬁle with the recorder of the county in which the
property is situated a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the

names of the parties to and the object of the action, and a description of the
pro erty in that county affected thereby, and the defendants_ may also, in
wolf notice, state the nature and extent of the relief claimed in the answer.

From the time of ﬁling such notice only shall the pendency of the action
be constructive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property

affected thereby.
lsummons, by whom served—Return—AppointeeJ

SEC. 39. (35.)

The summons shall be served by the shenff of the county

Where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by a person specially
Fppointed by him, or appointed by a judge of the court in which the action
15 brought. When the summons is served by the sheriff or. his deputy, 1t
Shall be returned with the certiﬁcate of the ofﬁcer of its service to the oﬁice
of the clerk from which the summons issued. \Vhen the summons is served
by any other person, as before provided, it shall be returned to the ofﬁce. of

the clerk from which it issued, with the aﬁidavit of such person of its service.
See sec. 49, post.

[Summ0ns, how scrved—Scveral defendants—C0rp01'ati0nS—F0l‘0i8‘"—Insane’!
.d d
SEC. 40. (37.) A summons shall be served, except as otherwise provl 6

by
law, aaiogy
. f 11 (c)>‘fVstl1e
; wilt
B d8ll;ll3‘l1e8n1l1Sgl'l£ll
1' '
a place
copy of
thereof
by
caving
abodetoofthe
thedefendant,
defendant, orwith
Sec. 3:_)_. (31_.) The summons shall state the
rties to the action, we
court in which its brought, the county in which t e complaint is ﬁled, the
cause and general nature of the action, and require the defendant to appear
and answer the complamt within the time mentioned in the next 5°‘-'ﬁ°n'

_ ebesummons,
exclusive
the do of to
service,
or thatof
judg'
ment by default W111
taken against
himof accordihg
the prayer
the complaint, brieﬂy stating the sum of money or other relief demanded in the
complaint; and the clerk shall also endorse,on the summons the names of
the plaintiff ’s attorneys.
‘
Summons in condemnation proceedinzI sec. 240. ch. 21, post,

[Time allowed for answering—Ten, twenty, forty days]

SEC. 36. (32.) The time in whicn the summons shall require the defend
ant to answer the complaint shall be as follows: 1st, If the defendant is
served Within the county in which the action is brought, ten days. 2d, If
the defendant is served out of the county but in the district in which the
action is brought, twenty days. 3d, For all other cases, forty days.
See ss. 2)-21, ch. 41, General Statutes, as to service in forcible entry and detalner.
[Notice inserted in summons—Cout/ents.]

SEC. 37. (33.) There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice in
substance as follows:
’
F1?rst—In an action arising on contract, for recovery of money or
damages only, that the plaintiff will take judgment for a sum speciﬁed
therein if the defendant fail to answer the complaint.
Second—ln other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the com

laint, the plaintiff will ap ly to the court for the relief demanded therein.
FSec. 3, p. 54, acts 1881; su s. for section 33, original act. '
When defendant deemed to appear, etc, section 405. ch. 38, post.
. When non-resident defendant has appeared new notice, etc, served, sec. 406, ch. 88, post.

[Notice of lls pendens—C0ntcnts, when, hotv ﬁled-Eil’ect.]

Sac. 38. (34.)

In an action affecting the title to real pro erty, the

plaintiff at the time of ﬁling the complaint, and the defendant at t e time of
ﬁling his answer, when afﬁrmative relief is claimed in such answer, or at
any time afterwards, may ﬁle with the recorder of the county in which the
property is situated a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the
names of the parties to and the object of the action, and a description of the

property in that county affected thereby, and the defendants may also, In
such notice, state the nature and extent of the relief claimed in the answer.

From the time of ﬁling such notice only shall the pendency of the action
be constructive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property

affected thereby.
lsummolls, by whom served—Return—App0intee.]

SEC. 39. (35.) The summons shall be served by the shenff of the county
Where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by a person specially
?PPOinted by him, or appointed by a judge of the court in which the action
ls brought. When the summons is served by the sheriff or_h1s deputy, it
Shall be returned with the certiﬁcate of the officer of 1ts service to the ofﬁce
of the clerk from which the summons issued. VVhen the summons is served
by any other person, as before provided, it shall be returned to the office of
the clerk from which it issued, with the afﬁdavit of such person of its service.
See sec. 49, post.

lsummons, how scrved_Sevcrnl dci’endants—C0l‘ll0l‘ﬂti°'l9~—F°"elg"“ Insane‘!
SEC. 40. (37.)

.d d

A summons shall be served, except as otherw1se provi e

by
law, aa:.op())y
. f 11 (dlfvsthe
; wilt
B daftltlieenlllsglial
1' ‘
a place
copy Of
thereof
by
saving
abodetoofthe
thedefendant,
defendant’ orwlth

Time nnd plnoe of nerﬁro ~- hr mud.
When court d1--|m~d m hnvv l\l‘f|\lil't'1| jnridioﬂon.
Clerk nuke copivn -permit portion to do no.

the ﬁling of the complaint a defendant in the action may enter his appeal’
ance therem, pe_rsonally or by attorney, which appearance shall beequivalenl
to personal service of the summon
s upon him.
For bringing sulta on mechanics’ llena. see ch. 65. Hens. Gen. Slatulu.

. rse on tho oomplaint the day, month
me wlthin one month after the ﬁlm

_ have toa the
summons
issued.
summons
be mgned by the clerk and du-ected
defendant,
and The
be issued
underaha
the
35. 31.it?s br0\‘;:g}s1l:,':ctI,}I:1ons
Th
courtS20.
in whiog
shall State .the

. esummons,exclusi
d
f t:ertvt::e'p(;;)'el:
'
H t'
d '
ment by default wlll
be taken against $13fth
ac:ord‘1)ng
0Jfut§°
[Of the Manner of Commencing Civil Actimu.

complaint, brieﬂy stating the sum of money or other relief demanded in the
complaint; and the clerk shall_also endorse on the summons the names of
the plaintiff ’s attorneys.
Summons In condemnation proceeding, sec. 240, ch. 21, post.

[Time allowed for answering—Ten, twenty, forty days.]

SEC. 36. (32.) The time in whicn the summons shall require the defend
ant to answer the complaint shall be as follows: 1st, If the defendant is
served within the county in which the action is brought, ten days. 2d, If
the defendant is served out of the county but in the district in which the
action is brought, twenty days. 3d, For all other cases, forty days.
See as. 23-21, ch. 4.1, General Statutes, as to service in lorclbie entry and detslner.

SEC. 37. (33.)

There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice in

substance as follows:
'
First—In an action arising on contract, for recovery of money or
damages only, that the plaintiff will take judgment for a sum speciﬁed
therein if the defendant fail to answer the complaint.
Sec0nd—In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the com

laint, the plaintiff will ap ly to the court for the relief demanded therein.
FSec. 3, p. 54, acts 1881; su s. for section 33, original act.
When defendant deemed to appear, etc, section 405, ch. 88, post.
_ When non-resident defendant has appeared how notice, etc., served, sec. 406. ch. 38, post.

[Notice of Us pendens—C0nients, when, how ﬂled—Eﬂ’ect.]

SEC. 38. (34.), In an action affecting the title to real property, the
plaintiff at the time of ﬁling the complaint, and the defendant at t e time of
ﬁling his answer, when affirmative relief is claimed in such answer, or at
any time afterwards, may ﬁle with the recorder of the county in which the
property is situated a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the

names of the parties to and the object of the action, and a description of the
property in that county affected thereby, and the defendants may also, in

such notice, state the nature and extent of the relief claimed in the answer.
From the time of ﬁling such notice only shall the pendency of the action
be constructive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property
affected thereby.
lsummolls, by whom served—Retur||—Appointee.]

SEC. 39. (35.) The summons shall be served by the sheriff of the county
Where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by a person specially
?Ppointed by him, or appointed by a judge of the court in which the action

18 brought. When the summons is served by the sheriff or_h1s deputy, it
Shall be returned with the certiﬁcate of the oﬂicer of its service to the oﬂice
of the clerk from which the summons issued. When the summons is served
by any other person, as before provided, it shall be returned to the ofﬁce_ of
the clerk from which it issued, with the afﬁdavit of such person of its service.
5% sec. 49, post.

SEC. 40. (37.)

A summons shall be served, except as otherwise pr0V1 9

by
lay , aaf‘-05y
f 11 (dfvstlie
; wiit
B doi.1'1l;‘l1eeni.ll1S%1£tl
'
9, place
copy Of
thereof
‘by
eavinvg
abodetoOfthe
thedefendant,
defendant, orWlth
Section. 33. (29.) Civil actions in the district courts and county courts shall be
commenced by the ﬁling of a complaint with the clerk of the court in which the
action is brought, and the issuing of a summons therein: Provided, that after
the ﬁling of the complaint a defendant in the action may enter his appear
ance therein, personally or by attorney, which appearance shall be equivalent
to personal service of the summons upon him.
For bringing suits on mechanics‘ liens, see ch. 65, liens, Gen. Statutes.

[Summons within ni0ntli—Sumni0ns, how signed, sealed, directed.]

Clerk keep register of actions. etc~. sec. 407, ch. 38. post.

[Summons—C0ntents—Clerk endorse nttorney’s named

Sac. 35_. (31_.) The summons shall stat
court in Which its brought, the county in
cause and general nature of the action, and re
and answer the complaint within the time mentioned in the next section,
after the service of the summons, exclus
ive of the day of service, or that judg
en against him according to the prayer of the complaint, brieﬂy stating the sum of money or other relief demanded in the

complaint; and the clerk shall also endorse on the summons the names of
the plaintiff ’s attorneys.
Summons in condemnation proceeding. sec. 240. ch. 21. post.

[Time allowed for answerlng—Ten, twenty, forty days]

SEC. 36. (32.) The time in whicn the summons shall r uire the defend
ant to answer the complaint shall he as follows: 1st, If tie defendant is
served within the county in which the action is brought, ten days. 2d, If
the defendant is served out of the countv but in the district in which the
action is brought, twenty days. 3d, For all other cases, forty days.
See an. It-21, ch. 4!. General Statutes, as to service in forcible entry and detainer.

[Notice Inserted in summons-—Contents.]

SEC. 37. (33.) There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice in
substance as follows:
'
First——In an action arising on contract, for recovery of money or

damages only, that the plaintiff will take judgment for a sum speciﬁed
therein if the defendant fail to answer the complaint.
Second——ln other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the com

laint, the plaintiff will ap ly to the court for the relief demanded therein.
FSec. 3, p. 54, acts 1881; su s. for section 33, original act.
When defendant deemed to appear, etc. , section 4%. ch. 23. post.
When non-resident defendant has appeared how notice. etc. served, sec. 406. eh. m, poet.
~

[Notice of Us pendens-Contents, when, how ﬂled—-I-Ilfech]

Sac. 38. (34.) In an action affecting the title to real pro erty, the
plaintiff at the time of ﬁling the complaint, and the defendant at t e time of
ﬁling his answer, when aﬁirmative relief is claimed in such answer, or at
any time afterwards, may ﬁle with the recorder of the county in which the
property is situated a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the
names of the parties to and the object of the action, and a description of the

pro rty in that county affected thereby, and the defendants may also, in
we

notice, state the nature and extent of the relief claimed in the answer.

From the time of ﬁling such notice only shall the pendency of the action
be constructive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property

affected thereby.
lsuullollﬂ, by whom served-Beturn—AppolnteeJ

.

Sm. 39. (35.) The summons shall be served by the sheriff of the county
where the defendant is foundfor by his deputy, or by a person specially

aP
inted byWhen
him, orthepgummonsyis
a ointed b a gerved
'udge ofbythe
in which
action
is bibught.
thecourt
sheriff
or. his the
deputy,
it
shall be returned with the certiﬁcate of the oﬂicer of its service to the oﬂice
of the clerk from which the summons issued. When the summons'is served
by any °ther person, as before provided, it shall be returned to the oﬂice of
the clerk from which it issued, with the aﬂidavit of such person of its service.
508 sec. 49, post.


[Snmmons, how scrved—Several defendants—Corporations—Foreign-Insane]

Sac. 40. (37.) A summons shall be served, except as otherwlse provldﬁd
by law, as follows: By delivering a copy thereof to the defendant, °1‘_tly
leaving a 001))’ Of the writ at the usual place of abode of the defendant, some member of his family, over the age of ﬁfteen years; when there are
several defendants, residents of the same county, by deliverin to each defend
ant a copy of the writ, and to such as may be subsequent y summoned a
copy of the writ, or by leaving such copy at the usual place of abode of the
defendant with some member of his family over the age of ﬁfteen (years. If
the suit be brought against a corporation, service shall be made by elivering
a copy of the summons to the president, or other head of the corporation, or
to the secretary, cashier, treasurer or general agent thereof; but if no such

. officer of the corporation can be found in the county, service may be had
on any stockholder of such corporation. If the suit be against a foreign cor
poration, or a non-resident joint stock company or association, doing business
within this State, service shall be made by delivering a copy of the writ to
an agent, cashier or secretary thereof; in the absence of such agent, cashier,
treasurer or secretary, to any stockholder. If the suit be against a minor under
the age of fourteen years, service shall be made by delivering a copy of the
writ to such minor, pprsonally, and also to his or her father, mother or
guardian, or if there e none in the State, then to any person having the
care or control of such minor, or with whom he or she resides, or in whose

service he or she is employed. If the suit be against a person judicially
declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his or her own

affairs,_and for whom a guardian has been appointed, service shall be had by
dehvermg a copy of the writ to such guardian.
[Summons to different couuties.]

SEC. 41. (38.) When there are several defendants residing in different
counties, a separate summons may be issued to each county,including all the
defendants residing therein.
[Acknowledgment of service.]
SEQA2. (39.)

A written acknowledgment of service of summons upon

lnm by a defendant shall be deemed valid and sufficient service.
[Offer oi’ copy and rei'usal-Suﬁicie-nt.]

Sec. 43. (40.)

In all cases when the defendant shall refuse to receive a

copy of the summons upon the offer of the oﬂicer or other person to deliver
a copy thereof, such offer and refusal shall be suﬂicie~nt service of such sum

mons.
[Order for publication—ln what casea]

SEC. 44. (41.)

When the person on whom the service is to be made resides

out of the State, or has departed from the State, or cannot, after due dili
gence, be found within the State, or conceals himself to avoid the service of

summons,
andinthewhich
fact shall
appear is.
bvafﬁdavitﬁl
' ti ea ftlifiacnililer
- 1 k
of the court
the action
pending, andd iltnshlaell0i11ceii(l)<e
appear t_hata cause of action exists against the defendant, in respect to Whom

1s a necessary or proper party to the
by publication of the summons.
Publication in condemnatwn proceedings, see sec, 240, ch. 21, eminent domain post.

[0rd°r_c°nmnts_'P“b“°atl°““Cle"k “end by mail—Persounl service out of Stated

SEC. 45. (42.) The order shall d‘

t th
‘ newspaper, pubhshed
bl
pubhc
ini this Silt, to bepdlesilgcrlizlifeld
:2 
've notice to the person to be served; and such publication shall be made at
east once a week for four successive weeks. In case of publication, Wllere
the residence of a non-resident or absent defendant is known, the clerk thereof

uhlication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons out of the
gtate shall be uiviilent to publication and deposit in the st-oﬂice In case
of such peisona service, the service of summons shall be eemed complete at
the expiration of forty days thereafter; and in case of publication, the service

of summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of ten days after the
expiration of the time prescribed for publication.
[Several defendants, part not sern-d—l’mt~ecdliigii.]

Slit‘. 46. (43)

Where the action is against two or more defendants, and

the summons is served on one or more, but not on all of them, the plaintiff
may proceed as follows: Fimt—lf the action be against defendants jointl

indebted upon a contract, he may proceed against the defendants serv

unless the court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be
entered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it
may be enforced against the joint property of all, and the separate property of

the defendants served." Second-—lf the action be against defendants, severally
liable, he may proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as
if they were the only defendants.
[Proof of servlee -0! pnbllcattond

Site. 47. (44.)

Proof of the service of the summons shall be as follows:

Fir8t—If served by the sheriff or his deput , the certiﬁcate of such sheriff or
deputy. Secoml—lf by any other person, is affidavit thereof. Third—In
caseof publication, the atﬁdavit of the editor, publisher or his foreman, or

his rincipal clerk, sliowiiig the same, and an affidavit of a deposit of a copy
Of tlie summons in the post-oflice, if the same shall have been deposited.

Fourth—The written ll(l|Ill'kQl0ll of defendant.

Seesec.S9ante

l'I‘|nic, place and manner amt be statrd.1
I

Sr:(:, -13, 44.3,)
In case of service otherwise than by pnblication,_the cer~

tlﬁcate or atﬁdiivit-shall state the time, place and manner of the service.
ulrllﬂlctloa. when takes eIect—Appearanee -Unknown partlc-a, pabIlcatlon—El-l’ect.| I ‘
SEC. 49. (-16.) From the time of the service of the s_un_imons iii a civil

aclimli the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction and to have
oontrol of all subsequent proceediiigs.

A voluntary appearance of a defend

ant shall be equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him. If any
Plaintiff shall allege that there are, or that he verily believes that there are,
Persons interested in the subject matter of the complaint, whose names he
?8DDOt insert therein because they are unknown to him, and shall describe the

Interest of such persons and how derived, so far as his knowledge extends,_
the court, or the jud e thereof in vacation, shall make an order, as in case of
l10n~residents, for pu dication of the suinmoiis, reciting, moreover, the sul;
atmice of the allegations of the L'0l|1[!ltllllt in relation to the interest of Sll]CI

“Hknown parties, and after the t'0Il][Ilt'llHll of service by such publication, t ie

Of the Manner of Commencing Civil Actionm]

court shall have jurisdiction of such erson, and any judgment or decree
rendered in the action. The action she. I apply to and conclude such persons
with respect to such interest in the subject matter of the action.
[Clerk make copies--Allow‘ parties and attorneys to copy.]

SEC. 50. (36.-) It shall be the duty of the clerk issuing the summons, at
the request of either party therefor, to make out a copy or copies of any
paper or pleading ﬁied -in the action, and to allow parties or their attorneys
to make such copies themselves.

Pleldinge—wlmt vnnstltlllrl.
Suﬁclency of pl!-riding -hon" (lI'iA'|'IlllDﬂ|.
Pltldingn on port of |»l5inlil' and dcfcudnnt.
t'mnplsint—whnt to contain.
When defendant mny demur—vnu.ses.
Ilemurrer must speedy groumls of objection.

Dunurn-r snd snnn-r~ each to part.’

Amended eompluint—how ﬂirt] snd served.
Objection not sppcaring on compllint.

Objectlon—sﬂu-n tin-med waived.
Ansver--I'hnt tn mntnin—dcninl, etc.

('0l1niei' clnim, what constitutes.
Crom dt-msnds—cmnpenuu'un.
-4

Sever-nl defenses—legul, t'l|lilll\lJlC.
n

Beplicstion to nnswer sud .~hmn and irn-levnnt defense.
Plesdiugs, by Ihum n-riﬁed—lmw.
llmr by corporation.
SEC. 52. (48.) The mode of pleadin s in civil actions, and the rules by
which the sufficiency of the pleadings s all be determined, shall be as pre~
scribed in this act and not otherwise.
[What pleadings allowed—Plalntll—De!endanL]

Sec. 53. (49.) The only pleadings on the part of the plaintiff shall be
the complaint, demurrer, or replication to the defendant’s answer; and the
only pleadings on the part of the defendant shall he a demurrer to the com
plaint, or 'a demurrer to the replication, or an answer to the complaint.

The

pleadings shall be ﬁled with the clerk.
[Complalnt—Tltle—Names—l~‘acts—Prayer.]

SEC. 54. (50.)

The complaint shall contain:

1st, The title of the action,

specifying the name of the court and the name of the county in which- the
action is brought, and the name of the parties to the action, plaintiff and
defendant.

2d, A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action,

in ordinary and concise language, w-ithout unnecessary repetition. 3d, A
demand for the relief which plaintiff claims, and if the recovery of money or
damages be demanded the amount thereof shall be stated.
[])efeiidant—Caiises of demnrren]

_ SEO.
(_51.) The defendant may demur to the complaint within the
time required in summons to answer, when it ap ears upon the face thereof;
either, 1st,‘ That the court has no jurisdiction 0 the ei-son of the defendant
or the subject of the action; or, 2d, That the plaintiff as no legal capacity 'i0
sue; or, 3d, That there is another action pending between the same parties
fonthe same cause; or, 4th, That there is a defect or misjoinder of parties,
plaintiff or defendant; or, 5th, That several causes of action have been ill1PI‘°'
perly united; or, 6th, That the complaint does not state facts suﬁicient to consti

tute a cause of action; or, 7th, That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible
or uncertain.
[Denmrrer must show cause]

whiclS1r:(;.n?66f(5t%1.g o'%)‘jlgz demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds HPOII
may be disregarded.

tion S t 0 th e comp 1 amt
'
' do so, it
are
taken,. unless it

Not both to same matter—-I"rlvolous.]

ay demur to the whole complaint or to

posed

f h f

h

same cause of action;

'
0 the
9 Ore
any ot er lead‘
t th same
fggﬁiigftactlfllkshall
be ﬁled~
Pon
determinationpof
3,:lI;’gdglI1u(;‘l‘e1‘
or
cause Oriois ii ebout the- wh°1e°.r “FY part of any Pleading of fact in any
'

g M y rought "1 any district court, the unsuccessful party should
ve Sellers, 5101' more than ten dollars, intg
par e, an
h ll
1
I
before such unsuccessful party shall
perm_itflesdnlhepio:eed)ea:ic;ufii‘1lraiéi‘ail\
, and neither party nor the court shall
shall have been or shall be, upon sufficient showing, permitted to prosecute
or defend as it poor person. Every such sum paid into court, if not claimed
by the party or parties entitled thereto, or their attorney, within thirt

days

after such payment, shall be deemed a ﬁne to the county, and shal be so
reported and paid over by the clerk, as in the case of other fines and penalties.
[(3-phlIt—AIeud-elts—Defaalt in auwerhg.]

Sec. 55. (54.) If the complaint be amended, a copy of the amendments
shall be filed, or the court may, in its discretion, require the complaint as
amended to be filed. The defendant shall answer in such time as ma be
ordered by the court, and judgment by default may be entered upon failure
to answer, as in other cases.
[Objections by answer, when.]

Sin‘. 59. (55).)

When any of the matters enumerated in section fifty-one

[55] do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be
taken by answer.
Sec 61. lbonr referred to. In are 66 (51) of this chapter

"hirer of objections-Jnrlsdli-tlon--Want of fu:tn.l

SEC. 60. (56.) If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer,

the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, exceptmg only the
objection to thcjurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the complaint
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, which objections

may be raised at any time.
lllmver. content.s—lh-ninl, avoidance-Counter claim-Want of knowledge-.]

Sec. 61. (57.)

The answer of the defendant shall contain a specific

denial to each allegation in the complaint intended to
controverted by
the defendant and may contain a statement of any matter in avoidance or ii
counter claim constituting a defense, or the subject matter of cross complamt
‘-which may entitle the defendant to relief against the plaintiff alone or against
a defendant or co-defendants. In denying any allegation in the com hunt
not presumtively within the knowledge of the defendant, it shall be sufficient
to put such allegation, in issue for the defendant to state, as to any such alle
gation, he has not and cannot obtain sufficient knowledge or informatloll
upon which to base 8 belief.
lfllllter chll—-What oonatltﬂes-]
SEC. 62. (58.) The counter claim mentioned in the last section shall be
one exisiting in favor of the defendant or plaintiff and agamsta plaintiff or

defendant between whom a several judgment might be had in the action,
and arising out of one of the following causes of action: I'_irst—A cause of
action arising out of the transaction set forth in the complaint or answer as
the foundation of the plaintiff ’s claim or defenda_nt’s defense, or connects
with the subject of the action. Second-—In an action arising _upon contract,

my Other cause of action arising also upon contract and existing at the com
mencement of the action.
[cl'N8"6-lid]-lYheu compensated-l
Site. 63. (59.) When cross-demands have exlslefl betwee-n perilous l.lhne‘i'ei:
such circumstances that if one had brougllt 11" acllon agamst t e 0
counter claim could have been set up, neither shall be deprived of the bene—
ﬁt thereof by the assignment or death of the other; but the two demands shall
be deemed compensated so far as they equal each other.
[Dnfenses, legal, eqnltabIe—Sepantely stated]

Sec. 64. (60.)

The defendant may set forth by answer or cross-complaint

as many defenses and counter claims or set-offs, as he may have, whether the

subject matter of such defenses be such as was heretofore denominated legal
or equitable, or both—they shall each be separately stated; and the several
defenses shall refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer

in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.


[Repllcatlom demurrer to answer—Canses—Tlme-Striking out.]

SEC. 65. (61.) When the answer contains new matter, constituting a
defense, or a counter-claim, or cross-complaint, or set-oil‘, the plaintiff shall,
within ten days (said days to be computed from the time of the ﬁling of such
answer), reply or demur to the same for insuiﬁciency, stating in his demurrer
,the grounds thereof; and he may also, within the same time, demur to

one or more defenses set up in the answer; sham and irrelevant answers and
defenses,‘ and so much of any pleading asmay be irrelevant, redundant,
immaterial or insuﬁicient, may be stricken out on motion, and upon such
termsas the court, in its discretion, may impose. [Sec. 1, p. 215, acts 1879
Substitute
for sec. 61, p. 20, original act—As amended, sec. 1, pp. 57-8, Acts
'1881.
4
[Vex-lﬂcatlon—By whom-Corporatiun—When by attorney-What must show]

Sac. 66. (2.) Every pleading must bé' subscribed by the

arty or h.is

attorney; and when the_ complaint is verified, or when the tate or any
oﬂicer of the State, in his official capacity, is plaintiff, the answer must be
venﬁed, unless _an admission of the truth of the complaint might subject the
party _to a criminal prosecution, or unless an oﬁicer of the State, in his oﬁicial
capacity, is defendant. In all cases of a veriﬁcation of a pleading, the afﬁdﬂ
wt of the party must state that the same is true of his own knowledge, except
as to the matters Which are therein stated on his information and belief, and
as to those matters that he believes itto be true; and when a pleading is

yenﬁed, it must be by the afﬁdavit of a party, unless the parties are absent
mu; the county where the attorney resides, or from some cause unable to
verify_1t, or the facts are within the knowledge of his attorney or other person

ver1 ymg the same. When the pleading is veriﬁed by the attorney, or any
other
of the
h
' the aﬁidavﬂ. the
reasonsperson
why itexcept
is notone
made
by dil:t'<i(t::8,th<ee;i'1tsitess.et
forth m
When
a cor
t‘
'
.
.
oﬂiccr,
smckholdlegfiéggtjiuap
Part),, the veriﬁcation
may be made b

.

erintendent, or attorne th r f

any

d hal state

and the comPlail}t containgna an actlon ls brought upon 8‘ written instrument’
[The Pleadings in Civil Actions.

[lteuu-i of account need not be stated. but notice in live days to adverse party.]

Sac. 67. (64.) It shall not be necessary for a part ' to set forth in a plead
ing the items of an account therein alleged; but e shall deliver to the
adverse party, within five days after a demand thereof in writing, a copy of

the account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof.

The court, or

judge thereof, may order a further account when the one delivered is too’
general, or is defective in any particular.
[Real property-Description.]

SEC. 68. (65.) In an action for the recovery of real propert , such roperty
shall be described by legal sub-divisions, or by its metes an boun s in the
complaint.
[Pleading on judgment—Jurlsdiction need not be stated]

Sec. 69. (66.)

In

leading a judgment or other determination of a

court or oﬂicer of special) jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the

facts conferrin
stated to have

jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be
en duly 'ven or made. If such allegation be controverted

the party pleading shall

bound to establish on the trial the facts confer

ring jurisdiction.
[Pleading on eontraet—Performance how stated]

- SEC. 70. (67.)

I

In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in

a contract, it shall not be necessar

to state the facts showing such

ance, but it may be stated genera ly that the party duly performe

erform

all the

conditions on his part; and if such allegations be controverted, the party
pleading shall establish on the trial the facts showing such performance.
[melding private statute-1

Sec. 71. (£38.) In pleading a private statute, ora right derived therefrom,
it shall be suﬂicient to refer to such statute by its title, and the day of its
approval, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof‘.
lPl6ld|IIz—Lihel or slanden]
SEC. 72. (69.) In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary

iostate in the complaint an intrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the
application to the plaintiff 0 the defamatory matter out of which the cause of
action arose; but 1't shall be sufficient to state generally that the. same was

published or spoken concerning the plaintiff; and if such allegatioirbe con
troverted, the plaintiff shall establish on the trial that it was so published or
spoken.
mlwl—Defense—Trnth aIleged.]
_
SEC. 73. (70.) In the actions mentioned in the last section, the deffend

ani may in his answer allege both the truth of the matter charged as de am:
story and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount ofldamagtehs,
and whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in evi ence

mitigating circumstances.
JOINDEB or causns or ACTION.
[Several causes in same action, when allowed]

SEC. 74. (71.)

The plaintiff may write [unite] severe l causes of action in

the same complaint when they all arise out of any one of the following named

Th: Plcadings in Civil

classes; Provided. they affect all of the same parties, both plaintiff and defend
ant, and affect them in the same character and capacity; And provided, they
do not require different places of trial, to-wit:
[Speciﬁc real property, rents, damages, proﬁts.)

.
Cues FIRsT—AOtiOIJS to recover speciﬁc real property, whether the same
- be claimed by virtue of superiority of title or by superiority of possessor
right, or on account of umawful detainer or forcible entry; and with suc

claims may be united any and all claims for dama es, for rents in arrear, for
proﬁts during any unlawful occu ation thereof, an for any waste committed
thereon; Provided, that all such (2 aims arise from the same property for the

recovery of which the suit is brought.

[Speciﬁc personalty--Detention, eonvernlom].

SECOND Ctass—Actions to recover speciﬁc personal propert , with which
may be joined any and all claims for damages for the unlawfu detention of
the same, or for the forcible taking of the same, including in proper cases
claims _for exemplary damages, and in case the property cannot e recovered
in speciﬁc, damage for the unlawful conversion thereof.
[Damagcs, contract, lujurles—Separate statement.s—I'IqultabIe relief.)

Cease THIRD—All actions sounding only in damages, whether the same
be for breach of contract, sealed or parol, express or implied, or for injuries to
property, person or character, or for any two or more of these causes, and in

all cases it shall be necessary to state separately in the complaint the differ
ent causes for which the action is brought, and in all cases equitable relief
may be granted.
[See us to class llrst, seventh paragraph see. ‘N15. ch. E, post.
See. 268, ch. 22. post.

[Allegations not denied admitted—Replicatlon deemed denled.]

SEC. 75. (72) Every material allegation of the complaint or answer, not
controverted by the answer or replication thereto, shall, for the purposes Of
the_act1on, be taken as true. The statement in the replication of matter ill
avoidance shall, on the tnal, be deemed controverted by the adverse party.
[llaterlal averments, test]

_ Sac. 76, (73.) A material allegation in a leading is dne essential to the
en from the pleading without

claim or defense, and which could not be stricE

leavmg it insulﬁcient. ~
[Demni-rer;t(i_<;'l3'—Vaeatlon—Walver- Terms of replying-Suppl. plendIugs-- Amendment!-—
Sac. 77. (74,)

After the demurrer and h 1‘

th


therem, the pleadin demurred to may be airigifdededglgi ztoii}i:els:.:ed0£Vifl:
out costs, by ﬁhng t e same as amended, and serving a co y theieof on the
adverse party
or his
tt
' ' ten days, who shal have ten days
thereafter
in w,hich
to (f.eu§>l1;1;e));,
within
'
t‘b(:rnpe<ibillie:
'
the term of court, the court shallanswer
ﬁx thethereto,
time by‘f d1l‘1dZi'wt:
lid?
but the party shall not so amend more than once.
A demurrer shall be

[The pleading: in Civil Actions.

answer to be ﬁled. If the demurrer to the answer be overruled, and there be
no replication then ﬁled, the court may, upon terms, allow a replication to be
ﬁled. When a demurrer to a replication is overruled, new matter in the rep

lication shall be taken as denied.

Where facts occurring subsequent to the

commencement render it proper, the same may, b leave of court, be pre
sented by supplemental pleadings, and issue taken tfiereon in the same man

ner as in the case of original pleadings.
If a demurrer, heard in vacation, shall be sustained at the hearing, the

opposite party ma amend in such time and upon such terms as the judge by
or er shall prescribe, and the amended pleading shall be answered or demur
red to within ten days after such amendment. If the demurrer shall be over
ruled, the party demurring shall ﬁle further pleadings within ﬁve days after
the demurrer shall be overruled, unless further time be granted. At the

hearing either party may ar ue the demurrer orally, or submit it on written
argument. The judge shal immediately transmit the order made at the
hearing to the clerk, who shall at once enter the same in the' records of the
court. If any pleading shall not be ﬁled within the time as prescribed and
provided for in this section respectively, default shall be entered against the
defaulting party as in other cases. [Sec. 3, pp. 216-17, acts 1879—Subs. for
sec. 74, pp. 23-4, orig. act.
[Amendments—Surprlse—BelleI’ against judgment]

SEC. 78. (75) The court may on motion, in furtherance of justice, and
on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceeding by

adding or striking out the name of any party; or by correctmg a mistake in
the name of a part ; or a mistake in any other respects [respect], and may

upon like terms enlarge the time for an answer, rep

or demurrer to an answer ﬁled.

ication upon
The court may likewise,
upon demurrer,
aﬁidavit,

showing good cause therefore [therefor], after notice to the adverse party,

allow upon such terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or pro
ceeding in any other particulars [particular]; and may.upon like terms,
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this act; and may upon
such terms as may be just and upon payment of costs, relieve a party or his

legal re resentatives from a judgment order or other proceeding, taken
against im through mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect;
and when for any cause satisfactory to the court, or the judge at chambers,

the party aggrieved has been unable to apply for the rehef_sought during the
term at which such judgment, order or proceeding complained of was taken,
the court or judge at chambers, in vacation, may grant the relief upon appli
cation made within a reasonable time, not exceeding ﬁve months after the
adjournment of the term.

When, from any cause, the summons in an action

has not been personally served on the defendant, the _court may allow, on
‘inch terms as mav be just, such defendant or his legal representatives, at any
tlme within six nionths after the rendition of any judgment in such action,

t0 answer to the merits of- the original action.
[Unknown defeudantm]

Sac. 79. (76.)

When the plaintiff is ignorant 9f the name of .8 defendant

such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by1 _anY
name, and when his true name is discovered the pleadings or procee ings

may be amended accordingly.

Sec. 80. (77.) In the construction of a pleading for the purpose_of
determining its effects [effect its allegations shall be liberally construed With
a view to substantial justice etween the parties.
[Substantial rlghts—lmmaterhl tlcfects—Sui'prlse.]

Sac. 81. (78.)

The court shall in every stage of an action, disregard any

error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not affect the sub
stantial rights of the parties, and no judgment shall be reversed or affected
by reason of such error or defect. If upon the trial of an action before the
court or jury, the evidence shall vary from the allegations of the pleadings,

and either party is surprised thereby, he shall be allowed, on motion, and
showing|_cause therefor, and on such terms as the court may prescribe.to

amend

is pleadmg to conform to the proof.

Declsious—alltdavlt, 1-83. Und. vs. Sloan.

01-‘ PRUVISIUNAI. asp AL'.\’ILIAR\' ar:m:nii-:s IN (‘IVIL Acrioivs.
SELTIQN 32.

CLAIM no nxnivxnr or rnasonn. rnorsnrr
Delivery ufpcrsoml l|l'0pt‘rl,'\’—-\VhQ|| it may be claimed.


84. Security and jiistifirntion—-requisition lo sheriﬂ‘—si-rvicc.

Atlidavit and its rt-quisitcs.

66. Defendun|.—wlicn entitled to re-dz-liver_v.
N7. Justification of defendant's slirctics.
l-Jxcopdon to snreties and proceedings thereon, or on failure to cxccpt—linhility of clerk.

88. Responsibility of sheriff.
89 Qualification andjnmiﬁcation nfslirtrtlcs.
90. l’rnpert_t'——how trikcn when cmicc-ulcd in building or enclosure.
l’rnpcrt_v~-how kept.
Claim ol' property by third person.
Notice and ai]idnvit~whcn and where to be filed—-24> days.

[Plaintiff may replevy personalty at any ttmebefore jndgment.]

SEC. 82. (79.)

The plaintiff, in an action to recover possession of per

sonal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time be
forejudgment, claim the delivery of such property to him as provided in this
[R0|)lévy—Causes-- - Afflda\'lt—Contents.]

SEC. 83. (80.)

Where a delivefy is claimed, an aﬂidavit shall be made by

the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, showing' First—That the plaintiffis

the owner of the property claimed, particularly describing it, or is lawfully
Entitled to the possession thereof. Scc0nd—That the property is wrongfully
dehlinedlby the defendant. 'l‘hird——The alleged cause of the detention there
of, according to his best knowledge, information and belief. Fourth-That
the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or ﬁne, pursuant to a stat
‘lie, 01' seized under an execution or an attachment against the property of the
plaintiff; or ifso seized, that it is by the statute exempt from such seizure;

and» Fifth—The real value of the property, which aﬁidavit shall be ﬁled with
the clerk uf the court.
lkepleVJ—CndertnkIng—Wrlt—Scrvlce of copy.]

SEC. 84. (4.)

The plaintiff, or his agent, shall file with the clerk of the

00urt a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufﬁc-lent sureties, ‘ap
proved by the clerk, to the effect that they are bound to the delenda_nt in
double the value of the property as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution of
the action
defendant,
without
if return
delay,thereof
and with
be adjudged,
effect, and and
for the
for_return
the payment
of the property
hnn‘ot

Sllch Sum as may from any cause he recovered against. the plaintiff. 'lhc
clerk shall thereupon issue a writ requiring the sheriff to forthwith take the
gyoperty described in the affidavit, if it be in posscssioii of the tl(‘;i6ll(lz1l‘li'c)1
IS agent, and retain it in his custody until dchvered as heremalter pioti-_
he sheriff shall also, without -delay, serve 011 the defendant a ('01)) of
Of Provisional and Auxiliary Rcmedics in C‘-vii Acii-an

the writ, by delivering to him pcrsonall_v, if he can he found, or to ins agent,
from whosc possession the property is taken '. or if ncithcr can he iound._b_v
leaving them at the usual abode of thc dcfcndunt with some person of suita
ble ugc and discretion; or, if lic has no place of ubodc, by putti_ng stud col-y
in the nearest post-oiiice, directed to thct efendnni. [S01-. 4, p. 21 1. acts lhM——
. Subs. for sec. 81. p. ‘.28, orig. act.
As to aunties justifying and lil.!iif!’lIi|: in part. we I 444. ch. iii.

Exccpiiolis to HIll‘0l]l(‘ of clcrk—Wiu~n di-ii-ndant cannot reclaim
property.

Sec. 85. (5.) The defendant inu_\', within two days after thc scrvicc of a
copy of a writ, give notice to the clerk that he cxu-pts to the ._sntiiciciicy of thc
surctics on plaiiititi"s undcrtaking. If he fails to do so within two days after
such service, he shall be dccmcd to have waived all ohjcctioii:-; to them. Vi hcll

the defendant cxccpts, thc surctics shall justify, on noticc lwfon-. thc clerk of
the court, within two days after such noticc, and if they fail to jiiSlil_\' in said
time the property shall he rcturncd hy thc sin-i'iﬁ' to thc do-i'cndant._ l_hP
clerk shall be responsible for thc suilicicnc_r oi~ thc suretics until the 0b]8(‘ll0ii
to them is waived, as above providcd, or until thcy justify.
If the defendant except to thc surctics, he cannot reclaim the properly.

as provided in the next section.
orig. act.

[Sci-.

p. 218, acts 1879-Siil>s for .990. 3'2.

When defendant demand return-Bond.]

SEC. 86. (6.) At any time within t'ort_v-eight hours from the time (fl
the taking of the property and thc scrvice oi‘ the writ, thc dcfcndant 1118)‘, If
he do not except to the sureties of the plaintiff, require the return of the
property, upon giving to the sheriff ll written undertaking, executed by lit“
or more sufficient surctics, to the eficct that they are bound to thc pluintiii 11!

double the value of the property, as stated in thc atﬁdnvit of the plaintiff, for
the_delivery thereof to thc plaintiii‘, if such dclivcrv be adjmlgcd, and for thc
payment to him of such sum as mav for anv cause be recovered ii ainst_th_t‘

defendant. If a return of the property be hot so required in sum time, it
shall be delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided in this chapter. [Sec 5.
p. 218, acts 1S79—3ubs. for sec. 83, orig. act
Sureties must justify. a. 444, ch. 40, post.

'Dei’eudnnt’s snreiics justii’y—Sheriil‘ delirer.]

I
87. (7.) The defendant’s surcties, upon notice to thc pli1iI1llﬁ'.a“'l
within twenty-tour
_ _ hour
_ 5. shall justify before the clerk of the court in thc
same manner as is liil-l1iS chapter provided for the plaintiff’s sureties to justify.
and upon such _]'i_1st1ﬁcati0n, the sheriff shall deliver the propcrtv i0 the

defendant.

[Sec 1, pp. 2181!), acts 1S79—subs. for sec 84, orig. act.~

[Responsibility oi’ sheriilt]

uutiisgs‘

(8.?) The §h91‘iﬁ“Sh£1_ll be_1‘€‘Sp0iiSlbl8 for the defendant’s sureties

and ma;}ri1t1:ii.Ii1y;, or until the justification is completed or expressly “"a“'ed'

Property to the Plaintiff. e t."me and Plate
appomtedr
he
the
‘
‘ _ shall delwer
'
Sees.~H4.c!i.40,thlscode.

[Of Provisional and Auxiliary Remedies in Civil Acliow.

[Qualifications of NIIl'Plli‘."— New bond.~.]

Sec. 39. ($6.) The qualification of snretics and their justification shall
besuch as are prescribed by this act in respcct to suretics on attachment
bonds or undertakings.
“'l‘he court shall allow, upon such terms and within such time as may
be _jn:~;t, the giving of amended or additional undertakings in place of defec
tive or insufficient ones given nndcr the provisions of this chapter." [Sec Ni,
as amended, sec 4, p. 54, acts 1881.
[Sheriff may break hnlldlugs, whom]

Sac. 90. ($47.) If the )ropcrt_v, or any part thereof, be concealed in a
building or enclosure, the s 1criff shall publicly demand its delivery ; if it be
not delivered, llc shall cause the buildin;_I,r or enclosure to be broken open, and
take the property into his pos~|css'io|1 : and if necessary he may call to his aid
the power ol' his county.
[Duty of short! In holding goodml
SEC. 91. (861) When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this
chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party
entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fccs for taking, and hlS neccssary

expenses for keepin;_r the same.
[Claim by third person— Indemnity to sherlff—|lls d||ties.]

Sec. 92. (85).) If the property taken be claimed by any other person than
the defendant, or his agent, and such person make aﬂidavlt ofhis-title‘ thereto,
Or right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of such title or right,
and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep

the property or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on demand of
him or his agent, indemnify the sheriff against such claim by an under

taking with two sufficient sure-ties, accompanied by the1_r_ athdavits that they
are each worth double the value ofthc property as speclhed 1n the affidavit of
the plaintiff, over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exembt from execution, and are frecholdcrs or llOll.'-l8l]0l(l(3l‘S'1l1 the btnltcti
and no claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or us
agent shall be valid against the shcritfnnless so made.
[Sheriff file papers in tmmty days]
The sheriff shall file the notice and all undertakmgs i1_l1<}l

affidavits with his procccdingsthercon, with the clerk of the court m whu-it
the action is pending, within twenty days after l1tl(lll;I the property Inelltlom’-‘

therein.

_ SE02 94. (91.) The plamt_iﬂ', at the time of issuing the summons in an

act10n on contract, express or nnplied, or at any time afterwards before jlldt?
mentilmay have the property of the defendant not exempt from execlllloll
attac ed as secunty for any Judgment that may be recovered in such ac‘-l‘l0"'
in the manner prescribed in this cha ter n l
I
and suﬁiclent
glve gem1
_ security
_ to secure the pliylnlenltl §?sSI.1(ll(l
tl djtlitiegnlliliigltshall
r
[Aﬂtdavit-—Causes.1

agenthgir
S * .9ai'>togléy,No
. .‘
writ
‘ ot‘ attachment shall issue
unless the plalllllﬁi
' ' hm
"

_ or some
person
h'
h
'
the clerk of a dlstrlct
court,credible
or in the
office 1'iii" thlenelzrlgldfﬁlteobllilillie


it§ec§5t:ste{v-ggggithgheludge Of St_11d_ county court where no clerk is provided
sal C0l1l‘tSll&VB_]111‘1S(l1Ct-l0I1 given to them bv law, an aiﬁdlrvit setting forth that any erson is indebted to such creditor, stating the nature
and amount of such inde tedness as near as may be, and alleging any one

or more of the following causes for attachment, viz:
[Non-resldeneed

First—That the defendant is not a resident of this State.
[Foreign corporationm]

Second—That the defendant is a foreign corporation.
[0lllce out of State.]

T7n'rd—That the defendant is a corporation whose chief oﬂice or place of
business is out of the State.
[Defendant conceals himself-Absence]

Fourth—That the defendant conceals himself or stands in deﬁance of an
officer, so that process of law cannot be served upon him, or that the defend

ant has for more than four months been absent from the State, or that for
such length of time his whereabouts have been unknown, and that the

indebtedness mentioned in the aflidavit has been due during all the said
period.
[Removal of g0ods.]

Fiﬂh—That the defendant is about to remove his propert , or effects, or
a material part thereof, out of this State, with intent to defrau , or hinder or
delay his creditor [creditors], or some one or more of them.
[Transferring pr-o|)erty.]

Sirth—That the defendant has fraudulently conveyed, or transferred or
88-Signed his property or effects, so as to hinder or delay lllS creditors, or s01ne
one or more of them.
lﬁolwealment, removal, disposal of goodml

Seventh—Tl1at the defendant has fraudulently concealed or removed or
disposed of his property or effects, so as to hinder or delay l11S credltors, or
some one or more of them.
[About to convey, or asslgm]

Eighth——That the defendant is about to fraudulently convey or transfer,
or assign his property or effects, so as to hinder or delay hrs creditors, or some

one or more of them.
[About to conceal or dispose of—Ab0ut to depart]

Ninth—'That the defendant is about to fraudulently conceal or remove
or dispose of his pro erty or effects, so as to hinder or delay his cred1t0_rs,
01' that such debtor has departed or is about to depart from tlns State, with
the intention of having his effects removed from this State.

[hdlure to pay on delivery-]

Tenth_That the defendant has failed or refused to 1131 the Pl'{Ce or ya ue
of any article or thing delivered to him, which he shou d have paid for upon

the delivery thereof.
Ele'venth—-Tliat the defendant has failed or refused to pay the price or
value of any work or labor done or performed, or for any services rendered
by the plaintiff, at the iiistance of t ie defendant, and which should have

been paid at the completion of such work. or when .~'ii(~li services were fully
rendered.
[Debt contracted ln t‘rm|d—l-‘else pretmm-s.]

Twelfth—'1‘liat the defendant fraudulently |.'UIlil"zU'U‘(l the debt, or fraudu
lently incurred the liability respecting which the suit is brought, or by false
represeiitations or false pretenses, or by any fﬂ1l1tl\1l(‘.lit (!Ul‘H.l\1('l, procured
money or property of the plaintitli
'
[Clerk Issue wrll—(!outcnts.l

’I’hi'rteenth—In every case where an affidavit shall be made and filed as
aforesaid, it shall be lawful for such clerk to issue u. writ of attiicliment.

directed to the sheriff of the county, or to any other <-ounty as hereinafter provi
ded, returnable like other write or process in this act, coiiiinuiidiiig him to
attach the lands, teneineiits, goods, cliuttcls, rights, credits, inoneys and effects
of said debtor, of every kind, or so much thcreofas will be sufficient to satisfy
the claim sworn to, with interest and costs of suit. in wliose lnuids or posses
sion the same may be found.
[0verdne notes, accounts for money.]

F0urtcenth—In all actions brought upon overdue promissory notes, bills
of exchange, other written instruments for the direct payment of money, and

upon book accounts, the creditor may have a writ of attaclimc-nt is!~‘ue upon
complying with the provisions of this section. [Her-. 9'2, pp. 32-3, original Ml
~—As amended, sec. 1, pp. 36-8, acts 1881.
This sec. ls referred to In s. 91 as " the preceding section/'

[Clerk require boiid—Approval- Coiidltluus -Suretle-s.]

96. (8.)

Before issuing the writ ofattm-liiiiciit the clerk shall requirt‘

a written undertaking on the part of the olztiiitilf, with SL\ﬁi('l(‘I1l sureties, to
be approved by the clerk, in a sum not less than doiiblc the amount claimed
by the plaintiff, to the effect that if the defendant recover jiulgiiieiit. or if the

court shall ﬁnally decide that the plaintiff \\'us not cntith-d to an attacliincnt.
the plaintiff Will pay‘all_ costs that may be ziwarded to the dcfeiidant, and all
damages he may sustain by reason of the wrongful suing out of the attach
ment, not exceeding the sum speciﬁed in the undertakin;_r. h‘-aicl suretics may
be required by the defendant to satisfy the clerk of the court that each for
himself is worth the amount for _which he is willing to become security in the

{:xI:’1(;I;::.Il:1lll)Jt'gf:(\)I:[:‘ :fxl2c21:)_0V8'l1lSi]l'lSt- debts and liabilities in propertyhot by
i 93, pp 334, Orig-lglétlll
u
.
for S90.
his\ State.
'
.219, acts.
_
r‘
_
[hee
1819-—1Subs.

As to8. duty
of to
otltcsr
and and
justlttcatlon
see
m as
Sundays
hondam oi suretle s, see s. +44‘ ch 40. this code.

Debts not due—Rebatemeut of interest]

See. 97 (94). 3Actions
mayJ be1 L-ommenccd and writs
'
_
‘
of attacllmem
issuedas prescribed in this chapter, upon debts or liabilities not yet due, if

tillotlgﬁzgiavitt Sttfftes an)’ Of the cases [causes] mentioned in the preoedin 89¢‘
cep

e ﬁrst (1), second (2), and third I3) subdivisions of saition ; I"mt>i'¢I¢:d, that an ' judgment, obtained under the provisions of this sec

tion, shall be with a re atcment ofthe interest from the time such judgment is
rendered until the time at which said debt or liability would have become
due.
The " preceding secllon " mentioned In above sectlon ls sec. 96ol’ this chapter. with its several puragrw hs

[Tnrerse of allldn\'it—Issm---’l‘r|al—I-Me:-t.l
Site. 98. (9.) The defendant against whom a writ of attachment has
issued, or his agent or attorney, may at any time within ten days from the
service of the writ of attachment, by an attidavit, traverse and put in issue
the matters alleged in the atﬁdavit upon which the attachment is based, and

if the plaintiff shall substantiate citl1er one of the causes alleged in his
atiidavit, the said attachment shall be sustained. otherwise the same shall be
dissolved; and if the (lL'l)l for which thc action is brought is not due, such

action shall be disniiss-ed. 'l‘hc trial of the issue formed by the aﬁidavits shall
be by_jury, unless a jury is \\'ul\‘cd by the parties. But if the debt is due, the
action may proceed to jtttlgiiictit after the attachment is dissolvcd,as in other
actions where no attachment is issticd. [See .‘L pp. 219-20, acts 1879—Subs.
for sec. 95, pp. 3-l-5, orig. act.
Such traverse ts plea in almtcnu-nt, etc. 1 COL Kt‘ll., 9|

Wrlt—('0ntents~Several writs-.]

$150. 99. (96,) The writ shall be tli|'t-trtctl to the sheriff of any county in
which the property of such detcndant may be, and require him to serve a
copy of the writ on the defendant, and to attach and safely keep all tl1e prop
. erty of such defendant within his county, not exempt from execution, or so

much thereof as maybe suttit-ient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand, the amount
Of which shall be stated in t-onforniity with the aﬂidavit, and alias writs may
issue at any time, unless the defendant dcpo.~=it the amount or give him security
by the tintlci-taking of at least two sufficient surcties, in an amount sufficient

I0 satisfy such demand la.-shlcs costs, or in amount equal to the value of the
PTO erty which has been, or is about to be attached, in which case the sheriff
shall take such underlak-in;:. h'e\'cral writs may be issued at the same time
to the sheriffs of dillcrcnt counties.
[What property ~lIIbJl‘(‘i——-Rlglll§~§ll|\I‘(‘§ -Stoclul

_

SEC- 100- (97.1 Tlic rights or slmres which the defendantunay have in
the stock of anv corporation or company, together with the mtercsts and
P"‘0ﬁtS thereon, and all debts due such defendant, and all other property 111
this State of such (lctendant, not exempt from execution, may be attachetl,

and if judgment be rccoveretl, be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.
lsllerlﬂ’ Pxecute unless dt-femlanl give homh]

SE('. 101. (10.)

The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered

sh?“ execute the same without delay, and if the undertaking mentioned in
thls chapter be not given by the defendant, then as follows:
[Real Property, how attm-hed—Sl|erlff llle copy.]

First—Real property standing upon the records of the county in’ .1;

name of the defendant shall be attached by ﬁhng a copy of the “F1,
together with a description of the property attached, with the recorder of the
00untv.

Second-Real property, or any interest therein, belonging to the _det'end
ant, and held by any other person, or standing upon the records of the
county in the name of any other person (but belonging to the di-tendant)

shall be attached by leaving with such person or his agent a copy of the Wl'll.
and a notice that such real property (giving a description thercofi and any
interest therein belonging to the defendant, are attached, pursuant to such
writ, and ﬁling a copy of such writ and notice with the recorder of the
county.
[Personal propertyd

Third—Personal property capable of manual delivery shall be ;li[tlCllt3(l
by taking it into custody.
[Debts and credits, nottoe—’l‘o whom—t'ontents.1

Fowrth—Debts and credits and other personal property not capable Of
manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the >erson owing Such
debts, or having in his possession or under his control, such credits, and other
personal property, or with his agent. a notice that the debts owing by‘him to
the defendant. or the credits and other personal property in his possession, 01'
under his control, belonging to the defendant, are attached, in pursuance of
the writ of attachment issued in said cause. [Sc-c. l(), p. 220, acts 1879——Sllb8
for sec. 98, pp. 35-6, orig. act.
Recorder tile copy-—Keep open for lnspectlon—l"ees.]

Sec. 102. (100.) It shall be the duty ot' the county recorder to tilt’ and
safely keep_ such copy of the writ and description of the property subject to
the inspection of all persons, and record the same in a book to be kept for
that purpose, and to index the same in the records; and such recorder shall
receive a fee of twenty-ﬁve cents for such ﬁling and safe-keeping of said lists,

and the further fee_ for recording as is prescribed by law, to be paid by me
pla1nt1ﬁ' 1n the action, and taxed and allowed to him as other costs and dis
bursements 111 the action.
Llnterventlon-—Yeritlcatlon—Trlal.]

d f SEC. 103. _(2.) In all cases of attachment, any person -other than the
_e endant, claiming any of the property attached, on any lien thereon, 01'
iplteiriest therem, may mtervene witholit giving bail, but the property attached
s a_ﬁ1:1ot thereby be_replevmed or released. Such intervention shall be by
Veréoe getlliloll, Stating the right or interest which the intervenor claims in
<€;‘f such prgperty. and the same may be ﬁled in said cause at am‘ time
i:t((’Jx1:‘f,3elEti€(!)I1l31;i}11ll(;fbthe cause upon its merits, and as soon as noticefof the

attomeys’ with reasgngglrgn to the mterested parties to the action. 0!‘ the"
a

the same shall be tried as f0l(lldii'(.:slltunity to them to defend against the same’
.
_
If the
intervene
l ' tlﬁ
b l tetitle
‘€l‘1ven§1r:il;11Pl::lthe
property, elther
party
Shall
be entitlcedutrd
triaiil)§'oj:ry,
but orif

M bz}§‘;°2s*g;:).2::?.‘::;*

M1 or

W

In case the verdict or ﬁnding Sl1€1i:lSsl.')tEhe court shall direct an issue to a jury.
for the ofinter
th irlailrizagees
1
which
ii: ;:1a(;';hs1;g;e5§g; by geapon of the attacl1ment
the‘' iii-?)I[‘iert\(':
r n ings,
‘ and the mtervenor
'
with his costs’ opt
shall recoveru the same, weather
attachment, and the court shall render
[A tuehmuu.

such judgment in reference to the attached property as will secure the right

of the intervenor thereto or therein according to such verdict or ﬁnding; and
in case the verdict or ﬁnding shall be for the plaintiff, he shall recover costs
against such intervenor; and the court may require the intervenor to give
security for costs for like causes and in like manner as plaintiff may be
required to give security for costs in civil actions. [b‘ec. *2, p. 113, acts 1883.
GlrnIshment—SherlIf when serve not.loe—0n whom—lunlclpﬂ corporations-0lI]eers.]

SEC. 104. (11.) Upon receiving information in writing from the plaintiff
or his attorney, that any person has in his possession, or under his control,

any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or is
owing any debt to the defendant, the sheriff shall serve upon such person a

notice that such credits or other property or debts, as the case may be, are
attached in pursuance of the writ of attachment issued in said cause, and
every municipal or other 'corporation, or quasi corporation, sheriff, or other
public oﬂicer or trustee shall be liable to garnishment_under the provisionsof
this chapter. [Sec. 11, pp. 220-], acts 1879—Subs. for sec. 101, pp. 36-7, orig.
act.
For garnishment In case of judgment at law, see ch. 46, Gen. Stat.. garnishment.

liability of gnmlshoa]

SEC. 105. (12.)

All persons having in their possession, or under their

control, any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or
owing any debts to the defendant at the time of service upon them of the
notice, as provided in the last section, shall be, unless such property be
delivered up or transferred, or such debts be paid to the sheriff, table to the

plaintiff for the amount of such cretlits, property or debts until the attach
ment be discharged, or any judgment recovered by hitn in the action be sat
isﬁed.

[Se'c. 12, p. 221, acts l.‘$TSl—-Stilis. for sec. 102, p. 37, orig. act

Defendant ltd gltrnlxhem nnmmoned—(‘ourt order dollvt-ry—I.iens, c1uhns.]

SEC. 106. (lU3.)
Anv person owing debts to the defendant. or havmg in

his possession, or under his control, any credits or other personal property
_belonging to the defendant, may he required to attend before the court or

Judge, or a referee appointed by the court or judge, and be cxan11ned on oath

I'ei‘l)ecting the same

'l‘he defendant may also be required to attend for the

Purpose of giving information respecting his property, and may be exammed

on oath. The court or judge may, after such examination, order personal
Property capable of manual delivery to be delivered to the sher1ff_ upon such
terms as may be just, having reference to any liens thereon, or cla1ms agamst
‘he Same; and a memorandum to be given of all other personal property,
containing the amount and description thereof.
l-Sherllf make inventor)'—Beturn—Demand statc|nent—R/efm-nl—t'osts.]

Site. 107. U3.)
The sheriff shall make a full inventory oi the property

tlttached and return the same upon the writ.
To enable him to make such return as to debts and credits attached, he
Shall request, at the time of service, the party owing the debt, or havmg the
"edit, 00 give him a statement, which statement shall be sworn to by that
lmrty, his agent or attorney, stating the amount and description of each, an

If such statement be refused, he shall return the fact of refusal with the writ.
The party refusing to give the statement may be required to pay the costs of
any proceedings taken for the mrpose of obtaining information res ectmg
the amount of such debt or credit, and may be ordered to furnish suc 1 state

ment under penalty of contempt.

[Sec 13, p. 221, acts 1879-Subs. for sec.

104, pp. 37-8, orig. act.
In mass of garnishment on Judgment. see ch. 46. garnishment, lien sw.

[Perishable goods—Sale- -Proceeds-Sherlll’ collect dehtu—l)lschargm]

Sec. 108. (105) If any of the property attached be perishable, the
sheriff shall sell the same in the manner in Which such property is sold on
execution. The proceeds, and other property attached by him, shall be
retained by him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in the
action, unless sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment recovered
previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits attached may
be collected by him, if the same can be done vvithout suit.

The sherill"s

receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount paid.
Butseesec.H5,ch.40;c0urt must order sale.
[Application of proceeds—Duty of sherllI.]

Sec. 109. (107) If judgment be recovered by the plaintiff, the sheriff
shall satisfy the same out of the property attached by him which has H0l
been delivered to the defendant or claimant as hereinbefore provided, 0!‘ Sub
jected to execution on another jud ment recovered previous to the issuing Of
the attachment, if it be suﬂicient or that purpose.
[Proceeds to plalntlff.]

First—By paying to the plaintiff the roceeds of all sales of perishablﬂ
property sold by him, or any debts or credits collected by him, or so much w‘
shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment.
[llahnrce due—l"urther sale—Notlce.]
Second—-If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been
issued on the judgment, he shall sell, under the execution, so much of the
property, real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance.if
enough for that urpose remain in his hands. Notices of the sales shall be
given and the sa es conducted as in other cases of sales on execution.
[Balance due, sherlil’ collec-t—Surplns property and proceedru]

r 1 Sec. 110. (_108.) If, after selling all the property attached by him
cindainpig in his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with the P"°'

e s 0 any debts or credits co lected by him, deducting his fees, '0 ‘he Pay.
igzﬁttgf “if lidgmellt, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff shall P"°'
co ec such balance as upon an execution in other cases. \Vlien6Vel'
.
. .h ‘ gr, p‘i'gji:rt:'ear?:iii:iiiirrg
bi dernallfli
the
judgment
shallto have
been paid,
' thea Ifitt.ii.ciiiid
Eklligzllllsdelllgel‘
over
the defendant
in ll“
, an any proceeds of the property attached unapplied on the judtlmeflL
[Salt on liond—Proceedings.]

Part,Stlh(i.i [il1a1iiit(i1f?9') If the execution be returned unsatisﬁed in whole 01’ 1"
may Pmsecute any undertaking given pursuant to the PW
visions
of this _he
t
' other cases upon the
of an execution
may proceed as in
Sac. 112. (110.| If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintiff,
any undertaking received in the action, all the proceeds of sales and money

collected by the sheriff, and all the property attached remaining in the
sheriff's hands, shall be delivered to the defendant or his agent, the order
of attachment shall be discharged and the property released therefrom.
[Defendant may release goods, eh-.. by bond.]

SEC. 113. (]11.) The defendant may at any time release any property in
the hands of the sheriff, by virtue of any writ of attachment, by executing an
undertaking as provided for in the next section ; and all the proceeds of sales
and money collected by the sheriff, and all the property attached remaining
in his hands, shall be released from the attachment, and delivered to the
defendant upon thejustiﬁcation of the sureties in the undertakmg.
[Defendant--I-‘oI1hco|||i||g b0nd—Condlti0n.i- Appraisal—Liabllil y of shcrillii

SEC. 114. (112.) Before releasing such attached property, as aforesaid, to
tile defendant, the sheriffshall require an undertaking executed by the defend
antto the plaintiff, and at least two suretics, residents and freeholders, or
househol.ders in this State. to the effect that in case the plaintiff recover Judg
ment in the action, and the attachment is not dissolved, defendant will, on

demand, re-deliver such attached property so released the proper ofhcer, to
be applied to the payment of the judgment, and that nrdefault thereof, the
defendant and sureties will pay to the plaintiff the full value of the property

so released.

The sheriff may fix the sinn for which the undertakmg shall be

executed, and if necessary, in fixinpr such sum, to know the value of the prop
erty released, the same may be appraised by three disinterested persons, to be
appointed by the sheriff; and if any sheriffshall release any property held by
him, under or by virtue of any writ of attachment, without ﬁrst taking such
bond as herein required, or shall take an insufficient bond, he and h1s sure

ties shall be liable for the value of such property so released.
[See sec. 444. ch. 40. this code. as to liability. etc.; justifying oi‘. suretles. etc.

Application to discharge attacl|ment.]

SEC. 115. (113.) The defendant may also, at any t1I1le'b(‘l0I'e the tune
for answering expires, at ply on motion, upon reasonable notice to the plain
tiff, to the court in which the action is brought, or to the Judge thereof, that
Plféattachment be discharged on the ground that the writ was 1mprop_erly
issued for any reasons appearing upon the face of the papers and proceedmgs

m the action.
lDlBGllIl'ge,]

SEC. 116, (114.)

If, on such application, it shall satisfactorily appeal‘ that

the writ of attachment was improperly is-sued, it Shall be 'l1$Cha1'ge‘l'
[Sheriff return writ, etr-.—20 days—(‘ertiﬂeahn

SEC. 117. (115.)

The sheriff shall return the wr1t_ of attachment w1fth t}:

allmmons, if issued at the same time; otherwise within twenty day3“:t;eIi1;d
trgceipt, with a certiﬁcate of his proceedings endorsed thereon or a
ereto.

own, racer-zovmz.

[Several attachments to some tcrm—Dixtr|lmtlon—l‘ursnlng creditor, priority.)

Sac. 118. (1161) In all cases where more than one attachment shall i)?
issued against the same person or persons and returned to the same term 0
the court to which they are returnable, or when a {liidg:fi_:Ii]i(ti;plta :i}\;':)l tilscttljlllel
sl all also be rendered at the same term against t I
Y
sdme person and defendant in the attachment or attachments, the C0\lli:..Sllt1l:.
direct the clerk to make an estimate of the several amounts each attac 1l:ig'0t

judgment ere-ditor'will be entitled to, out of the property of thp1 deftlan Sid
attai-hed, either in the hands of the garms_hec or othc_rwise, after t e sac ro
receipt of the proceeds thereof by the sherifi‘. calculating such amount in pm
portion to the amount of their several Judgments,_ with costs, as the samelvivn I

respectively hear to the amount of the sum received, so‘ that eaclrattapoihiig
and judgment creditor will receive his Just part thereof in proportionf
the

demand: the clerk shall thereupon certify t 10 seyeral amounts thereo t0 n__
sheriﬁ', who shall pay over to the respective parties the several sums so cﬁiﬂli

That
lied, and
whenendorse
the property
such payments
sought to be
onattached,
their l‘t‘,~‘l)()\‘UV€
shall have
executions;
been removed
Pr01'fl‘0"1
the county in which. the attachment is~'ued, and shall be overtaken Pm
returned to such county, the claim of such attaching creditor or (=r(‘dll°|'s
shall have priority over other attachments or judgment.
[New bond ordered-Noticagl-‘allure, wrlt q|nuhNI.]

S120. 119. (117.) If at any time pending a suit, where attachment has beef?
issued in aid thereof, as provided in this chapter, it shall appear to the Co." V
or judge thereof in which the suit is pending, that the bond or undertaking‘.

given is insuﬁicient, or that any security therein ha.s died, Or h§5 mlnow
from this State, or has become, or is likely to become, insolvent, smd court, 0"
the jud e thereof in vacation, shall order another bond or Ul](l0I'tl1kll1g’?:..
such
days’ previous
ot1er and
notice
further
in writing
securityhaving
to be been
giwn
given
as shall
to theseem
plaintiﬁ,
prop‘-*1‘-l“"
01' ml)’ 00'3‘
of the plaintiffs, his or their agent or attorney, of the application fol‘ 5"“
order, and if the plaintiff or laintiii's, his or their agent or attorney‘, Or other
person for him or them, shall fail to comply with such order with1|i_t_weiit\]

(20) days after the ‘same shall be made, all or any writs of attachment lssueil
therein shall be quashed

The additional undertaking herein required shill

_ chapter, and the sureties
‘ the
sameshall
manner
as the ori
r uned
1]"
this
therein
be _jointl_v
an iual,
several
)' hall?
with those in the original undertaking.
[See see. 444. (211.40, mat.

ﬁle

$10-clilrté-) If: the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall make “ml

'
an affidavit in the action, stating that it is necessary“?
execute
on the Sabbath
day to secure property sumI ,
I tt the writ of ' attachment
'
.
3:3 as zifllgetghfhgugggneiit to be obtamed, the clerk shall endorse on i R

day

cer directing the writ to be execilted on the Sabbath

[Amendment of wrlt—
New boad—Ai'lidaviL]

I Sec. 121. (120.)
mshee discharged,

N0 Writ of attachment shall be quashed, 110'‘ any gat

nor a "Y ulldertakilig given by any person or l"""“’nu
uvn. mwcr-znuaa.

under proceetlings b

attztelnnent be rendered invalidynor any rule entered

against a sheritl‘ disc mrged on account of any informality or insuﬂ‘iciency of
the original aﬁidavit, or of the original undertaking given for the attachment,

if the plaintiff or plaintitfs, or some credible person, or his or their agent or
attorney for him or them, shall ﬁle a sutﬁcient aﬂidavit in the cause, or if the
plaintiff or plaintit‘l's, or some credible person, or his or their agent or attorney
for him or them, shall make. with such security as is required by this act, an
undertaking to be approved by the court in which said suit may be pendin .
And when a writ of attachment shall he held to be defective, the same sha I
be allowed by the court, to be amended in such time and manner as it may

direct, and thenceforth the suit shall proceed as if such defective proceedings
had been originally suﬁicient. And it on the trial of the issues formed by
the traversing of the allegations in the atiidavits for attachment it shall
appear that the evidence introduced by the plaintiff does not prove the cause
or causes of attachment alleged in the aflidavit, but the evidence does tend to
prove some other cause of attachment mentioned in this act, then the plaintiff
may, on motion, showing good cause therefor, be allowed to amend his aﬁi

davit to correspond to the proof, the same as pleadings by this act are allowed
to be amended in case of variancies.
section 122. (121.) An. IDJIIIJ(:tIOII is generally an order requiring 6 P61"
son to ‘refra1n>fr'0in doing a particular act, but where sim Iy refraining
from domg a particular act will not effectuate the relief to whic

the plaintiff

is entitled, the injunction may be made mandatory, and require such acts to
be done as_w1l_l give the plamtiif the full protection which he may be entitled
to. The district court in term time, and anv judge thereof in vacation, shall
have power to grant and to dissolve writs of injunction, exce t as hereinaﬁﬂ

limited
' the oiiice of an ' district
' ' ' u e or in
' case Of
F
. In case of _a vacanc
_
-y in
ms absence from his district, or in
I
J g y

Case
such
'ud
e
has
an
ii
rest
511b.l€<11t matter of litigation, or if from sickneds, (ii any othel lzallﬂei inhethe
is
liili. _ et to discharge the duties of his office, then the district judge of any other
:)}Sﬁ1;lC may grgnt and dissolve such writs, or upon the happening of Either
frome 8egrents a pye enuinerated, or in case of the absence of the district judge
causes 0fya<é<t)ii:)n 3 of_ his district, then the county judge of such county, "1

out of th d_ tl1_I1I'lS1[lg therein, may grant such writs, which writ shall 159'-1°
_
e is net court the same as though granted- b th ourt OI‘ dlstrm
Judge, except that the county
y eC

‘.vrit against the working of an judge Shall not have Power to gram any such
y mining claims.
<1 rn. i-noci-zoumc.

[Of Injuncriom.
[No count; judge may lrlslie writ io stay proceedings. except in matters in his own court and appeals themto.
GB. 1 ii, ch. 3, county coun s.
Nor order .\ui. oi‘ district court an) m mualory wm or writ to stay proceedings in district court. 48!. a. 4. ibid.

(‘muses for lajum-tio|i.]

Sec. 123. (122.)

An injunction may be granted in the following cases:

[When plaintiff entitled to rclleﬂ]

1'll"l'8l—\vliell it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintiffis entitled
to the relief demanded, and such relief, or some part thereof, consists in
restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained of, during
the pendency of the litigation, or for it limited period, or perpetually.
llrreparable lnjurp]

Ser0nd—\\'hen it shall appear by the complaint or affidavit that the
commission or continuance of some not would produce great or irreparable
injury during the litigation.
[Threats of liU||ry—’l'o defeat jlidglueut-—I-1quity.]

- T/u'rd—\\'lu-ii it shall appear at any time in any character of an action
during the litigation? by affidavit or otherwise, that the defendant is doing,
or threatens, or is about to do, some act, or is procuring, or suffering to be
done, some art in violation of the plaintiff’s rights respecting the subject
matter of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, and in

such other cases as courts of equity have heretofore granted relief by injunc
tion, or which may be specially provided for in this act.
lﬂiirmstive relief in mining cases, as. 189-40. this chap.
When grlntod—Cause shown in complaint and atfida\'it.~'-Verlflcation—-0! answers.)

Sac. 124. (123.)

The injunction may be granted at or before the time of

ﬁling the complaint and issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards
before judgment, u on affidavits. The complaint in the one case and the
iiﬂidavits in thc ot1er shall show that satisfactory grounds exist therefor.

The complaint shall be veriﬁed by the oath of the plaintiff, or some one in
his behalf, as other complaints are required to be by this act. Also answers
ﬁled under this chapter shall be verified as other answers are required to be
in this act.
[To my prooeediiigs at law—-Venue--In jmtices’ courts. limit 820.]

SEC. 125. i124.)

When any injunction shall be granted to stay a suit or

Judgment at law, the proceedings shall behad in the county where the Judg
ment Was obtained or the suit is pending, or the writ or summons may be
sent in thc ﬁrst instance into any other county in this State, wherethe
defendant resides. X0 writ of injunction shall be granted to stay proceedmgs

~Under a jud ment obtained before a justice of the peace, for a sum not exceed
mg twenty

ollars, exclusive of costs,

lAIll0unt_ Release of err0rs—Bond—(‘,ouditions—l)amagesJ

SEC. 126. (125.) No injunction shall be granted to stay judgment at law
for a greater sum than the complainant shall show himself equitably not
bound to pay, and so much as shall be sufﬁcient to cover costs.

hveij

Inlllnction, when granted, shall operate -as a release of all ‘errors 111 ll"? P";
Feedin

at law that are prayed to be enjoined.

No injunction shall be iSS}U6_

"1 sue? cases, unless the complainant, or some person in his, her Or tletli”
behalf, shall have previously executed an undertaking, with suﬂ-ic1ent sure y

Of hjunctimu.]

to the defendant, approved by the court, district, or county judge, or the
clerk, where the court, or judge granting such in'unction so orders, and ﬁled

with the clerk, in double the sum directed to he enjoined, conditioned for
the payment of all money and costs due, or to be due, to the laintiff in the

action of law, and also all such costs and damages as shal be awarded
against the complainant in case the injunction shall be dissolved. If the
injunction be dissolved, in whole or in part, the complainant shall pay,
exclusive of legal interests and costs, such damages as the court shall award,
not exceeding ten per centum on such part as-may be released from the
injunction; and the clerk shall issue execution for the same when he issues
on such judgment.
[Matters In pols—Bond—Amonnt—Conditional

Sac. 127. (126) In case of granting a writ of injunction other than those
to stay a suit or judgment at law, the court, district, or county judge granting
the writ, shall make an order ﬁxing the amount of the undertaking, which

shall be in a reasonable sum; and no injunction shall be issued until-the
complamant or complainants, or some one for him. her or them, shall have
- previously executed such undertaking with sufficient surety, payable to the
defendant or defendants, approved by the court or judge granting the writ, or
the clerk of the court out of which the writ is to issue when the order so
directs, and ﬁled with the clerk ; which undertakin

shall be conditioned to

pay all such cost and damages as shall be awarded against the com lainant
or complainants, in case the injunction shall be modified or disso vedt in
whole or in part.
[Application {p}:-mv“r!ilt, notice—Cases of urgem-y—~l'Jx parte nrde-r~-Mlulng eaaes—Teml""'"’

.
Sec. 128. (127),. Whenever application shall be made for a writ of in
junction, the arty mtendlng to make such application, except as hereinafter
provided, shal give notice
the opposite artv of the time and place of
makingsuch a pl1cat1on prior to making tie sinne; Provided, that if such
application shal be made to the court in term time, in a cause pending in
such court, in which the defendant or defendants shall have been served with

process ten days prior to the term at which such application shall be made,
amant shall ﬁle an aﬁidavit showing that irreparable mischief
to admit of thgsglti to_h1r_nd, if not1c_e._be given, or that the case is too urgellt
b_n 

e ay met ent to giving notice, or where it appears from the

1 o comp amt that the defendant or defendants may comnnt the acts con
cernmg which mjunctive relief is sought, before the motion can be heard’ no
such ' notice
shall be _required ’ but
or Jud
'
, the
_ court that
to hear
the
Zpgililﬁtlsﬁa
ex I3:-rte’ And P.T°,mded
f'“Tth'@"»
affye shall
writ olf)I‘O(ZOGd
injunction
issued

£6 0

Ositewm tmghand mmlng 0! 5* lode 01' mining claim without notice to

tion tgllzhe urpizllily S faiilbe vmdl

rhe notice to be given Shall he in Pl'°P°r'

desires furthe%- fey 0 e case’ It: the part)‘ atiainst whom the writ is to 111“
Such time
{me to Prepare hls defense, the court, or judge, may grant
as may seem proper, not exceeding in any. case ﬁve days; and may
in the meantidiid 1:18:36
‘
' .
application;
soﬁimporary lnjuncholl
mm]_ the determhmtiou of Bud
.
jlldge

, may
, requrre
com
1 '
t
mi1i,jImo'
lam
ants to give
an undertakmg
durmg
the
existence
of

~I!m!a1r__V__-
[OI Injunctiam.

tion, conditioned as in section one hundred and twenty-six [127] of this act.
No motion to dissolve an injuiiction shall he heard in viii-utioii when granted
upon mining claims after answer ﬁled.
[Section I2; lllL‘l1ll0Ill'tl In last above section. In sec. 12'! of this rhnpler.

Breach of lnjunctI0n—Altiichiueiil-~Co|it¢-mp!-Jall.]

Sac. 129. (128)

if any person against whom a writ of injunction, or tem

lporary injunction shall he issued shall, after the service thcrcof, be guilty of
isobedience to and breach of the in'unction, or temporary injunction, it shall

be lawful for the judge granting the seine, or for thejudge of the district in
which the writ or order issued, or if the some were granted in open court, then

for any districtjudge in vacation, to issue an attacliineiit against said person _
or ersons for a contempt. lfpon his or their being brought before the said
ju ge, unless he or they shall disprove or purge the said contempt, the said

judge may in his discretion commit him or them to jail until the sitting of
the court in which the said injunction is pending, or take bail for his appear
ance at the said court at the next term thereofto answer for the said contempt,
and to abide the order of the court thereon.
[Ex parte Injunction, motion to dissolve-i\‘otice.]

SEC. 130. (129.) In all cases in which injunction shall be issued ex parts,
the defendants may, at any time after tiling a demurrer or answer to the com
plaint, move the court, or judge thereof, upon ﬁve days’ notice to the opposite
party, to dissolve or modify the injunctio' .
hlnsm-r before writ allowed ~ Oral l(WIllIl0ll)'-J

SEC. )31. I130.) [Ipoii the hcnrin r of an application to grant an injunc~
tion on notice, wlici-e the defendant tiles his answer before the licnring, or on

motion of the defendant to dis~'ol\'c an injunction on ﬁling an aiiswcr, either
Party may examine witiicsses orally before the conrl or judg_e, and the appli
cation for an injunction, or the motion to dissolve an iiijuilction, nmy he sup
Ported or opposed by aIﬁdavit.<, as pre.~'<'.ribed in the next section.
Notice of npp|ication_0f motion to di.~solve—Whnt cvldeiire to he nsed—0raI testlinony.]

SEC. 132. 1131.) The party, in his notice of application for an injunc
tion, or in his iiotice of motion to dissolve, shall state whether he proposes to
rest his application on the complaint, answer or demurrer, or to introduce

Rﬁidavits in sup mrt of his application, or to introduce oral testimony; and
the hearing shall be conﬁned to the character of testimony stated ]Il.SIIU_l]

notice, except as herein mentioned; but if the party on whom notice is
served desires to introduce different evidence from that proposed in such
notice, he may serve notice. on the opposite party, stating what evidence he
Proposes to introduce in o )posing the application or motion, and that shall
entitle him to introduce the cliaiucter of testimony stated in his notice, and
entitle the adverse partv to oppose it with the sanic clmracter of evidence.

_-\l1d if oral testimonv is to be introduced, it shall be the duty of the court or
Judge before whom zipplication for an injunction or a motion to dissolve, _as

Prescribed in this section and the next, is made, to hear the testimony of wit
nesﬂcs and other competeiit evidence as speedilyas practicable, and W1th0gt
“mlf_>0essary delay, to decide whether or not an injanctioii shall issue or e

[Motion to dissolve ex part0 vrrlt--Te.~tllnony - l‘0Illl!llIllll(‘l‘ ('lllM'-—.\ﬂlt|lIlht —Whu no
dissolution in vacation.)

b‘r:c. 133. (132,)

In all causes in which writs of injunction may be

i:~'§titE(l without notice, defendant or defendants may at any time after ﬁling it
demurrer or answer to the complaint, and Whcthcr in term time or in vaca
tion, move the court, or if application shall be made in vacation, the judge
thereof, to dissolve the injunction. If the defendant or defendants shall have
ﬁled an answer to the complaint, it shall be lawful for the parties respect
ively, upon the hearing of such motion, to introduce testimon_\' in support of
the complaint or answer. and the court or judge shall decide such motion
u )0“ the weight of testimony, without being bound to regard the answer as
a solutely true. If, at or before the time designated for the hearing of such
motion,either party, or some credible IBI'X'!OIl for him, shall make and ﬁle in

the court an atﬁdavit showing that suclh party hath a witne.~rs or witnesses by
whom he can disprove the complaint or answer (as the case may be), or some
material part thereof, giving the name or names of such witness or witnesses.

his or their place of abode, and the particular facts which the party Will
prove by him or them, and that such party has had no opporllllllly to Pro
cure the testimony of such witness since. the coming in of the answer. the
court ‘or judge, if satisﬁed that the tcstimonv of such Witnesses will ll‘
matc_r1al upon the hearing of such motion. shall grant a continuance of the
hearing for such reasonable time as mar be necessary to enable the party to

procure the testimony of such witnesses ' Aﬁidavits tiled with the complaint
or answer, and the deposition of Witnesses in writin , taken and certiﬁed 8-“
in other cases in chancery proceedings, may be hear ,and .~=lulll be considered
}_))’.tll1]e court 01‘ Judge upon the hearing ot‘_such motion, and dc )0Sll.lOllS'l.8l{(‘ll
1“ ‘_ e Pu!‘ 086 of bemg read at such hearmg may be read on nal hearmg of

t ‘e halise 1 _wh1ch the)’ have been taken: Pruridcd, that in anv cause where
‘my mlunctlon Shall have been awarded after notice, as pro\'idcd bv section
one hunqhed a“_d l“'emw"'5e\’el1 [128] of this act, no motion for the tll9Stllllll0ll
of such injunction shall be heard or made in vacation.
[Sec 127. mentioned In last above section. is see. 1'5 0! this chap.

To whom order addressctl—Ser\'icc- Eifeel-1

‘ ‘SEC. 134' (133) The Order of i11.lllnction shall be addressed to the ptlfl."
Elulomed’ ”'“d.shan be, Issued by the clerk in accordance with the direction of
m‘t‘in°I‘1’“Yt°1E1.it\)1‘lt;e- Phe order of injunction may be served in the SHIIW
an Org; mg .‘ .~v any P818011 0_r otﬁcﬁr authorized to serve a summons. _ And
from U 2. “‘J““ct10l1 Shall bmd the part_v from the time of such service, of
ie nne he has actual notice that it is ordered by the judge or court.
_. _ﬁit

[Dissolvlng, continuing in vacation.]

In all . wses in which . an _ a pphcation
' ‘ -t‘1‘? n
S ( SEC- 135.
e
to tliwolve
an injum
tl1‘l'ilSllal():‘€ 2156319 1l'lQt;£l1t13 judge of any district court in vacation, as provided '"
dksolvé the Sa 6. awful for Such judge to continue such injunction 01: lo
waq mad tOap1e,1n the same manner and with like effect as if applicallon
t

e

tie court in term time.

[See 1359 (8), p. 510, G. L.

Iuiunctlon bond—Additional security.]

requiriC
S .e;:§'t(lv3}‘,L) On gmmmg
.
an injunction, the court or judge shall

Poration is tlFe

Ere the State or 3 count)‘ in the State or 8 l11llI1i‘=il"‘1 °°r'
Par y, a written undertaking on the part of the party in whose favor an injunction is granted, with one or more sufficient sureties, to the
effect that the plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined all damages, not exceed
ing an amount to be specified, as such party may sustain by reason of the
injunction, if the court ﬁnally decides that the party in whose favor the

injunction was issued was not entitled thereto. A party enjoined may at any
time before judgment. upon reasonable notice to t to party who has obtained
the injunction, move the court or judge for additional security.

And if it

appear that the surety has removed from the State, and the security is thereby
impaired, or is otherwise insuﬁicient, the court may vacate the injunction
un ens in a reasonable time sufficient surety is given.
' [Order to Issue writ on ﬂllng boud.]

SEC. 137. (135.)

It shall not be necessary to the granting of an injunc

tion that the complaint be ﬁrst ﬁled in the court out of Which such writ is
prayed; but the order of the judge, or any court to whom any complaint
is presented praying such injunction, may direct the same to issue, upon the
lihng of the complaint with the undertaking required by sections 120 [126]

and 127 [128] (as the case may be).
[Sections 11! and 127. referred to in last above section. are sections 1% and 18 of this chapter.

When defendant my have lnjnnctloml

SEC. 138. (136.) The defendant may, at any time_during thepeiidency of

a suit against him, by setting forth in his answer subject matter m_the nature
Of across complaint which shows that he is entitled to aninjunction against
the plaintiff, or by ﬁling affidavits showing that he is entitled to.such_ rehe_f,

applyfor and obtain an injunction in the same iiinnner as prescribed in this
c mpter for the plaintiff to obtain an injunction.
llllllllg property, afllrinntlre relief-(‘u|iscs——Notices—Amwcr—l'rm-ecdings—Proot's-—'l‘I|ne
l'..'4i rictlonm]

Site. 139. (137,) The said district court [courts] of the State, or any judge

thereof; shall have, in addition to the power already possessed, power to issue
writs of injunction, for affirmative relief, having the force and effect of a_ writ

of restitution, restoring any person or persons to the possession of any mining
property or remises from which he or they may have been ousted by_fraud,

force or vio ence or from Which he or they are kept out of possession by

threats; 01‘ by Words, or actions, Which have a natural tendency to excite fear
or alpprehension of danger, or whenever such possession was tal-_ren from hini

ort em by entry of the adverse party on Sunday, or a legal holiday, or. while
the party ili possession was temporarily absent therefrom; the granting of
such writ to extend onlv to the right of possession under the facts of the case

in respect to the manner in which the possession was obtained, leaving the
parties to their legal rights on all other questions as though no such writ had
been issued;

Provided, that no such writ shall issue except upon notice in_

writing to the adverse party of at least ﬁve days, of the time and place 05
making such application, if made in vacation, and ii made in term time. ntz1
before defendant or defeiidaiits have been duly scrvcd iv1tl1_pr00€’»‘55. and
required to appear and answer by virtue of such service. Aiid_if the defen]_:
ant or defendants shall ﬁle an answer to the complaint upon Which suc-hdaop 1

cation is founded, denying under oath the material averments iii _sai corp;
Plﬂiut contained, the said court or judge thereof shall hear evidence In Sllfppld

"1 Said complaint or answer or may cause the said appllcatloll to be re en

to :1 referee, to take such proofs in support of said com ilumt and apsWeru%|l'(:
shall direct the said referee to report the proofs to tie sand ('(;UI' or ‘]‘S01;l_

within a reasonable time, allowing to the colnplailiaiit and defem anha re:rt or
able time in which to take proofs: and the tune so allowed by".-;a:I liopwem
judge for the purpose of taking testimony shall be etlually dpm e
Ieinmll
said complainant and defendant; and it shall be the uty of tie goirnpla ‘or
or complainants to take his, her or their testnnony ﬁrst, apd _tlIe

for

defendants shall proceed to take his, her or_the1r proof \\'ith1n the as is of

said time so allowed, and the said court orjudge shall adjourn the heatrlng of
said application until some day within a reasonable tune after the npsaid
taking and completing said proofs, and at such tnnc, upon the lie-ar|]r1g'ti)denCe
referee's report, shall grant or refuse said writ, as the pleadings an_:{ (ex "rum
in said cause or proceedings may warrant or require: And pron r f‘ to
that no such writ shall issue in favor of any person or persons. to restore I
such person or )6l‘SOI18 possession of any mining property,uf the saldlptvﬁrsfg
or persons shall1 have obtained or procured posscssiori of said woperty 3 my
lence, or by fraud. or by taking possession of the smne wlnle t_ 1e adverse ptlhal
in possession was temporarily absent therefrom ; And promded furtlum ' t_
appeal, as in other cases, shall be allowed from anyﬁnal order or decree grain"

ing an injunction under the provisions of this section; but such apps-ads a r

not have the effect to suspend the operation of said wnt after an‘ or er0
decree is made by the court or judge granting the same, nor to contmue one
in force after an order or decree is made dissolving any injunction _pendl_l1g
the appeal. When application ‘is made for such an injunction for afbrrnatilve
relief, as contemplated in this section, the court or judge shall immediate _v.

on the ﬁling of the complaint, issue a temporary injunction, as provided TM
in section 126 [127] of t is act.
[Sec. 1%, referred to In last above section. I: section 1% of this chap.

Wrlt void without notice]

Sac. 140. (138.) No writ of injunction for aﬂirmative relief, having tip?
force and effect of a writ of restitution, shall be valid or have anv force Wlm
soever, if issued without notice and without complying with the provision-*
and conditions of the preceding section.

on any undertaking provided for‘ 12
ring suit in the ﬁrst mstance again-'
rtain the amount of dam P5 51"

SEC. 142. (13.)

That chapter 43 of the Revised Statutes, entitled “i".lu“"'

t1ons,”. be and the same

is hereby repealed.

1ng mmes, approved February 13, 1874.

Also, section 2 of an act c0nc_el'"'

Also, an act to amend an act entitled

an act concerning mines, a proved February 13, 1874, approved February 11'

1876, be and the same are ereby repealed, and all other acts repugnant to or
inconsistent with the prov' '
‘ act, be and the same are hereby
shall in no wise abate_0I' 8_ﬁ'ec_t any

or pendin under any of the provisions of the statutes so repealed, or deny,
abridge, ivest or impair any right accrued or arising while the same
remained in force, or to divest or impair any remedy given thereby to enforce
any order, judgment or decree of the wurt under any such statute so
repealed, or to punish any person or persons for the violation of any such
writ issued under or pending at the time of the repeal of said statutes, but,as
toall rights and titles aeerue(l. and all acts done and com ﬂeted while same

remained [in] force, in all such acts and parts of acts hereto ore repealed shall
be construed to be and remain in forre, notwithstanding such repeal. [See.
1364 (13), p. 513, G. L.
For reveals enneled In code of clv. prue. act, we and of this code.


l)€|ln~il in court.
.-tppointuient of receiver.
How application nude.
Bond required of receiver-oath.

[Party holding fi|uds- Deposit in eonrt;]

Sccrms 143. (140.) When it is admitted by the pleadings or exanunahon
of a party that he has in his possession, or under his control,_nny mo_ne ' 05
other thing capable of delivery, Which, lwing the subject of liti tion, is el
by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is_ ueto another
party, the court may order the same, upon motion, to be deposited ll) court or

delivered to such party, upon. such conditions as may be just, subject to the
further direction of the court.
[Reoalver—When oppolnted.]

Sec. 144. (141.) A receiver may be appointed by the court in which the
action is pending, or by a judge thereof :
[Before judgmeutd


First—Before judgment, pr-ovisioinilly, on application of either party.
when he establishes a prima facie right to the property, or to an inter$‘8i- "1
the property which is the subject of the action, and which is in possession of

an adverse party, and the prolperty, or its rents and profits, are in danger of
being lost or materially injure( or impaired.
[After judgment.)

- Sewnd—After judgment, to disp use of the property according to the
judgment, or to preserve it during th e pending of an appeal: and
[0t-her essem]

Th/ii-d—1n such other cases as are in :n~rordunce with the practice 0{
courts of equity jurisdiction.
[Petltlon, oontents—Verlﬂcation—Answer.l

SEQ 145- (_142-l The application for the appointment of a receiver shall
be made
byI ﬁlmg a pet‘ition at any time in the action in which :1 receiver I8
_
desired. setting forth the facts upon which the application is based. Whwh
petition shall be veriﬁed as complaints are required to be by this act And
the Party °PP0Sl{1g the a pointment of a receiver shall do-so by ﬁling 8"
answer to the petition, veriﬁed as answers to com laints are required to be by
this act. And th e court or judge may hear evi 3)ence to determine the i88“°“‘

made by such petition and answer, and decid
'
- a cause.
8 the same like any
irmlﬂﬂ
formed by' pleadmgs
in
_
[Receiver— Oath, bond, 00ullitl0\lm]

SEC. 146. (143.)

Before entcrin

sworn to perform them faithfully, g upon hm
dunes’
the receiver
mus t

In

and with one or more sureties. aPPY°'°“

lbcposh in Court and Run-ivcr,

by the court or judge, vxm-uh‘ an undertaking to such person and in such
sum as the court or judge shall direct, to the effect that he will faitl1fuHy
discharge the duties of rm-eiver in the action, and obey the orders of the
court therein.

Action may he Ilihllliﬂbtd or non-unit entered.
Jud;_nnent on llnI IIlt‘l’ilIv—-\Thl,'ﬂ.

SECTION 147. (148.)

An action may be dis|nixee¢l, or a judgment of non

suit entered, in the following L'8.S8.~l :
[By plnlntllf, whom]

First—By the plaintiff himself, at any time before trial, upon the pay
ment of costs, if a counter claim has not been made.

If a provunonal or

ancillary remedy has been allowed, the undertaking shall thereupon be
delivered by the clerk to the defendant, who may have his action thereon.
[By consent]

Second—By either party, upon the written consent of the other.
[By the oourt, when.]

77nlrd—By the court when the plaintiﬁ‘ fails to appear on the trial, and
the defendant appears and asks for the disnﬁssnl.
[By the court on trial, sbnud0mnent.]

Fourth—By the court when. upon trial, and l)('fUl‘9 the ﬁnal submission
of the case, the plaintiff abandons it.
[By the court. on moti0n—Entrien.l

_ Fifth/—Bfy the _court, upon motion of the defendant, when, Upon the
trial, the pla1nt1ﬁ‘t'a1ls to prove a sulﬁcient case for the jury.
The dismissal mentioned in the ﬁrst two sub-divisions shall be made b."

an entry in the clerk's register.
accordingly.

Judgment may thereupon be entered

[Dismissal for want of cost bond. pp. SEVHL as 1-2. ch. 33. Gen. Stat, roam

Judgment on meritsd

_SEc. 14$. (149.) In every case, other than those mentioned in the last
section, the Judgments shall be rendered upon the merits.
.|unona.\"rs ox FAILURE TO Axswsn.
SI-:(.‘l‘l0l\‘ Ht].
When money or dumiigcs only by clerk.
In other actions default -judgment by court.

149. Asscasrnents of damages.
H9. When service is by publication.
I50. Relicfrmt exceed case made in complaint.

SECTION 149. (5.) Judgment may be had if the defendant fail toanswer
the.complaint, as follows :
[When money or damages only--By clerk—('osts.]

Firs&—In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of mone or

damages only, if no answer, demurrer or motion has been ﬁled with the
clerk of the court within the time speciﬁed in the summons, or such future
time as may have been granted; the clerk, upon the application of the plain
tiﬂ‘, shall enter the default of the defendant, and immediatel thereafter enter
judgment for the amount speciﬁed in the summons, inc udin the costs,

agamst the defendant, or agamst one or more of several defen ants in the
cases provided for in the ﬁrst sub-division of section thirty-three [37], chapter
three, of this act.
[Section 88. referred to In last. above paragraph, In section 8') of this chapter.

For tlme mentioned In summons, see s. 96, ch. 8. ante; how served. n. -10 to 4-1. lblrl.
In other actions—l)efault-— Judglneut by court--Assessment of dnmagcml

Second-—In other actions, if no answer,'demurrer or motion has been filed

with the clerk within the time specified in the summons, or such further time
as may have been granted, the clerk shall enter the default of the defendant,
and thereafter the plaintiff ma ' apply at the ﬁrst or any subsequent term of
the court for the relief demandied in the coinplaint.
If the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to
enable the court to assess the damages or give judgment, or to carry the
judgment into eﬁ"ect, thoconrt may take the account or hear the proof, or

1118)’, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose, and where the action
is for the recovery of damages in whole or in part, the court may order the
damages to be assessed by a jury, or they may be assessed by the court, or If
to determine the amount of damages, the examination of a long account be
necessary, by a reference, as above provided.
[When service by qmbllcattou -~When default-When part answeredJ

T7tird—In actions where the service of the summons was_by

ubhcatmn,

the Plailltiﬁi upon the expiration of the time designated 111 t e order of
publication. may, upon proof of the publication, and that no answer, demurrer

01' motion has been ﬁled, apply for judgment, and the court shall ‘thereu on
require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint, an

if

the defendant be not a resident of the State, shall require the plaintiff or his
agent to be examined, on oath, respecting any payments that have been made
judgrnenu an Failure lo Answer]

to the plaintiff, or to any one for his use, on account of such demand, and

may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover.

If the

answer in any case denies or controverts only a part of the cause or causes of
action alle ed in the complaint, the plaintiff may take judgment by default
for the undisputed portion, leaving the action to proceed as to the _rt contro

verted by the answer. [Sec. 150, pp. 58-9, orig. ﬂ(‘l..—AS amend

, sec. 5, ML

54-5, acts 1881.
Pnhllcstlon, sec. 46, chap, 8. ante.

Belief not to exceed case made In complaint.)

SEC. 150. (1-17.) The relief granted to the pluintiﬁ‘, if there be no answer,
shall not exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint; bill

in any other case the court may grant him any relief consistent wlth the case
made by the complaint and embraced within the issue.
SECTION 151.

An issue arises when a fact ofconclusion of law is main

tained by the one party and is controverted by the other.
kinds:

Issues are of two

First—Of law; and
Se00nd—Of fact.
[Issue of lam]

SEC. 152.

An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint or

answer, or replication, or to some part thereof.

SEC. 153. An issue of fact arises:
First—Upon a material allegation in the complaint, t-ontroverted by the
answer, and
[Issue of faet.]

Secoml—Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the replication,

Or upon new matter in the l'0[)li(‘,3.tiOll, except When an issue of law is joined
thereon.
lltlsues of law-0' fact, how trled-Reference.]

SEC. 154 (14) An issue of law shall be tried by the court, unless it be
referred, as provided in the title in regard to re'fercnces.. In actions for the
recovery of speciﬁc, real or personal property, with or_ without damages, or
fol‘ money claimed as due on coiitract, or as damages for breach of contract,
Or for injuries, an issue of fact must be tried by a jury, unless ajury trial is

_waived or a reference is ordered, as provided in the'code.

In other cases,

1881168 of fact must be tried by the court, subject to iLs_power to order any

such issue to be tried by a jury, or to be referred to a referee, as provided in
this code. [Sec 14, p. 222, acts 1879—Subs. for sec. 154, p. (>0, orig. act.
Issues of law ﬁrst disposed of.]

SEC. 155. When there are issues both of law and fact to the same com
plaint, the issues of law shall be ﬁrst disposed of.
[Cannes entered on calendar-—Contlnnlnce.]

Sec. 156. The clerk shall enter causes upon the calendar of the court,
accordin to the date of the issue Causes once ilaced upon the calendar for
a genera or a special term, if not tried or hear

at such term, shall remain

upon the calen ar from court to court until ﬁnally disposed of.
[Either party may bring on trIaI.]

SEC. 157.

Either party may bring the issue to a trial or to a hearing,

and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court {or

ood cause other

wise direct, may proceed with his case and take a disn1i.-sea of the action or
verdict or a judgment as the case may require.
[Postponement-—AMduIt, contentm]

_ Sac. 158. A motion to postpone a trial on grounds of the absence of
evidence shall only be made upon aﬂidavit showmg the materiality of the

evidence expected to be obtained, and that due dihgence has been used to
procure it.

_ The court may also require the moving party to state upon atﬁdavit the
evidence which he expects to obtain. and if the adverse party thereupon
admit that suchcvidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually

given on the tnal, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be
postponed; and, upon terms, the court may, in its discretion, upon good cause
shown, and in furtherance of justice, postpone a trial or procec mg upon
other grounds than the absence of evidence.

SEC'i‘iO.\‘ 15$). U84.) Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties
to an issue of fact, in actions arisiu,gr on contract, and with the assent of the
court; in other actions in the manner following:

Firal—By failing,r to appear at the trial.
Sec0nd—By written consent, in person or by attorney, ﬁled with the clerk.
Thz'rd—By oral consent, in open court, entered in the mmutes. The
court may prescribe, by rule. what shall be deemed a waiver in other cases.
[Drawing jurors-Nnmben]

SEC. 160. (3.) For the trial of a civil action by jury the jurors shall be
drawn by chancc from the whole number summonc<l and in attendance
except those who may bc engagctl in considering any other cause. Six per
sons shall constitute the jury, unless the parties consent to a_less number or
the court in its discretion allows a greater number, not exceedmg twelve.
{POI QII-lllﬂcation.-I oi’ Jurors, see Gen. Stat, ch. 61, div. 1 : Cimllenges. exemptions. etc., ib.; Election. div. 2;

“Pena Jurors. div. 9; same chap.
In mot condemnation, sec sec. M4. ch. 21. eminent domain; in force May I8. i877.

Oath of jnronn]
SEC. 161. (161).,

I
.-\s soon us the jury is completed, an oath or aﬁ'lrmat1on

shall be administered to the jurors in substance: That they, and each _of
them, will well and truly try the mattcr at issue between ——-, the plaintiﬁ,

ands, the defendant, rind a true verdict render according to the evidence.
[chluelIEo1—Percniptory—For cnuse.]

SEC. 162. (161.)

Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there

are several parties on either side, they shall join 1_n a challenge before it can
bemade. The challenge shall be to individual Jurors, and shall be either

peremptory or for cause.
challenges,

Each party shall be entitled to four peremptory

[See div. i. ch. 60. Gen. Stat.

0|!-lllellges, grounds iherefon]
f
S_=;C_ 1(;3_ (162) Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more 0

the following grounds:

civil, Pnovsouaa.

Formzrion of the Jury]

First—-A want of any of the qualiﬁcations prescribed by statute to render
a person competent as a juror.
'
[Consangululty-Mﬂnlty.]

Second—Consanguinity or aﬂinity within the third degree to either party.
[Social and business relltlom]

77vi'rdr—-Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and
servant, employer and clerk, or principal or agent to either ﬁzrty, o_r berng 8
member of the family of either party, or a partner in busmess With either
party, or being secprity on any bond or obligation for either party.
[Previous service In some matter.)

Fourth—Having served as a juror or been a witness on a previous trial
between the same parties for the same cause of actron.
[Interest~ Except public]

‘ Fifth—Interest on the(part of the jurors in the event of the action, or in
the main question involve in the action, except the interest of the juror as a
member or citizen of a municipal corporation.
[Opinion formethl

Sirtlv——Having formed or expressed an unqualiﬁed opinion or belief as to
the merits of the action.
[Erunlty——BlasJ

Seventh~The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity

against or bias to either party
[Challeuges, how trled.]

SEC. 164. (163.)

Challenges for cause shall be tried by the court

The

ju_ror challenged, and any other person, may be examined as a witness 0" the
trial of the challenge.
[Order of challenglugd

.SEC. 165. (164.) The plaintiff ﬁrst, and afterwards the derendanwha"
complete his challenges for cause. They may then alternately. in the same
order, have the right to challenge peremptorily.
[Order of filling paneL]

SEC. 166. (165.) After each cliallenge sustained. the vacancy shall be
ﬁlled before further dhallenges are made, and any new juror introduced may
be challenged for cause; or if the party shall not have exhausted the number

of peremptory challenges to which he is entitled, he mav be challenged
peremptonly.
'
[Challenge to the array-Petltlon—lssneJ

SEQ 167- (166-l Either party, in an action, may challenge the al'l‘B)' of
''
shall be done by Pel'l_t!0n,sett111
fort b P RY‘

jurors
fortheycai1gs:sc:t'uscl1alv
an 1
1
, h'[
ticularly
ml

. _ _
join
issue of law

lenge; and the ‘party opposm

tr1ed and decided by the court.

' '

the cha len 6 may
,and the issug 80
formed
be
SECTION 168. (167.) When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall pro
ceed in the following order, unless the court, for good cause and reasons,
otherwise directs:
Fii-st—'l‘lie party on whom rests the burden of the issues may brieﬂy

state his case. and the evidence by which he expects to sustain it.
[Statement by ldrerw party.]

Sec0nd—The adverse party may then brieﬂy state his defense, and the
evidence he expects to offer in support of it.
[Evidence-0rdcr.]

T7n'rd—Tlie party on whoin rests the burden of the is_sues_must ﬁrst pro
duce his evidence; the ?l(l\'Ul‘$t' party will then produce his evidence.
[Rebutting-Further (!\'llll’ll('(‘-]

F0u'rlh—Tlie parties will then be confined to rcbuttmg evidence, unless
the court, for good reas0iis, in furtherance of justice, permits them to offer
evidence in their original case.
[special ll]-§1l‘|l¢tl0Il3—“'I'l“A'lb Illlllll-N'l't‘d,~ ﬁlgliﬂl-1

FLfth—When the evidence is concluded,_1111(1 eliher Party deslres special
instructions to be given to the jury, such 1n3tr_l1Ctl0I1S shall be reduced to
writing, numbered and sighed by the [‘=\Tt)'' 0'' hls uttorneytasking the same,
and delivered to the court.
[court lll8truct—Writteu, numbered, Signed-1

And before the argument of the cause is begun, the c°urt.shall glve ts-uh:
mstructions upon the law to the jury as may be neceSS8l')_’, Whlch mstmc '10 ‘
Slmll be in writing, and be numbered and signed by the Judge.
Seventh—-Where either party asks special instructions to be givenio the
jury, the court shall either give such instructions as requested, or positivel
refuse to do so, or give the instructions with the modifications, and shal
mark or endorse u on each instruction so offered in such manner that it shall
distinctly appear w at instructions were given in whole or in part, and _m hke
manner those refused, so that either party may except to the instructions as
given or refused or modiﬁed, or to the moditication. All instructions given
by the court must be ﬁled together with those refused as a part of the record.
[Matters of evidence, see chap. iii, Gen. Stat. evidence.
Lest papers and giving secondary evidence. 1821. s. H. ch. 36. Gen. 8tat.. evidence.

Party postponing trial must consent to take deposition of witnesses present. sec. 450. ch. 40, poet.

En-cptlons—-llovr noted]

Sac. 169. Q68.)

A party excepting to the giving of the instructions, or

the refusal thereof, shall not be required to ﬁle a formal bill of exceptions.
but it shall be suliicient to write at the close of each instruction to which
exgeption is taken, the words "excepted to," which shall be signed by the
ju ge.
[Uourt may order jury to view prmnlses-Cautlon.]

Sec. 170. (169.) Whenever, in the o inion of the court, it is proper lor
the jury to have a view of the property w rich is the subject of litigation, 01'
of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order them to be

conducted in a body, under the charge of an oﬂicer, to the place, which shall
be shown to them by some person appointed by the court for that purpose
_ While the jury are thus absent, no person, other than the person *0

appomted, shall speak to them on any subject connected with the trial
_[Siek juror may be d1scharged—l-lorr proceed by consent]

Sac. 171. (170.)

If, after the empaneling the jury and before verdict a

juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the court may Order
h1m to be discharged.
'
In that case, the trial may proceed with the other jurors, or a new ill"!
may be sworn and the trial beg un anew, or the jury may be discharged and
a new jury then or afterwards er npaneled, as the parties may agree.
[Jury retire-Duty oi’ dl'ﬂeer.]

Sec. 172. (171.) After hearin
court, or retire for. deliberation.

If they retire they shall be kept together in a room provided for them, °.r

some other convenient place, under the charge of one or more oﬂicers, until
they agree upon their verdict, or are discharged by the court.

The oiﬁcer shall to the utmost of his abilit k

alte from other persons; he shall not sutfer anyyc’on(:(ie1[1,uuiac‘z]iltlil-du l).§ebe made t0
llemi 01' make any hlmselfi illlle-SS by order of the court, except to ask them
It_(:\:()1'eIl‘1eB(l1i:6cgglllfﬁlniupon their verdict; and he shall not, before the verdiﬂ
verdict agreed upon. cate to any person the state of their deliberations or 31°
[Whats papers jury may take]

EC. 173. (172.) Upon retiring for <1 l'be r th ‘
wk “’""
them all papers except depositions, accoiirits Io1i'l:(l:lc,oui(itJli1>bl;k[;],a‘)"’hic]:aha"

been received as evidence in the
in the opinion of the court, to be
session; and they may also take
proceedings on the trial, taken by
y any ot 1er person.

case, or copies of such iapers as ought not,
taken from the person having them in pos
with them notes of the testimony, or other
themselves or any of them, but none taken

[Jury may return for instructional

Sac. 174. (173.) After the jury have retired for deliberation, if they
desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the cause, the may
require the oﬂicer to conduct them into court; upon their being broug it into
court, the information required shall be given in presence of, or after notice
to, the parties or counsel.
(When no verdict, new trial.]

Sec. 175. (174.)

In all cases where a jury are discharged or prevented

from giving a verdict by reason of accident or other cause, during the prog
ress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the action may be

again tried immediately or at a future time, as the court shall direct.
(Court, adjournment of—Senled verdict]
Sec. 176. (175.) While the jury are absent the court may adjourn from
time to time, in respect to other business, but it shall be nevertheless deemed

open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the jury, until
a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged.
_
The court may direct the jury to bring in a sealed verdict at the openmg

of court in case of an agreement during a recess or adjournment for the day.
A ﬁnal adjournment of the court for the term shall discharge the jury.
Hill‘! return—Verdlet-Cnll— Foreman anuren]

Sec. 177. (176.) When the 'ury have agreed upon their verdict they
shall be conducted into court by the officer having them in charge.
Their names shall then be called,and they shall be asked by the court or
the clerk whether they have agreed upon their verdict, and if the foreman
answers in the affirmative, they shall, on being required, declare the same.
lcvrrectlon of verdict]
I
_
Sec. 178. (177.) If the verdict be informal or insufficient, in not cover
mg the whole issue or issues submitted, or in any particular, the verdict may
be corrected by the jury, under the advice of the court, or the jury may be
ugam sent out.
lClerk record verdh:t—Bead to jury—DIsagreemenL]
SEC. 179. (178.) When the verdict is given and _1s not informal or
lnsuﬁicient, the clerk shall immediately record it in full in the mmutes, and
shall read it to the jury, and inquire of them whether it be their verdict.
If any juror disagree, thejury shall be again sent out; but if no disagree

mem be expressed. the verdict shall be complete, and thejury shall be dis

charged from the case.
SECTION 180. (1_79.)
The verdict of a jury is either

neral o\ilep:¢aI:;

A general verdict is that by which they pronounce general y UP?" 9' giic‘ is
of the issues. either in favor of plaintiff or defendant: A special V: “rt
that by which thejury ﬁnd the facts only, leaving the Judgment to lrehgi by;
The special verdict shall present the conclusions of fact, as estab 18
.
the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them; and these conclusions of

fact shall be so presented as that nothing shall remain to the court but I0
draw from them conclusions of law.
.
[What verdict shall specify In actions for possession. etc_. ‘Rh par. sec. 271. Ch; 2* W‘
Report of oomml.asloners—or ven.’|tct—ln condemnation. 240 to ‘M4. ch. '11. roll
Special verdict, when propcr—(.‘onrt may dlroet-Inconsistent-y-]

Sec. 181. (180.) In an action for the recovery of money only, 01' speciﬁc
property, the jury,in their discretion, may render a general or special vf!l'dh'L

In all other cases the court may direct the jury

to ﬁnd 8 sllecml
' verdlc' i
_ Writing, upon all or an y of the issues, and in all cases may mstruct tllemi

if theyfellder & general verdict, to ﬁnd upon particular question of fact, 0
stated in writing, and may direct a written ﬁnding thereon.
The special verdict or ﬁnding shall he ﬁled with the clerk and em”
upon the minutes

Where 'a special ﬁndin g of facts shall be inconsistent withi'l1_e§e"ee"::t

verdict, the former sh all control the latter. and the court shall give Jh hm
accordingly.
[Excess of counter claim-—Yerd
lot for overplusd

Sac. 182.

(181.) \ When a verdict is found for the plaintiff, in all “hon
for the recovery of money,
18 established,
or for theexceedin
defendant,the
when
amount
a counter
Of the
claim
Plum“
for
recovery of money
claim as es_tablished , thejury shall also ﬁnd t e amount of the recovery’

of s )EClﬁC pefsohal Pmp.

plahitiﬁ‘, or the defend“:
thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in favll): is
the defendant, they also ﬁnd that . G
thereof, shall ﬁnd the value of the property ; (hht fmlm‘
mentioned in this section shall not mvalidatb th° vs’ diet) and may, at the same time, assess the damages, if any are claimed in the
complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of

the taking or detention of such property.
[Clerk eter verdict, tlme, names, speclal or generahl

Sac. 184. (183.) Upon receiving a verdict an entry sball,be made by the
clerk in the minutes of the court, specif ing the time of trial, the names of
the jurors, and witnesses, and the ver ict; and where a special verdict is

found, either the judgment rendered thereon, or if the case be reserved for

argument or further consideration, the order thus reserving it.
SECTION 185. (1€§7.)' '_'A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of
the parties, ﬁled with-tl'ié clerk, or entered on the minutes:
[To try issues.]

Fii-st—'l‘0 try any or all of the issues in action or proceeding, Whether °l

fact or of law, and to report a ﬁnding and judgment thereon.
[To ascertain a faet.]

Second—T0 ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to proceed and
determine a case.
[When court may order reference]

_SEC. 186. When the parties do not consent thereto, the court may. “P”
application of either, or upon its own motion, direct a reference in the follow’
ing cases:
[Aoeounts—'l‘ry issues!

' Ft'rst—When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of 11
long account on either side, in which case the referees may be directed to hear
and decide the whole issue, or report upon any speciﬁc question Of fad
involved therein.
'
[For information of court]

Sewnd——When the taking of an account is necessary for the information

2: tgfétstsess damages before judgment, or for carrying 8 judgment
[Fact not in pleadings]

Tim-d_—When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings’ Eris?“
upon motion or otherwise in any stage of [the] action; or,
[In special proceedings]

Fourth—When it is necessary for the information of the court in 8 Special '
proceeding.
llteferec, a|ipolutuieiit—Nuiuber

SEC. 187. (189.)
not exceeding three,
the court or judge

—Resldence- 0uth.]

A reference may be ordered to any person -01‘ Persons’
agreed upon by the parties If the partit“-I do {lot
'
s hall appoint one or more referees, not exceedmg

me’ who reside in the county where the action or proceedin is triable, and against
whom there is no legal objection; or the reference mayie made to a referee of
the county where the cause is pending. Cvery referee, before acting as such,
shall take and subscribe an oath or aﬁirmation before some authorized oﬁicer,

which shall be ﬁled with the clerk of the court by which he is appointed,
that be will honestly, im artially and faithfully perform the duties of referee
in the action or matter re erred to him, as required by law, to the best of his
knowledge and ability.
'
[When three return or arbitrators. two may do any act to he done by all. sec. 408. ch. 88, post.

Objectlons to appointment— Groudm]

Size. 188. (190) Either party may object before hearing on reference to
the appointment of any person as referee, on one or more of the following
grounds:
[Qualiﬁcations]

First—-A want of any of the qualiﬁcations prescribed by statute to render
a person competent as a juror.
lconsangulnlty, aiﬂniiy.]

Sewnd—_Consanguinity or aﬂinity within the third degree to either party.
[Social and business rehtiom]

Third—Standin

in the relation of guardian and ward, master and

servant, employe an

clerk, or principal and agent to _either party, or being a

member of the family of either party, or a partner in business with either
party, or being security on any bond or obligation for either party.
lPrevios service as juror in same rnattenl

Fourth-Having served as a juror or been a witness on any trial between
the same parties for the same cause of action.
[Interest]

I

F1fth—Iiiterest on the part of such person, in the event of the action, or
in the main question involved in the action.
[0plnion-Belie|’.]


S/izih—-Having formed or expressed an unqualiﬁed opinion or belief as to
the merits of the action.
lklllllliy, biu.]

Scventh—'l‘he existence of a state of iiiiiid iii-Si1Cli person, evincing enmity
against, or bias to, either party.
[05jeetions disposed of—Aii1daviL]
Sec. 189. (191.) The objection taken to the appointment of any person
HS a referee shall be heard and disposed of by the court,_orjudge thereof in
vacation. Affidavits may be read, and any person examined as a witness. as
to such objections.
lnndlllgt report, ‘!“P('.l--EX('ﬂI"0|l~i—— Itevii-w~--I-Ift'cct of ﬂiidlng.]

I

D h

SEC. 190. i192.) The referees shall report their ﬁndmgs, togethpr Wtit
all the evidence and objections thereto, in writing to the court, Wllliliil £1;
days, (or within such further time as may be allowed by the court), a tel
f
testimony shall have been closed and the facts found, and the conclusions 0

Reiercnces and Trials by Refenca]

law shall be separately stated therein.

The finding of the referees upon the

whole issue shall stand as the ﬁnding of the court, unless excepted to by

either art and received [reviewed] by the court, and upon ﬁling the ﬁnding
with t e c erk of the court, 'udgment may be entered thereon in the same
manner as if the action had been tried by the court. The ﬁnding of the
referees may be excepted to and reviewed by the court, on the ﬁling of excep
tions to the report and ﬁndings b‘ either part . When the reference into

report the facts, theﬁnding reporte shall have t e effect of a special verdict.
[Either party may bring on hearing--NotIce— Court order.)

Sac. _191. (193.) After a cause or question of fact has been referred to
referees, either party may bring the matter to a hearing on giving the opposite
party ﬁve days’ notice, and t 1 e court or judge may, on motion,
fix 8 “me
'
'
when the testimony shall be closed, and the report made.

Former verdict or decision-how vaoated——cuunea.
-\pplicationn—vrhcn made on aﬂidnvi
What notice required—rnotion—ﬁlcd.
SECTION 192. (198) A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact
in the same court, after a trial and decision by a jury, court, or referees.
'
[New trlal.causcs.]

SEC. 193. (199.) The former verdict or other decision, or judgment of
the court, may be vacated, and a new trial granted on the a plication of the
party aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materia ly affecting the

substantial rights of said party:
[lrregnlarlty~ Abuse]

First—lrregularity in the proceedings of the court,jury or adverse party,
or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion by which either party was

prevented from having a fair trial.
[lllscouduct of jury.]

Sec0'nd—Miscoiiduct of thejury, and when any one or more of thejurors

‘ Shall have been induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a
ﬁnding on any question or questions submitted to them b ' the court, by a
resort to the determination of chance, such misconduct may

e proved by the

aﬁidavits of any one or more of the jurors.
lAccldent—Snrprtse.]

T7n"rd—Accident- or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have

guarded against.
[Newly discovered evidence.)
F0wrth—Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the
application which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered

and produced at the trial.
[Exorssi re damagm]
.
_
Ft_'fth—Excessive damages appearing to have been given under the inﬂu

ence of passion or prejudice.
[Verdict against lur—lnsuIllclent evidence]
_ Sia:th—Iiisul§ﬁciciicy of the evidence to justify the verdict, or other deci
sion, or that it is against law.
[Error excepted t0.]

Seventh—Error in law, occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party
making the application.

Sec. 194. (200.) When the application is made for a cause mentioned in
the first, second, third and fourth subdivisions of the last section, it shall be
made upon aﬂidavit; for any other cause it shall be made upon a statement
prepared as provided in the next section.
[New trial—Notieo—0outents- -When motion llied-—NotioesJ

Sec. 195. (201.)

The party intending to move for a new trial shall give

notice of the same as follows: When the action has been tried by a jury.

within ﬁve days after the rendition of the verdict, and when tried by a referee
or by the court, within ten days after receivin written notice of the ﬁling of
the ﬁnding of the referee or court, when wntten ﬁndings are ﬁled by the
court, or upon the rendering of the decision of the court, when no ﬁndings

are ﬁled, provided the decision be rendered in open court; Providtd alwayn.
the motion for a new trial and decision thereon shall be made and had at the

same term the ﬁndings were made or the verdict rendered, and if rendered in
vacation, within ten days after receiving written notice of the ﬁling thereof;

and when amendments are ﬁled to remedy defects in the ﬁndin

, Witllin W11

days after receiving written notice of the ﬁling of such amenfments. The
notice shall state, generally, that a motion for a new trial will be made

W1thm five days after giving such notice, or within such further time as the
court or judge thereof may grant, the said party shall prepare and ﬁle with
the clerk a motion in writing. stating the reasons for a new trial; Provided, if

e1ther party will give notice to the court, at the time of its decision, or that Of
the referee, or at the time the verdict is received, that he will move for a new

trial,
then noiffurther
notice
neei b 0 given’
'
by
aiiidavits
the party
so desire.
an d tlle mo t'Km ma)' be supporM
[Pieadings, miuutes—Couuter aIlidavits—Flling—Whem]

SEC. 196. (202) On the argument of the motion for a new trial, reference
may also be made to the pleadings, depo5iti0ns_ and evidence, and to the
mmutes of the court. If the application be made upon aﬁidavits ﬁled.tl1t~
adverse party may use counter affidavits on the hearmg. Any counter alli

dav1ts shall be ﬁled with the clerk one day at least previous to the hearing
[Diligenco—Court state grounds of ruiiug.]

Sec. 197. (203.)

The application for a new trial shall be made M an

earliest per iOd pl acticable after
ll
Of the
g
motion, and
glailting OI Ieiuslll
3- new tl 1-ill
I
W I . g
I - 1
.
g
Sl-]8.ll state 11]
fit“)

‘
mutt or J
the
SEC'1‘ION 198. (144.) A judgment is the ﬁnal determination of the rights
of the parties in the action or proceedings; and may be entered 1n 8. term or
Vacation.
[P97901131 l"'0Derty may be sold [0 aatlaty Judgment. 1835. e. 1, chv 60. Gen. Slat, judg. and ex.

For or against one or more and between parties on same side-.1

SEC. 199. (1-15.) Judgment may be given for or against one or more of
'?eVeT&l plaintiiis; and for or against one or more of several defendants;_ a}1)1d
It may. When the justice of the case require it, determme the ultimate mg ts
of the parties on each side as between themselves.
The Manner of Giving and Entering Judgmcnrl

[Against one or more and case proceed as to others.]

SEC. 200. (146.) In an action against several defendants, the court may,
in its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, allowmg the
action to proceed against the others, whenever a se\'e.ml Judgment is proper.
[To be entered wlthln twenty-four hours after rerdk-L]

Sac. 201. (204.) When trial by jury has been had,judgment shall he
entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, within twenty-four hours
after the rendition of the verdict,unles.s the court order the case to be reserved
for argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of prooeedmgs.
[When case reserved either party may move.]

Sec. 202. (205.)

When the case is reserved for argument or further

consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be brought by either

party before the court for argument.
[For excess of counter clalm—For other rellef to defendmtl

Sec. 203. (206.) If a counter claim, established at the trial, exceed the
plaintiﬁ"s demand so established, judgment for the defendant shall be given
for the excess, or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other allit

mative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.
[For goods or value-—l-‘or retnrn—Damagean]

Snc. 204. (207.) In an action to recover the possession of personal prop
erty, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession or the value thereof,
in case a delivery cannot be had, and damn es for the detention. If the
property has been delivered to the plaintiff, an the defendant claim a return
thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the properly or
the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and damages for takmg and
withholding the same.
23 lplulnml wveﬂns ludzmeltt In action for possession of lands. ele., entitled to special execution. see 775'
ch.

.nost.

J ndgment hook, clerk to keep.]

SEC. 205. (208.)- The clerk shall keep among the records of court a book
for the entry of judgments. to be calle d the “Judgment Book,” in which each
judgment shall be entered, and shall specify clearly the relief granted or other
determination of the action.
[Judgment after death of party—l-low paynblm]

See. 206. (20ti.)' If -a party die after a verdict or decision upon any issue
of1 fact,
and before
_
_ jud gment, the court may, nevertheless, render judgment

ti1e1eon. Such judgment shall not be a lien on the real property of H1.“
egrgzgsecl ‘party, but shall be payable in the course of administration on hlﬂ
[See also 1842. s. 8. ch. 60, Gen. stat, ludgmentu and executlons.

same_ I)eaU! 0f ‘lu (l gt r debtor ‘mer ludlmen" 1371» 5~ 37- ell 6ft Gen. Stat.. Judgments and executions; lW9~ 5‘ 5‘
(‘,lt_-rk enter jndgment~Transoript—Wlten tiled becomes llen—-Six yearﬂ-]


SEQ 207- Q11.) Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk

S °f “)8 jlldgment under a propriate heads in
in the tune the judgment is ocketed and it mm‘
with the recorder of the county, it shall becomea

[Thu Manner of Giving and Entering Judgment.

lien upon the real property of the judgment debtor not exempt from execu
tion in the county, owned by him at the time, or which he may afterwards

acquire, until said lien expires. The lien sha.ll continue for six years from
the entry ofjudgment. unless the judgment be previously satisﬁed. [Sec 16;
pp. 222-3, acts 1879-Subs. for sec. 211, pp. 82-3, orig. act.
[interest on iodgnienla. 1844. s. 10. ch. 6). Gen Stat Also. l70'l. s. 2. ch 56. Gen. Stat. Interest.
See 1. s. 1. chap. 60, judgments and executions. Gen. Stat.

Judgment docket, forni, coutents_Dloney, rellef—Nanm-1.]

See. 208. (212)

The docket mentioned in the last section is a book

which the clerk shall keep in his oﬁice with each page divided into eight
. columns and headed as follows: Judgment debtors; judgment creditors;judg
meut; time of entry; when entered in tlieju(lgn1ei1tr book; motion for new

trials and appeals: when taken; judgment of appellate court: satisfaction of
judgment; when entered. lfjndgment be for the recovery of money or dam
ages, the amount shall be stated in the docket under the head of judgments;
if the judgment be for any other relief, a men1orandum of the general char
acter of the relief ranted shall be stated. The names of the defendants shall

be entered in the ocket in alplial)etl(-al order.
[Docket shall be kept open for inspectlo||—Arrangemont.]

S!-:(:. 209. (213) The docket kept by the clerk shall be open at all time_s,
during otﬁce hours, for the inspection of the public, without char e; and _1t

shall be the duty of the clerk to arrange the several dockets kept y him in
such manner as to facilitate their inspection.
[Tramcript ﬂied in any oi her (-o||||ty--Lien on realty, six years.)

See. 210. (21-1.)

A transcript of the original docket entry as contem

plated by section two hundred and six [Q07], certiﬁed by the clerk, may be
ﬁled with the recorder of any other county; and from the time of ﬁhng, the
judgment shall become a lien upon all the real property of such judgment
debtor not exempt from execution in such county, owned by him, or which

he may afterwards acquire until the said lien expires. 'I_‘he hen shall con
tinue for six years from the entry of judgment, unless the judgment be pre
viously satisﬁed.

[The sec. Z11. referred to in last above see. is we. M (211) oi‘ this chapter; the orig. reference, ‘E6. was error.
Sheni! tile certiﬁcate oi’ levy. 1884. s. 60, ch. 60. judgmmts and executions.

smshcﬂon 0' 

SEC. 211. (215.) Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the clerk s
docket upon an execution returned satisﬁed, or upon an acknowledgment of
satisfaction ﬁled with the clerk, made in the manner of an acknowledgment

of a conveyance of real property by the judgment creditor; or_w1th1n one
year after the ‘udgment by the attorney, unless a revocation _of h1S authority
be Previously led. Whenever a judgment shall be satisfied in fact, otherwise

than upon execution, it shall be the duty of the party or attorney to g1ve such
acknowledgment, and upon motion the court may compel it, or may order

the entry of satisfaction to be made without it.
(For sale oi lands under execution, see 181849, as. 14-15, ch. 60. iudsmenw and executions, Gm 5'“
For redemption. IN] to 151. as. 16 to 3), same chap.
17>“’"1D!l0li$. 1864 to 1867. ss. :1] to 34, same chap.

The Manner of Giving and Entering ]udgwcnt.]

'l’rnn.~u.-rlpt from docket of J. P. iilod Itlih reeorder—Lien on realty. nix yeam]

SEC. 212. (2l6.) A transcript of anyjudgmont ‘rendered by anyjusttce
of the peace, duly certiﬁed by said justice, may be hled with the recorder of
the county in which such judgment shall have been rendered:_ and from the
time of ﬁling such transcript such judgment shall become a hen u on all of
the property of the judgment debtor, except personal property an property
exempt from execution, in such county, in the same manner and to t 0 same
extent as if such judgment had been originally rendered iii a court of record.

said lien shall continue for sixayears from the entry of judgment unless the
judgment be previously satisﬁ

[When defendant dies before execution. 1848. s. 8. ch. N. indgnumtn und executions.
Transcript from Justice's docket may be tiled in district court and execution against lands. "Tl. sec. 64- 631- Kl
Gen. Stat, Justices and constables.
Every interest in lands may be sold on execution. 1888, s. 49, ch. 60. jam; and en. Hen. Btntutu.

ﬁheriii iiie certiﬁcate with recorder. 1884. s 50. ch. fl). name.
i-‘orm oi‘ certiﬁcate, 1886. s. 52‘ same.

[When one or more summoned—Scire faclas to oiherm]

SEc. 213. (267.) When a judgment is recovered against one or more of
several persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding _8-5_ pm‘
vided in section 43, [46], chapter 3, of this act, those who were not ongmally

served with the summons, and did not apiear to the action, may be'sum
moned to show cause why they should not e bound by the jud ment iii the
same manner as though they had been originally served with ﬁne summons.
[Sec 43, reterred to in last above see. is see. 46 of this act.

Seire faelas—CoutenisJ

Sec. 214_. (268.)

The summons, as provided in the last section, shall

descnbe the Judgment and require the person summoned to show cause W11."

he should not be bound by it, and shall be served in the same manner and
returnable within the same time as the original summons.
It shall not be necessary to ﬁle a new complaint.
[Aiiidavit of part unpaitt]

sshall be accom anied by an aﬁidavit Of

' unsatisﬁed,
. shall speeifv, ,theatamount
the judgment
or some
part thereof remams
and
due thereon.

l‘\'“"°“_D°‘°““°“_C““nb1 Plead limitation-]
SEC. speciﬁed
216. (270.)
U
~h
the_time
thereirlrliiesiiyinsummousy
the defendant may answer M~'thin
which may have a '
~ g the jud ment or
Y setting
Y . up
. any
. . ' defense
the
obligation upon ivliiesli3I1thseuj
ie ma) den) his hablht) on
f an)- cause 9 xcept B
discharge
from such liability udgm
by th€emsta‘iii‘t‘:;e1t.:fcl(ii1iai‘teadti0iii
[Subsequent defense—Denial of liabiliiy—Ail

aﬂons

SEC. 217. (271). If the <1 f d 08' ‘J
set uP an)’ defense which mayehen am m Ins answer den)

'

t or

the -ludgmeu "

the affidavit annexed, and the 2:: arisen
subsequently, the summons, W1 t
_

case if he den y hiS liability‘ on the wer. shall constitute the allegations in the
obligﬁtion upon which the judgment W85
{The Mann:-r of Giving and Entering Judgment.

recovered, a copy of the original colnplaint and judgment, the summons, with
the aﬁiduvit aunexcd, and the ultswcr, shall constitute such written allega

tions.
[TrIal~Verdlet or l|ablIlt_\'—Alnount.]

Sac. 218. (272)

The issues formed may be tried as in other cases, but

when the defendant denies, in his answer, any liability on the obligations
upon which the judgment was remlcrctl. if a verdict be found against him, it
shall befor the amount remaining tlnsatisﬁetl on such original judgment,
with interest thereon.
[Judgment without mil —l"0r securltya]

SEC. 219. (273.)

A judgment by confession may be entered without

action. either for money due or to become due, or to secure any person against
contingent liabilities, on hehalf of the defentlant, or both, in the manner pre

scribed by this chapter.
[Statement by defendant—-Conteuts.] ‘

SEC. 220. (274.)

A statement in writing shall be made and signed by

the defendant, and veriﬁed by his oath, to the following effect:
[Amount]

First—-It shall authorize the entry ofjudgment for a speciﬁed sum.
[State facts of debt.]

Sec0nd—If it be for monev due or to become due, it shall state concisely
the facts out of which it arose: and shall show that the sum eonfessed there
for is justly due or to become due.
[For set-urlty—ﬁtate fact» of l|abilIty.]

T71i1'd—lf it be for the [)LII‘}>O.<L: of securing the plaintiffa .a1n.st a con
tin ent liabilitv, it shall state concisely the facts constitutmg the 1ab1l1ty, and
shall show that the sum t-onfcssml therefor does not exceed the same.
[Statement t|led—J||dgn|ent—R0lI~l||dorsed-Entered]

.SEC. 221. ('27-").) The statcuient shall be filed with t.he clerk of the court
in which thejudgment is to be entered, who shall endorse upon 11: and enter

ill the judgment book a judgment of such court for tlre amount confessed,
with costs The statement and atlidavit, with the judgment endorsed, shall
thereupon become tliejudgtncut roll.

Order to show cnu~e--service -Kimc.

[R.evlval—Petttlon—Amouul.]

Sacnon 222. (217)
A judgment in a civil action may be revived by

ﬁling a petition in the action alleging the time thc judgment was rendel‘e<_i,
that it remains unsatisﬁed in whole or in part, stating the amount it 15
claimed the judgment should be revived for: Which petition shall be veriﬁed
as complaints are required to be by this act.
[Order to show eanse—Servlee—'l‘hue.]

Sac. 223. (21S.) Upon ﬁlfhg such petition, the clerk shall issue an
order to show cause why such judgment shall not be revived, if any there
be, which order to show cause shall be directed to and served on the defen
dants in the same manner as summons are required to be served. The 9rd?!
to show cause shall require the defendants to appear and show cause Wltlllu
ten days after service on them.
SEC. 224. (219.) The defendant may appear and answer the petition ill
the same manner complaints are required to be answered, and the court shall
try and determme any issue so formed the same as any issues made by _plcad
1ng_s are required to be tried and decided, and hear any evidence necessary W
decide the same.
SEQ 225. (220.l
If the court decide to revive the judgment in whole of

in Part, it shall so Order. and the papers and proceedings shall be attached to
the original judgment roll and the entry of rcvivor made in theludgment
docket and
b 00k, and if the petition is ﬁled before the lienﬁ 01'“
I ' judgment
_
by the original Judgment have_ ex pired, all rights under such judgment shall
continue, and execution mav

the original judgment.

issue on such revived judgment the same as O"
SECTION 226. (221.) When an execution against property of the judg
ment debtor or any of several debtors in the same judgment issued to the‘
sheriff of the county where he resides, or if he does not reside in this State, to

the sheriff of the county where the judgment roll is ﬁled, is returned unsatis
ﬁed in whole or in part, the judgment creditor at any time after such return
is made,-shall be entitled to an order from the judge of the court or county
judge, r uiring such judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his
propert;qbefore such jud e, or a referee appointed by him, at a time and
place s iﬁed in the or er; but no judgment debtor shall be required to

attend eforc a judge or referee out of the county in which he resides, when
proceedings are taken under the provisions of this chapter.
[At|lthvlt—0rder-l'IxaInluatI0n— Arrest — Bond —C0nd itIons—Prls0n.]

SEC. 227. (222) After issuing an execution against property and upon
proof by aflidav_it by a party, or otherwise to the satisfaction of the court, or a

judge thereof, that any judgment debtor has property which he unjustly
refuses to apply towards the .~::itisfuction of the judgment, such court or Judge
ma , by an order, require the judgment debtor to a pear at a speciﬁed tune
{III place before such judge or referee appointed by im, to answer concern
mg the same. And such rroceedings may thereupon be had for the applica
ji0l1 of the property of the judgment debtor, toward the satisfaction of the

Judgment, 118 are provided upon the return of an execution.‘ Instead of the
order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, the judge may, upon
aﬁidavit of the judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, if it appear to lnm

that there is danger of the debtor absconding, order the sheriff to arrest the
debtor and bring him before the judge. ()n being brought before the judge,
he may be ordered to enter into an undertaking, with surety that he Wlll
{Attend from time to time before the judge or referee, as shall be directed, d_ur-_
mg the pendencv of the proceedings, and until the ﬁnal determination

thereof; and will hot, in the meantime, dispose of any portion of his property
not exempt from execution.
. In default of entering into such undertaking, he may be committed to

prison.
Proceeding; Subsequent to Exccuu'on.]

[Debtor 6|’ judgment debtor may pay to !|ltI‘l“--I"-\("lll‘|ﬂ‘-]

Sec. 228. (223.) After the i.-siiiiig of nn execution ngniiist property, any
)€]‘S0l1 indebted to the judgment debtor ii|ii_\' pny to the sheriift I0 amount of
his debt, or so much thereof as mny he li(:(‘t‘.~.n‘t\I‘_\' to satisfy the execution, and

the sheriii"s receipt shall be u ~utlii-it-nt di-r-lini'ge for the nmount so paid.
[0rdor for appenrlnee of debtors of judiznirnt debtor.)

Sec. 229. (17) After issuiiig or return of an execution against property
ofajudgment debtor, or any one of several debtor:-' in the samejudgmelll.
and upon proof, by aﬂidavit or 0LliC‘I‘Wl.~t', to the sati.~'i'iu-tioii of the pidge, that
any person or corporation has property of such jndginent de itor, or is
indebted to him in an amount exvee-ling t\\'eiit_v-ﬁve dollars, the judge may,
by an order, require such person or corporation. or nny ofiicer or member
thereof, to ap ear, at a specified time or plnee, before him or it referee

appointed by im, and answer i-oneeruing the same.

[See-. 17, p. 223,80“

1879—Subs. for sec. 224, pp. 87-8, orig. act.
Gold, silver and current money may be levied on. 1876, n. 42. ch. ii). lien. Btu. Jndlmmto nmi execlllonl

Witnesses in such case.]

‘SEC. 230. (225).) Witnesses may be required to appear and 933m)’ before
the judge or referee upon any proceeding under this clinpter. ill Ute same
manner as upon trial of an issue.
[Order for property of debtor to be tamed over on judgment-—EnrniugsJ

.
SEC. 231. (18.) The judge or referee may order any iropert of the
judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands of such
btor or

any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the
satisfaction of the judgment, except that the earnings of the debtor, for his
personal services, to the amount of twentv-ﬁve dollars, shall not be so applied
when it shall be made to appear by the debtor [dcbt0r’s] nﬁidavit or otherwise

that such earnin

are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly °f

partly by his la or. [See. 18, p. 223, acts l87€)—Siihs. for sec. 226, 11-35
orig. act.
'0rder allowing creditor to sue third pnrtios_Restrni|it of transfer-]

SEC. 232. (227.) If it appear that 0. person or corporation alleged lmve
Property of the Judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claim an interest 1“ Fbe

Property adverse to him, or denies the debt, the eourt or judge may authorize‘
by an order made to that effect, the judgment creditor to in.<titute an act-I011

9-gamst such Person 0l‘_00i‘poratiou for-the recovery of such interests 01‘ _debt§'
And the court or judge may, by order, forbid it transfer or Other dispos"
' an action
'
- he eommenced
or d ebt, until
can
an d P ms’

tion
of tosuch
interest
ecuted
judgment‘

order
ma 1 bfhglzcfifciiiiiior
d‘
or theSuch
°°.\1rt
in whigh
‘mated
b3. the Judge
grantm

may be Just.

th B same’

s brought. at any time, upon sue 1 terms 35

-
SECTION 234. (19.) In actions for the foreclosure of mort ages, the court

shall have the power, by its judgment, to direct a sale of the encumbered
pro

rty, or as much as may be necessary, and the application of the proceeds

of t e sale to the payment of the costs of the court and ex enses of the sale,
and the amount due to the laintiff; and if it appear from t e sheriff's return
that the

roceeds are insu

cient and a balance still remains due, judgment

shall be ocketed for such balance a ainst the defendant or defendants per
sonally liable for the debt, and shall hen become a lien on the real estate of
such judgment debtor, as in other cases in which execution may be issued.

No person holding a conveyance from or under the mortgagor, ortof the prop
erty mortgaged. or having a lien thereon, which conveyance or llen does not

appear on record in the proper oﬂice at the time of the commencement of the
action, need be made a party to such action, and the judgment therem ren
dered and the proceedings therein had shall be as conclusive against the
party holding such unrecorded conveyance or lien as if he had been made a
arty to said action, and shall, in all respects, have the same _force and effect.
FSec. 19, pp. 223-4, acts 1879—Subs. for sec. 229, pp. 89-90, ong. act.
Redemptlon of lands sold under mortgage, 1860. s. 26, ch. 60, Gen. Stat. judgments and executlons.

)lus moneys-Payment, deposlL]

Sac. 235. (230.)

If there be surplus money remaining after payment on

the amount due on the mortgage, lien or encumbrance, with costs, the court

11_18y cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to 1t, and 1n the mean
time may direct it to be deposited in court.
[When only part of debt due—Sale of part-—Sale of all with rebate]

SEC. 236. (231.)
If the debt for which the mort age, hen or encum

brance is held, be not all due, so soon as sufficient oft e pro erty has been
Sold to pay the amount due with costs, the sale shall cease, an

afterwards as

Oflﬂll as more becomes due for principal or interest, the court may, on motion.
Order more to be sold. But if the property cannot be sold in portions, with
cutinjury to the parties, the whole may be ordered_to be sold 1n_t_he ﬁrst

Instance, and the entire debt and costs paid, there bemg a rebate of mterest

where such rebate is proper.
ISEC. 238. (2.) That in all cases where the right to take private property
for public or private use without the owner’s consent or the right to construct
or maintain any railroad, public road, toll road. ditch, bridge, ferry, telegraph,

ﬂume or other public or irivatc work or improvement, or which may damage
property not actually ta en, has been heretofore or shall hereafter be con

ferred by general law or special charter, upon any corporate or municipaI
authority, public body, oﬁicer or agent, person or persons, commissioner or
corporation, and the compensation to be paid for, or in respect of the property
sought to be appropriated or damaged, for the purposes above mentioned,

cannot be agreed upon by the parties interested: or in case the owner of the
property is incapab e of consenting, or his name or residence is unknown, or

e is non-resident of the 5tate,‘it shall be lawful for the party authorized to
take or damage the property so required, or to construct, operate. and main
tain any railroad, public road, toll road. ditch, bridge, ferry, telegra )l'l, ﬂume
or other public or private work or iinproveinent, to apply to the ju ge of the
district or county court, either in term time or vacation, where the said prop
erty or any part thereof is situate, by ﬁling with the clerk a petition, setting

forth by reference his or their authority in the premises; the purpose for
which said property is sought to be taken or damaged; a description of the
property, the names of all persons interested therein as owners or otherwise,

as appearing of record, if known, or if not known, stating that fact and pray

ing such 'udge to cause the compensation to be paid to the owner to be
assessed. f the proceedings seek to affect the property of persons under guar
dianship, the guardians or conservators of persons having conservators, shall
be made parties defendant, and if of married women, their husbands shall
also be made mrties. Persons interested whose names are unknown may be
made parties efendant by the description of the unknown owners; but m_all
such cases an aﬁidavit shall be ﬁled by, or on behalf of the petitioner, setting
forth that the names of such persons are unkiiown. In cases where the prop

erty is sought to be taken or damaged by the State for the purpose Of
establishing, operating or maintaining any State house, or charitable or other
State institution or improvement, the petition shall be signed ‘by the
governor or such other person as he shall direct, or as shall be provided by

aw. [Sec 1059 (2) of said act. p. 397, G. L.
Taking l’0I' ﬁlm”. eta. under clty or town ordinance. two-thirds ol council must vote for ordinance. 1325. _s. 27. ch
1t‘9, towns and cities, Gen. Stat.
umtiellﬂllnc right of way lor ditches. see 1715. s. 5. ch. 57. irrigation. General 5t&ll1l88

08! llIPOhIted—Summons—AdrertisemenL1
. - Sac. 239. (3.) If such petition be presented to a judge in vacation, the
Judge Shall note thereon the day of presentation, and shall also note thereon
the day when he will hear the same. and shall order the issuance of sum
mons to each resident defendant, and the publication of notice to each non
resident defendant, and the clerk of the court shall at once issue the sum

"ions and give notice accordingly.

[Sec 1060 (3) of said act, p. 397, G. L.

Snmmons—Aﬂldnvlt-Notice— 80 days or more.]

SEC. 240. (4.)

Such summons shall be made returnable on such {lay

and hour as the court or judge mav ﬁx and determine, not less than _th1I‘ty
days after the issuance of Such suminons, and the same shall be served in the
same manneras in other cases, at least ten days before the return day thereof.

When it ggpears that the owners, or any of them, of the property sou ht tobe mn

,are non-residents, or have been returned by the slherl

28:2: asnot found, and in case said summons ls so returned
an a davit shall likewise be ﬁled in said cause b

of tbs

nohfouptgk

the_pla1nt|ﬁ‘ or iéiﬁ

ney, setting forth that the rson makin such a davit had made lngzlllle
inquiry and had been unab e to learn of t e whereabouts of such persor yub
court or judge shall order a notice to be pubhshed Ill some newslpa gtice
lished in said county, addressed to such owner_o_r owners, in w (;c llrate
shall be stated the name of the petitioner or petitioners, a full an accu for
description of the property sought to be taken or condemned, the pH
mm
which such condemnation is asked, and the time and place when suc 0 e of
or owners are required to appear, and the ‘title of the court, or nan_1ud

the judge, before whom said application is to be heard. The court ca] bi‘:
shall also ﬁx and determine when said notice shall
made returnah 0, me
in no case shall it be made returnable in less than thirt days, and t ebsgore
shall be published at least four (4) times in some wee ly newspa rrhed in

the return day thereof. If there shall be no weekly newspaper puh 1'8] direct
the county in which such proceedings are had, the court or udge s ::_ bed in

that said notice be published in some newspaper named by "11, Pub 15
the nearest convenient

lace to such county.

1. P~ 58' acts 187"

amending sec. 1061 (4) 0 said act, p. 398, G L.
Trial In vacation—Soparste lands—A|nen(ln|ents—New parﬂeo--Bales-Proeemn]

SE‘-* 241- (5-)

Causes may be heard by such Judges
in
115 Well
.
. \'8C8.tl0l1
as in term time, but no cause shall be heard earlier than tell (10) days “Mr
service
nurlnléeelliof
uponseparate
defendant,
parcels
or upon
of property
due publication
situate in
against
the same
non-residents.
county ma)
me u

1n

one petition, and the compensation for each shall be

rt or

separately, by the same or different commissions or junes, as the 00“

Judge may direct.

Amendment to the petition, or to any P9-P°r_°r mfg 1,3

the cause, may be permitt-ed whenever necessary to a fair trial and nv
determination of the questions involved.
Should it become n
tdr

at any)tage of the proceeding to bring a new party before the coulr ‘ or
Judge,_ the court or judge shall have the power t0 make Such web ll
order 1n relation thereto as may be deemed reasonable and l“'°P'.3r; and 811:5
also have power to make all necessary rules and orders for notice in Pa I
of the Pendency 0f the proceeding, and to issue all process necessary t° the
execution of orders an
said
act, p. 398, G. L <1 Judgments
as they may be entered , [ Sec. 1062 6:0‘
'
Adlonrnment — Commlssloners-0ath_Proﬂt — Cerﬂﬂcate_ Bule— Entry-—

lIlnes—P0ssesslon—DelNmlt—Defeetlve tltIe—Llen— Dell!-1
from

ti me to tune, shall direct
The court
Or jlldge
mat ereof
adjourn
proceedings,
any future
notice
to bethe
given
that ma) Seem
the
re ul

ar proofs and allegations of all parties interested touclnngin“

g an y 0 the.’ p.1'°ceedmgs- and shall, by an entrv in its minutes. 84’ and
mlsslonlirs of not less than three freeholders, to awe?“
ing such lands, franchises or other pgvod '

taken or damaged in such county, for the purposes alleged in the petition,
and said court or judge shall ﬁx the time and place for the ﬁrst meeting of
such commissioners. The said coniniissioners, before entering upon the

duties of their oﬁice, shall take an oath to faithfully and impartially dis
charge their duties as said commissioners, and any one of them may admin
ister oaths to witnesses produced before them; they may issue subpoenas and
com 1 witnesses to attend and testify, and may adjourn and hold meetings
for t iat purpose. They shall bear the proofs and allegations of the parties,

and after viewing the premises, shall, without fear, favor or partiality, ascer
tain and certify the compensation proper to be made to said owner or parties
interested, for the lands, real estate or claims to be taken or affected, as well

asall damages accruing to the owners or parties interested in consequence of
the condemnation of the same, taken or injuriously affected, as aforesaid.
They shall make, subscribe, and file with the clerk of the court in which such
proceedings are bad, a certiﬁcate of their said ascertainment and assessment,
in which such lands, real estate or claims shall be described, with convenient
certainty and accuracy. The court or 'udge, upon such certiﬁcate or verdict

of a jury as hereinafter provided, and

ue proof that such compensation and

separate sums, if any be certiﬁed or found to have been paid to the parties
entitled to the same, or have been deposited to the credit of such parties in

court. or with the clerk of the court, for that purpose, shall make and cause to
be entered in its minutes, a rule, describing such lands, real estate or claims in
manner aforesaid, such ascertainment of compensation, with the mode of
makin it, and each payment or deposit of the compensation as aforesaid,
acerti§ed copy of which shall be recorded and indexed in the r_ecorder’s

oﬂice of the proper county, in like manner and with like effect as if it were a
deed of conveyance from the said owners and parties interested, to the proper
parties. Upon the entry _of such rule the said petitioner shall become
seized in fee except as hereinafter provided, of all such lands, real estate or

claims described in said rule, as required to be taken as aforesaid, and may
take possession of, and hold and use the same for the purposes speciﬁed in said

petition, and shall thereupon be discharged from all claims for any damages
Y reason of any matter speciﬁed in such etition, certiﬁcate or rule of said court
Orjlldgez

Provided, any such right 0 way shall never ‘give the petitioner

9")’ right, title or interest to any vein, ledge, lode or deposit found or existing
in the premises condemned.
And if at any time after an attempted or
actual ascertainment of compensation under this act, or any purchase or by

donation to said petitioner, of any lands, real estate or claims, for purposes
speciﬁed in the petition, it shall appear that the title acquired thereby, to all
01' any part of such lands for the use of such petitioner, or if said assessment
shall fail or be deemed defective, the said petitioner may proceed and perfect

such title by procuring an ascertainment of the compensation proper to be
made to any person who has title, claim or interest in, or hen upon such
lands, real estate or claims, and by making payment thereof in the manner

hereinafter provided, as near as may be, and at any stage _0f such new Pro‘

Peedings, or of any proceedings under this act, the court or Judge may by Ifllle
In that behalf made, authorize the said petitioner, lf. already in

os_sessi0I1,

and if not in possession to take possession of and use said premises urmg the
pendency and until the ﬁnal conclusion of such proceedings, and may 5'53)’

all actions and proceedings against such petitioner on account thereof. PTO
I
' to court,
or
uh etitioner
shall pay' a_ suﬁuunt
sum in
i
_ to the clerk
‘_
thereof, t(o piiy the compensation in that bchnli when asccrtamcd. Prouded

vided,

further, that the judge of the court before or wherein any such l"’°c"(’d"'gS
are had shall determme the amount sin-h petitmncr shall be reqillllerleed to P°.‘_
or de iosit pending any such asccruiinnient; and iii every casear ndisftsaie
ion s all be so authorized, it shall be lawful for the owner h co mionor‘
proceedings to a conclusion, if the smnc shall be delayed by dt e pecom W
The said commissioners shall each reccivc four (4) dollars perbeay as(l b [>518

sation for each day actually employed, such compensatmn_ tobe taltﬁle 0); fan

court or judge. If any commissioner so appo|ntcd'shal‘l die,

Untlreasonabh

to serve, the court or judge may appoint another iii hi.-i plac'e:“())(i)i G L
notice of the application. [Sec. lliliii Hi) of said act, pp. 39. i - Demand of jury__By whom—0rdor--Drawing.)

Sec. 243. (7.) Any person, persons or company whose cstpte or lilzgerliflsg
is to be affected by the proceeding, may demand at the time _0 _ any herein

of such petition, and before the apoointm_ent of the cornmisslonehlsmition
provided, a jury of six freeholdcrs residing in the county where suc salmon to

iS ﬁled, to ascertain, determine and appraise the damages or compcu
be allowed therefor, and thereupon said
shall make an Md er
. court or judgc
for the drawing of such jury as herein provided.

[Sec. 1064 (7) of said am‘

p. 401, G. L.
Bee sa. 14. it. art. 2, bill of rights. constitution.

Selection of jarors—Six—Venlr1-.]

Sec. 244. (8.) In cases fixed for hearing of petition
ll
. . in
. vacation,
' sh” ll
be the duty of the clerk of the court in Whose office the petition is filed‘; 2}

the time of issuing summons or making publication. to write the namrate
twenty-four disinterested freeholders of the county, on twenty'f°“r sep?obe

slips Of B-P61‘, each slip to contain but one name, and shall calls? tors‘
selected rom said twenty -four names, six oi said persons
serye 3? J“_ and
such selection to be made by lot and without choice or dlS(!l:1D]ii‘iBl:10ni

V

the said clerk shall thereupon issue venire directed to the shenﬂ‘ of h1sc0lll1 ll

commanding him to summon the six persons so selected as jurors to W sec‘:
at the court house in said count
)8 at a time to be named in _the mire.‘ ‘ W
—

1065 (8) of said act, pp. 401-2, G
.L.—.-\pprovcd Feb 12, 1Si7——In f0"-9
13, 1877.
Constitution, sec. 15. an. 2. says "a jury."

See Sec. 100. ch. 12. ante—Approved Mm-eh 11, nm —in toioc on. 1. 18'"
Chalienge of jurors_Taleinncn.]

_ Sec. 245. (9.) The petitioner and every party interested if] the 9309;
tammg of. compensation, shall have the same right of challenge of Jumr?-all
in other civil cases in the district and county court. If the Pinwl.be not ‘by reason ofnon-attendance, or be exhausted by challenges, the Judge beans
mg such petitioln shall desi nate by name the necessarv number of pom‘,-a
of proper quahﬁcation, an

the clerk or judge shall~ issue another M"

II(E)t;i‘E&lilG mstanter, and until the jury be full.

[Sec. 1066 (9) of said “cl, P.

F°\' Qualifications of iurom. see ch. 60. lurom, Gen. Sm" div 1, M» exemption and chulenm la-me‘
Sec. 246. ‘10.; When the jury shall have been so selected and taken an
oath to faithfully and impartially discharge their duties, said jury shall at the
request of either part go upon the land sought to be taken or dama ed, in
person, and examine t re same, and shall then return into court, if t e pro
ceedings be in term time, and if in vacation, then before the judge, and the
said court or judge shall preside in the same manner and with like power as
in other cases; evidence shall be admitted or rejected by the court or judge,
according to the rules of law, and at the conclusion of the evidence t-he mat
ters in controversy may be argued by counsel to the jury, and at the conclu
sion of the arguments the court or judge shall instruct the jury in writing
in the same manner as in cases at law. The jury shall retire for deliberation
in charge of asworn oﬂicer the same as in other cases. When such jury

shall have agreed upon a verdict, the same shall then be returned into court.
If any such jury shall be unable to agree, it. may be discharged by such
court or judge, and thereupon another jury shall be summoned as soon as
practicable, in the same manner as before, and said court or judge shall have
power, and it is hereby made the duty of such court orjudge, to continue the
peroceedings and to summon and impanel a jury or juries until a verdict can
had. Any person, party or corporation feeling aggrieved by any such ver
dict may move before such court or judge for a new trial in the same man,
ner and for the same causes as in action at law, and the refusal of such court
or judge to grant a new trial may be excepted to and assigned for error.
[See 1067 (10) of said act, pp. 402-3, G. L.
Order of possession on paylm-ut—Justlllcutlon.]

SEC. 247. (II.)

The judge or court shall, upon suchverdict, proceed to

adjudge and make such order as to right and justice shall pertain, ordering
that petitioner enter upon such property and the use of the same, upon pay
ment of full compensation as asccrtainctl as aforesaid ; and such order, with

evidence of such payment. shall constitute completejustification of the takmg
of such property.

[See ltnts‘ Ill), of Sillll act. p. 403, U. L.

luter-pleuder allowedd

Sec. 248. t 12.)
Any |>t-|~.-on not made a party may becoiiiesucli hy_hhng

his cross petition. setting forth that he is the owner or has an mterest 111 the
P_!‘0perty sought to be taken or dantagcd by the proposed work_; and the

ﬁghts of such lust named petitioner shall thereupon be fully considered and
determined. [Sec. ltllitl -( l2t of said act, p. -103, Ur. L.
Alllltlll lo supreme conrt—-Writ of error.l


SEC. 249. (134 in all cases, upon final dctermination_thereof in either
the district or countv court, or before a district or county Judge in vacation,

an appeal may be taken to the supreme court in the same manner as provuled
by law for taking of appeals from the district court. to the supreme court;
and a writ of error from the supreme court shall lie in every case to brmg pt
review the proceedings therein, after such ﬁnal determination.

[bee 1010

(13) Of said act, p. 403, G. L.
Possession on paying into court _[)(-posit——0WtIOI' elect— Appeal-Bond of owner-Amount]

SEC. 250. (1-1.)

In cases in which coinpellsation Shall be asqertadneli Hll

aft?!-esaidy if the Owner 0,. owners of the property taken or aﬂecte

. . so ascertained
. e:) such
) use
lor
rosecute
writ
of error,
the
maybe_pay
into
courtupggﬂ
or to
2ll1t§)eCal'el'l(.ill)lei‘90f
the
of the
owner
thea amount
or
owners,
of and
compenmtmn
shallpetitioner
thereupon
ent?
_a=i<ila;vi:;(\i:;d
session and use the property taken or affected, the same as l _:;d g aforesaid
or writ of error had been taken, The said money so deposiI “ahave been

shall remain on deposit until such appeal or writ of error sia

‘em shall

heard and determined ; Provided, however, that if the owner or owi I (.)r Wm

elect to receive such money before the determination of said agpdeaso far as
of error, said appeal or writ of error shall thereupon be dismi
, Shall be

such owner or owners are concerned. if the appeal or writ of 8i‘i'0"ll' less be
taken bv the petitioner, the amount of compensation shall never zzners of
paid into court or to the clerk thereof, for the use of the owner; olrI omve mo
the property condemned or aﬂ'ected_before such petitioner Lila
amacwd~

right totake possession of and use said pro erty so condemn
and such compensation may be paid to sue

or n tin“;

owner or owners. a a yutioll

before the determination of such appeal or writ of error, upon the exec with

and delivery of agood and suﬁicient bond by such owner or oivtnelfsjudge

good and suﬁicient surety or sureties, to be approved by said cou ' 0 J
'
in a sum double the amount of such compensation, conditioned }i;ll8i.:'\t1c:f
owner or owners will pay and refund to suci petitioner all or suc

Pa said

said sum assaid owner or owners may be required or 11(1)!-1dge(l to $3‘ 1071
etitioner, together with the cost of said appeal or writ of error.
14‘; of said act, pp. 403-4, G. L.
Compensation paid to clerk or owner.]

so. 251. (15.)

Payment of compensation adjudged may in all cagjbtz

made to the courtor the clerk thereof, who shall on demand pay meg: made

the party entitled thereto, taking receipt therefor; 0|‘ payment ma
to the party entitled thereto, his, her or their conservator or guar ian- [SW
1072 (15) of said act, p. 404, G. L
. Verdict recorded.]

Sac. 252- (16) The court 01‘ judge shall cause the verdict of the jury

and the judgment of said court to be entered upon the records Of said Court
[Sec. 1073 (16) of said act, p. 404, G. L.
Computing damages on property not taken-Property iakem]

SEC. 253. (17.) In estimating the value of all property actually ":{‘‘3n'
the true and actual value thereof at the time of the appraisement sha nv
allowed and awarded, and no deduction therefrom shall be allowed .f°r:H'o
beneﬁt to the residue of said property ; but in estimating damages Occaslon 11,;
other portions of claimant’s property,or any part thereof other than that actglzwz

taken, the value of the beneﬁts, if any, mav be deducted therefrom; M uni

lwweverl that In all cases the owner or owners shall receive the full and actIrtt
value of all property actually taken, and in Case the beneﬁt to the imp‘B 6,

not 8act“-‘my taken exceed thedamage sustained bv the owner to l'1'°peﬂ'y nw
actually taken, the owner or owners shall not be'requii'ed to Pay' or “H0

. 1074 (17) of said act, pp. 404-5, G. L
Report of eoinmissioners_Verdiet.]

Sue. 254. 18. Th

jury in every éaselshalltgtgzport of the commissioners or the V9? 10

First—An accurate description of the land taken.
b’econd—The value of the land or property actually taken.
Thir(I——'I‘l1e dauiuges, if any, to the residue of such land or property ; and
Fourth-—'l‘hc amount and value of the benefit. [b‘ee. 1075 (18) of said net,
p. 405, G L.
Bills of exeeptiom]

SEC. 255 (15).) Bills of exception shall be allowed, signed and sealed by
the court orjudge, as in cases in law, within such rezisenable time as shall be
ﬁxed by such court or judge. [Sm-. I076 (1%)) ol' said act, p. 405, G. L.
Soech. 39.appeuls. post.

Repenl—l-IlYect—Pr0vlso.]

SEC. 256. ('20.) All laws and parts uflnws in l'Ollﬁl(’t- with the provisions
of this act are hereby repealed; but such appeal shall not impair or affect
any act done or any right accrued or acquired under the law so repealed, and
all proceedings commenced or pending by virtue of the law so rcpeuled may
be prosecuted and (lt-fen(le(l to ﬁnul determination in the same manner and
with thesame effect as they might under such laws, notwithstanding such
appeal; Provided, that this act shall not be construed to repeal any law or
part of law upon the same subject passed by this general assembly, but in all
such cases this act shall be construed as providing a cumulative remedy.
[See 1077 (‘20)0f said act, p. 405, G. L.
Section 257. (237.) An action may be brought by any person in P“?°°'

men, by himself or is tenant, of real
an estate or interestt
r the purpose of determining

such adverse claim, estate or interest.
[Disclaimer or default of answer, no costs.]

SEC. 258. (238-) If the defendant in such action disclaim in his answer
any
or estate in th e property, or suffer judgment to be taken against
_ interest
_
him without answer, the plaintiff shall not recover costs.
BECOV ERY OF REALTY.
[When right terminates lite pemlente, verdict-Damlgea]

SEQ 259'shiows
239' lheIfri[glllllg
' 1ilonraction
' for the recover). of real propertY , Where
the plainﬁﬁ,
butit a pews H t 1. . ht §00Ve1‘ at the time the action wasdcommeiticatllé
'
13and11sjudg
1'1
~
.
action,t e verdict
as terminated
durmg
the Pen ency 0
tiff may recover damages gment shall be according
to the fact, and the P 1 m'11
.
for withholdin th 6 property.
[See sec. '74. class ﬁrst. chap. 4, plead1ngs,etc., ante. g
Damages for ouster or detention

‘
Offset of lmprovolnents-lllnes except“-l
SEC. ‘2b0.
(1.) When damages
are claimed for withholding the P'°P"rty

which Pernianeflt improvements have been made
1 i Hf’ I
titlﬁ
I g} under color
l 0 pf suc
allow
p :.nS£l2t-0ll'n ﬂgg(l§.0i(i1istfa;iichtl1ciaa1ir1li1i;6.:!, exc6Pt
th e

improvements shall be

mProvements made upon mining Property, and if damages are or are not

(-rvn. rnocnnuns.

83
[Action :0 Quiet Till:

claimed for withholding the property recovered, or for ouster, the defendant
may counter-claim the value of improvements made by him, or those under

whom he claims, if made under color of title and in good faith.

[Sec. 1, p.

61, acts 1881, subs. for sec. 240, p. 94, orig. act.
Order for entry and snrvey.]

SEC. 261. (241.) The court in which action is pending for recovery of
real property, or a jud e thereof, may,on motion, upon notice by either party,
for good cause shown y aﬂidavit, grant an order allowing such party the
right to enter upon the property and make a survey and measurement
thereof, for the purpose of action.
[0rder, descrlptlon, servloe—Injury, damagem]

SEC. 262. (242.) The order shall describe the property, and a copy
thereof shall be served on the owner or occupant, and thereupon such party

may enter upon the property with necessary surveyors and assistants, and
may make such survey and measurement; but if any unnecessary injury be

done to the property he shall be liable therefor.
[Order for survey. etc.. of mlnes, M18. :1. 29. ch. 74. Gen. Stat.,mlnes. -

lortgage not deemed conreyance—Dced, when mortgage in effect-Parol testimony.]

.SEC. 263. (243.)

A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a

conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to ena le the owner of the mortgage to

recover possession of the real property, without foreclosure and sale, and the
fact of a deed being a mortgage in effect may be proved by oral testimony;

but this section shall not apply to trust deeds with powers of sale.
[Lands sold under mortgage may be redeemed. 1860, s. 26. ch. 60. Judg. and ex.. Gen. Statutes.

lortglgee, restrained from lnjurlngq

SEC. 264. (244.) The court may, by injunction, on good_cause shown,
restrain the party in possession from doing any act to the injury of real
Property during the foreclosure of a mortgage thereon, or after a sale on exe
cution before a conveyance.
[See ch. 7, lnlunctlons. ante.
When execution pnrclmser recover danmges to land by tenant.]

SEC. 265. (2-$5.)

When real property shall have been sold on execution,

the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his interest, '
may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to the
P1'0perty by the tenant in possession, after a sale and before possession is

dehvered under the conveyance.
Allenatitm before or after suit, not prejudice aetlon.]

SEC. 266. (246)

An action for the recovery of real property against a

Person in ossession cannot be prejudiced by any alienation made by such
Person, eit er before or after the commencement of the action.
SECTION 267. ('247.) An action to rccovcr thc ])()SSOS$ll)Il of l_‘B€ll plj0}}1etY {night
be brought in any case when an action of cjc<-tiilciit or n. Writ of r;g)l laintiﬂ
have been brought at common law, and in any case \\'l!§’r° t "~f P veal?

claims a legal estate in real property or lumls, in ee, or for life, ‘)r.d°‘;w)umW:
or claims the legal right to occupy and po.~sc.-.~: the same: PT0l‘ldz ‘bl

emry

in all actions relating to the possession of rcnl estate, those of form 6 wﬂh

or unlawful detainer shall be decmul and held concurrent remedies here
'
and may be prosccuted in
thc law of tln>. Nd‘/~
. acconluncc with
.
'
. "M
- in g W
forcible entry and dctuincr.

[See nssm. as. soon. ch. 41 , forcible entry and detalner. Hen. Sun.

11' m 41
In county court proeeedln ca governed by rules of act concerning Jusllon and constables. lﬁw
hen. Stat.—For entry and detail ner. s. 12. p. 596. R. S.—As amended. sec. 2. n. 100- l\c"1m" ‘in im

Against whom—When lands occuplcd—Unoccnpicd.1

SEC. 268. (248.)

If the Premises for which the action is brought are

continually occupied such actual occupant shall be made defendanl._H1
' :20e

action, together with any person claiming title to 0!‘ 811)’ mwrest m ml
premises adversely to the plaintiff.

If the premises are

not ofwuphip

the action shall be brought against any person exercising acts of owners
on ol‘_0ver the Premises
claimed,
or who claims title thereto, 01‘ Bmne mwreq
_
'
'
.t
therem at the time of the co
[Settlers on public land may main
taln as.
actions.
$81, 5.
8, ch. W. Gen. S!nt.. public lands.
Extent of clilm. evldenne. etc.. 2482-3.
9-10. same
chap.

Gomplnlnt__Requlslles—Mlneﬂ—-Lﬂnds of U. S.-I-lstatml

The 1 ' t'ﬁ" h‘
1 - t h 1| tforth tllenatuw
and Ssc.269.
extent of (245).)
his estate
inptliellpli-o,1;:1~tytssgilngtzig
ijhzthesi? it be in fee’ for
for a term of years, and specifying an M '

district. or of the UH? Premlses
_
under
, 01',if the
suchlocal
plaintiff
laws and
claimstheleg81
rules of any
e State of Colorado, or otherv/189’
the co m‘
[Actions for Possmsion and Damages

plaint shall contain a brief statement of ~Q-uch possessory claim, and whether
the right claimed is bv pre-emption or purchase or by right of actual prior

possession on the public domain of the l'nited States.

if the plaintiﬂ‘ claims

any undivided interest in the preiniscs, as tenant in common or otherwise,

he shall state particularly the interest he claims.

The plaintiff shall also

state that he is entitled to the possessioii of the premises, and that the
defendant wrongfully ousted the plaintitl', or wrongfully withholds the
premises from him, or both, as the facts may be, and state the damages
claimed for the ouster. or detention or both. which damages shall be recov
ered and assessed by the court or jury in the same action.
All
[Seerules
chap.of 90.
practice
div. 1, am‘
rights
pleading
of occupants.
of this lien.
code Stat,
apply £574
tothis
to action, sec. 279, post.

Answer shall deny or disclaim

SEC. 270. (2504

Shall set out del’mdant’s clalm.]

The answer to a complaint ﬁled under this chapter

shall either speciﬁcally deny the material allegations of the complaint, or
may disclaim any interest in or ]l\l?~‘t~t'>>'l(lll of the property claimed, or any
part thereof. The aiisiver may also state, generally, as in the complaint, the
character of the estate in the preniiscs, or any part thereof, which the

defendant claims, or any right of posscssioii or occupancy he claims.
[What verdict proper in dlll‘en-1|! c|ise.~'.]
Sac. 271. ('2-71.)

The verdict may be for or against either of the plaintiffs

or defendants, and shall he rendered as follows:
[When for plalntlll’ generally.]

Firs!—if it be shown on the trial that all the plaintiffs have a ri ht to
recover the possession of the ])l‘k‘llll\'f‘S, the verdict in that respect shall e for
the plaintiiils generally.
[For one or nmre p|ninill[~‘.]
S€t'07t(I—lf it appear that one or nmrc of the plaintit'i's have a right to the

possession of the preniis-cs, and that one or more lmve not $l1ch_1‘1ght,t_he
verdict shall specify for \\'hi<-h plaintitftlm jury tind, and as to which plain
tiff they find for the def-ndant.
[Against which llcft‘l|dtlIlls.l

77u'rd—-If the verdict be for any plaintiff and there be several defendants
the verdict shall be rendered against such of them as were in possession of

the premises, or as claimed title tin-i'<-to, at the commencement of the action.
[For all the premises.]

F0urth—If the verdict be for all the premises claimed, 9-5 sileclﬁed 1“ the
complaint, it shall in that respect be for such prennses generally.
[For part of premises]

Fi'fth—If the verdict be for a part of the premises described in sucllli pom
plaint the verdict shall particularl_\' $P9(1if." such Part, a_S théi same sha - Five
een proved, with the same certainty hcreinbefore required in the descr1P 10'?
of the premises claimed.
‘
[For undivided share.i
'
S'i2:th—If the verdict be for an undivided share or interest1D_th.f;pdrenl]1lsl?:

§ﬂ&imed it shall specify such share or interest, and,“ for an undlvl ed S hill
111 t1 art of the premises claimed it shall speclfy S‘.1ch share’ an S
descri

such part of the premises as hereinbefore reql11l‘ed
Seventh—The verdict shall s iecify the estate which shall have been estab

lished on the trial b the plaintitl in whose favor it_ shall be rendered,whethe}:
such estate be in ee for his own life or for the_life of another, stating su:h
lives, or whether itbe for a term of years, eS(5)(X‘.lf in .the_ duration of su

term, or whether the plaintiff hath establish

on y

us right

the

I -

sion and occupanc of the premises in controversy. The verdict sha aso,
if for the plaintiff, nd the amount of damages he is entitled to for the ouster
or detention or both.
[See class ﬁrst, sec. 69, chap 4. ants.

Iot abate by death-Bevinl.]

SEC. 272. (252) The action for the recovery of real property BhB"d“.°‘
abate by the death of either or all the parties thereto, but may be revive In
the name of the heirs, representatives or successors in interest in the man
ner‘ other civil actions are revived by this act.
[For survival of actloiis in such case see sec. 14, chap. 1.
For revival of judgments see ss. 22 to 25. ch. 18. onto

Jndgnmnt—Shsll specify ﬁndings-Dsmlgeal
SEC. 273. (253.) The judgment in an action brou ht under this chaptcz
shall be in accordance with the verdict, or if tried by t w court the Jtldgmege
shall particularly specify the ﬁndings of the court the same as the J“‘'Y ”'
by this chapter require to specify in their ﬁndings in the verdict, Emd if
judgment be rendered to r the plaintiﬁ‘ it shall specify the amount of diimagﬁQ
to be recovered.
[Verdict In action for recovery of personal property. svc. 188. ch. H. sale.

New trlnl— Rents and pi-oﬂts—Mlnes-Improveim-iits.]

Sac. 274. (25~i.) Whenever jiid ment shall be rendered against eithfi
party under the provisions of this (§l&I)tGI‘ it shall be lawful for the Pan

against whom such judgment is rendered, his heirs or assi us, at 1111." time
_ before the ﬁrst day of the next suceeedin g

term, to pay all costs recovered

therel)y,_and upon application of the party ngn.inst whom the same was ten.
dered, his
_ _ heirs or assigns, the court shall vacate such judgment mid giant it
new trial in such case; but neither party shall have but one new t1'1_8l1m an)
case, as of right without showing cause. And after such judgment is va°a.ed
the cause shall stand for trial the same as though it had new!‘ been tn '
And in case ossession may have been recovered under the action for P08-565'

sion or title, rought or prosecuted under the provisions of this chapleri thg
plaintiff may bring his action for the rents and proﬁts thereof, and In sue

action the measure of damages shall be the same as in action of trespftss for
inesne proﬁts at commo

vem, _<>r mn_nng c!aiq1,tae defend[iaintn;h(ia.alSledb1t€: bgrgilrtiiigdretcg any 05*‘ M

veredbeﬂlodei

:I;iy‘;};°;‘:1§’}?;1li‘%i1°Tgi’b1ng.Improvements or develo ments made “Po[1 the 2?:
8
ments or developmaélllllifes
be abated or lessened

y reason of such 1111?

[New trials tor cause, see ch 16

ll8es—Costs.]

plaintiﬁs who recover, or either of them, 3h3ll.be
on in the nature of a writ of Possession, directing
t them or h im into the immediate possession of the pfemlw recovered, describing the premises, with the certainty required in the com

plaint, and which execution shall also direct the sheriff to make any sum or
sums of money adjudged to be paid the plaintiff as damages or costs. The
defendants, or either of them, who recover shall be entitled to their costs.
[See 400. s. 4. ch. 1), costs, Gen. Stat.—Number of witnesses lobe certiﬁed. M. e. 12. same chap.

Lands of United Statee—What evidem-e—'l‘ltle.]

Sac. 276. (256.)

In every action hereafter brought for the recovery of

lands, the legal fee title to which remains in the United States, the plaintiff
and defendant shall be conﬁned in their evidence to their respective rights

and claims and the ri his and claims of their grantors and privies in
interest, and the action s all not be affected by any right or claims of third

persons not in privity with either party to the premises, or by reason of _the
es 'remaining in the United States; Provided, the fee being in the Umted

States shall not prevent a person from recovering lands, premises, lodes,
ledges or mining claims upon the rec-eiver’s duplicate receipt.
[For action concerning rights and claims on public lands see $81, a. 8, ch. 90, Gen. Stat... public lands.
As to such rights see div. 1. Rights of occupants throughout, same chap.

Action by tenant in common—l’r0of of actual 0n~'icr.]

SEC. 277. (257.)

The action may be brought b one or more tenants in

.common against their co-tenants, and in that case t e plaintiff shall, in addi~
tion to other evidence, he required to prove that he actuallyousted such
plaintiff, or did some act or acts amountmg to a denial of his right as such
co~tenant.
[M-ﬂwcr—0ther than disclaimer, proof of possession not required]

SEC. 278. (258.)

If the defendant ﬁles or makes any other answer or

defense than a disclaimer of title or right of possemion it shall not be neces

sary for the plaintiff‘ to prove him in possession of the premises at the time
of the commencement of the action or at any time.
(All rules of this act apply to this chapter—Notice iis pendena]

_

SEC. 279. (259.) All the rules of practice and leading and p_r0Ceed_1I1g$
prescribed in this act of civil procedure, and not ot e_rw1se spec_1aliy provided

In this chapter, shall be applicable to actions brought under this chapter, and
3;)_tice of pendency of action must be filed with the recorder, as proscribed "1
1s act.
' -ru srrrioini or LATII ans AS amm‘

s‘sc'r|o.\' Qso. Juri-In-imn
petitu-o
Sec. 281. (2.)

The petition shall particularly describe the premises

sought to be divided or sold, and shall set forth and make exhibit of the
rights and titles of all parties interested therein, so far as the same are known

to the petitioners, iucludin tenants for years, for life, by the courtesy or in
dower, and of persons entit cd to the reversion, remainder or inheritance, and
of every person who. upon any contingency, may be or become entitled to
any beneﬁcial interest in the preinises, so far as the same are known to the

petitioners; and such petition shall be veriﬁed by afhdavit.
674, G. L.

[See 1966 (2), p.

Who shall be made parties. 1'

SEC. 282. (3.)

Every person having such interest as is speciﬁed in this

chapter, whether in possessioii or otherwise, and every person entitled to
dower in such premises, if the siiine has not been adineasured, shall be made
a party to such petition. [Sec 1967 (3),p. 67-3, G. L.
Helrs and devisoea mentioned in sec. 296. post.

Unknown partics—Unkno'wn lnlcI‘ests—To be stated]

Sac. 283. (4.) In case where one or more of such parties shall be
unknown or the share or quantity of interest of ‘any of the parties is unknown

to the petitioner, or where such share or interest shall be uncertain or contin
gent, or the ownership of the inheritance shall depend upon an executory
evise, or the remainder shall be contingent, so that such arties cannot be
named, the same shall be so stated in the petition.
Sec. 1968 (4), p.

675, G. L.
Unknown persons how brought ln.]

SEC. 284. (5.)
All persons interested in the premises of Which partition

issought to be made according to the provisions hereof, whose names are
unknown, may be made parties to such petition by the name and description
Of unknown owners or proprietors of the premises, or as the unknown heirs
of any erson who may have been interested iii the same. [Sec. 1969 (5),

p. 675, ‘. L.
Unknown parties —G|iardlans_Snnimons—Publlcation—Guardlan ad .litem.] 
SEC. 285. (6.) All persons having such interest as is speciﬁed in this
Chapter in any premises of which partition is sought to be_ made, or the
guardians of such as are under age, who shall not have J01l'l8d II]. the petition

(and if'any person so interested be under age and without guardian the court
Shall appoint guardian ad litcm. for such minor) shall have 110i/108' of such
application by summons duly served, which summons shall issue against sugh
persons by the name and description given. in the petition; and wlliien t e
names of persons having any such interest in such _ premises are un nown,
and when parties whose names are known do not reside in this State, or cag
not be found, they shall have further notice by advertisement, as_provided y

law; and after such advertisement the court shall proceed to act in the:1p{)em

ises as though the parties had been duly served with summons, or he
notiﬁed by their proper names.

[Sec. 1970 (6), p- 610, G- L

569 860- 45. ch. 8, ante, hr order of publication, etc.
I?

een

Parties claiming Interest may appear.]

Sec. 286. (7.) During the endency of any such suit. or proceedm any
person claiming to be interests in the premises to be assigned or parte _.may
a pear and answer the petition, and assert his or her rights by way of _mter
pl)cader; and the courts shall decide upon the rights of persons appearm as
aforesaid, as though they had been made parties in the ﬁrst instance. Sec.

1971 (7), pp. 675-6, G. L.
See sec. 17.ch. 1. ante.

Duty of c0urt—What determlned.]

Sac. 287. (8.) The court shall ascertain from the evidence in case of
default, or from the confession by plea of the parties, if they appear, 01‘ from
the verdict by which any issue of fact shall be determined, and shall _declBl'9
the rights, titles and interests of all the parties to such proceedings, pctltl0ne1‘5

as well as defendants, and give such judgment as may be required by the
rights of parties.

[See 1972 (8), p. 676, G. L.

Connnlssloners—0ath—Partltlon—BeportJ

Sac. 288. (9.)

The court, when it shall order a partition of any prqmlses

to be made under the provisions hereof, shall appoint three colI1I11lBSl°"_‘3'8
not connected with any of the parties, either by consan uinity or atﬁmty,
and entirely disinterested, each of whom shall take an oat before the coulft,
or some justice of the peace, fairly and impartially to make partition Of Bald
lands in accordance with the judgment of the court as to the rights and inter
ests of the parties, if the same can be done consistently with the interests 0f
the estate, and the said commissioners shall go upon the premises and nmke
artition of said lands, tenements and hereditaments, assigning to eaCh Party
is or her share by metes and bounds, or other appropriate description : end
make report, which shall be under their hands and seals, to the court dunng
the same or next succeeding term at which they were ap ointed; and the

court ma , at the term when such report shall be made, inaEe all such order!
upon sue reports as may be necessary to a ﬁnal disposition of the c8-5% [set
1973 (9), P- 676, G. L.—With amendments of 1876, p. 98—sec. 9, p. 492, R. S.]
All 5°‘ W amend chap“? l1!l'- 0! the General Laws ot 187'], concerning the partition 0| estaba
[Apprund Feb. 14, 1879—ln force May I5. la79_P~ H5, 1°" ‘$79-l

[Duty of commissioners]

dut Safo.tl2189. (1.) _ That in making partition of any estate, it shall be mi
yo
e commissioners a
' ted
apart the same in such lot of 0m

to Se
y any court for such PM W56,

having due regard to the improts as W111
be most‘ advantageous an equl'tal)l8y
' , OHh 0 d'ﬁ"erelﬂ
parts of such estate or estates. 0‘[’§:::?li,sp.Sl1t¢l1l\;il,tia?cIi,sa1nE’>qi!3l.llal1t>

s::;s;?s’s::c§e‘;:gh§:n.‘?e best

interests
may appear_

and
of M1
[SecI'12(’”;)'“T 1°lI5"I;‘()31t:: 1(g73t1]ld
' tracts, as the said
- par)

An act to amend chapter lnlv. of the General Laws or this State. of the year A. D. l877,ent1tled "Partition."
[Approved Feb. 5, lB8|—ln force May 6, 188: —pp. I96-3, acts 1,881.]

[Laying out in lots, streets and alleys—Beport—llap—Setttng aside-..]

Sec. 291. (1.)

Whenever, in the opinion of the commissioners ap ointed

by the court to make partition of lands, it will be to the interest of t e par
ties interested in such lands to divide the same into lots, and to lay out streets
'or avenues and alleys, they may cause the same to be done, and in such case
they shall return, with their report, a map or plot of the land so laid out,
which shall, however, be subject to the rejection or conﬁrmation of the court;

and upon dgood cause shown by any of the parties the court may set aside the
report, an

appoint other commissioners as often as may be necessary to sub

stantial justice between the parties, who shall proceed in the manner herein
before directed. [See 1, p. Yltiti, acts 1881.
Conﬂrmation—JudgmenL]

SEC. 292. (2.) If no such cause be shown, the report of the commissioners

shall be conﬁrmed and ﬁnal judgment rendered thereon, which judgment
shall be binding and conclusive upon all the parties to the proceedings, and
all other persons claiming under them. [See 2, p. 197, acts 1881.
Copy of report recorded]

SEC. 293. (3.) A copy of such report and of such conﬁrmation and judg
ment, duly certiﬁed under the seal of the court by the clerk thereof, shall be
recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of the county in which such
lands or any part thereof may be situated.

[Sec. 3, p. 197, acts 1881.

Report shall show the lots of each party.]

SEC. 294. (4.)

The report of commissioners, in cases where lands shall

be divided into lots, as rovided in the ﬁrst section of this amendment to sand
act, shall set forth the ots or parts of lots assigned to each party interested

in the partition, with reference to the blocks in which _the same are sltuated,
with such other description as may be necessary to designate the same, if any
shall be necessary. [Sec. 4, p. 197, acts 1881.
‘'9 Med with recorder-Submitted to city authorities.)

SEC. 295. (5.) When commissioners in pursuance of this act shall have
laid out land into lots, streets or avenues. and alleys, and returned a plat of

the land so divided to the court, and their report is oonﬁrrned, and ﬁnal
judgment rendered thereon as herein provided, they or a ma_]_or_ity of their

number shall ﬁle a copy of the plat or map of the land so divided 1n the
Office of the recorder ofideeds of the county where the same is situated, for
record, as now provided by law for the ﬁling of plats of towns and c1t1es. or
additions thereto, upon which the ' shall certify, under their hands and seals,
that the plat or map by them ﬁle has been conﬁrmed by the court 111 which

such proceedings were had, and when the said map or plat shows that the
same is an addition to a city or town, they shall submit the same before such
ﬁling to the proper authorities of such city or town, for_ its approval, as pre
scribed in article second of chapter “C,” section twenty-six hundred and fogty
eight [3305] of the General Laws of the State, of the year A. D. 1847. [ ec.
,
0, PP- 197-8, acts 1881.

Sec. ms referred to in last above see. is asos. sec. '1, etch 109- towns ﬁnd Wes‘ Gm Sm‘
Sec.296. (6.) In all cases when the partition of lands is sought i. e
heirs or devisees of deceased persons interested therein shall be made [)8li;ieie6S
to the proceeding; and if any person interested in such land shall have
2
declared lunatic, insane or distractcrl, the conservator of the estate of

lunatic, insane or distracted person shall be made a part I to the same, sen d

with the process issued against such lunatic, insane or

1strac_tcd pei'S(_>l1,i)‘gt

it is made his duty to appear and to take such course therein as will
protect the interest of the estate under his contract as conservator.
p. 198, acts 1881.
Pay of commissioners]

SEC. 297. (10,)

The commissioners to be appointed under this chapter

shall be allowed as a compensation for their services two dollars_ fill? my
cents per day each, to be taxed as other costs. [See 1974 (10), P- bib, (L L‘
Sale of lands- 0rders—Xotiec—DIstrihutlonJ

SEC. 298. (11.)

When any lands, houses or lots are so c_ircumstanced

that a division thereof cannot be made without manifest prejudice to the

proprietors of the same, and the commissioners appointed to divide the 8811.];
she I so report to the court, the court shall thereupon give an order to 8&1
commissioners, or other person or persons, to sell such lands. houses or lots, 01%

houses and lots, at public vendue, u on such terms, and by giving nouce 0
sale as the court shall direct, and w io shall make and execute good and suf
ficient conveyance or conveyances to the purchaser or purchasers thereof.
which shall operate as an effectual bar, both in law and equity, against Such

owners or proprietors, and all persons claiming under them; BIN? the com'
nnssioners or persons making such sale shall report their procecdiiigs w_ the
court, and shall pay over the moneys arisin therefrom to the parties entitled
to receive the same, under the direction of t ie court; the court to mﬂlge inch
order in relation to costs as shall seem right.

[Sec 1975 (11), pp. 676-4 , (" 1"

Money oi’ non-residents put into State treasury»—How paid out]

SEQ 299- (12) When a sale of any lands or premises shall be made _1I1
accordance with the preceding‘section, and no person shall appear to claim
such portions _of the money as may belong to any non-resident, 01‘ Pel'8°"_

whose _name is unknown, the court shall thereupon require the lnonei

belonging to the persons not claiming as aforesaid, to be deposited m the
t1'ea$_‘11')’ of the State, subject to the further order of the court; and all m0i1f.\'

required to be deposited as aforesaid shall be received by the State tiles-9'
urer and paid out upon the order of the court.

[Sec. 1976 (12), p. 677, ‘L 1*

Order of court to receive money—Pr-oof.]
__
sl 11 b (;)6l‘:gI(])slOI'
d
‘ted p(]3lI'1S0I1Se
' th entitled
State treasury
Under the provisions
ofhen
thismone
chagtelxlatlie
to tlle

the court making the order of sale, and obtain an order for the same,

No plea in abatement ailowed.]

(14.) N l '
.Sec.
. 301.
- “ism't for
partition,
nor shall SuC(l)'iI;:°ii1ei€l‘,1€Ii1b:'.l‘,)ea.tl°;ment
shall be recewed
In
96, 1973
(14), P_ 677, G_L_
y the death of any tenant
Powers of court of chmn4ettllng tltle- -Encumhranc&]'

SEC. 302. (15.) The courts of chancery of this State shall have power,
upon bills for the artition of lands, to proceed according to the usual prac
ticeof courts of c ancer , or according to the provisions of the preceding

sections; they shall also have power upon bill or petition for the partition of
lands, to investi ate and determine all questions of conﬂictin

or contro

verted titles, and to remove clouds upon the title to any of t e premises

whereof partition is sought; to invest titles by their decrees, without the form
of conveyances by infants and unknown heirs or persons; to order a sale of

the premises where for any reason the same cannot conveniently be parti
tioned, and by the decree to invest the purchaser with title; and where par
tition is made of premises which are subject to any encumbrance, to apportion
such encumbrance among the persons to whom partition is made. [Sec. 1979
Sec. 303. (276.) Parties to a question in difference which might be the
subject of a civil action may, without action, agree upon a case containin the

facts upon which the controvers depends and present 8- submission 0 the
same to any_court which would, have jurisdiction, if an action had been

brought, but_1t must ap ear by afﬁdavit that the controversy is real, and the
proceedmgs in good fax to determine the rights of the parties. The °°“"
shall thereupon hear and determine the case and render judgment thereonI
as if an actmn were depending.
[C0sts—Judgment rolL]

SEC. 304. (27'_7.) Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book 85 in
other cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to the trial.
judg'r1‘nl;?1€38r?)<ii.the submission and a copy of the judgment shall constitute the
[Enforcement—Appeal.]

SEC. 305. (278.) The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as
if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be in the same manner subl‘act
to appeal.
SEC. 306. (285).) The defendant may, at an time before the trial or
judgment, serve upon the plaintiff an otfer to al ow judgment to be taken
against him for the sum or roperty, or to the effect therein s eciﬁed. If the
plaintiff accept the offer and) give notice thereof within five ays, he may ﬁle
thesummons, com laint and offer, with an affidavit of notice of acceptance,
and the clerk shal thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the notice of

acceptance be not given, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not
be given in evidence; but if the plaintitf fail to obtain a more favorable
judgment he shall not recover costs, but shall pay the defendant’s costs from
the time of the offer.
SECTION 307. Controversies which may be subject of civil action may be submitted to.
Agréement necessary to make arbitration obligatory.
Arbitmtors to be sworn.
Powers of arbitrators-—uubpu'nas——oath—sI'nrd.
Judgment and execution, may be entered by clerk upon award.
Compensation of arbitrators.
'
Decision of arbitrators not subject to review.
Repeal of chapter ‘.29 of civil code, concerning.

[All oontroversleal

_ I SEc'_r1oN 307. (1.) That all controversies which may be the subject 0f_B
C1Vll action may be_ submitted to the decision of one or more arbitrators 1“
the manner and with the effect indicated in this act.
[Written submlssion-(‘ontentml

SEC. 308. (_2.) In order to make future arbitrations obligatory and binding

upon the Pa1't1_e8 they shall, before they make their submission, make an
subscnbe a written article of agreement, in and by which they shall agree '0
- submit all matters, or some particular matter of diﬁ'erence, to the arbitrators
named. and to abide their award; and also that the award when made me)’

be ﬁlfld by the Successful party with the clerk of the district c0ul'h_1l-‘3 8 bus“
of 9' Judgment, and that an execution may be issued for its collection
[Oath of arbitratorml

Sec. 309. _(3.)

Arbitrators shall not have

ower hereafter to Ml ‘mm

they take an oath, before some person authorize by law to administer <_>Bl-hsl

to the eﬁect that they will well and truly try and impartially and Justly
decide the matter in controversy, according to the best of their ability
[Two arbitrators or relerees mav do all acts to be done hr all. see. MB. 611- 39. M
[Powers of arbltra'tors—Subpmnas_0aths—Award.1

SEC. 310. (4)' Arbitrators
duly
sworn and

'
tered u on then‘

dull“Y

Zhtallhhave power to issue subpoenas for witnesses, sfiid to enfiirce the same bl

ac ment in like manner as district courts; to administer oaths to w1tne§t’§
and others
in the case
t
wmmg’
according
in theand
vei)’fterigslltrdllltliliadclalteiidgng
to dfmde
th e mmm. ’ In
[Award llled——Judgment-I‘lxecut1on.]

SEC. 311.vi?th t,The part)’ in Whose favor any award shall be ml-d° may
ﬁle
th :v8a:1:rbitrat2d,cvvki:\k of the dlstrict
. . court of the county Wherem
‘ the
mattei3

0 shall be authorized to enter a judglnellt thereon’
crvn. rnorrsouaa.
and if such award requires the payment of any sum of mone , it shall be
lawful for the clerk to issue an execution out of, and under t e seal of the

court, for the collection of the judgment.
[Fees of arbltrlt0rs—Stated In award-Prepaid.)

Sec. 312. (6.) Arbitrators shall be entitled to receive from the parties in
whose favor the award is made three dollars er day each for their services,

and the amount of their compensation shall be included in their award, and
in the judgment entered thereon by the clerk.

The urbitrators shall not be

required to deliver their award to such successful parties until their said com
pensation shall have been paid.
[letters nbltnted, held ldJqdlclted.]

SEC. 313. (7.)

Whenever it shaltappear upon the trial of an action at

law, or in uity, or in any legal proceedmg, in or before any court of com
petent jurisdiction, that the subject matter of such action or proceeding, or

any part thereof, or the defense thereto, or of any part thereof, as been sub
mitted to and decided b ' arbitrators according to the terms of this act, such
matter so arbitrated shall be held to have been adjudicated and settled, and

not open, either directly or indirectly, for review.
[Repeal of chapter xxlx. of clv. pm]

Sac. 314. (8.) That chapter twenty~ nine of an act entitled “ an act pro
vidin a system of procedure in civil actions in courts of justice in the State
Of Coorad0, approved Marcl1 17, A. D. 1877, be and the same 1s hereby
repealed. [Sec. 8, p. 61, acts 1881-Approved Feb. 14,1881—In force May 5,
Sacrlox 3|-'1. Action may be brought, any party murping, etr., any oﬂiw or l'rum'lIiw
“
mu. Name of person entitled to oﬂit-e may be wt forth in complaint.
ll
317. Judgment may tletermim the riglltsuf both ‘nu-urnbent and claimant.
It
318. ,\\'heu rendered in favor ot' applicant~_oa|h- bond.
‘I
3151. Damaae.~ may be recovered by succe-~ful lpplh-ant.
I
I I
320. When several persons claim the nmr oﬂiec their Iillthl may be tleh-rlnlned by I: sing I‘
llﬂiull.
u

3'21.

If tleft-mlunt found guilty, what judgment to be rendered iu.'ni||~t hill!

[Action when by district attorney—Wheu by party]

SEt"1‘I0.\' 315. (260.) An action may be brought by the district ltll.Ol'llt:_\i}lll;
the name of the people of this State, upon his own Information, or upollum
relation and complaint of A private party, tt]_{t\lll.<l any person Wfllfi llsnilliiI
intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises any puhhe othcc, clvi pr gun
tar)‘. or any franchise within his district in the State, and it shall be t i)0liev.e

of the district attorney to bring the action whenever he has reason to 81 W
that any such office or franchise has been usurped, in_truded mto or
the
fully held or exercised by any person, or when he is directed to do so {rm
governor, and in case such district att-url1e_\' shall neglect or refuse I0 I S
such action
upon the complamt
of a private
part_v,such action
may. bc. broug ht
by such private
party, upon ll1S
. own relation.
.
. the name of tln, p9°l‘l* . " r
the State.
[Complui||t—Sl|all state name of party entitled-]

-5|~:c.31ti. (261.)

\\'henever such action is brought the district attorney

-or relator, in addition to the statement of the cause of action,
Inllllulsoﬁiacle

forth in the complain t the name of the person rightly entitled to t 18 0
with a statement of his rights thereto.
[Judgment as to right of both parties.1

Sec. 317. (262) In ev ery such case judgment may be rendered a >0€(l)l=1):
right of the defendant, and also upon the ri ht of the party so allege
entitled, or only upon the right of the defen ant, as justice shall reqtnre.
take oath and give bond.]

. t-203.) If the jud gment

l
be rendered upon the T1531“
of ‘,2:
person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such l’““’°“’
shall be entitled, after taking the oath of oﬁice and executing such otliclﬁl
l)f<i)iml as may be reqmred
by law, to take upon himself the execution
Sec. 319. (26-l.)

If

judgment be rendered upon the right of tllt‘-’l

persﬂtl

ed, and the some he in favor of such 1Wl'$°“ 10 may

l_' ilction the tlalhattes Which he shall lmve Suqillllml by re115011

of

pation of the ofhce by the defendant.
SEC. 320. (265) When several persons claim to be entitled to the same
office or franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in order

to try their respective rights to such ofﬁce or franchise.
[Judgment of excluslon—Costs-—Flne.]

SEC. 321. (Z-Ztiti.)

When a defendant against whom such action has been

brought is adjudged guilty of usur ing or intruding into, or unlawfully
holding an oﬁice, franchise or privi ege, judgment shall be rendered that
such defen ant be excluded from such office, franchise or privilege, and that

he pay the cost of the action.
The court may also, in its discretion, impose upon the defendant a ﬁne
not exceeding ﬁve thousand dollars, which ﬁne when-I:olle_c§ed shall be paid

into the treasury of the State.
or rm: warr or (‘ERTIORARI asp rnoinni'ri0.\'.
SltC'ﬂ0h' 322. The writ of certiornri—demmination of.
"
323. This writ may be issued by a superior court to an inferior lribunal- »in what vases.
The application shall be made on ntlidnvit with notice or without.
The writ to be directed tothc inferior tribunal.
The contents of the writ.
Proqccdings in the inferior court, ('t('., may he stayed or not.
Service of the writ.
T!w;i7_evi_eu\up'on the wrlt—extcnt of.
330. A deTe!:tll\?e l£t‘t\II'I\ of the writ may be perfected--hearing and judgment.
33L Cop_v_o_f jhd_gment shall be sent to the inferior tribunal, etc.
332. Judgmeplhllrappells may be taken as in civil can-s—disobedicnee--contempt
¢_

[Denomlnatlon of wrlt.]
Sacnox 322. (290.)
of review.

The writ of certiorari may be denominated the writ

[How and when granted—What trlbunahn]

~

Sac. 323. (291.) The writ may be granted on application by anv 00""
of this State except a justice’s, county or mayor's court. The Writ $llall,be
granted in all cases where an inferior tribunal, board or oﬁicer exercising
judicial functions has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board Or

oﬂicer, and there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the court, any Plain‘
speedy and adequate remedy.
-[App]lcation—Aﬂldavlt—Notioe—0rder.1

Sec. 324. (292.) The application shall be made on aﬁidavit, by til? l’a,"t-V
beneﬁcially interested; and the court may require a notice of the appl1cat10.n
to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause. Why It
should not be allowed, or may grant the writ without notice.
[To whom directe(l—Return.]

‘

Sec. 325. (293.) The writ may be directed to the inferior tribu1ial»b"'“'d

oi officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record 0!‘ Proceed
ings to be certiﬁed. When directed to a tribunal, the clerk thereoh if therebe
one, shall return the writ with the transcript required.
[Exlgency of wrlt—Contents.]

SEQ 326‘ (294-l The writ of review shall command the part)’ to Whom
1sp:;:i‘2i1er§c::1eI;11'eOaI"nt(;.1buna1) to cerhfy fully to the court issumg tthe Wl'1tiBt 8
p ace, and annex to the writ

he record and a convenient
ransom it o certainty),
_
E?l1ecSe:l1]lt:1%l§a(;'1T)S:rll:\ll}g
or refemng
to L‘hem with
that

,and requirin the party or M . ‘
om further proceedings in the matter W‘
crvm raoc-nouns.
IOI
[Of the Writ of Ccniorari and Prohibition.
SEC. 327. (295.) If a stay of proceedin s be not intended, the words
requiring the stay shall be omitted from t e writ. These words may be
inserted or omitted in the sound discretion of the court; but if omitted the

power of the inferior court or oﬂicers shall not be suspended nor the proceed
ings stayed.
[How served.]

SEC. 328. (296-)

The writ shall be served in the same manner as a euth

mons in civil actions, except when otherwise expressly directed by the court.
[Extent of revtem]

SEC. 329. (297.) The review upon the writ shall not be extended further
than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, board or oﬁicer has regularly

pursued the authority of such tribunal, board or ofﬁcer.
[Return if det'ective—-Further retnrn—llearing- Judgment]

SEC. 330. (298.) If the\return_ of the writ be defective the court may
order a further return to be made.
When a full return has been made the court shall proceed to hear the
parties, or such of them as may attend for that purpose, and may thereupon
give judgment, either afﬁrming or annulling or modifying the proceedings

elow.
[Copy certiﬁed to lower trlbnnah]

SEC. 331. (299); A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, shall be
transmitted to t-he inferior tribunal, board or 0

cer havmg the custody of

the record or proceeding certiﬁed up.
[Judgment roll—Appeal—Dlsobedlance-Contempt.]

Snc. 332. (300.) A copy of _the judgment, signed by the_clerk, entered
upon or attached to the writ and returned, shall constitute the Judgment roll.

If the proceeding be had in any other than the supreme court an appeal
may be taken from the judgment in thesame manner and upon the same
terms as from a 'udgment in a civil action. The Judgment rendered under
the provisions otJ this chapter, it‘ disobeyed, may be enforced by proceedmgs
for contempt; Provided, nothing herein shall prevent or mterfere w1_th remov

ing B-judgment from an inferior to a superior court, by appeal, writ of error
01' certiorari, as provided by any other law of the State.
SECTION 333. The writ may he l-MIMI b_\' a superior court to an infcrlur tribunal, etc.-in what rusct
"
334. The writ shall issue on atlidavit where there in no adequate rcmrdy in tl|c_onl|nar!' ““"""
of law. 
335. Shall be either alternate or |n-rvniplury sill!-Klimt‘ of the writ.
_
336. If the application be without notice the alternative writ shnll iamc; nthcrtrtl: the W
emptm-y—ttotic~~ and default.
337. The adverse party nnty answer under oath.
338. If an essential question of fact ll raised the co\|rt'ntny order a jury trial.
339 The applicant may dcmur t r the answer nr v~mtr-vvcrt it ll)‘ pm0t'-
SECTION 333- (301-l The writ of mandamus may be issued b): 311$ L0“;
or judge thereof in this State, exce )t a justice’s, county, or mayor s 001m, 1'

an)’ inferior tribunal, corporation, oard, oﬁicer or person, to con1pel_tl\9rPem
formance of an act which the law specially enjoins as a duty resultmg l'<:]d
- an . oﬂice, trust or station, or to co mpel the admission of adparty to the 115*;1B is

enloymellli Of a right or oﬁice to which he is entitled, an

from which

t r

unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, board, Oﬁlcer °
person.
[In what cases-—Petltlon—Atﬂdavlt.]

S-EC‘ 334' (302) The writ shall be issued in all cases where there is 11°‘
8' p1aIT’}s1p?1e‘t1)y and 9‘(l9-qllate remedy in the ordinary course of law.
d
tt
‘
' on ule app hcatton Of l
S 8.
e 155 liiite11itis(iie1di)e
party beneﬁcially
1 Ion and aﬂldavlt
SEC._ 335. _($03.) The writ‘ shall be either dternative or reII1Pw1'.l'- The
agteriéative writ shall state genel-aliy the allegilltion against he Party W "flat;
1 1‘St ‘meted’ and °°mm‘“!<1 such Party, immediately after the rectal l °
ilrihgivactaiomf, giher speclﬁed tin_1e, to do the act r

uired

be

has not donseesoé ore the court or Judge’ at a speclﬁe time
Sac. 336. ($304.) When the application to the court orjudge is made with‘
out notice to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the alternative shall
be ﬁrst issued; but if the application be upon due notice, and the writ be
allowed, the peremptory writ nmy be issued in the ﬁrst instance.
The notice of the application, when given, shall be at least ten days.
The writ shall not be granted h_v default.
The case shall be heard by't|u- court oi-judge, whether the adverse party
appear or not.
[Showing ca||se—'I‘ln|e- Answer sworn. I

SEC. 337. ($05.) On the return of the alternative, of the day on which the
application of the writ is noticed, or such further day as the court or judge
may allow, the party on wh_0m the writ or notice shall have been served, may
show cause by answer under oath, made in the same manner as an answer to
a complaint in a civil action.
[-lury, verdiet—ﬂ-rtltled—0rder—(‘ounty llt‘§l5"lt|lt'tl 'Damages.]

SEC. 335. (306) If an answer is made which raises a question as to a
matter of fact essential to the determination of the motion, and affecting the
substantial rights of the parties, and upon the supposed truth of the allega
tion on which the application for the writ is based, the court or judge may,
in its disct‘etl0Ii, order the question to be tried before a jury, and postpone
the argument until such trial can be had and the verdict certiﬁed to the court
or judge.
_
The question
be tried shall be distinctly stated in the order for trial,

and the county sha I be designated in which the same shall be had. _
The order may also direct the jury to assess any damages wlnch the
applicant may have sustained, in case they ﬁnd for him.
[Trlal—SulIlcleucy of answer-Pr0of.]

SE('. 339. 1307.) On the trial the applicant shall not be precluded by the
answer of any valid objection to its siitliciency, and may controvert it by
proof, either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.
[Newtrlal—Motlon_.notice-Jnry—t)ne new trial only—Wlien.]
Sec. 340. ($05.) If either party bedissalisﬁcd with the verdi_ct_of the jury,

he may move for a new trial upon :1 stalmncnt prepared as provided in the

chapter on new trials of this act.
The niotion for a new trial may, upon reasonable notice, be brought on

before the judge of the court in which the cause was tried either in term or
Vacation.
_
w
'
If a new trial be granted, the jury shall, witlnn hve days thereafter,
unless the parties agree upon a longer time, be summoned to try the 1ssues.

After a second verdict in favor of the same party a new trial shall not be had.
[Clerk transmit copy of vertlk-t—.\rg|i|m-lit~Notlce.]
Sec. 341. (309,) If no notice for a new trial be given, or 1f_g1veu, it big

denied, the clerk, within ﬁve days after the rendition of the verdict or denia
of the motion, shall transmit to the court in which the application for thle
writ is nding. a certiﬁed copy of the verdict attached to the order of man,
after W ioh either party may bring on the ai'_t;'t1i11ei1t of the application upo
reasonable notice to the adverse pz1l't_\'_
Sec. 342. (310.) If no answer be made, the case shall be heard on the
papers of the applicant. If an answer be made which does not raise a question such as is mentioned above in this chapter, but only such matters asrnay
be explained or avoided by a reply, the court or judge may, in Its dlscretlop,
grant time for replying. If the answer, or answer and reply,_ra1se onby
questions of law, or put in issue immaterial statements not atfectmg the sustantial rights of the parties, the court or judge shall proceed to hear or ﬁx a
day for hearing the argument of the case.
[Jndgn|ent—Damlges—Oosts—-Execution-landate.]

81:0. 343. (311.) 'It‘ the judgment be given for the ap l1cant he shall
recover the damages which he shall have sustained, as fouu

by the Jury. 01'

as may be determined by the court, judge or referees upon a reference to_be
ordered, together with costs; and for such damages and costs an execution

may issue and a perempt/ory mandate shall also be awarded without delay
[Servlce of wrtt—0onrt may order.]

SEC. 344. (312.) The writ shall be served in the same manner as a sum

mons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by order of
the court or judge.
[Neglect to obey mandate—Penalty-—0ontnmacy-lmprlaonnlent.]

Sac. 345. (313) When a peremptory mandate has been issued and
directed to any infenor tribunal, corporation, board or person, If ii; BPPQU '0

the court that an

member of such tribunal, corporation, board 0_r such Per‘

son upon whom t e writ has been personally served, has, without just excuse,

refused or neglected to obey the same, the court may, upon motion, Impose
a ﬁne not exceeding one thousand dollars.
In case of a persistence in a refusal of obedience, the court may order the
party to be imprisoned for a period not eziceeding three months, and may
make
an y orders necessary and proper for the complete enforcement of the
_

Judgment.
[Mandate may restrain._I

Sac. 346. (314.) The writ of mandate may also, in the court’s discretion,
restram the Person or tribunal against whom or Which it is issued, from
doing or_ exercising any act or acts to prevent the object for which it issues
and to glve full effect to the judgment of the court.
bacrxos 347. (321.) The following acts or omissions shall be deemed
contempt:
[Disorderly behavionl

First—Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior towards the Judge

Whilst holding court, or engaged in his judicial duties at chambers, or
towards referees or arbitrators, while sitting on a reference or _arb1trahon,
tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, reference or arbitration or other

Judicial proceedings.
[Disturbance in court or vicinity]
Second—A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct or violent d1s_turbance
in the presence of the court, or its immediate vicinity, tending to interrupt
the due course of a trial or judicial proceedings.
[Disobedience to order, writ]
_T71ird—Disobcdience or resistance to any lawful Writ, order, rule or pro
cess, issued by the court or judge at chambers.
[Dlsoheylng subpmnm]
FOuTth_DiSObedience of a Subpmlla duly Served, or refusmg to be sworn
or answer as a witness.
[Rescue oi’ person property-1
F,'ﬂ/,_ReS(,;uing any person or property in the custod of an ofﬁcer, by

vu-me of an order of [or] process of such court or Judge at C ambem
[cn.u>.

Of Contcmyls and their Punishmcnls.]

[Contempt, manifest-Proeeedlngs—Punlshment—-When not maulk-sh]

Sec. 348. 322.

When a contem >t is committed in the immediate view

and resence hf th)e court or jud elat chambers, it may be pumshed sum
mari y, for which an order shall

made reciting the tacts as occurringdlos

such immediate view and presence, adjudgm

that the person procee _

against is thereby guilty of a contempt, and t mt he be pumshed as therem
_
_ and l'BS8Il(:'
p rescribed.
When the contempt is not committed in the immediate
view
of the court or judge at chambers, an affidavit shall be presented to t e cou
or judge of the facts constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts by
the referees or arbitrators.
[Attachment--When warrant may lssue.]

Sac. 349. (323.) When the contempt is not committed in the immediate
view and presence of the court or judge, a warrant or Pf] attachment mag
be issued to bring the person charged to answer; or, w1t rout a previous arres ,
a warrant of commitment may, upon notice, or upon an order to show causi],
be granted; and no warrant of commitment shall be issued without sue
previous attachment to answer, or such notice or order to show cause.
[Judge endorse order for ball]

Sec. 350. (324.) Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued pursuant is
this chapter, the court or jud e shall direct, by an endorsement on sue

warrant, that the person charg

may be let to bail for his appearance in an

amount to be speciﬁed in such endorsement.
[Duty of sherlll’—Detain prlsonen]

SEC. 351. (325.) Upon executing the warrant of attachmenhfhe sbeng
shall keep the person in custody, bi-mg him before the court or judge, an

detain him until an order may be made in the remises, unless th_° Person
arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provi ed in the next section.
‘[When sheriff take bond—Condltions.]
SEC. 352. (326.)

When a direction to let a person arrested to bail lS con

tained in the warrant of attachment, or endorsed thereon. he shall be discharged
from the arrest upon executing and delivering to the ofﬁcer. at any time
before return day Of the warrant, a written undertaking, with two snfﬁcient
sureties, to the effect that the person arrested will appear on the return Of the
warrant, and abide the order of the c

_
ourt or judge t ereon, or that they Will
pay, as may be directed, the sum speciﬁed in the warrant.
[0fﬂcer’s Returm]

. SEC; 353. (327_-) The oﬂicer shall return the warrant of arrest and under

V 11'lm rmm the

takmg,
any received b 3
speciﬁediftherein.

t “‘ day

Person arrested’ w the re u

[l-learing—Wltuesses.]

SEC. 354. (323) When the

brougt
appeared, the court or Judge
shallperso
p1'oI(l:e:dr(t?)teilnvegzigaieenthe
charge’ Pand
shall hear .any~ answer which the erson arrested
may examine witnesses for
p
may make w the sameY an d

' hlm,
' for which
' an adjournm
ent may
be had from time to time if 1(1);cl:a§:sl;1;_t
Sec. 355. (329.) Upon the answer and evidence taken, the court or judge

shall determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the con
tempt charged, and if it be ad) udged that he is guilty of the contempt, a ﬁne
may be imposed upon him, not exceeding ﬁve thousand dollars.
[Imprisonment till performanee—(‘/ommltment spec-lfy.]

SEC. 356. (330.)
When the contem t consists in the omission to per

form an act which is yet in the power 0 the person to perform, he may "be
imprisoned until he shall have performed it, and in that case the act shall be
speciﬁed in the warrant of commitment.
[Liability on indictment for same olensa]

SEC. 357. (£331.) Persons roceeded against, according to the provisions
of this chapter, shall also be iiable to indictment for the same misconduct
if it be an 1ndictable offense, but the court before which a conviction is had

on the indictment, in passing sentence, shall take into consideration the
punishment before inﬂicted.
[Alias vurrant—Arrest—Action on bond-Daum:es.]

SEC. 358. (332.) When the warrant of arrest has been returned served,
if the person arrested do not appear on return day, the court or Judge may
issue another warrant of arrest or may order the undertakmg to be prose
cuted, or both.
In an action upon the undertaking, the measure of damages m the action
shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained by the aggrieved party, by
reason of the misconduct for which the warrant was issued, and the costs of

the proceedings.
[Hlness of priaoner—Nece.ssary restraint oniy.]
SEC. 359. (333.l Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, an officer
is required to keep a person arrested on a warrant of attachment in custody,
and to bring him before a court or a 'udge, the inability from illness or
otherwise of the person to attend shall
e a suﬁicient cause for not brmgmg
him up, and the officer shall not conﬁne a person arrested upon the warrant
in 8- prison or otherwise restrain him of personal liberty, except so far as
may be necessary to secure his personal attendance.
[Judgment ﬂnal-Punishment]
SEC. 360. (334.) The judgment and orders of the court or_ Judge, made
in cases of contempt, shall be ﬁnal and conclusive. The punishment shall
be by ﬁne or impnsonment, but no ﬁne shall exceed the sum of ﬁve thousand
dollars.
SECTION 361. Every court of this State, every judge ‘or clerk of any
court, every justice of the peace, and every notary pubhc, county clerk,
and every ofﬁcer authorized to take testimony or to decide upon evidence in
any proceeding, shall have power to administer oaths or aﬂirmations.
[Other oﬂlcers empowered to administer oaths. M784. as. 3-4. eh. m. Gen. Slut. 0101! end nl!innutl0!\$~
Chairmen of legislative committees. see 2474. some
Form of lawful oath, 2471. s. 1. same eh.

Aﬂlrnmtion--Form of ndmlulsterlngn]

SEC. 362. A Witness who desires it, may, at his option, insteadof taking
an oath, make his solemn affirmation or declaration, by assentmg when
addressed in the following form:
_ _

You do solemnly affirm that the evidence you shall give in this issue i°"
matter), pending between ——--—-—- - and
be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
;;;:.AiIsslent to this afﬁrmation shall be made by answer:

I shall

( 0.”

A false afﬁrmation or declaration shall be deemed perjury equally ‘nth
a false oath.
[See ‘M72. s. 2, ch. 80, oaths and uiiirmntions. Gen. Stat]
SECTION 363.

An aﬁidavit, to be used before any court, judge or oﬂicer

of this State, may be taken before any judge or clerk of any court, or any
justice of the peace or notary public in this State.
[Aﬂidlﬂt detective In title of cause. etc.. when good. sec. 410. ch. 88. post.

Token In other States—Before whonn]
SEC. 364. An aﬂidavit taken in another State or Territory of the United
States, to be used in this State, shall be taken before a commissioner
appointed by the governor of this State to take aﬁidavits and depositions in
such other State or Territory, or before any notary public or judge of a court I
of record having a seal.
[Taken In foreign c0untrles.]

SEC. 365. An aﬁdavit taken in a foreign country, to be used in this State,
shall be taken before an ambassador, minister or consul of the United States,
Or before any judge of a court of record having a seal in such fore1gn country.
[Authentlutlon—0ther State—l‘orelgn oountryl

SEC. 366. When an afﬁdavit is taken before a judge of a court in another
state, or in a foreign country, the enuineness of the signature of the Judge,
the existence of the court, and the act that such a judge is a member thereof,
shall be certiﬁed by the clerk of the court, under the seal thereof.
SECTiON 367. The testimony of a witness in this State may be taken {a
deposition in an action at any time after the service of the summons 01'
appearance of the defendant; and in a special proceeding, after a question Of
fact has arisen therein, in the following cases:
[When witness is party or beneﬁciary.)

First-—When the witness is a party to the action or proceeding, or a er;
son for whose immediate beneﬁt the action or proceedmg 15 prosecu
defended.
[Or resides out of ooanty.]

Second-—-When the witness resides‘ out of the county in which his testi‘
mony is to be used.
[Or about to leave county.)

Third—When the witness is about to leave the county where the actioi;
is to be tried, and will probably continue absent when the testimony‘

- required.
[Inﬂnn witness.]

Fourth—When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial, is: “ever
theless, too inﬁrm to attend.
[Deposition-Before whom—When—Notlce—Time - When copy serred- Distance-]

_ SEC. 368. Either party may have the deposition taken of a witness it:
this State before any judge or clerk, or any justice of the peace or notary P.“ 0
11c 111 this State, on serving on the adverse party previous notice of the “m
aI}d Place Of examination, together with a copy of an affidavit of the Pmy'
his agent or. attomey, Showing that the case is one mentioned in the last Pm’
cedmg
_ section. At any time during the last forty days immediately after the
service of summons by publication 11
after, when the defendant has not a asbeen completed, and a t any time th_enr _
by this Section may
ppeared, the notice and aﬂidawt requ
be served
th 6 8£tl0l1-.-_'i‘-‘:
e clerk
pending. Such notice shall bon
e atthlea
t. ﬁ ofd the’ court
d ' where
ddition
One daﬂ
for every twenty-ﬁve miles of the distashcevoef tltigspl£i1lde,olt'ne{iiaminati0u MP1

Prescribed, a copy of the’P1‘eSc1‘1be
rson to whom
a Shorter
the notice
t1m°~18 given,
whenunless’
.a short“
for
Sec. 369.

Either party may attend such examination, and put such

questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition, when com
pleted, shall be carefully read to the witness, and corrected by him in any
particular, if desired; it shall then be subscribed by the witness, certiﬁed by
the judge or oﬁicer taking the deposition, enclosed in an envelope or wra per,
sealed and directed to the clerk of the court in which the action is pen mg,
or to such person as the parties in writing may agree upon, and either de
livered by the judge or oﬁicer to the clerk or such person, or transmitted
through the mail, or by some safe private opportunity; and thereupon such
deposition may be used by either party upon the trial or other proceeding

against But
anyifpthe
artyparties
giving attend
or receiving
the notice, subject
to all legal
tions
at the examination,
no objection
to theexcep
form
of an interro atory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at
the time of ﬁre examination. If the deposition be taken by reason of the
absence, or intended absence, from the county, of the witness, or because he

is too inﬁrm to attend, proof, by affidavit or oral testimony, shall be made at
the trial that the witness continues absent or inﬁrm, to the best of deponent’s

knowledge or belief. The deposition thus taken may also be read in case of
the death of a witness.
[lay be read at any stage—Evldeuce-]

Si:(:. 370.

When a deposition has once been taken, it may be read in any

stage of the same action or proceeding, by either party, and shall then be
deemed evidence of the party reading it.
lsllbpcinas to other 00lIIl"0S—Aﬂldl\‘|t—0I‘d0l'-1

Sec. 371.

The several district and county courts of this
shall in

all cases have power to compel the attendance of witnesses residing beyond

the'county in which the court is held; Provided, that no sub mnas shall be
issued in any cause to any foreign county, except upon the or er of the court

in term time, or of the judge thereof in vacation_,-granted upon showing by

aﬂidavit that it is necessary to the ends of justice that the Witness be per
sonally present at the trial.
|'O0lI|I|lsslo||—I||te-rrogatorles-]

Sec. 372. Depositions of witnesses in this _State may 3:150 be taken by the
issuing of commissions, with direct and cross Il]l.€I‘l‘0gat‘0n_es at’mChe.d’. m the
same manner as provided in the next chapter, for mkmg deposmons of
witnesses residing out of the State.
iPers0u authorized to take depositions may compel attendance 0_f "M10880!-l

Sac. 373. (12) Each and every person authorized, and who may lt)e
_Feqnired to take de ositions in any case, shall have power and Bl1l2h0li:ty,€)
issue subpoenas, and}: if necessary, to compel the attendance ofall suc an —
1188888 as may be named in the commission or by the parties lltlgant» W erle
110 commission is necessar ; in the same manner, and under the same pena ﬁes, as is rovided in ot er cases where witnesses are directed to be sub
SECTION 374. (373) The testimony of a witness out of the State may be
taken by deposition in an action at any time after the service of the or the appearance of the defendant, and in a special proceeding at any time
after a question of fact has arisen therein.
|_Commisslou—How lssned—'l‘o whom-lterrogatorles—Cr0ss lntel’l'08ll0l1e3-1
375.commission
(374) The
de ition
of a witness
out of
the the
State
be
takenSac.
upon
issuedxbsy
the clerk
of the court
under
sealshall
of the
court where the suit is pending, on the a plication of either party, "POD ﬁve
days’ previous notice to the other, which notice shall be accomp1m1e<_1b_§’ a
copy of the interrogations [interrogatories] to be attached to the commission
- It shall be issued to a person agreed upon bv the parties, or if they do ml

ﬁg1‘eB,_i0_any judge or justice of the peace selected by the oiﬁcer granting the
COIIITDISSIOII, or to a commissioner appointed by the governor of the Stale, to
take affidavits and depositions in other States and Territories, or to 8 ﬂotiuy
public. The adverse party may ﬁle and have attached to the Commisswn
such cross-mterrogatories as he may desire.
[Written stipulation without interrogatories]

_SEC. 376. 1375.) Such interrogatories, direct and cross, as the respectiye
parties may prepare, may be annexed to the commission ; or when the pilftles

aglfee t°_ that mode, by Written stipulation, the examination may be Without
written interrogatories.
[0onimisslon—Wliat it shall autliorlze.l

Sec.
'
' ' ner '0
' ‘ 377. (376)' The commission shall authorize
the eominissw
t_td€]1lD1Bt61‘
1§semigtat°{,‘eS'
an oath
°r vYh‘"%
to the
thewitness,
examination
and tois take
to be his
without
deposition
interrogptoﬂesvln
in answer

Pee o t e question in dispute, and to certify the deposition to t ewm-t iii

i1ii§g.egn§nfY>ii(v)i):d‘:ire§§ed
to the clerk °‘ “her person designated
°’ Wei
1
~
.
him by mail or other usual channels of wnveyw ‘

Wm .. W
ll 3
[Of Dtposiliom taken out of this Snte.

[Diligence-—Postpouement of trhi.]

SEC. 378. (£377.) A trial or other proceeding shall not be postponed by
reason of a commission not returned, except upon evidence satisfactory to the
court that the testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper diligence

has been used to obtain it.
[Objections must be disposed of before triai.]

SEC. 379. (21.) In all trials in the district and county courts of this State,
where depositions may be used, in such trials all objections and exceptions to
such depositions shalL be made and disposed of before the trial. [Sec. 21, p.

224, acts 1879.
Adverse party and attorney non-resident, notioe—Post.lngJ

SEC. 380. (21,) Whenever the deposition of any witness or witnesses is
desired to be read in evidence in any civil cause depending in any ‘court of
this Territory, whether in law or equity, in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, when neither the adverse party in such cause, nor his attorney,

resides within the limits of this '1‘erritor_a/, after aﬁidavit of such_non-residence
being ﬁled with the clerk ofthe court in which the cause is pending, the notices
provided for in this chapter, may be given by posting said notices at thedoor
of the court house of the county where the suit is pending; and ﬁhng mte_r
rogatories when required by this chapter in the oiﬁ_ce_of the clerk of said

court, at least four weeks prior to suing out a commission, or takmg deposi
tions, as the case may be» [Sec. 21, p. 315, R. S., chap. Ev. & Dep.-——Not in G.
L. nor Code.] _
SECTION 381. (378.) Any court in ‘\\'lii(:li an action is pending; or a dldge
thereof, may, upon notice, order either party to give to the other, wit nu 8
speciﬁed time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy 0f a")’b°°k
document or paper in his possession or under his control, containing evidem!e
relating to the merits of the action or the defense therein. If comphance
with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book, document 0!‘ Q?"
from being given in evidence; or if wanted as evidence by the part? BPP -vmg'
may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he alleges it to e; and the court may also punish the party refusing for a contempt. This section shall
not be construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce books’
papers or documents, when he is examined as a witness.
Utvidenoe of contents other than the wrlting.]

I §Ec- 332- (379_-)_ There shall be no evidence of the contents of a writing
ot iei than the writing itself, except in the following cases:
[Lost or destroyed]

First—When
th
' ' 1
' of the
loss or destru:ti(brilgslli:ll

- which
- case Pr00f
l?;nril‘:itel)r destroyed, In

[In possession of adverse psrtY.]

SWmd—When
the ori gmal
'
' in
'
.
is

ossessi-

f th

‘
art ' agtllll-‘4t
Wholﬂ

the evidence is offered, and he fails to groduceoft affter fedbonftblo noticﬁ
[Record
document in cnstody
171'ord—
°f 9' Public diigitfzzl-1_ the onglna-1 18 a record or other document in the-OM‘.
[inspection of Documents, and Miscellaneous Provisions as IO Records, Writings, Etc.

[ﬂopy evidence by statute]

Fourth—When the original has been recorded, and a certiﬁed copy of the
record is made evidence by statute.
[Numerous accounts, etc., wheu.]

Fzlfth-—When the original consists of numerous accounts or other docu
ments which cannot be examined in court without great loss of time, and the
evidence sought from them is only the general result of the whole.
[Party producing must explain aiteratlonm]

Sac. 383. (380.)

The party producing a writing as genuine which has

been altered, or appears to have been altered after its execution, in a part
material to the question in dispute, and such alteration is not noted on the

writing, shall account for the appearance or alteration.

He may show that

the alteration was made by another, without his concurrence, or was made

with the consent of the parties aﬁ"ected by it, or otherwise properly or inno
cently made. If he do that he may give the writing in evidence, but not
otherwise.
[Judicial record—~0riginai-0opy.]

Sec. 384. (38l.) A judicial record of this State, or of the United States,
may be roved by the production of the ori inai, or a copy thereof, certiﬁed
by the c erk or other person having the lega custody thereof, under the seal

of the court, to be a true copy of such record.
[See lllli. sec, 1. chap. 86, Gen. sun... evidence.
See 446. chap, 40. post.

Judicial records of other Statem]

Sac. 385. (382)

The records in judicial proceedings of the courts of any

other State or Territory of the United States, may be proved or admitted in

the courts of this State by the attestation of the clerk and the seal of the
court annexed, if there be a seal, together with a certiﬁcate of the Judge, or

presiding magistrate, as the case may be, that the said attestation is in due

orm.

[Judicial records of foreign eountrles—0opy conipared—Aiitiientlcated.]

Sec. 386. (383.)

A judicial record of a foreign country rnay be proved

by the production of a copy thereof, certiﬁed by the clerk, wlth the seal of

the court annexed, if there be a clerk and seal, or by the legal keeper of the
record with the seal of his oﬂice annexed, if there be a seal, to be a true co y
of such record, together with a certiﬁcate of a judge of the court, that t e
person making the certiﬁcate is the clerk of the court, or the legal keeper of p
the record, and in either case, that the signature is genuine, and the certiﬁgate

in due form; and also, together with the certiﬁcate _of the minister or am as
Sador of the United States, or of a consul of the United States in such f0l‘?]g€;
°°11_I1try, that there is such a court, specifying generally the nature 0 1
ilirmdiction, and verifying the signature of the judge and clerk, or other

egalAk::l:;r0(i'1“ theejIuedi)crial
th
ti,

_ _ in
i
record of a foreign country shall be admissible

evidence upon proof:
' h
. Ftrat—That the copy Offered has been con1pa"e.d by the “ﬁtness wlt

original, and is an exact tra.nscI‘iPt of the Whole of It‘
the

Sec0nd——Tliat such original was in custody of the cler-k of the court or
other legal keeper of the same ; and,

Third—That the copy is duly attested by ii seal which is proved to be the
seal of the court where the records remain, if it be the record of a court, or if
there be no such seal, or if it be not the record of a court, by the signature of
the legal keeper of the original.
[Printed copies of statutes, etc.—l\ltates—Forelgii.]

Snc. 387. (384.) Printed copies in volumes, of statutes, codes or other
written law, of any Territory or any other State or foreign government pur
porting or proven to have been published by the authority thereof, or proved
to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing law in the courtsaml

jpdicial tribunals of such State, Territory or governments, shall be admllled
y courts and oﬁicers of this State on all occasions as presumptive evidence of
such laws.
[Sea], how lnmressed, attac-hed.]

Sec. 388. (385.) A seal of a court or public officer, when required to any
writ, or process, or proceedimv, or to aiitliciiticnie ii copy of any record or docu
ment, may be impressed wit wax, wafer, or any other substance, and then

attached to the writ, process or procceding, or to the copy of the record Of
document, or it may be impressed on the paper alone.
SEC. 389.the
(386.)
customs,
In usages
actionsand
respecting
regulations
mining
established
claims, and
proof
in shall
force In

the mining districts embracing such claim; and such customs. usages tmd
regulations, when not in conﬂict with the laws of this State, or of the l'l11Wd
-States, shall govern the decision of the action.
‘

ll“sl’ecti°'jv?{uesI:L:§§(Tol;p:jjl0n—Contents—Notlee—AlIldavlts—Hearing-Order contempl
Snc. 330. (387.)

Whenever any person, company or corporation Sb?“

have any right to, or interest in any mine, lead, lode or mining claim, which
is in the possession of another person, company or corporation, and for Which

a_c‘ause is pending 1n_a court of record, bringing into question the right or
tit e to the_ same, and it shall be necessary for the ascertainment, enforccmt?nt

°T Protectlon Of such right or interest, that an inspection, examination °r
sulrveyvof such mine,_lead, lode or mining claim, should be had or made, or

:¥li1§1i1e\erl an inspection, examination or survey of any mine, lead lode °r

imergg gfagrrp shall be necessary to ascertain, protect or enforce the Plghl or
minin claimy Pe(T1$°ln, company or corporation, in another mine, lead, l°d° °r

mine i <1 1 Zia“ “B. P.e“s°“~ P°mPany or corporation in p0SS°9si°" °f °“°
’ ea ' 0 e 01' mmlng claim, Of which an inspection, examination, M
survey is necessary, shall 1-efusg, after th ree days, demand thereof’ in wrimig,

to allow or Permit such msllectloll, examination or survey to be had 01‘
2’
ti
.
.
Sl11:v(I;;:'r(l;-j,1 :SuC(:)t1l11P%_lny or corporation
desiring an inspection, examinﬂ-W_All

is

court or the -iurlmnili lead, lode or mining claim» may Present to the
ereof, of the county wherein the mine, lead, load 01' mm,‘ _

llmpttlion ol Documents, and Miscellaneous Provisions as to Records, Writings, Etc.

ing claim, of which an inspection, examination or survey is desired, is situated,
a petition under oath, settin out his or their ri ht to, or interest in, such
mme, lead, lode or mining c aim, describing it, t e possession thereof, or of
another mine, lead, lode or mining claim, of which an inspection’, examina
tion or survey is necessary by another company or corporation, the reason
why it is necessary that such inspection, examination or survey should be had

or made, the demand made on the person, company or corporation in posses
sion to allow! or ermit such inspection, examination or survey, and his or
their refusal to al ow or permit the same, and asking an order for the inspec

tion, examination or survey of such mine, lead, lode or mining claim, the
court or judge may thereupon appoint a time and place for hearing such
petition, and shall order notice thereof to be served on the adverse party, com
pany or corporation, which notice shall be served at least three days before

the day of hearing.
At the time and place appointed the court or judge shall proceed to hear
the petition. Either party may read aﬂidavits on the hearing in the same
manner and subject to the same rules as on application to dissolve an 111111110
tion. If the court or judge be satisﬁed that the facts stated in the petition are
true, an order shall be made for an inspection, examination or survey of the
mine, lead, lode or mining claim in question, in such manner, at such tune,

and by such persons as are mentioned in the order.

Such persons shall

thereupon have free access to such mine, lead, lode or mining claim,_for the
purpose of such inspection, examination or survey in conformity with the

order of the court or judge, and any interference with such persons wlnle act
illg under such order, shall be a contem t of court and punished accordmgly;

Provided, that only three witnesses besi e the surveyor shall be admitted on‘

the art of the petitioner, and the costs of the proceeding shall abide the
rcsu t of the suit.
‘Soc 2418, ch. '15. Gen. Stat.. mlnes.]
SECTION 391. (315.) The testimony of a witness or witnesses may b°
taken and perpetuated as provided in this chapter.
[Petition voritled-- Avermentm]
Sac. 392. (316.) The ap licant shall present to it district or count)’ judge
a petition, veriﬁed by the oati of the applicant, stating:
[Names of adverse partiea]

First—Tlmt the applicant expects to be a party to an action in a court in
this State, and in such case the name or names of the person or persons Whom
he expects will be adverse parties; or
_ [Facts inaterial—Neoessnry.]

Sec<md—-That the proof of some fact or facts is necessary to perfect the

title to property in which he is interested, or to establish marriage, (lescellh
heirship, or any other matter which may hereafter become material to Estalk

11311» though no Suit may at the time be anticipated; or, if anticipated, he-may
‘ not know the parties to such suit; and,
[Names of witnesses—Facts-0rtier—Notice—Service-Pnblicatiom]

Tln'rd—Tlie name or names of the witness or witnesses to be eiiniiiiiled
at his or their place of residence, and a general outline of the facts expec
to be proved.
The Judge to_whom such petition is presented shall make an order B_1l°".'

mg the examination, and prescribing the notice to be given; which notice,

parties are known to reside in this State, shall be personally served on them;

and if unknown, each notice shall be served on the clerk of the count Where
the property to be
[affected] 1) y such evidence
'
' Slliilﬁ-t9d,‘an
. effected
_
is
H otice_
gggriplg Epdpliiblished in some newspaper to be designated by the Judge mak
[Proof of notice-~Depositions.]

S .
. of the notice,
. as provldfaihnv
‘
the lagtcghalllipon
P1‘°0f of the service
are taken, to Proceed to Ififktehe duty of the judge before whom the d "
petition
. .
upon the facts therein
the
setdefggtli‘t’ odﬁdothhhsagiineﬁhgﬁme
.
Sec. 394. (318,)

The examination shall be by question and answer

unless the parties otherwise agree. The deposition, when taken, shall be
carefully read to and subscribed by the witness, then certiﬁed b the judge,
and immediately thereafter ﬁled in the otﬁoe of the clerk of the istrict court

of the county where the same was taken, together with the order for the
examination, the petition on which the same was granted, and the proof of
service of notice.
[Lﬂdavits prlma hale evldeuem]

SEC. 395. (319.) The aflidavit or other proofs ﬁled with the depositions,
or certiﬁed copies thereof, shall be prima farie evidence of the facts therein
stated.
lDeposlllons, how and I

what ease used -0bjectlons.]

Sec. 396. (320.) If a trial be had between the parties named in the
petition, as parties expectant, or their successors in iuterest,'or between any
parties wherein it may be material to establish the facts which such deposi

tion prove or tend to prove, upon roof of the death or msamty of the witne
or witnesses, or of his or their ina )llll.)' to attend the trial by reason of age,

sickness or settled inﬁrmity, the deposition or depositions_,or'cert1ﬁed copies
theP_90f, may be used by either party subject to all legal ob_]e_ct1ons.
But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of
an iriterrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the
examination.
SECTION 397- (338.) Every direction of a court or judge made or entered
in ‘Yming and not included in a judgment, is clenominated an order. An appli
cation for an order is a motion.
[Powers oi court at chambers; see section 48‘). ch. 40, post

Motions, where made—NoticeJ

Sec. 398. (8.) Motions shall be made-in the county in which the section
' [action]
is brought, orif at chambers, in any county in the same district"
Written notice of motions shall be required in all cases, except those 1111159
during the progress of a trial.
original act.
[Sec 8, p. 56, acts 1881-Subs. for section 339,
Notice-In some county twenty-four Iionrs—0tiierwlsc three dl!8~l
Y SEC. _399._ (9.) Where the at torneys of both arties or the arties flit‘-In‘
sch es reside in the same county, mitten notice Fbf a motion 8 811 be gwen
dv;;:,t3;Lf€l:1;1 holzlls bei_.‘l)11'¢i)the time a pointed for the hearing, otherwise three
'
no ice W1
390,01‘igil18.l3.Ct
i . 9. pp. ob-7,
.- 1
be
acts 1881—Subs. for

f

etumda' H
ltohear 0

may be trangfegred e Order‘ the.]l1dge is unab e

' order to some other Judge
'
beﬁiﬂ_5
1118
whom it might originally have been bby
rought
[Moticns, Orden. Notices, Service of Papers, Elc., Time.

[Written notices-How sel'\'ed—ProVls0.]

Sec. 401. (392)

Written notices and other papers, when required to be

served on the party or attorney, shall be served in the manner rescribed in
the next three sections, when not otherwise provided; but nohing in this
title shall be applicable to original or ﬁnal process, or any proceeding to bring
a party into contempt.
'
[Personal service-—Party or attorney]

SEC. 402. ($393.)

The service may be personal, by delivery to the party or

attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as follows_
[011 attorney. how served.]

First—If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his

ofﬁce by leaving the notice or other papers with his clerk therein, or with a
rson having charge thereof; or when there is no person in_th_e oiiice, by
caving them, between the hours of eight in the morning and six in the after

noon, in a conspicuous place in the o ce; or if it be not open, so as _to admit

of such service, then by leaving them at the attorney’s residence, with some
person of suitable age and discretion; and if his residence be not known, then

v utting the same, enclosed in an envelope, into the post-oiiice, directed to
sue attorney.
[Service on party.)
Secom1—If upon a party,- it may be made by leaving the notice or other
paper at his residence, between the hours of eight in the morning and s1_x
in the evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion; and if_ his
residence be not known, by putting the same, enclosed in an envelope, 1nto
the post-oﬁice, directed to such party.
[Service by maih]
SEC. 403. (394.)

Service by mail may ze made, when the _erson makmg

the service and the person on whom it is to be made reside 1n

liferent places,

between which there is a regular communication by mail.
[service by mail—-‘Dime, distance, 40 days.]
I
See. 404. (395)

In case of service by mail, the notice or other paper

shall be de sited in the post-oiﬁce, addressed to the person on whom 1t1s
to be serve ,at his place of residence, and the postage pa1d. And in such
.0ase the time of service shall be increased one day for every twenty-_ﬁ\e
miles distance between the place of deposit and the place of address: Promded,
that service in any case shall be deemed complete at the end of forty days
from the date of its deposit in the post-ofﬁce.
[What constitutes appearance-Party appearing entitled to notice, etc.]

SEC. 405. (396.)
A defendant shall be deemed to appear in _an afctilpn

When he answers, demurs or gives the plaintiff a written notéce onlls
appearance. After appearance, a defendant or his attorney shall _e gm; ge

to notice of all subsequent proceedings of winch notice 1s regmre
given.

rs

But when a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or pape

,_need not be made upon him.
[Non-resident who has appeared-Service on clerk-Excel"-1

Site. 406. (20.)

\Vhen a plaintiff or a_ defendant who hazegiizpeazgi

resides out of the State. and has no attorney 1n the 8Ct10I1 91‘ Proc

Motions, Orders, Noucca, Service of Papers, Em, Tim:.l

service may be made on the clerk for him. But in all cases where the party
has an attorney in the action or proceeding, the service _of pa rs, when
required, shall be upon the attorney, or upon the party himsel , except of

summons, writs and other process issued in the suit, and of pa

him into contempt, which shall be served on the party.

rs to bnng

2 . p. 224, 8°“

1879—Subs. for sec. 397, original act.
Clerk keep register of actions]

Sac. 407. (398.) The clerk shall keep, arﬁong the records_of thecourtg 8
register of actions; he shall enter therein the title of the action, Wlﬂl bflel

notes under it from time to time, of all papers ﬁled and proceedings had
therein.
[Majority of referees or arbitrators may aet.]

Sec. 408. (395).) When there are three referees, or three arbitrators, W0
of them may do any act which might be done by all.
[Computation of tln1e—Extension for cans4\—Lln1lt.]

Sac. 409. (7.) The time within which an act is to be done as_provuied11\
this act, shall be computed by excluding the ﬁrst day and includmg the last;
if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be excluded. _
' When the act to be done relates to the pleadings in the action or the
undertakings to be ﬁled, or the justiﬁcation of sureties, or the service ot'no_t10e5

other than of appeal, or the preparation of statement, or of bills of exceptlolll
or of amendments thereto, the time allowed b

this act may be extended

upon good cause shown by the court in which he action is pending’ _°r the

Judge thereof, or in the absence of such judge from the county in which the

ac_t10n is pending, by the county judge; but such extension shall not exceed
thlrty days beyond the time prescribed by this act without the consent of the

adverse party. LSec. 7, p. 56, acts l88l—Subs. for sec. 400, original act
Want or defect of entitling nﬂldavlts, motions, ete.—When validd

Sac. 410. (401.)

An aﬂidavit, notice, or other paper, without the title 0{

the action or proceeding in which it is made, or with a defective title, Shﬂl
be
as to
valid
etfect
if
refer
suchand
action
oi-H;'iro(():;el:‘lIi1)1’g.purpose
as 1-f d u I y en {ﬂed
1
' I.f I.t intenigibly
SECTION 411. (336.) An order made out of court, without notice to the
adverse party, may be vacated or modiﬁed by the judge who made 1t, on
notice in the manner in which other motions are made.
[See as. 8974 -9. eh. 88, ante, and following as.

Bmnﬂm, When my be signed-Refusal of judge—AIlIdavlts—Flling.]
SEC- 412. (23.)
In all cases in the district and county courts where either

party Shall except to any ruling, decision or opinion of the court, and shall
ljeduce such exception or exceptions to writing, it shall be the duty of the
Judge to allow the same, and to si n and seal the same at any time during
the term of the court at which suc
exceptions were taken, or at any time

thel‘caI'ter to be ﬁxed by the court, and at any time when any‘Jndge shall
neglcct or refusejo allow and sign and seal such bill of exceptions, then it

ﬂhall be lawful for the suitor, or his attorney, to make and attach to such
bill of exceptions the afﬁdavit of two or more attorneys of the court, or
other persons who were present at the time of the trial and when such excepé
‘"0115 Were taken, stating that such bill of exceptions is correct and true; 91};
when such bill of exceptions is so allowed, and signed and sealed byt 6
judge, or so attested and proved by aﬁidavit, it slmll thereupon be tiled‘

the clerk,and shall become a part of the record of such cause. [bee 23, p. 220,
acts 1879.
For writs of error In criminal cases, nee Vii H. as N 6. ch. ‘Ki. or. code. gen. code. (ten. St!!
ln condemnation cases. see sec. 80. chap. 2]. auto.

Assignment oi’ error on exceptions—When trial by _|udge.]

Sac. 413. (24.)

Exceptions taken to opinions and decisions of the dmtpct

and county courts, upon the trial of causes in which the parties agree twl

both matters of law and fact may be tried by the court, shall be deemed and
held to have been properly taken and allowed; and the party excepting mg
assign for error before the supreme court an_v decision or opinion so except
to, whether such exception relates to receiving improper or rejecting proper

testimony, or to the ﬁnal judgment of the court upon the law and evidence.
[Sec. 24, pp. 225-6, acts 1879.
Non-suit, eontlnnanee, arrest of jadgnient—Exceptlonx.]

Sec. 414. ('25.) Exceptions taken to opinions or decisions of_the district
and county courts overruhng motions in arrest of judgments, motions for nap1
trials, for continuance of causes, and in sustaining motions for non~siiitZ El"!

be allowed, and the party excepting may assign for error any opnnon SO
excepted to. [Sec. 25, p. ‘226, acts 1879.
Appeals to supreme e0urt—Am0nnt—'l‘ime-Bond—Condiiion.-|—Aineadment.]

SEQ 415- (26-l Appeals to the supreme court from the district and counég
courts shall be allowed in all cases where the judgment or decree appeal]
from be ﬁnal, and shall amount, cxclusive of costs, to the sum of twenty do '

lars, or relate to a franchise or freehold; P1'oi'ided, such appeal he pl‘l1."e‘l fog

Wltlilil three days after the time of rendering the judgment or decree; A"
Provided, the party praying for such appeal shall by himself, or ag9l_1li 0’
attorney, give bond with a suﬁicient surety, to be approved by the district or
county court (or the clerk thereof, when the order granting such appeal mu)
- 50 direct), and ﬁled in the oﬂice of the clerk of the district or county com
within the time limited by the court; which bond shall be in a reasoiiable

sum suihcient to cover the amount of the judgment appealed from, and cosh’
fwd c°ndm°_“‘3d for the Payment of the judgment, costs, interest and llltllilllgest;
1“ case the Judglnent shall be aiﬁrmed, and also for the due prosecution 0
the a.pPeal1 and theobligee in such bond may at anv time, on a breach "f the

condmon thereof, have and maintain an action at law, as on other bond‘
The supreme court may. in its discretion, allow defective appeal bonds to
amended. [Sec 26, p. 226, acts 1879.
Writs ot err yr tie to all Judgments, sec. 42']. post.

When tile copy of record-Pro\'iso_Time_Dismissal.]

SEQ 416- (27-) The a

ellant shall lod e in the oﬁice of the clerk 0f the

supreme court an authenti[c)2It)ted copy of thegrecord of the judgment or

:ppetae;1,rfr°.m’ by or before the third day of the next term of said B‘1P"e.me
tﬁlér 1

' iivbded, that if there be not thirtv days between the time Of m

appea and the Smmg of the suprerhe court, then the record Shall
lodged as aforesaid t
the supreme court, :)1th(;li'“'leSt(3)!i(l'i:llSe8.‘th“d day of the mixt ibucceedmg
time shall have b
1
[See 27, pp. 226-7, acts 1879.

Jndgment—Executlon from snpree court-1temander.]

SEC. 417. (28.)

In all cases of appeals and writs of error the supreme

court may give ﬁnal judgment and issue execution, or remand the cause to
the district or county court in order that execution may be there issued, or

that other proceedings may be had thereon.

[See 28, p. 227, acts 1879.

0a alﬂrmal or dismissal, district clerk Issue executiom]

SEC. 418. (29.)

Wlieii an~ appeal or writ of error shall be prosecuted

from the judgment of any district or county court of this State to the
supreme court, and said appeal or writ of error shall be dismissed, or the
jud ment of the district or county court aﬂirmed, it shall be the duty of the

cler of the district or county court from which said appeal or writ of error
was prosecuted, upon a copy of the order of the supreme court dismissing
said appeal or writ of error, or atﬁrming said judgment, being ﬁled in his

oliice, to issue execution upon said judgment, and to proceed thereon in all
res cts as though no appeal or writ of error had been prosecuted from said
ju gment.

[Sec. 29, p. 227, acts 1879.

Opinions must be In writing. sec. 447. ch. 40. post.

0110 of several parties may have appeal or error.]

Sec. 419. (30.) In all cases where a judgment or decree shall be l‘€l1—
dered in any district or county court, in any case whatever, either in law or

in cbancery, against two or more persons, either one of said persons shall be
permitted to remove said suit to the supreme court, by appeal or writ of error,

and for that purpose shall be permitted to use the names of all said persons,
if necessary; but no costs shall be taxed against any person who shall not join

in said appeal or writ of error, and all such cases sh‘all be determined in said
supreme court as other suits are, and in the same manner as if all the parties

had joined in said appeal or writ of error.

[See 30, p. 227, acts 1879.

Partial reversal—Judgnient, decree or rcmanden]

Sec. 420. (31.) The supreme court, in case of a partial reversal, shall
give such judgment or decree as the inferior court ought to_ have given, or
remand the cause to the inferior court for further proceedings, as the case

may require.

[Sec 31, p. 227, acts 1879.

Limitation five years— Saving claiise.]

SEC. 421. (32.)

A writ of error shall not be broughtafter the expiration

of ﬁve years from the rendition of the judgment complained of; but when a
Person thinking himself aggrieved by any judgment or decree that may be
reversed in the supreme court, shall be an infant, non co'rnposme1ttis, or

imprisoned, when the same was rendered. the time of such disability shall be
excluded from the computation of the said ﬁve years.

[See 32, pp. 227-8.

acts 1879.
Supei-sedeas_0rder of judge—Bond—ISﬂ‘BIl09—-VVIIOH clerk 0i-den]
SEC. 422. ($33.) No writ of error shall operate as a supersedcas, unless the

supreme court, or, if application be made therefor in vacation, some .lus}:1‘‘i''i’'
01' the su reme court, after inspecting a copy of the recordm the cause, s :1

Order suc

writ of error to be made a supersedeas; nor until the party app y

ing for such writ shall ﬁle a bond in the oﬁice of the clerk of the T‘1P1'em_"e
court, with the conditions required in cases of appeals. approved by he col“

or justice allowing such order for a aupm‘sedms, or, if Sllt’ll_0I‘d.8l' shall so dnect,
then by the clerk of some court of record; the clerk lSSlllilg such writ of

error shall endorse thereon that it shall be a RIIP(‘TrI(‘(i('II8, and operate accord
ingly; and the parties in writs of error shall be subject to the same Judg
ment and mode of execution as provided in cases of appeal.
33, p. 228,
acts 1879.
Supreme court divided-Judgment s|IlramL]

Sec. 423. (34. )

Whenever the supreme court shall be equally divided in

opinion, on hearing an appeal or writ of error, the judgment of the court
below shall stand aiiirmed.

[Sec. 34, p. 228, acts 1879.

Dismissal of appeal—Want of prosecution--Damagcsd

SEC. 424. (35.)

In all cases of appeals to the supreme court where the

ap_pe_llant shall fail to prosecute the appeal, the supreme court shall, upon dis
missing the a peal, enter judgment against the appellant for not less than

ﬁve or more t an twenty per cent upon the amount of i]ud ment for damages’
consequence of the delay occasioned bv the appea .
35' P- 228' 8°“
79.
Sclre faelas to hear errors—Contents-To several countleml

Sac. 425. (36.) In all cases in which a writ of error shall be i2isue(i.ll1e‘1l“"'k

of the supreme court shall also issue a scirc facias, or summons to hear errors,
directed to the sheriff or other ofiicer of the proper county, where the defen
dant or defendants in error reside or may be found, commanding him tosum
mon the defendant or defendants in error to appear at the next term of the

supreme court, and show cause, if anv he or they liii\'e.Wl1_\' the ludgmem
or decree mentioned in the writ of errbr should not he reversed. If ‘Pete 8-“3
several defendants in error, residing in diil‘ercnt counties, the plaintiff 1“

error may haye separate writs issued to each of the counties where Such
defendants reside. [Sec. 36, pp. 228-9, acts 187".
_ Defendant, non-resident, concealed, etc.- Aﬂldavlt--PnbIicatlou—(‘WJ ll! """'l
Sac. 426, (37.) If the plaintiff in error, or other person for him, shall at
anytime ﬁle in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the sn ii-emc court an aiiidavit,settiI1B

forth that the defendant has gone out of this bhatc, so that process cannot
served upon him, or that he is not a resident of this State, or, on due inquiry’

Cannot’ be found, 01' is concealed within this State, or evades service of Mess,
or that Pm_ce5$_ cannot be served on him, it shall he the duty of the c erk l0
ca‘{,S1‘? gublicatlop of notice to Such defendant, to be made in some newspaper
glgmis e;1;p tlns_State, setting forth the )9nde,,(.y 0; the writ of error, the
1‘ewes (ﬁt e parties, and the time when tile 86,-,.(_ J-am-as or summons may e

ma 8 -when [which] Ponce Shall be published for four coiisecillwe
davs before th otﬁrst insertion of such notice shall not be made at leastsixty
to ‘he next sue re (prn day of the writ of error, the cause shall be coutillluw
Of the plaintiffcpee mg term Of the S“Wepie court, and it shall be_the(l1.
of such notice t111herror or some one for him, to send, post aid by mail, 360%
known to or Oi-tee d.ef.endan,t 1'‘ e_1‘1'°I‘, if the place of rcsi ence of liiiii_‘-1111?".

error‘ and u a r’
m .mq“"'.\', can be ascertained by the planit-iﬂ"ln

P011 ﬁllﬂg a certiﬁcate of the publication of such notice. made by
paper in which the same shall be published,togethiif
Pics of such notice have been sent to the defendllnL 1“
SEC. 427. (38.)

Writs of error shall lie from the supreme court to every

ﬁnal judgment of the several district and county courts of this State,
and such writs of error shall be amendablc, and this section shall be deemed
to apply to all judgments or decrees which have been rendered since the ﬁrst
day of October, A. D. 1877, by any district or county court. [Sec. 38, pp. 229

30, acts 1879.

Amendments of writs of erron]

SEC. 428. (39) All writs of error wherein there shall be any variance
from the original record, or any other defect, may be amended and made

agreeable to such record, by the respective courts where such writs of error
are or shall be made returnable. [Set-. 39, p 230, acts 1879.
Repeal of sectious—Eifeet of—Pror1so, attachuieuts, re|iler|n.]

Sac. 429. (40.) The repeal of any sections of the act to which this act is
amendatory shall not abate or in any manner effect [affect] any repeal to the
supreme court from the several district and county courts in this State, which

have been taken prior to the time this act takes effect; nor shall the re eal of
such sections abate or in any manner effect [aﬁ'ect any su1t 1_n attac ment
and claim and delivery [which] shall be prosecute to ﬁnal judgment and
determination under the sections so repealed: Provided, that in such suits
in attachment and claim and delivery, appeals may betaken from the several
district and county courts under the provisions of this act, and wrlts of error

shall lie in all such cases as herein provided for cases generally.

[See 40, p.

230,'acts 1879.
Bepeahn]

SEC. 430. (41.) Sections sixty-two (62), one hundred and six (106), one
hundred and nineteen (119), one hundred and eighty-ﬁve (185), one hundred

'and eighty-six (186), one hundred and ninety-four (194), one hundred and
ninety-ﬁve (195), one hundred and ninety-six (196), one hundred and ninety
Seven (197), two hundred and ten (210), three hundred and thirty-ﬁve (335),
three hundred and thirty-seven (337), three hundred and thirty-eight (338), _
three hundred and thirty-nine (339), three hundred and fort; (340), three
hundred and forty~one (341), three hundred and forty-two (34 ), three hun
dred and forty-three (343), three hundred and forty-four (344), three hundred
and forty-ﬁve (345), three hundred and forty-six (346), three hundred and
fortY-seven (3-17), three hundred and forty-eight (348), three hundred and
fort*5’-nine
, th
h dfi'1'et(y-‘tti\1'o
l
d (352),
ﬁfty (350),
hundred
and ﬁfty-one
(351);
threti 349
huhdrdde
anudn
three three
hundred
and ﬁfty-three
(303),
three hundred and ﬁfty-four (354), three hundred and ﬁfty-ﬁve (350), three

hundred and ﬁfty-six (356), three hundred and ﬁfty-seven (357), three hun
died and ﬁfty-eight (358), three hundred and ﬁfty-nine (359), and three hundre7:g
and sixty (360) of said act are hereby repealed.
_APP1‘°\[ed and in force February 24, 1879.
‘For other repeats. see last section of this code.)

[Sec. 41, pp. 230-1, acts 18
SECTION 431. (402)

The supreme court, and each of the district and

county courts, shall respectively have power to make rules and regulations
for governing their practice and procedure in reference to all matters not

expressly provided for by law.
[See also 8227. see. 8. chap. 104. Gen. Stat, sui reme court.
At chambers-lIearings—0rders— R.|iles~—Notlce—Gencriil rule or district.]

SEC. 432. (22.) In vacation, at chambers, the judges of the district courts
in their respective districts, and the judges of the county courts in their
respective counties, may hear and determine an and all motions and demur
rers; may upon good cause shown, enlarge 1 e time to answer, reply or

demur; may make and direct any and all interlocutory orders, rules or
other proceedings preparatory to the trial and disposition of causes on the
merits, in the same nianner and with the like effect as the said courts
could direct or make the same in term time, reasonable notice of the
application for such rule or order being ﬁrst given to the adverse party,
or his attorney, and it shall be the duty of the district judges, each in his
own district, by general rule, to prescribe the time or tunes and place or
glaces, at which motions and demurrers in actions pending in his district may
e brought on for hearing in vacation. [Sec 22, pp. 224-5, acts 1879.
Jlltlscs and justices take acknowledgments, etc.]
SEC. 433. (403) The judges of the supreme court, of the district courts,
and of the county courts, shall have power, in any part of the State, and the
justices of the peace within their respective counties, shall have power, to
take and certify:
[C4""e!lnees.]
First—The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property,

or of any other instrument required to be proved or acknowledged.

(Ana-no.1

Sec0nd—An aﬂidavit to be used in any court of justice in this State.
[Judicial olﬂoe-Vacancy 0 Effect]
434. (404,) -\'o action or proceeding in a court of justice in U115
State shall be 8.ﬂ'ected by a vacancy in the oﬂice of all or any of the Judges’

or by a failure of a term thereof.
[EnglishllllS'lll\ge—Abbreriatiomi_Nunicriils-Figures]
SEC. 435. (405.)
Every written proceeding in a court_of justice in this
State, 01' before a judicial oﬂicer, shall be in the English language, but
such abbreviations as are now commonly used in
that_language may be
used and numbers expressed by ﬁgures or numerals, in the customary
manner.
[cnsr. XL.

Mesccllaneom Prmlisio‘ I .1

[Courts with seahl

SEC. 436. (406.)

Each oi the following courts, and no others, shall have
a seal:
First-The su reme court.
Sec0nd—The istrict court.
Third-—-The county court.
Fowrth—.Any criminal court established by law.
[Clerk keep scal.]

Sec. 437. (407.) The clerk of each court shall keep the seal thereof.
[Seal, how attlxcd.]

Sec. 438. (408.) The seal may be aflixed by impressmg ll ‘_1P_°nl{‘l°
paper, or on a substance attached to the paper and capable of receiviiigt 8
impression.
[Jnrldleal days.)

Sec. 439. (40%).) The courts of justice may be held and judicial busme85
may be transacted on any day except as provided in the next section
[Jarldleal holidays-Except]

SEC. 440. (410.) No court shall be opened, nor shall any Jt1(llClttl busi
ness be transacted, on Sunday, New Year's day, Fourth of July, Christ?”
day, Washington's birthday, Thanksgiving day, Fast day and Decvmllou
day, or on it, general election, except for the following purp0Se8I
[Instruetions.1
First-To give, upon their request, instructions to a jury then deliberating
on their verdict.
>
[Receive Vcrdict.]

Scc0nd—-To receive a verdict or discharge a jury.
[Criiiiiual inag'istracy.]

Third_—-For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate in acriniinﬂ

action, or in a proceeding of a crimina nature.
[Beplerying.]
_Fourth—When it shall appear by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or some 0116

in his behalf, in cases for the recovery of speciﬁc personal property’ that the
defendant is about to conceal, dispose of, or remove such roperty 0°.‘ of lhe
jurisdiction of the court, an order for taking possession 0 the same may issued and the writ or process executed on any day.
[Attaehments—~Adjonrnments by clerk, when judge absent]
F'Lfth_When an PPPlication for a writ of attachment is made! lf ll shall
appear by the ailidavit_of the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf! ‘hat the
_efendant is about to dispose of, conceal or remove property subject to exec“; tion or attachment, out of the jurisdiction of the court, a writ of attachm°‘L . _
may be issued and executed on an ' day. When the day ﬁxed for the 0W

ing of a court shall fall on any of t e days mentioned in this section, lh6»°°
shall
until th (!)1l'e:nysl'.1ecl?Tl:1e((i)lut
t
' 6131)}?'.
appointed
the coinmencemenet
. standforadjourned

Wh9ien .0“ .‘h "
E‘!
350
or county court, the judges or judge of such court being not pl-aganttn the same, the clerk of the court shall adjourn such term of court, from day
to day, until the expiration of one week from the day a pointed for the com
mencement of the term, noting such adjournment in the minutes each day;
and if the judges or jud e of such court he not then present to hold such
term on the da one wee

from the time appointed for such term to commence, the cler shall adjourn the court for the term and make an entr on
the minutes thereof. I f the judges or 'udgc shall appear on any day to w ich
the court has been adjourned by the clerk, as above provided, the court shall
proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if the judges or
judge had been present and the court had been regularly opened on the day appointed for the term to commence.
rm nm to 1080. M. as m 19. eh. m. Gen. sut, amm courts.

Court: sit In county »eat~No justice sit out of his eountp]

Sac. 441. (411.) Every court of justice, except a justice’s court, shall
sit at the county seat of the county in which it is held, except as may be
otherwise provided by law.

No justice of the peace shall hold a court-in any

other county or city than the one for which he shall have been elected.
[Action against sherl1f—Snret|es on indemnity bond, liability on notice]

Sac. 442. (412.)

In an action brought against a sheriff for an act done

by virtue of his ofﬁce, if he give written notice thereof to the sureties on any

bond of indemnity received by him, the judgment recovered therem shall be
‘ suﬁicient evidence of his right to recover against such sureties; and the court,
or judge in vacation, may on motion, upon notice of ﬁve days, order judgment

to be entered up against them for the amount so recovered, includmg costs.
[WoHls—Present—Singnlar—llascu1ine-Writing-0ath—Slgnatue.]

Sac. 443. (413.) Words used in this act in the present tense shall be
deemed to include the future as well as the present; words used 1n the singu
lar number shall be deemed to include the plural, and plural the singular;

and words used to include the masculine gender shall include the femmme
gender; writing shall be deemed to include printing or printed paper; oath
to include aiﬁrmation or declaration; si nature or snbscr1pt1on_to mclude
mark, when the person cannot or is unab e to write, his name being written
near it, and witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness.
[300 8141-48. as. 1-2-8, ch. 101, Gen. Stat. statutes.

Undertaking, sureties must justil‘y—When may justify for part]

SEC. 444. (414.)
In all cases where an undertaking, by_ the provisions

Of this act, is required, it shall be the duty of the person takmg the same to

use due diligence in ascertaining the responsibihty of the person becom'1_n%

surety. and to require each of the sureties to accompany the same‘wltd
aiﬁdavit that he is worth the sum speciﬁed in the undertakmg, over an

above his just debts and liabilities, in property not Qiempt by law £9111
execution; Provided, that whenthe amount speciﬁed in the u_nde1l']ta mg
exceeds one thousand dollars, and there are more than two sureties t ere;on,

they may state, in their aﬁidavits, that they are severally worth amountsI es:
than that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equiva en

to the sum speciﬁed in the undertaking.
Sec. 445. (415.)
Whenever property has been taken by an oﬂlcer, under
a writ of attachment, in pursuance of the provisions of this act, and it shall
be made to appear satisfactorily to the court or a Judge thereof, or a county
jud e, that the interest of the parties to the action Wlll be subserved by a sa e thereof, the court or judge may order such property to be sold, "1
the same manner as property is sold under an eirccution, and the proceeds

to be deposited in court, to abide the judgment in the action. Such order
shall be made only upon notice to the adverse party or his attorney, In
case such party has been personally served with summons m the action.
[Copies of United States records which may be read In evidence]

Sac. 446. (416.) A copy of an
record. or document, or paper‘ _1n l-‘:1?
custody of a ublic oﬂicer of this tate, or of the Umted States within t 15
State, certiﬁe under the oﬁicial seal, or veriﬁed by the oath of such oﬁicer,_l°

be
evidence
a true, in
full,anand
action
correct
or copy
proceeding
of the original
in the courts
in his of
custody,
this State,
may in
_be the I 8
manner, and with the like effect, as the original could be if produced.
[Appellate oourt—Declsiona of law—Wrltten—Beason:o]
Sec. 447. (418.) All decisions given upon an appeal "PP" qu,°?l‘°“s.°b
law only in any appellate court in this State, shall be given ill writing, Wlli
the reasons therefor, and ﬁled with the clerk of the court.
[Defendant may have other claimant substltnted—l‘ot|oe—Dop0slLl

SEC. 448. (419.)
A defendant, against whom an action is pendmg “POD

:1 contract or for speciﬁc personal property, may, at any time before unﬁt",
uPon affidavit that 8 Person not a Party to the action makes agamst bl?’
without any collusion with him, a demand upon the same contract or fort 9
_ same property, upon due notice to such person and the adverse p11I‘l}',aPP1Y
to the court to substitute such person in his place, and dischafge mm mm
liability to either party, on his depositing in the court the amount claimh
on the contract, or delivering the property, or its value, in Such Person 83'' 0

court may direct, and the court may, in its discretion, make an 0Pder~
[See sec. 18. chap. 1. ante. as to debt.

Trial-Conrt appoint person to write down testhnonpl

SEQ 449- (424-) On the trial of any action in a court of record. at the
request of either party, the court may, in its discretion, appoint a wmpewﬂ

person to take down the testimony in writing.
['l‘rlal, postponement—Wltnesscs present examined]

Sac. 450. (425.) The part ost onin a trial in an court of record éhﬂu
alfso, if required by the adverseypgrtyllconsegm that the tegimony of any.W1tne$
giesrilfhfalllveme palty, who is in attendance, be then taken before any J
or 0th‘; l E? °°“Yt In which the action is pehding, or before any HQW

ShaH'W-IT O C.” a‘1l'h01‘1Zed to take depositions, as the court may
Il<.¥ttl>1‘d111gly be done; and the testimony so taken may bereldg
t5 same

effect, and subyect
to the same objections,
I 33
[Miloellaneuus Provisions.
[Execution for costs on renittitur ﬂled—0ther cases—I-ixecutionm]
Sac. 451. (426.) Whenever costs are awarded to a part by an appellate
court, such party may have an execution for the same on ling a remittitur
with the clerk of the court below, and it shall be the duty of such clerk,
whenever the remittitur is ﬁled, to issue the execution upon application therefor. And whenever costs are awarded to a party by an order of any
court, such party may have an execution therefor in like manner as upon a
judgment.
SEC. 452. (427.) The supreme court, the several district courts, and the
several county courts and the criminal courts established by law, of this State,
shall be courts of record.
[Sittings of court publidl

Sec. 453. (428.) The sittings of every court of justice shall be public,
except as provided in the next section.
‘
iScortatory testimony-Exclusion of public]

Sac. 454. (429.)

On the trial of any action, upon the su

court by any counsel engaged therein, that the evidence

he a

estiori to the

uced in such

action will be of such character that unnecessary publicity would operate

injuriously on the public morals, it shall be the duty of the court to exclude
from attendance on said trial all persons not officers of the court or connected
with such case in any manner. [Sec. 1, pp. 58-9, acts 1881-Subs. for sec.
429, orig. act.
Powers of court]

SEC. 455. (430.)

Every court shall have power—

[To enforce order.]

I

First—'I‘o preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence.
[or before person BIHMWBM to sit.]
Second—To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or before a erson
°1' Persons empowered to conduct ajudicial investigation under its aut ority.
[compel obedience to process. judgmenb]

§l7n'rd—To compel obedience to its lawful judgments, orders, and process,
and to the lawful orders of its judge out of court in an action or proceeding

pending therein.
[Control conduct of its 0ii]cersJ
Fourth—To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its minis
terial ofﬁccrs.
[when Judge shall not act, unless by consent]
Sec. 456. (431.) A judge shall not act as such in any of_ thel]f_ol]lo\i]:':,nigS
Cases: In an action or proceeding to which he is a party, or in w 1c lfﬁ it
interested; when he is related to either party by consanguinity lo; a
ey
within the third degree; or when he has been attorne or counts: thoaraezltion
part? in the action or proceeding, unless by consent of a 1 parties

Mi-cell menus Provhioum]

[When not act as Mtornep]

SEC. 457. (432.';
A judge shall not act as attorney or counsel in a court

in which he is a judge, or in an action or proceeding removed therefrom to
another court for review; or in any action or proceeding from wlnchan
appeal may lie to his own court.
[When judge 'pIrty to the resort]
_ .
Sac. 458. (433.) A judge of the supreme court, or of the district court,
shall not act as attorney or counsel in any court, except in an action in

which ‘he is a party to the record.
[-Iudge, justice, not have partner uttoruey.]

Sac. 459. (434. ) A judge or Justice of the peace shall not have 8 partner
acting as attorne or counsel in any court in his jurlicial district, county or
precinct, nor shall any county, district or supreme judge make out the paper!

in any action to be tried before his court.
[On order refused in cause, no application to other judge allowed-Except-l _

SEQ 460- (435) If an application for an order made
a Jud 6 °f_a
court in which the action or proceeding is pending, be refused in who 0 or 111
Part, or be granted conditionally, no subsequent application for the some

order shall be made to any other judge, except of a higher court; P|‘0Wl:ii

that nothing in this section shall beso construed as to apply to motions Tel“
ford any informalities in the papers or proceedings necessary to obtain»n
OI‘_GI‘.

[Vlolatiou oi’ last section contempt-Revocation of orden]

bse. 461. (436.) A violation of the last section may be Punishevdlis
a contempt, and an order made contrary thereto may be revoked bl H
judge who made it or vacated by a judge of a court in which the action or
prooeedmg is pending.
[Court and judges may issue proper wrlts.1

_

SEQ 462. (437.) The courts and judges thereof shall have P°“'°' to

‘Ssue a1l“'ms necessary and proper toothe complete exercise Of the Pnwer
conferred on them by the constitution and laws of this State.
[TeI'IIl8, when, where—Conrt. may order sheriff to provide.)

Site. 463. (438.)

The terms shall be held at such times and laceﬂtgz

provided by law. If a room for holding the court he not Provlde by V
county, together with attendants, fuel, lights and stationery suitabltiand

sufficient for the transaction of business, the court may direct the S116"ff w
‘d :uccoiir:r?;)[é1h’,;1,."gt:%1danl3:
is?li(:il,l1b(i$
fuel, lights
and stationery,
and the exPen se
[Duty of judge to act at chambers
Powers.]

Sn . 464.iii4 :l3i€())l)dll;I,:;i1:0(lll:tr1ctJudges
not eiigiiged
shall» at all reasonable times.
is, transact such business at their chain
:;’i))iii){‘:t?()‘)nl1set<_>o\;_t gfdcourt. At
chambers they may hear and di_8P°5° of
insta_iice_u[)on ﬂnexers and wms Winch are usually granted In
applications to dischtii‘(gecs:Ic)lii)li>criiltelz(iisnaiid(ivi-iitly'
5
- m
. then
. dlscreuom
SEC. 465. (440.) When an action or proceeding is commenced in a dis
trict court in which a county court has concurrent jurisdiction, the district
court may, if the parties agree, by order, transfer the same to the county court
of the same countv.
Upon such transfer, the county court shall have and
exercise over such action or proceeding the same junsdiction as if originally
commenced therein.
[This not npplles to county courts.]

Sac. 466. (-1-11.)

The provisions of this act, as far as applicable, shall be

applied and enforced in all of the county courts of this State.
[County Judge dlsqualIﬂed—’l‘ransfer to district court]

SEC. 467. (442.)

If the county judge be disqualiﬁed for any cause from

sitting on the determination of any action or

roceeding pending before him,

the cause shall be certiﬁed, with the origina papers, to the district court of
the same county, which shall proceed thereon to ﬁnal judgment and deter
mmation.
[Judges conserve the peace]

SEC. 468. (443.)
tors of the peace.

That all judges of courts of record shall be conserva

[Powers of county courts and judges]
SEC. 469. (444.)
In all civil actions within their jurisdiction, the county

courts and the judges thereof shall have the same power_to grant all Orders

and writs and process Which the district courts or the Judges thereof have
power to grant within their jurisdiction, and to hear and determine all
guestions arising within their jurisdictions, as fully and completely as the

istrict courts or the judges thereof have power to do under the laws of this

State, except as otherwise provided in this act.
ls"bI>@I1l8—Who may serve]

Soc. 470. (1.)

The service of any subpoena in any of the courts of record

in this State may be made by any person of full ag)e not a part_v_to the action

01‘ proceeding. Proof of service so made shall be y the aﬁidavitof the per
8% making the same, showing the time, place and manner in which, and the
Person upon whom, such services [service] shall have been made.

[Sec. 1, p.

105, acts 1881.
Rules ohmustrnctlon of this act]

Sec. 471. (-145.)

In the construction of this act the followmg rules shall

be observed when consistent with the context:
[SheritL]
The word “ sheriﬁ‘ 1’ means the sheriff of the county, or any other person
authorized to perform his duties in any case.
[Clerk]
The word “clerk ” means the clerk of the court, or any person authorized
R) perform his duties in any case.

[U11soundmind.]

The phrase of “ unsound mind” includes 1d1ots, non-compotes, 11118108

and distracted persons.

The word “oath” includes the word sﬁirmation; and phrase to swear
includes to aﬁirm.

The word “ person " extends to bodies
politic
and corporate.

[Legal disabilities]

The phrase “;under legal disabilities" includes persons within the age:(§ ‘
twenty-one years, or of unsound mind, or impnsoned, or out of the hm
States.
[Bout], undei'taiiing.‘|
The word “ bond," or “ undertaking," as used in this act, does not necez5
sarily imply a seal, but in other respects means the same kind of mstrumeii
as heretofore.

The word “land,” and the phrases “ real estate " and “real property,
include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
The phrase “personal property” includes goods, chattels, evidences 0
' debt, and things in action.
[Property.

The word “ property ” includes personal and real property.
[J ndgmenhl
.
' a.
The word “judgment”
means all ﬁnal orders, decrees, and determnl

tlons 1“ an action; also, all orders upon which executions may mus.
[Honey demands on contract.]

The Phrase “ money demands on contract,” when used in reference to 3,“ .
action, means any action arising out of contract, where the relief demanded
a recovery of money only.
[Attorney.]

The word “attorney” [includes a counsellor, and every other p8l?°n

authorized to appear and represent a party in an action or special proceedmg
in any stage thereof.
wo d “
'ﬁ e d," W h en 8Pplied
' to pleadings,
‘ . means supp0 1-ted bl’
oath The
or afﬁrlmatigrirl
[Singuliin]
Words importing the singular number only may also be 8-P lied m the

plural of persons and things; and‘wm-ds importing the maseu ino gender
only may be extended to females also.
_ _Thebyprovisions
t h H
.
I construed, an d shall 1]‘
limited
any rulesofof th'
stlggtccosngtrulziiolgberally
crvu. mocsnuaa.
. Sac. 472. (446.) The rule of the common law, that statutes in derogation
thereof are to be strictly construed, has no application to this code. Its pro
visions, and all proceedings under it, shall be hberally construed, with a view

to promote its object and assist the parties in obtaining justice.
[Iepeals-Revised statutes.)
Also, the following acts passed by the Legislative Assembly of the Terr1
wry, new State of Colorado, which convened at Denver on the th1rd day of
January, A. D. 1870, and entitled as follows, viz. : “An act to amend chapter
70 of ‘Revised Statutes of Colorado Territory;”’ als_o, “An act to amend
chapter 88 of the Revised Statutes of Colorado, concernmg venue ;’ also, ‘‘_An

act to amend an act entitled an act providin for changes of venue ‘in c1v|l
cases ; ” also, “An act to amend chapter 70 of t e Revised Statutes of Colorado
Territory, entitled ‘ practice/” on page 99_of the laws of 1872; also, “An act ts
amend chapter 27 of the Revised Statutes of Colorado, entitled ‘ e_]ect_men,ts,

011 Page 1.01 of said laws; also, “An act concerning Judgments and _l1ens, on

page 112 of said laws; also, “An act concerning actions on bonds, bills, notes,
and other instrurrients in writing,” on page 113 of said laws; also,

An act to

amend chapters 6 and 48 of the Revised Statutes of Colorado, on pages 113
10116; ﬂlso, “An act deﬁning further causes of attachment,” on pages 116”and
117 of said laws; also, “An act concerning variances and amendments, on
“£85 118 and 119 of said laws; also, “An act to amend chapter .88 of the
vised Statutes, entitled ‘ venue,’ ” on pages 120, 121 and 122 of sa1d laws.

lBeneai.~»_.m.q 1874.]
Also, the following acts passed by the legislative assembly of the Tern-f
tor)’, nOW State, of Colorado, which convened at Denver on the fifth day 0

Janua ,1874, and entitled as follows, viz: “An act concermng 8-Ct1Ol12A()I1
bondsfhills and promissory notes,” on page 61 of the laws of 187%; rise},1 hag
act concerning cases pending in the district court, the “venue o w
orize
been changed thereto,” on page 94 of said laws; also, "An act to9a5u f id
the courts to summon witnesses from foreign counties,

on page

laws; also, “An act to amend an act entitled an act concerning jud

cuts

and liens, approved February 8,1872,” on ages 168 and 169 of sai laws;
also, “An act to authorize the allowanceof t e alternative writ of mandarrtua
during vacation,” on ages 180 and 181 of said laws; also, "An act concerning
practice," on pages 20 and 209 of said laws; also,"An act concerning the prac
tice of the courts," on page 210 of said laws; also, "An act concerning practice
in courts of record,” on page 211 of said laws.
iRcpeals-—Acts 1876.]

Also, the followin acts passed by the legislative assembly of the Terri
tory, new State, of Co orado, which convened at Denver on the third day of
January, A. D. 1876, and entitled as follows, viz:

“An act to allow the

assignment of claims,” on page 19 of said laws assed in 1876. '
Also, “An act to amend chapter 6 of the
vised Statutes of Colorado
Territory, entitled ‘attachments,’ ” on pages 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 2617.23 and
29 of said laws; also, “An act relating to bonds, bills of exchange and r0mi8
sor notes,” on page 30 of said laws; also, “An act in r
in egal and equitable procecdin

ard to bon sgiven

,” on pages 31 and 3 of said laws; a180,

“An act to amend section 19 of c iapter 17 of the Revised Statutes of Colo‘
rado, concerniiig conveyances,” on page 40 of said laws; also, “An act con
cermn e_|ectinents," on page 69 of said laws; also, “An act to amend chapter
30 of t e Revised Statutes of Colorado, entitled ‘evidence and depositions”
on page 71 of said laws.
13150, “An act concerning equitable liens," on pages 90 and 91 of said laws;
also An act in regard to the foreclosure of mortgages," on
go 95 of and
laws; also, “An act concerning practice,” on page 103 of sai laws; 8150
_ act concerning practice in the district and probate courts," on pages 103, 104»
and 105 of said laws; also’ it An act to amend cha ter 70, of the Revised

:{'£S1(t,\1‘t;: of (‘{o_lorado Territoryytmtitled ‘practiqey, Onppage 105 of said laws‘;

106 ‘Of P if 1"‘ fegiird £3 practice at law ‘and in chancery," on pages 105 and
lawS_ at‘; UAQWS, 8 80, An act concerning replevm," on page i_16 of saiif
the 1ievi~Se.d Stntapt to amendtan act) Slltltled an act to amend chapter 88 on

other acts or a 21 esf enml.ed venllei

Pages 185 and_186 0$said_ laws; and E

the same are 3; Sboy acts in conﬂict with the provisions of this act, be ants
Of acts or an Y ofe ti repeileiii Plmnded, that the repeal of such acts and pm‘ Y

suit action 01? roe;Q;-1’ 8 -a1 .not be °°n5tl'l1_ed
othér tribunalpbe
abate or eifect [affect] all)!
e mg, instituted or pending in any court, of this Stateit
gun 1)l‘lO1-to the 1st day of October, A. D. 1877, under any
of the laws so repealed; but all such suits, actions or proceedings mav prosecuted to ﬁnal determination under the laws so repealed; llelmer éhan
tlhigersetpgslilonf ally s“ch_laW °r Parts of law in anywise affect, deny, 9-bﬂdge‘
the laws herlégll‘ any right, action or cause of action accrued or arising 1111 Gr
or arisin shad’? ealedi but such Tight, action or cause of action so accrued
laws 50 g,
rough‘ and _P1‘0secuted to ﬁnal determination under the
lea e ,unless the provisions of this code give a remedy or prescribe
aprosecuted
mode whereb
h '
,
to ﬁhaiurlceteiirgiitiiatiarfrgloll
or cause of action,
may be brought and
SEC. 474. (4-18.) This act shall take etfoct and be in force on and after
the ﬁrst day of October, A. D. 1877.
8. An Action [or the Usurpatlon of an otlicc
or iriincliisc is it civil action under the Code, and
' must he i.by the rules upplicnblc tiiercio;
1. Legal and Equitable Distinctions Abol
ished. The Code ubolisln-i.i nil distinctions be
tween legal and cquliabli-notions and substituted
therefor the one action by complaint. For the
common ln.w practice and chanccry practice it
sub:-iiiiitcd a code procedure.
must be instituted by filing a complaint and
ii-isiiing nsiiniiiions, and proceeded with the aamc
ns any 0lll('I' action.
.-\. T. d‘ H. F. ii. R. v. People c: n-1., 5 (‘olo., till.
9. The Term “Civil Action" includes the reme
dies provided by the Practice Act for the enforce
Bliitchicy v. Coles, ti i.'oi0.. b2; 2 Colo. Liiw
ment of judgments; the remedy by sctre /acta: is
Rep., 275.
2. Eqiiity practice, co nominc, no longer cxists
and cannot be appealed to except perhap
unknown to our practice. The intention was to
adopt a uniform and complete system, and it‘ com
plete it is necessarily cxclusive, and the introduc
tion of other remedies would destroy its iiniforniity matters upon which the Code is silent, id.
3. lfmicr the Civil (‘ode the distinction between
law and equity as to forms is abolished. The court
may rendcr such judgment as the nature of the
and defeat the purpose of the act.
case and evidciicc nmy warrant.
10. Right and Remedy.
Where the legisla
tiirc (‘l't'illit'S a right oi action and iiiii-kcs no pro

Hamilton v. Siiiith, 21 (.'al.. l-‘ii.

Hiaiibcrry v. Kerr. 3 (‘oio. Law Rcp., 90; ii

vision for its ciiforccmcnt other than directing that
f‘olo., 2‘.
4- The forms alone of civil actions have bcc-ii_
aboiistied. The substantial allegations of the com
plaint in it given case must be the same as are
required at common law.

a civil action may be brought for the purpose,
such action may bc commenced and prosecuted
pursuant to the law rcgulatlng proceedings in civil

cases, and the parties may take any and all steps
authorized thereby.
Burson v. Cowles, 25 Cal., 537.

Miller v. \’nn Tassel, 2i Cal.. 46"!
5- The plaintiff need only state his cause of
action in ordinary and concise iorm, whether at

i l.
Probate Proceedings are not civil actions

within the lllt‘{lDll‘l;.I oi the Practice Act.
Estiite of Scott, I5 C-al..

law or in equity. without regard to tcchniciiiitics;

and while there is no difference bctn-ccii the form
ofabill in chancery and acommon law declara

12.

tion, the distinction between law and I-q\lil.\’ |-“

lllesno Proﬁts. Thc repeal by thc Code of

the cjcctincni statute did not destroy the rciiicdy
i'or the enforcement of meme profits.
it inay bc

as broad as ever.
D("VIH v. Hays, 2Cai., 468.

ciiioi-cod by action under the Code.
("olo. Spririgs Co. v. (‘owell, 2 Colo. Law itcp.,

Jones v. Steamship Cortes. I7 I'"-. "*7
Smith v. Rowe, 4 (‘ai., 6.

.'-ii-3; 6 Coio., 73.

6. Every action under our present practice II"l.\'
13.

hi‘ properly termed an action on the ciisc (17 ('81-.

The Facts Which Coiistitute ii Cause of

Action not changed by the Code. The (.'Odc does
not change the law which dcicriiiiiics what facts
should constitute a cause of action, though by
reduciug all forms of action to one it changes the
question whether the factslstated in the com plain i)
show a cause of action in trespass, irowr, assump

it“), but the general principles which i.'0\"-‘I'll ""3
case remain unchanged (3 Cal., 463). In the form
oithe remedy no distinction exists between the

19881 and equitable rights (l8(.‘al., 12:». an forms
M Pleading and the rules by which their sufiicicncy
are to be determined are prescribed by "10 Code
(16 Cal., 2i-‘ii, which supersedes the old rules of

sli, or any other particular form, into the qncstion

whether the complaint shows a right of action in
pleading.
any form-by showing a right in the piainiifl‘, and
an inJury to that right by the defendant, which is
to be determined by the general rules ofiaw respect

(‘-hordier v. Hchloss, M0,, 12 (.‘iii., l-i7.
7- Statutory Remedy ljxcinsive. ii is a rule

that when the stiitiitc proviili.-.~' a rciiicdy to test a . Inz rights and wrongs, as established by long usage
given

it is exclusive of all oihcr i-cniedics.
i‘cntrnl & Georgetown R. R. ('0. v. l’P<iP“‘

in particular actions.
Hill for Wiiiii-rsiiiitli v. Barret cl aI.. 14 ll.

PI rcl_, 5 ('Ol(.).. 39.
.\ion. (K_\'.). 85

1-ll!
SECTiON 3.

[$m'. l, i'ni. i‘nu-. .\cl.; Soc. 30, l\' _\'. i‘l\ ii i'od:~.}
1. ltcul l'rll'l)’ in interest
l'l'i‘ii\lilllilIl_\' lin
gcncrui owner, or hv in whom thc prop.-ri_\ in \~.~,~i--ti
oi the iilllt‘ ilw right of action accrue-a, is i-nliiimi
lo suc upon it lm-aria of contract of cnrrlu;.;c. Sm-ii
suit may in: inniulaim-d hy the conslignor. ll|mi|
 actual pm»
iii-wsion of thc noh-. ll‘ hv has iliv right to ilii‘iilUilt'}'
till!‘ upon it.
-‘\'4'lll('Ii v. l'rim.:l--. i7 linrla. ilk.
lln-iinu- \. .\ici\'inh-,\'.l ll. ii. .~miitii,‘.'73.
ii. A (‘arria-r umy maintain an action in his
own iniiov lor Injury to pmporly inlrusicd iohhn
lo cnrr_\‘.

avcrmcut and proof of owm-rsiiip of good» and

.\ii~rrii-it \'. llrninnrd. -‘N ilnrh.,5Tl.

hrcnch of contract.
.\iarilu \'. .\ici.nughlin, I thin, Law ll--|i,,
303; ft i'oio., -‘l\7; 1li'o|n|~.,ti'.’_’.

i'.!.

2. .\Iandiunu.~. A person having m'cnniuIl to
rcquiro mandamus must hrimr lllc action tin-rotor
in his own nnmc and not in thc name of thc pmmii-.
l~li0ddard,.'l‘r., v. Benton, i i‘ul0. lauv “MIL.
-11: ll l'nln., Ill‘.

,3. Poaaession of n Prnmluory Note is ]n‘|'nm
fncta evidcncc oi owncrship. The transit-r with or

To Enforce Pnbiic linly.

No one indi\'id~

iiul can maintain no action for spcviﬂl‘ i’°"‘°mm2°°
of u puhlh~ duly lillpmu-11 for public hcneﬂl.
iii-tty v. liillirmil ltivcr R. R.l'o..!1 Barb-'
MT.

without value confcrs upon thc holdcr thc right of

11.

action.

l'r-0|"-I-i_v Taken in Execution in in ll‘
 "lid 10'' ilny wmnt

“ct'ann v. i.c\vis, ll (‘iil..2lii; l :~'mid.,1t7-,-'»iii.,
-'12; 2 Bo:-‘4\\‘., 1'5; 2('od-_' lit-p., 43; -i llow..
Truatm-.

\\'hcn ii iruslcc. lakes in li'i~

lndivlduni i-opacity .~Wt'llI’li)’ for trust (until. mid
divs, nn ill'iiull on ouch a~'1'lll’|l)’ mull be in ill?
nunw of his personal ri-|irc~'»‘l\i8ii\'¢‘- mid "M M‘

4. l’laintiﬂ's‘ Right to Maintain the Action
cannot he questioned on the ground that thc iiotc

helongs ton third party,(-xccpt. the defendant ph-ruin
payment to or oifsct against that party.
Gushcc v. Leavitt, 5 t‘ui., ‘.216.
Price v. Dunlap, i'd., -iitl.

successor in trust.
itcnuud v. l'onm~iym, 3 ;\hh., 3”:

-‘P ‘Ila M

I6. For Money “'ng¢-red. An action und"
thc iihiiiilv of "Bcttinil and ‘'''"'"‘“ii'" m mm-M
mono)‘ d~-hosiicd as a stake on an illﬂllll ‘WT’!

5. Action on Ofllclal and Other Bonds. The
action must be in the name of the real party in
interest, with certain statutory cxccptions, within
which cases of aasigmncnt do not come. (\\'igglns
V. MCDODiiId, lS(‘al., 12% Tho l’l':u'li('¢‘ .‘\ci, for con
vcnicncc, has given the right to suo to thc party im
neticiaiiy entitled to the [mile ofthcuction. iSum
mcrs v. Farlsh, 10 (‘al.,! 7).‘ So in actions on otiicial
and other bonds running to the people.
7 (‘al., ":1; ‘B("al., 450; l.\icl. iKy.), ill.

must lw in thc name of the real depolllnr. lholllh
the n:um- of nnntlwr may he used in making "'9

M “""““""" 5""\lI'il,\' may enforce payment of Ii
i.\'ch-son v. FAl\\'IITllH, iii Barb.. :9“); and ma”!
p“~""“"" “r "W llrillcipul dchi would notadectlhr

6. Where there are sevcrul ohligccs in an under
taking promising to pay “said parties," ctc., suit
may be brought in the name of one aiom-, if he he
entitled to thc iruits of the recovery.

continuance of the action in his name.

iifwll v. Tullmnn, '1) N. \'.. li'7.
of Land.
One hB\'1Dl€
18. For Possession
niain an action
cquitnhic title» to land cannot mai
i
he
hroushi 1"
for possession, but such action mus

Pradcr v. Parkclt, iii (‘nl., ms‘; '28 id., -'>">ii.

'7.
suc.
a child from:
nm-ii lw hrougiit in thc namcoi

A Stranger ton transaction has no right to
i‘h(.-ncr_v v. Palmer, 5 l‘ai., 133; is id... H".

Emcrlc v. [’cunln1an, hi (‘I\i.. 13
I

8. The Real Owner of a note is ii lli‘('(‘.~‘h‘iil‘\'
party plaintiff. and no judgment can he rcndcrcd
until he is a party. ((‘.arpcntcr v. Miles, 17 ll. Mon
603). If the note he not assigned the puycc is also
a necessary party to the action. (Gill v. Johnson
1 Mct., 449). But the equitable owm.-r Illilsl suc.

10.

Undertaking in .-\iiuchmcni.
taking given to thc shcrlif to prot-urea
Hoods attached is for the beneﬁt of plain till’, who
may sue "P011 it; if the sheriff lakes 0 s uﬂl(‘ii‘.'l1i
has like rcsponsihi iii)’.
‘ statutory undertaking hc

Lytlc v. Lytle, 2 hict., 127.

20.
9. The party for whose solo hcncil t n cont ruci is
evidently made may sue i-hcrc
on in hisowu name,
although the cngagcim- nt he not directly to or with
him.

l‘urlnl v. Packard. ‘.51 (‘al.. 191
Principal and -\&’-’°"" ‘vhere an .giei'l‘lf

made a contract in writim: 1" M" "W" Mme Wthe

out disclosing his prim'liml- “"3 P"‘"dp“l'bcinii,ii.
real
HM; 2Code
party inRML.
interest,
(Bi. nun)‘
llm the
sue (6
action
How"1"171:
Eu‘

ni

Alicn v. Tliomas, 3 .\lot., lilo‘.

might have been hromzht in thc "lime M the “:0!
ms thc lil)Sl_)ll1i4: right to
ipon a note is the real partv in
lntcrcst, althou,gr
1 the payee of the note mav he
iu'crcstcd in the
cvcnt oi‘ the suit.
.
(3 l'l(lS\\'.,5i_ii))_

1'7 Abh.. 21-3; 13 id.. lilli.

Hill 3 “Wm “com can I

prosecute in his own nanw.

In N. Y., ‘.273; Ill linrh., 131.
SECTION 4.
ussigiicc of ii debt secured by trust deed holds

the snnic t-quitlcs that the original creditor held,

lﬂcc. 5, i’arkcr‘s Pal. Prac. Act, and Sec.-‘ll, Ky.

and a suit by such assigncc to reform the trust
dccd. containing ullcgnilons which would be good
if made by the as.-<ii_'iior. is not dciniirrublc on the
ground of the iissignniciit.

(‘ivil (.'ode.]
I. Anaigm-c. The ussigncc of ii dcbt secured
by trust holds the sonic cqultics that the original

Ilciivi-r Brick .\i'f'iz (‘o. \ . .\it'.\lll:~it'r, .'li'nll).

creditor held, and may sue to rcform the trust
doc-d as the original creditor could.

llcnvcr llrick M'fg (‘o. v. .\icAllistcr. Ii ('olo.
Law R4-p.. Zli; ii i‘ol0., ‘Jill.
Law llcp., 2H; 6 (‘olo., ‘All.
22. .\n ordcrin the following ivords: “.ilv'xsrs.
{lurk d'fb.: Plcnac hold to the order of \\’illirun

Pope A’ Son, of Boston, tivc hundred

pounds

sterllng of insurance effected on cargo of Bark

Elvira, and oblige,“ ctc., hold to be an equitable
assignment to payers oi the funds in the hands or
to conic to the hands of drawers.

Pope v. Huth, ii t‘al., -MIT.

2. After notice to the judgment debtor of a
boon /ldc transfer of the judgment. the rights of
the asaigncc will be protcotcd i'rom any and all acts
of the parties.
Stoddard, Tr., v. Bcnton, ~i ('olo. Law ltr-p..

41; 6 (‘0io., H8.
3. in pleading an assigiinicnt of ii Jiidgincni it
is‘ not ll\‘(‘I-Miill'_\' to avcr that it was nmdc undcr
.~u*ul.

23.

III.

A contract not to run limits on ll i‘i'i'LitiIl

line of travel under penalty is nasigiiabic iii i'nl..
‘Jill. So, an agreement to pay it m-rtaln sum of
moncytoadefcndant if he will withdraw his do
fense and the assigncc has right of action lhi-rcon.

Gray v. Garrison, 9 Cal.. 325.

I.

if u chose in action be nssigncd, and it party

deals with the asslgnor concerning thc subject
matter, knowing that his right of disposition iiua

been divcrtcd, no presumption of law will arise in
favor of such subsequent })lll‘('lliii~ii'I‘.

The pi-csiiinp

tions are in favor of liw a.-sigiim-.
Id.

24. (‘ourts of equity support and give ctfcct to
assigiirin-iits of tliings which have no present cxlsi
cnce, but rest in more possibility; not as a triiiisfi.-r
Operative in prcmnti, but as ii prt'.‘i('lli. contract, to

5. The 0|‘)_]('('t of notice in sucli case is to inform
the debtor that his creditor has divested himself of

takectfccl and ¢'liL'\i'ii as ~mon as tlw thing coincs
in raw,

right to collect the demand and vr-sh-d it in the
assignec.
Id.

Biburd v. i.. (ii I.. i-'. & 1.. insurance ($0., 3

6.

(!nl.,78.

ble

Bills of Exchange, Checks and Negotia
Notes.

Bills of

exchange endorsed before

Pierce v. Robinson, 13 £11.. lzli.
inaturity are not liable to set-off in the hands of
25. Torts Assignabim

A claim for damage

the asaigncc. (Kelly v. h'milh,l Met. (Ky.), ll3i. Not

cause-ti by a irespmis is assignable, and the assignce

within operation

"my slic (More \'. .\iil.\'.~iiIN'. 32 (‘al.. -"iilli.

(Spencer v. Rlgg, 2 ML, 123).

HO ofa right

of this section of the (ode.
So a negotiable prom

of action for wron:.'fnl taking and conversion of

issory noic, not yet due, if taken bum: ﬂde as col

personal pi'opcrl_\' (liiizard v. \\'lit-clcr. 22 (‘ni..
139}. --\nd t‘\'\‘l'_\' cause of action arising out of a
tort which survive.-i to the personal representative.

lateral security for a pre-existing debt, is not subject
to any dcfcnsc existing at the date of the assign
ment between the original parties.

Payne v. llcasly, 8 Cal., ‘.60.
H".Vll V. Blnnkmnn, 20 (‘al., iii.
Robinson v. Smith, 14 id., 94.

Naglc v. Lyman. id., -150.
26. Causes of Action not Assignubic. Unsol
llcd partnership il(‘('0llI‘iii\' cannot be assigiicd so
as to iiiitiiorisc aasignec to sue. (ilullard v. Kin
ney. Ill t'al.. 63). Nor can a causcof action for
|ll8li0iI)ilH prosecution. (Lawrence v. Martin, 22 irl..
lab.

7.

.\ negotiable note assigned after iiiaturiiy is

takcn subject to all the existing equities between
the maker and the payee, but not such as suhsistcd
hctvvccn the maker and any intcriiicdintc hoith-r.

The recovery of a verdict in an action fora

\Vn|'ncr v. \\'ilson, 4 (‘al., 309; 2 id., I64.

personal tort does not change the character of the
claim to a debt which can be assigned. (id). Causes
Of action arising upon personal torts which do not
'*""'lvo to the personal representative. (Boyd v.

the hands of all pcrsoiis, except a boon jidc holder

Blankman, 29 l‘al., iii; 3 Ki-rii..32£: 2M-. ‘Q2; 3“

dishonor takes it subject to all defenses to which

Barb.. 270: l Selden, 347i.

Baum v. Grlgsby. '21 t'al.. I72
Lcwis v. tfoviland, id., 173.

it was subject in the hands of the original holder.
The presumption is that the consideration fora
check is valid, which presumption being overcome
thc onus is on the holder to prove that he took it

}\'illlanis v. Young. ir!.. 22"

without noticc.

Nor a vr.-ndor‘s lien.

I 27- SPlitting Demands. A crcdiior has the
28'" to assign a debt in parcels. if the debtor does
ot object. and thus multiply suits and costs.
M‘nrzion‘Piochc, 8 i Lal., 536; 7 (‘nl., 260; 6 (‘ush..
W; I3 .\io., Iiliz ll S. and R... 78.

8.

A Check given fora gambling debt is void in

without notice.

9.

A party taking it check after its

Fuller v. iiutchings. l_0 (‘al., 523.
Indorser and Indorsec. in an action by

an indorst-c against the indorscr, the former can
recover only the consideration actually paid, and
not the amount of the thing assigned.
Poylc v. Palmer, iii (‘al., 158.
 of it miunwnt not held toinquire
int::lute\nt:':|nitit-s in, the immisot third penionﬂ.

" Judgment H Um) the in0 ‘-tnrt (and |ut.|m- of the

nmi ntatui~ unnti‘~\vtwi by rntutia oi‘ whieh he had

lhe ﬁght w.uF;0 ‘.l:(;1J‘::ng(;“|:m|“l|i m "H. ,tiun's ut

nn~ itli0\\‘lt-tigv, Q'\|)I"'ﬂ)\ or Hiil!iU’UCU\'€‘.

:)il:::i':t:-:::{iti(t,ti“i:.‘\‘l):;‘:ii| 1'Xi8liiiK defenseu m:ttinnt the

Y. law)‘. i‘-‘ i'ul.. ‘.237’. The tim-trine nf can-at ¢-mplnr
applies ti» to tluni |N'nVmI. in the sutne manner nu

J“dgnwn'L

"' - "£1! "33- M
I
“ ﬂjzh‘ Y. 
in the |u|rt~in\-w of t\li_\' uiiwl' pemonni property
i.\Hll‘iii'|| \'. Hm'keii, ‘Iv td., '>Hl. 'l'I\k05 Btibjtii i0

1-xi-ding rhzht of rwt-ul1'.

1“ right

\i'orter v. Liseom, .. id..

M"-. in dt‘l'iliHi to have notiee of nil matters dia
11. Equity upholds i\l\‘4iKiiiIi(‘iiiﬂ lmt oni_\ nf , Nmm‘ ‘W "W nwbrd. “mi “Mcrv um‘ dhmm“ m
choses in aetion, but of eoutingent interests and
H"m“m-P w‘_"'r‘ vmmnl “ham m be u MM lid’
expectations of titittgn which have no mﬁuni exi~tIm“.hlW‘r wnhum m0u“..
once. but vest in |Nlh'hibiiii)‘-]rt'n\‘idt'(i they are
Huhim \, INUT, '5? 0L. 3".
fairiy made, and not against puhiie policy; and in
NW Nmw“ V. A'wrk‘ M nu" ma‘
contract for such interest will take effect an an
0
W’ .
hnnwm M judgment Wm no‘
assignment when the subjects to “'iii1‘ii it refers
~0"Ii" 1|:-‘_::rr
have ripened into reniity. Wieree \'. liuhimmn. lit
def"!!! flit. \:~irlv\"-ll W...,m .:-’(.M" H".
(‘ui., i233; 1: t'd.,‘-ill-‘i; :t0id.. Trh.

Fontrnet for future

.:"W-"‘¢un'.y'..” "I" am.

deiiver_v o gout .-s.

3(‘ui 32')

2|.
ii in not ii("ll“U'\"l9 ilk‘-“‘ hm M

12. in a suit upon an unsigned uveuttnt. tin:
defendant may pienri any defense he nmy imw had

- - I
r- i
i
n~r~ ‘itose in notion. Ii" ti the
~i: ‘mil; Lmlmt mm an vquuabh,
I ‘ _ ‘ H‘ Mm Hm rum m the mm“

against the Msignoe boron "Gum of "W Mug".

:::mlt‘:~ptr:rn :‘:i("t‘<‘(ilit{ the amount due ti!‘ 8.

'
:n(t)|:t

4. eqnitnhie
'.
.
~ . on the
get ee
up us an
tiefense
_
2’: ';‘j‘\'::*""""‘ m‘ _ ‘mrdlmur
N
grouriuiuihut iilfl_‘t{li.Hi'iigIit‘(" takes thedemnnd Si-ti)jt'('i

toexs ngequ

es.

Dull‘ v. Hobbs, iii L‘ui.. (H6.
13.

What (‘Itmw-t In .-\ction ma) ‘ be A”‘‘‘' ed

‘:2.

Where the pin.intit‘l‘ hm only on equitnlvie

-.1 may
asﬂitf"a
“'"‘ by ‘nmmf ';F-ra7li:;nr.E::3?.
So may

right to the note sued on, the iegai title not im.vim:

“ “M” “‘“‘ “ ﬁn" M

been transferred to him, the payee is n nt-ves.~&ar,\'

part‘. to the anion.

two ]nti'iu|~rri ||\ttti:~ nu nssignlnt

' om v. Johnson i Met. 040.
IL,’ '}'3m when one of
"-

' ‘M M “man clam,
1 nee mmuum

\'o new

theother partner in nsuit t2 Hilton. 1 i- -

by the immediate parties to it, for the purpose oi‘

in
 mm we M5 8 6

14. Chose in Action—I-‘rauduient Between
the Parties. .\ negotiable ehose in action, 1-rented
 “unlow. H "M" “L
‘-tum nf avtiult in glypn by me Lode,
‘
. no ntlthiiﬂ
7 if

w M__ur_m " r;._.M or m-tiun not before ﬂhblgmmlo
ii ' N3‘
\.~t n generni rule nil ehoses in Ml i "11.

10"“ deb“.

rietramdlng creditors cannot he impeneited in the

MW-h M littlidﬂ, tnorttmtzvﬂ. l\"""‘~’"dgu

hands of an innocent nneignce.
Wright v. Levy, i2t‘ni., 237.

(."mn".N. mu-H-lnetttn. as well reiatint-’. W Pgemn
ng rm“ ,.,_m‘,7.’ an. ",t,t|;_'|u\i|lt'. and i\i.‘liUDmmmed

15. tine who mukesan assignment for the sole
purpose of detrauding creditors cannot maintain
an action against the assignee to compel re-assign-

.
.. “,":l'\k,m,n_
' be umBut there
m H“ mun" M ‘M , "ﬂuwu
‘“:“""'l "H punk.“ ‘h"?l.‘r:;, ::;;L
‘"0 ”°"“' °'“"\pum"_ m t H
'

ment.

' can a purchaser. with knowledge, from
;\or

‘mount

sueh assignor.

Gregory v. Haworth, ‘L3 Uui., ‘.83.
16. Judgment. (See note 2). The makers of it
non-negotiu.i>ie note, executed

mice by act of Legi.-tlature, 21'0"-' 3m‘ Possibiiii.V-

under fraudulent

‘

cintrtted Wm‘

representation that it was in satisfaction of ajudgment, are not compelled to pay it, though in the

R91’-' 36"? 2 '““‘ld"n' W7‘ A "W maaf hn against ‘‘
“P907! or "m""‘*- 3 B'“''’'' 243' ‘ M
., Com»

hands of tlsnigiitws before maturity.
.\iiteheii v. Hii.Ck(.‘1,HL'8i.,6ﬁ').
~
ll. An ﬂ.SM},.’_‘i](‘t‘ of a judgment and sheritfe
certificate of sale thereunder stanti.~' in the same

|'°"~“im g“"'°rn"‘°m for mega‘ captflrmilii ‘Kt A
397 : I6 l’¢'l@r**- ‘-11- -\ """°"“‘ "°“d'0H M
to
ri ht ([ action Bgﬂillri " 5'“ “fr for m
t
a:.L.m )3; Barb [H For ii(‘$l"g'3n“y “mug “W11:
fence; *3 How‘
:\i.!liiIiHi vendor or ‘and

positron of the as-signor, after the judgment has
been reversed. The sale will be set aside and the
‘
i"'°PU‘i~$’
restored to the dei'endnnt where no_ loss

rmud“;|(-:m I-,3 ].';}g(>n.lBU()Uﬁ no to ineumbrnli
p
for dfau‘
X-_ ' \-_d _ Tl‘;1 :-:;l‘:;:?
it t I;if5-_
next
;
\
Y" of
4.1-_P;km
i5 HOW" 1‘

or injury Wm msuu to the aSHignW'
ittgyntiids \v_ Hiii‘I1S. 14 Cal.‘ 68L

(.:“(l:i:fit 1)3 ZiTstin intruder into 0 public em" if’;
fees rcgeitid H j\hb 17* Cluhu ugalnpt ||4\L!t‘Il|"“|;?~

18-

Ti\Q li\ll't‘.\laser or H

take; it subje-(t to the ri
Ju gment b) default

. nd he iet in to defend the

h
Northan v. Gordon, 2*! C01,, 221

.

COn\Qn ng run 8' '
iii). l3_\ (-t-trrit-r tor injury to good!’
.. PP1 9- “m
‘ uh’ W
24 Barb., 34:; 2* 14,, am; ztq m., 044:3
51-21 'TI1>.\'>'
I6 How., 277: 2 Kcrnan, (iii: I? N. Y.. ititilo\-crrtiliiur
Thurman v. Wells, I8 Barb., 51.10:. A |_'t1nrntiim', I
Boson, 332. An uncxccutcd contract for services or
goods, ‘.2 Scldcn, IT‘).
A claim ugalmt lnnkccpcr
for property stolen from guests, I E. I). h'1nli.h.hN.

l'nllquldntcd damages for breach of contract to
cn|pIo_v,‘.ii'I. D. ﬁtnlih, Kill.

A valid policy of lifc

insurancc, :i Kcrnan, 81; I? N. \'..tiItl1; 2;! iinrln, I-3|.
A license to run machine, 5 .\icLcan, I. For con
vcrsion or injury of chattel, 2 (‘oms., ‘Ail: I i".. it.

Slllilil,-522; Iiii Barb., 573; I (Iodc itcp. N. H.,¢ill ; Ii IC.
D. Smith. 252-‘i-")3; 4 id.. -137; 2 .-\bh., 167; it Horn. and

R.,2+I; I Sciden, M7: 2 Kernan, titi2: 17 N. \'., ititi.
Any claim on contract. cvcn though there be fraud
In the transaction, I .-\bb., 76; 5 i)uer., 25!: -I .\bb.,


INid.. 574; I Abb., I77; In N. Y., 60: I6 .-\bb., I46; 3
Crunch, illih; cxccpt win-re iuodgnincnt is a mere
siuun.
2 Abln, Hi.
Hcc also I E. I). Hmllh, I52: -'l\‘ Bari», 57:3.

'37. Without I’!-qjudlce to Bot-oil‘ or Other
Defence. An ussignce takcs the demand subject
to all existing cqullh-s and occupies the same
position as the nsslgnor (29 Barb., :l~Cl; 22 N. Y., 5'5;
3 Ho. of L. (‘mu-s, 702; 24 iiow., -I4: 2 i~illion,27-5; ctc.J.
Demand not due at the tinu- ofIlic[wﬂig't1n1t:tlt not
ovallablc against nssigncc (I Hnnd., '.'3i; although
utoilgliur insolvent (‘J N. Y.. ~ih‘il; scc also -3Si1cid.,
221; 3 Barb., 40; ‘Al N. \'.,t~'I; 25.2 N. Y., 48‘); lb‘ l-iow..
‘Ii.

Assign:-e after action brought

takes the dc

r\"lil‘v8critati\'l-,2‘) iiurb.. Ill): 32 (‘nI., Gilli; ‘L.’ hl.. I3";

mund cum anew-, and is liable for costs bcforc as
well asaitcr the assignment (I0 \Vcnd., 622: L!) i:l..

I Peters, 213.

it'll)-ti'i‘.’.

43*. All such actions oi‘ tort as survive to personal

24. \Vhnt not Assignnble.

SECTION 5.
ship accounts, IU (.‘ul., iii.

Bcm-iiclal Interests oi‘

cauiui qm’ lrturls in suite and protits in certain cases,

7 Pﬁlgv. ‘Ill; 2) Wend., 56-i.

Pensions by I’. S.

80\'crn|ncnl, itcv. Stat. i-iec. :tI7i.3. A simple expect

8n(‘.\'J'u-rprc carium, 4 Hill, M2. Simple tort or special
l!1.ll1I'_v to person, I Abb., 33; 4 Dncr., 7|; 7 How., -I93;

[N1-c. ti, Parker".-e I‘aI. Prac. Act: Hcc. -‘Ii, Ky. t‘ivil
t‘ode; Sec. 43, New York ('odc.]

I. Executors and Administrators Pinintiii'.-i.
l'ndcr thcstutntc (of ('ulliornlui the authority oi‘
an exec-ntrix ceases with her marriage, and suit in

6t.‘ai., -L-‘xi; even uitcrjndgmcnt, I5 .\bb., .'il:!; 22 (‘aI.,

cjcctment i'or land held in trust by L'Xt.‘(‘.lii()i‘S and

lT7l. ltlght of action to recover money paid pur

exccuirix may after such marriage be brought in

suant to wager, ‘B Barb., 52.

the name of the executors alone.
Tcschemacher v. Thompson, 18 Cal., II.
2. Exccutors have the right to institute actions

For deceit, 3 Kcruan,

315. For malh-ions abuse oi legal pr0('(-.-ls, -I Berg.
and ii., iii. For cxccs-aive distress, Iii Scrg. and R.,
54. I-'or(lali1ni,'cs (.‘1l\ll'\'t‘tl by ialsc representations
as to solvency of vendor oi‘ goods, 3 Kernan, .22;

ll iiow.,ll7; IiHmr.,tititi. Tu(~.ii1it'cl or avoid notes
on account of usury, 2} Barb.. 615. For seduction
of servant, 8 M. and \’l'., till. Any interest to
Which personal rcprescntativc would not succeed,
3 Kerr. -‘i»‘i5. Claim for trcspnss, I2 .\bb., II9. ltigbt
to set aside deed obtained from as.-dgnor by fraud,

12 Abb-1 ‘-'75; 2i Barb., Fri. Right of rc-entry for con
dmoll broken, 38 Barb., 41*. For money lost in
gaming, 19 N. Y.,2ti; conlru soc ti liuS\\'., ti-’iiJ. illdlttii
annuities, 5 Upln. Atty. (icnl.. 2*’). (‘ontrm-ts with
U. 3., 5 £11., 502; 7 i'(l., (Ni. I'ontract for convict
lallort 2‘! N. Y., 330. .»\sshzn|ncnt by onc under acn
tence to State prison void, I Park, Cr. it., 8'74. As
toassets of corporation, SPO iii Abb., ll"; -3 Bosw..
m

Aﬂslgncc for beneﬁt of creditors cannot assign

claims due them as trustees to third person, Hmall
v. Ludlow, 1 Hilton, llill.
25.

No

Pu-ticuiar

Form

of

a.~4sign|ncnt

is

nee‘-'8881'.\'. Any transaction between the con
tracting Imrilcs which indicates their intention
lo P885 the beneﬁcial interest from one to the
Other is sniiicient for that purpose; a debt or claim

may be ll-“-$ll§lll..‘(l by pnrol as well as writing.

2510- E‘lo 311; Rowc v. Dawson, I \'cs., Zliii;
I7 How. L‘.-S.itcp., 3158; id., 612; 4 B111.-ki.,
mlJ; l E. D. Smith, ;.'7il; -I ilcnlo, 173; ZN
N. Y.. 472; 320 i;iarb., itii, (H5.
‘ 26- Consideration for

Assign ment.

.\n

Zigsignee 0‘ 3 rliiht oi‘ action is not bound to show
3} he 81“? ﬂl1_\' vnlnnblc consldcr:i'tion for thc

aaslgnnient. A more doncc may maintain action
lfsthougll asslgnec for value it E. 11. Smith, 406; 2

‘d"*97= 4 ‘<1--'-W: 27 Barb., 17s; 111 121., 117; 1: m.. 711:

under the general authority comerred on them by

stntutc, without special authority from Probate
(‘ourt.
iiallack v. .\iIxcr, iii (_‘ul., 59.
3. A suit in the name of an cxccntor or admin
istrator is properly brought at any time before

li('('i‘t'(' of distribution by the Probate (‘ourt.
I‘urlis \'. Suttcr, 15 1 ‘[1]., ‘Jill: I8 I 'nl., supra.
4.

Executor cannot maintain suit for land when

the lcgai title is in the heirs.

Emery v. Pcnnlmau, 26 (‘al., I22.
Salmon v. Symonds, -‘I0 id., 301.
5.

it is crror to join the heirs in a suit by the

admlnistrator for pr-rsonalty, or to collect debt duo
the estate.
(iratton v. “'lgglns, 2% Cal., lo.
6.

Administrator may sue in his own name on

note given to him as administrator.
(‘orcoran v. Doll, 32 (‘ul., -*2.
Executors and administrators may sue to

foreclose a mortgage on real 1-state. Tlit'_\' do not
possess the title, but only temporary right to pos
session.
Burton v. Lies, 21 (‘al., 87.
8. Shcriii‘ as administrator dc ban-is non can
alone maintain suit on note executed toa former
administrator, which came to his hands as assets.
.\iaraman v. Trunnel, 3 l\ict., H6.
9. Executors and Administrators as Defend
ants. The survivor and the executor or a deceased
joint maker cannot be Joined in the same action.
Uinttison v.L'hllds, 5 t‘olo., 75; Humphreys v. Franc,

5 ('ai., I73); because one is joined dc bouts leslaloms
and the other (10 bonis propriis.
May v. iicnson. Ii (‘al., 642.

10. Judtzmcnt against an t-!ectit0i' simnid iw for
a sum named, payable out of the cosmic of the
deceased in due cotlrtw of tultuinistrntlon.
Id.

action against it county in the name of it boartiof
nupi-rvimm, u ithout naming the individuals who
i-onntitutcd the board, wan held to be properly
hrutmltl.
iliii v. Hupcrviaorit, 2 l(cr., ti-‘i; ii iiow.,-iiti.

ii. The administrator in proper party to II pro
cecding by writ of error to l'l'\'ii'\\’ (lt‘i'I"‘(‘ of divorce.
israci v. Arthur. ti I‘oio.. H5; 2 l'ulu. law
Rt-p., iiiti.

I2. The administrator is it Iit‘t't‘N8llI')' party to
all actions affecting the estate of the iltict~itiio~,
which under the law goes into his hand~.
Harwood v. i\iaryc. ti 1 ‘ui.. Frill; ti t'd., l‘.2i.
i3. Where the gt-ncral right to idle an adminis
trator is taken away by statute. the claimant must
present his claim, else he can maintain no action
thereon. Mortgagca and liens of record form no
exception to the rule.

Ellison v. Halli-ck,tit'al.. tilt; t¢I.. li‘.’; in trI..
-Tr"; ‘Z7 M.. Ziﬁi.

SECTION 6.
I. “urrimi \\'omcm l'ndcr the h'i1tititt:tt of
this t~‘mh~, the wife may hold an tlbttoiiiic legal
i-statctui free from the common law rights of the

hnshand as if she were unmarried; mt i0 hr!’
u~purnic estate she hon no husband.
Palmer v. iinnnu. ti t’oio., 65; ‘.2 i'o|o. lit!’
li.ep.. ‘ﬁll.

i. This section places married wmucn on a
common level with other partiea to uctiuil! and
imposes upon them the name responsibilities.
Leonard v. Townucnd. '.-'.tii‘ni.. H2.

i-t. \\'hen- an administrator fails to M-t up hill
privilege by dumurrcr or answer, and suffers Judg
ment by default. it in it confession that he in prop~
erly sued.

iieutsch v. Porter, ii) i 'ai., 33'».
15. The death of defendant and Tl‘\'i\'()I' against
administrator subjects the proceedings to the rules
of the probate 801.

SECTION 7.
[Puriu-r's l'tli. I’rnc. .\ct. Hcc. 9-]
1. Guardian. \\'ht-re n will appoints it guar
ditlii, there is no ticccroiiiy for letters of guardian
ship. The guardian‘!-t authority co|ncsdlrccli.\ [mm
the will.
2. The (‘ourt has no right to appoint 8 I-!\l1\l‘d";:
i6. Trustee 0! on Express Trlnit-_“’ho In.
l~Ixpr<-as trusts are created by contract ofthc part it'll.
(Learned v. Tritch, tit?olo., -i-32; 3t'olo. L. ii.. 393).
Those in possession of money which in equity and
conscience they are obund to pay over. (Krentz
v. Livingston, 15 (‘ai., 344). One holding a note
payabie to himself for the beneﬁt ofanother. (Win

ml lilcm till the infant is properly before till‘ 000
Gray v. Palmer. ti 1 ‘al., til".

3. \\'hcn the interest of the infant requlreﬂk
the court will appoint a guardian ad lilﬁﬂl» 9""
though the minor may have u gr-ncrni guardian.
Hrontier v. Puymisol, iii i‘ui., 63'.

Mercantile factors or

4. tjuardlnn ml (firm ha.-t no power M’ ‘"““‘''''r

(Grinuel v. Schmidt, 3 (‘ode Rt-p., iii; 2

to admit away the rights of infants, and lhe com‘:

Sand., 706). Auctioneers selling i'or third parties.
(Bo/.ard v. t)’Regan, l E. D. Smith, 500; 3 Sclden,
- 224). Any one who as agent executes a contract

has no Power to give effect to such itdmiimlitllv "5 b
in it matter not within the scope 071*" “P90 nu
ment. Any decree based on such adniisiilonad
corum non jmiirc and void. Acts of_ guardiansim'
(item which go beyond the scope of their BPW M
ment, which in to defend against the claim 014°
in the complaint. are void.
\\'aterman v. Lawrence, iiit‘al..2l0
.
5. The disability of infbncy tlti1Mh“9
M ‘"ll 10

ters v. Bush, iii (‘al.. I36).
agents.

which does not disclose the name of his principal.
T .>\bb., 215.
l Hot‘-wv_, 43,
1'7 X. Y.. til-3.
2 ;\'elden, ltii.
ll iiow., 15.
-i l)ucr.. 420,

it /mnmc cover! an it /eumur sole.
17. True-ttees——\\’it0 are Not.
implied or result
ing trusts are such as arise by
operation of law.
(i.eu~rued v. 'i‘riteh, ii (}oio., -i3‘2; ii tfoio. L. IL. -‘iiiib.
An attorney in fact. is not a trustee. and not neces
sary party to a suit to represent the interest of his

Mugee v. \Viii8ii. 18 t‘al.. Im

6. A general guardian of an infant iiasitﬂtlm
to institute an action on behalf of his ward
7.

Hpear v. Ward, 2|! t‘ni., mu.
m
Guardian cannot one in his own llmlicust

principal. (_Powcli v.Ross, 4 011., ii"). A guardian
rec-over
be brought
money
in the
duename
the of
infant.
the infimi
Such M‘
MUD",
in‘ L
of an infant appointed by the Probate (‘ourt is not
a trustee within the meaning of the section
Fox v. Minor, 32 (3al., iii.
.\ nderson v. 'Wutson, 3 Met, 509.
18. Public (iitieers.
_
Actions by public otii - ‘
should be brought in their individual names \:'i‘tl-‘it;

Fox v. .\iinor, i:i t‘ai.. iii.
.-\uderson v. \Vatmm, 3 .\iet.. 509
8.

When an infant heir was sued upon it spa1ciai

the title of their ofiice added. (Page v. Fazackcrlv

ih¢‘
ob“Eat-ion oi’ the ancestor, chargeable llponmp

.:i6 Barb.. 392; Gould v. Glass. 19 id., 179). Not merely:

inheritance, he might pray that the PM
.
be Mayetl until he should attain
hi”. "mp rhi
ml
This privilege was accorded to the heir i1i0ii€',';U

in the name of the oﬁicc. (Supervisors \' Stimson
-

dlan.

Hill, 138). The statutory provision refers only to
<t(?UOiiH by and not against public ot‘l‘icers.- and an

~;

Uonrtlmy
Of eqrum‘;
0
in G‘ItScs where the equity on the “RM

did not extend to the devisee.
heir to pay out of the descended assets, adopted

2. ‘Vim may be Joined as Plaintiff.

a similar practice; and in a certain class of cases '
aﬁeeting

the title to

infants’ real

estate. by

H7
A bill in
equity is not multifarious it there is a common
liability in defendants and common interest in

kind of analogy to this practice, courts of equity
adopted another rule by which a clause was

plalntitlh; or, if the interests of piaintitlit are the
same, and defendants have not a co-extensive com

inserted in the decree giving the infant a day after
becoming of age to show cause against it.

mon interest, but their interests are acquired under

Joyce v. .\ic.\voy, 3| t‘ul.. ‘Z7-‘l.

ditfcrcnt circumstances from the same source of
title.
Wilson v. t'astro, 31 t'al., til.

Parties who have a common interest in an

SECTION 8.

uniling a patent. though they have nojoint interest
[i'al. Prue. .-\ct.. Wcc. ii. I

1. Service on Infant. Under the Cutie the ser
vicc of summons upon an infant over fourteen

in the land adverse to the patentee, may be 101 ned
as plaintiffs to procure its cancellation.
People v. Morreil, 2'; 0:11., 3'2.

years of age, but not upon the guardian, no guar
dian ml [item being appointed, but the record recit
ing that the infant defendant appeared by his next
friend. as well as by attorney: Ilchi, the service
was sntiicient and the appearance authorized.
Filmore v. Russell, 6 t'oio.. 17!; 2t‘olo.. Law
l{cp., 451.
4. A. enters into contract with ll. fort.-onveyance
of land. B. assigns to two or more persons, giving
to each a separate conveyance of his equitable tith

to separate parcels of the land; the assiguccs of ii.
may maintain a Joint action against A. for spccitic
performance. (Owen v. Frlnk, 21 t‘ai.. 177.) -\'o as
to protect all interests.

if the minor be fourteen years of age, he, or
People v. Htratton. 2"» t‘al., 244.

some one in his behalf, must apply for thc appoint
service. The court will appoint without applica

5. Several persons may be joined as plaintitiia
to en force separate liens under the mechanic's lien

tion win-n minor is under fourteen.

law.
ment of a guardian ad (item within ten days after

Barber v. Reynolds, 33 t‘al., 497; 6 (‘olo., 596.

'1‘hese provisions relating to the appointment
0. Several creditors having distinct claims may
of guaniian ml Hlcm only apply when there is no
ttenerai guardian. or where he does not aet.
Gronticr v. i’uymisol. ill t‘a1., tlﬂl.
4. Ageneral guardian ofan infant hasauthorlty
to institute an action on behalf of his ward, and

where the body of the complaint shows the general

unite in a suit in chaneery against thesame debtor
to set aside or prevent a fraudulent conveyance.
(iicuton v. Andrews, MS. Opin. Ky. Court Appeals,
.ian'y, iﬁti; 12 1iarb., LN; ii I‘,tlig(‘,~'-)9i-); 3 Sttt1ti.,liki;
3 .-\bb., 157. lint those having no interest may not
be Joined.

lluardianship of the plaintiff, a mistake in the tith

bi’ Which he is desitznatcd as guardian ad Iilem is
All parties in interest should join in an ac
not material.
tion of trover.
Whitney v. Stark, 514.
8. A party cannot rely upon his own error as to
Spear v. Ward. ‘.50 t‘al., ltiﬂ.

parties for reversal.
SECTION 9.
[Parker's t'al. Prue. .\ct, Sec. li.]
9. Wardcr & t‘o., under contract, sent 1)ean a
mowing machine to be sold. Dean sold to English

1- Action for Injury to Infant. This section
does not create right of action where none existed,
but merely dt.‘H|l£liitlt'h' the person by whom an

and paid Warderdz ('0. the price of it.

action, for causes therein mentioned. which then
existed or might tin-rt-at'te.r be created by statute,

dent (to. were properly tnade co-plaintiffs. The
effect of the payment by Dean was to invest him

Should be brought.
Kramer v. Market St. it. it. i‘o.. 25 t‘al.. -I-'5;
.-\.. '1‘. 6: H. F. R. R. i‘o. \'. Fal'row, 4 t‘olo.
Law Rep.. 74; tii‘t)lu.. 19*‘.

in suit by

Dean against English for the price: Jleld, that War

ivith all the

rights of his co-p1aintifi's

against

defendant.
Dean v. l'1n':ilslt, iii B. Mon., 135.
10.

Persons having distinct claims cannot unite

(See also Gen. Laws ('olo_, 2H2. ('hap. XXV.
to enforce such claims in one action.
\\'oot'l v. Pt'l'|'_\', 1 Barb., I44.
li1'ndlcy v. lllair, 17 t'd.. Ni).
.\iead v. Moll, 15 How.. 347.

title llanta'_'l-s.l

SECTION 10.
ii. .-‘tn t-xecuior is not. bound to assulne the
bunlen of defense of contest of will by heirs at

Wdr-. ﬂee. M: X. Y. (‘ode, Sec. 117.]

law, but may properly throw the same on the

as

M0 to JM“ a-'1 Plaintitrs.

The general rule

mad‘, pan!“ In ('ham‘(‘l'.\' I8 that all ought to he
in Orapartios “'hfl81'e interested in the controversy,
or mat ““""' may be an end to the litigation.
Allen v. Trltch, 5 (‘olo., 22?; i Polo. Law

Rep..5ti.

legatees. (7 ti. State, 143; lit-ss v. Fcldcamp, 2 Law
‘lav... 315.1 All lien-holders should be made parties.
id., 3*" also all beneficiaries, 2 Handy, 74.
12.

.‘~‘r-paratc suit may not be maintained on
'32. Where one ban received tnotn-_\', the pro
‘
t‘t~HII of real estate belonging to tcnanin in eommou,
eneh tenant may maintain separate action torhis

t3. tine tenant in eormnon may sue a party in
|)t)l-kR(?8!~ii0I1 by adverse claim, and recover the |‘il'vIIi
lees, if plaintiff represent the iwttrr title.
H'oi
lier v. t‘orbett, 15 t'ai.. lNLi Hr uli nmy unite us

proportion of the pl'0t‘(‘0(|tl.

\'nn Wart v. Price, it .\bb., 4. note.
plaintiffs.
t'oiber v. Fills, fit t‘nl., lei.
I-‘ouchard v. Keys, '.'l ut.. ‘AL’. .
'i't-nants in common of aohattcl must joill

in an an-tion for its poam-ssiott. it they do not,and
ti--n-miant tines not obieet by answer or demurrer,

Hitch grantee, though PWll.t‘d in fee of only

an untiivitletl interest in the particular |lllI'l‘t‘| ni

he cannot at the trial defeat the recovery.

land, may reeover in ejectnn-nt the whole of snitl

dntnngm- may be apportioned and pialntltt may

parcel as against all persons except the ut'l;_'illt\l
co-tenant and his grantees. lie is entitled in tin
entlre premises as against all other parties.
Stark v. iiarret. l-'H‘al., Ittil; '.'i|M., iIi‘£; '.’i ut..

ft-t'u\'er his interest; and when, ancrwardr, the
other tenant mes for his interest, the defendant

eannot question the non-joinder of his eo-tenant.
ll l‘hlH_\' PL. til»; 7 '1‘. it.. ‘I79; 5 Hill, 50, note; Rice
When tenant: in
v. iiollo-nbnek, iii ilarh.. tiiih.
common have united in an action for its comer
sion, one of them cannot release nor settle sons to

348.
I5. \\'here a mortgage is given to secure tin
separate debts of several Persons as tnorttzam-es.
ii is tl s(~\'t.-ml 8e('tll'lt)', and Inn)‘ be e|ti'nr\‘t-d it)
each on-tiitor, as in case of separate tnortt:at.tt~. But
the court will order all parties inn-n-stetl to be

defeat the rights of the other.
tioelt v. Kenetia, ‘El iiarb.. ill.
24.

hrnttght in before ordering a sale.

in avtions by or Iiﬂtiiliiii executors. it is not

tiecessttry to jﬂiit those to whom letters have M‘
been issuetl. and who have not qualiﬁed; bi" “mo

'i'a_vlor \'. Yreka Water ('11.. ll t‘a|.. '.'l'.’. ‘

whom letters
16.

The

have been

issued and who have

Thirteen persons made ajoint and several

note payable to three of their number. and all
joineti in the execution ofa mortgage to secure

qualltletl should join.
PM-ranton \'. l-‘armern' Bank of R0t‘hester,9

the payment of the note; the plaintitfs being both
payors and payt-es of the note, and mortgagors and
mortgagees in the mortgage; and sulntequentl_\' the
payees oi‘ the note brought suit against the other
rnakers, and for a t‘oreciosure oi’ the mortgage:
Ifeltl. that the suit was properly brought and
plaintitfs were entitled to a _inrlmnent of {ore
t-iosure.
McDowell v, Jaeob, it) i ‘ai.. 387.
17. When the parties claiming an ililt-t‘t~r~'l are
numerous in suit brought by some for the beneﬁt
of all, assent will be presumed, unless the contrary
appear.
Flint v. .'\‘peneer, I‘; B. .\i0n., M3.
I8. An action for libel on members of an incor
poration—a hose company—neither being partners
nor persons having a eotnntunity of interest.
wherein they could sustain damages. cannot be
sustained by them jointly.
(ieraud v. Beach, 3 IC. ii. Smith,

.
19. At-tron
on a bond given i'or‘the benetit oi‘

liurh., Mi.
5' mr \'. Willet, 2 Hilton, 522.
25,"- "l"'lw0<'k. 2 t‘oms..

m H:-an:

he mn_\’ sue either in(ll\'itiunil_\- or in his reprl. tat ive capacity.
iirlght v. t‘nrr_v, it:-§and.. 43!.

Mo-rrit v. Seaman. 2 Seiden. MM
__

SECTION 11.
W“'- """'- -\vl. Hoe. 13; K)‘. t‘otle. st-~i-. Ito; .\'.l'.
i'0de. Sec. lls.]
I. Del'endanto—“'ho Made-. H H M"m‘wn:'
bi’ cross-complaint to brine in H P“""‘°" “M a Pair
tothe original action.

And if he has eubstant '

interests in the subject matter 0! "1" “m§"“m“
plaint he is an essential party.
.
Allen v, Tr-iu-h, 5 t‘olo., ‘ZR; 1 ‘"“"
Mw

several creditors to ciiscltarge an altar-i|m(.m. may
either be. in the name of a single eretlitr r )1‘ ii th

m_0(mm_S.

(in a llmmiﬂmf)‘ note given to an t-X(:(‘UlILI;T

administrator. 0" ““‘°‘"“ or "W d

Run‘ 56.
in such c1wc.altii0tttIh°bJ°('ﬂ0n to the I\""'

Joinder was not taken below. the Tit-4"’:
‘quire
0‘
UN‘

and due administration oi‘ justice
20. .-‘is :1 general rule, when the land is in the
hands of a trustee, which he is bound to distribute
to diﬁ‘erent persmts in unequal proportions all
who are interested in the distribution are necete
sary parties to the action against the trustee. But
where the sum that each is to receive has been

supreme court, ma xponle. to notice it
Id.
in proceedings under the lien 8145 B‘ l tilt‘

- or H
Parties in interest. whether oi’ the Pmlmtzdend.

., . t:11inetib_\- a proceeding bindingon the trustee,
tiH_(;:

lien claimants, are to have notice; but
on m
an"-i l"'°P‘"‘ Wh" “"3 m be summoned M ‘:)tlIh‘

E’-.::;.higl:lt,1t'll)l1i(;ii? may maintain a separate action

the '“'“‘"‘ are "he uwnﬂﬁ of me feedpmpens

. (win-e‘.\.t

.

1 .r. . ut. ins. ( o. v. itenson.5 Duer., lilﬁ.
21. O\\ new oi real property as tenants mav Que
jointly or separately, for use and t
Wcupat ion.
Porter v. lileiior, '17 Barb., l-ill.
Jones v. Feleh, 3 Bosw.. 6'1.

to he t-horned by me “on m be dec

Nnodgmm "' Honand. 6 Coloﬁﬁm‘
n. wh
‘- Any person whose interest thereipendm‘
an

tilseloseti, req ulres it, may be made 8 PM15.
the proem-tiitt.l_ﬂi prior to tinal _iuditm£'"'
Ill.

.1. lna proeeedlng by \\ rit of error in revh-\\'
decree of divoree——propert_\' rlght:~ ltt'llU..! llt't't‘t~
.~arily affected-—one party lt:t\'i|tg tilt-ti, 1heatintln
i.~tmtor isa proper part_v. and the iu~ir~ at law an
tteet-5$nt'_\‘ parties.
inrael v. .\|'tlttt|', ti l'nl<v., .\"»; 2 t'olo. Law
i‘wp.. till’.
6. All parties ltttert-.~te~l in the .~ttl»jeet tnatter
tony he joined ttltll the \VltHlP ('Hiili‘I|\t‘l‘I\\' t~l'lllt‘tl
in one unit.

Bttck v. Webb, it‘olo. I-aw lit-p.. i-\‘-l.
7. Action! in Equity Generally.
l‘ite thir
teenth section of the Practice Act llttH no applica
tion toaetionn oi‘ cjecttuent.
e1|Ull_\'.

it re|‘er~ to ca.--ea in

tlarner \'. .\lar:~lmll. it t 'al.. '.’I'>~.

8.

liawkim v. itiehert. 3~ t'al.. -‘ﬁt.
.\‘ote-—h‘ec post, til, rt .w-q.
In Rem. lteal eatate tnay he nnulea |Htl'l_\'.
People \-'. Rains. Z! t 'al., l-‘ii.

ll.

ll-'l
lto:_'t._'r~' \'. llllI‘L'l‘tl\'t', ill.. -13!'.
liorn \‘. .lUlll‘~l, :5 t ‘al.. NH.

I5. .\ i'oret-lm-tltt‘e ~uit. liittlt r ottt-.~_\'»~tetn.isonty
.t |tt‘m't'|~illltt£ for the lettal tleterntination of the
eXl:~lt‘IIet~ of the lien. the a.~u-ertainmettt of its
extent. and the t\llli_|('l‘lltili to .~;tle oi‘ the etttttle
plmhzed for its H4t(ll1fll('ill)tl. i'|um the valltlity and
extent of that iiett. the owner of the e.~'late. wltcther
mortgagor or hi~ trntnlee. ha:-a right to he hear~i.
and no valid decree for the sale of the estate can
p:tss until this right has in-en afforded hltn.
llm,.;gt-t \‘. ilanzntve, ltl ('al.. -Til.
Hi. .\ .~t|lm-qttt-ttt pttrt-ltmt-rot‘ land ntortgagetl
la a proper, it‘ not ttece.~~.tr_\', party to a foreclosure
stilt; and it‘ the t-otnplalttt he futtity. in praying to
hold him as ll‘tt~teen|' the lllHl‘l,'.,'tl;{Ul°, on account
of fratttl in the pttrt-ita.~c. ilil'|i defect cannot he
reached l»_\' demurrer.
He Leon \'. llltntertt. I5 t 'ttl.. lt€i.

9. .\ll pernomt materiall_v lllll'l'l‘t~l|'tl, either ie~
ttally or hettetlclall_v, in the stthject matter ota still
in er|uit,\', whieh may he affected hy the tlt't'l't‘P,

I7, .\ twt‘.~mtt claitttittg an intere.-t in the mort
gztgo-tl |~retni~a-.-, ~‘lllt.~‘('<|llt-Ill to the ttto|'tg1tge. isa
proper party to a t‘ore(-lo.~mre suit, but eannot he
sttlt_it-eted l0t‘U?<lt~‘ of the fr|r0t'l0t~'tlre ln'_\'UIt(l those

might to be made parties, so that there IIit|_\‘ he a

ineurrcd h_\' hl.-own .~'t-pantie-defen~e.

""mll|t‘lL' tlegree, Whleh shall ltiml tlteltt all lllltl
prevent future llllgttllntt.
Wilson v. t‘a.-'tro, til ('ttl.. i'.’H.
l0.

EXt't‘lllOt‘.‘l, tltlllllIllRlI'itlt)t‘.- atul t|'tt.~'teea,ei1lr

ttotes on hit-e, 5_

ll. Attorney.
Wttere an attor|te_\'-at-law is
charged with helm: at party to a mttttl in obtaining
ajudgment for his client, in it :~uit hrotn.:ht on the

-l"‘|8"1(‘Iit. he ntay be properly joined an defendant
with his elk-nt_
(‘rane v. Hlrshfeltier. l7 t'al.. I67.

12. When hott(lltoltler.~ should he nuuie partic.-'.
llutehlson v. Barr. l2 t‘ai.. I'll
Ptttteraon v. Yuha t'ount_\'. itt t'al.. im.
13- Foreclonnre and hnforcentent oi Liem-.
The Kvnerui rule of courts of equity in It)l't‘(‘l0ﬂiit‘t'

-'~'lllt8 in, that all persrms IIltlit"liill_\' llllPI'(‘.*‘lt'tl
Fltould he made parties. in ni'Ilt-I‘ that complete
Jttstlee may he done and tnttltipiicit_v of sttlts
avoided. It is not ale-toitttely ex-tqential in all caws
I0 make subsequent ineumimtnccrs. prior in -HIlI of
fﬁreclosttre, parties to the suit. If not so ntatie.
they are not bound by the decree; hut they are
"0l DECt3ii8tII'_\' parties between the Ittot'lilagut‘tllhl
mortgagee; and in many eases where the value of
‘he l"'0P0t'ty is less

than the mortgage. it nm_v

Luning v. ilra<l_v, to t'al.. '.‘t'>';.

\\'here. in a unit .u_'aitt~t a husband and

wife to fnreelnse a tttortzage '.~..'l\'t‘|l h_\ the ltllSl)tilI(l,
and also to .-ct aside a con\'c_\'ancc of the property
from the itttshattcl to the wife, for fraud. the infer
ence. from the language of the complaint, is. that
the conve_vance Was made in the t)t'(lll1llI'_)' form of
eon\'c_vance on |)lll't'lltH(', and during: marriage;
and t.he wife demnr.~ on the ground that facts suiti
cient to eonstitttte a cause of ttellOti against her are
not set out in this. twwit: that the facts and Mr
t'lll]]ﬂU\l1(‘(‘h constituting the t'raud are avcrred ltt
general term.~oni,\'.antl that there l:'~':t misjoimlcr
of parties in tnaklm: her a defendant : Held. first.
that if sheclaitned the |')retnlsea as her separate
property hy virtue of the emtve_vance from her

husl.mnd. that elreutnatance was aulllclent to jus
tify the plaintiff‘ in making her a defendant ;
seeottd, that it was immaterial whether the eonve_v
anee to the wife Was made with or without fraudu
lent intent; that, in either (W, it is unava-llittg
against the mortgage. because the inference, from
the language of the complaint. that the conveyance
was upon the purchase and during marriage. and.
(-omteqttetttly. that the property was eommon prop
erty. is not negatived hy any avertnent that the
property was transferred to her before marriage,
or was a gift to her. or in exchanyze for her separate

be unimportant to the mortgagee to make them
i11_\I'tica.aml it would he a -.:rcat itartlsitiptoeotnpel

lnm to make them so.

object that his wife. \\‘lil) joined in the execution oi

.\i()nt:Zf)IIl(‘t'_\' v. Tutt. ii "at. I917.

ltt.l." -\ m‘_)l'lt{at!0r, when he ha:-1 not (ll-"i'"~“"l "'7
- tnterest. IN a nece.~rsar_\' party to a suit for a fore
('lost1r(> and sale’ under {hp mw‘ (*\'(~|\ tlmtlgh no
l"‘r80nal elaim be asserted against him.

if he has

parted with hiseﬂtate, his grantee .~‘tat1d>‘ in Ill?‘
"ll°9!~‘.an(l possesses the smne right to eotttest the

"ﬁt. and to ohjeet to the sale. and if the tzrantee he
lmt made a party. the pttrehttser under the deeree
il"t|lllI‘\'8 no title.
tioodenow \'. i-Iwer. hi I 'al.. int.

propeI't_\'.
Kohner v. .~\sltenauer, l7 (‘t1l.,-378.
I9. A defendant in a foreelosure suit cannot
the ntortgage. is not made a co-defendant.

20.

Powell v. ltosm. 4 (‘al.. I97.
The vendor or his ztssigtlee is not bound to

know every a.~wignee of the vendee. however many.

'l‘ruehod_v v. Jacobson, 2 (‘al., 269.
21. A tenant has no sueh nhsolute right. from
the mere fact of his tenancy. as to require him to

he a party to the foreelosure. in order to vest the
lam] title (0 the purehaz-ter under the decree.

.\l('lle|‘mOlt v. Burke. 1" l'tll-- N'

22. Only those who are h('l"'"t'||\")' lntenmted
in the claim on the estate mortgaged are neeemuiry
parties _to a suit for itn i'0h'('l0eure.
Id., -‘WI.

ll.

party may he made h_\' the mortgagor in |ll8l\l'\S“'t'l’.
The fact that the t‘\‘t“| from the mortgagor to the
present owner oi the equity of redemption wasuot
rveornleil at the time of the commencement oi the

null and nllltv Illlm: Hi the Iioileeufll-Ipe1tdrm.do\:v~
23. The interest of the lessee (lC‘|)(‘Iltli for its
not Q'.\I'il~t' the utlilrtslttll of the owner of the equity
duratlon—exeept as limited hy the term» of the
lease—upon the enforeem"nt of the lii0rlua:._"I~. 80
long as the mortgage remains unenforeed, the lease
is valid mzainni the li1m'tgagol',lu’ld, in lhin State, in

of rwlemptlon an a party. illall \'. .\'eiiton,‘JiBarh..
‘W It How.. ':..'l. \\'hen- the mortgagor has parted
with all hi- llllO'l't‘~l in the premtses.and theowaer

of tlu~w|uit_\ of redemption is peﬂotitllly liable for
aéainst the mortgagee; hat with its i‘IlfUI‘('l'Illl'I\‘
the leasehold interest in lli'll‘|"1I\ln(‘d, eu-n thomzh
the lessee he not made a party to the fttl‘t't‘ltmtll’t‘

suit.

any ¢letieh-ne_\-, it h~ not in-<‘e.~e4ai'_\' to make them0rt

:.:at!nt' a |mt'i_\ ilefemlant dtrury v. Clarke. l6 llmna.
lL'i|. .\ml where the mortgagor had pre\‘l0l1ﬁl.l'
etilerwl into n a rttten mzn-etm-nt with the penvm

Irl., "Ni.
tHt‘1IIl\'t'_\ Hit‘ |'I'l'llll!t‘HZ
24. .\li persons intere.~ted in the premi.-it-.~ prior
to a suit brought to f()l‘0tlln~i(" a tnortunge, or to en
force a mu-hanle‘s lien, whether purel|a.~,en-', lien
holders, devi.~u~es, re-malndermen, rtwernlunern, ni‘
incumbraneers, must he made parth-.~, t)lll(_'l'Wl!~t'
their i'it:hta will not he t\ll'et'ted. l’er.~ont~ who mquire interest»; hy m)ii\'(')'t\nt't' or lm-_umhrnm~'-,
after suit hrought, need not he made parties.
\Vhltne_\' \'. Ilhzglnn, iii t'ai., 5'>'.’.
25. Where a plaintiff, in an action to fl)l‘t‘t‘lttPl(‘
a mortgage agaimt a party who has (lied since the
service oi‘ the summons, and before the jtulgment,
asks for a deeree for the sale of the I|\ort:z:u_'etl

premises, and. if the same is not sutlieh-nt to din
charge the debt, then for judgment over against
the estate, the administrator is a necessary party
to the suit.
Belloe v. Rogers, 9 t‘al.. l2l.
26. Where property is mortgaged to secure two
notes, falling due at different times, and the mort
gage is foreclosed on salt upon the first at its
maturity, and then, after the period for redemp
tion haa passed, but l)t‘ful'P the sheriff lltln executed
his deed to the purchaser, the judgment or$he ﬁrst
note is paid: Held, that the lieu of the mortgage
i‘or the second note could not he displaced hy a sale
under prior inonmln‘aneers—met-luaulea‘ liens—ln
proceedings to Wlil('ll the holder of the .~a-eond note
was not a part _\'.
Hocher v. liens, in t‘al., iiﬁtl.
27. The rnortgwgw takes no estate in the land
mortgaged. He simply has a lien upon it for the
security of his demand, which can only be enforced
by a judgment. for the sale of the property mort
gaged. and a sale in pursuanee of the judlzmeut.
The title.of the grantee of the mortgaged premises
is not aii‘eeted by n foreelosure and Sale in a suit

commenced after the <'-onveyanee by the mortgagor
unless the grantee is made a party to the suit.
Blud wort h v. Lake, Ki (‘al., 263.
tn-rwm win a |H'n]w|‘ part; defendant, the omission
in make him a party would not prevent the rendi
tion of n \alhl _tmh:nn-nt; and arulhlr the non.

lolmh-r of .-melt ‘)t'Nlll vaunol be taken taivantat:i'
oi in tll‘llllll'|'t‘I' or an~uw~r Wrook \. (YHltlt!ll\9‘ H
lln\t'.. l-'-ll. l-‘.\-.-r_\' party llll0l't'Ht‘t| in the division
of the |»|'oeeul-i of the estate should he nuale It

30.

in a unit to foreelmw n tnorttnttlv. UN‘ “"1"

elaltn~ a~l\'et'r+el_\' in the title oi’ the Illilfuﬁugortund

prior to the lnortgaee, cannot properly betliadertI
party. tor the ll\ll‘|NIhl' oi trying the vaiidlt) 1:

nueh lltl\'i‘I‘l“‘ claim of title. ti‘oruinlI V-3mm"'
Heideti. \2i. lint prior lneumhraneera may hetumlt‘
parties to have the amount due them liquidated.
lloleoinh v. lfoleomh, 2 llarh., 2!.

Hoe also Chapman v. llraper, l0 HOW" 377
3l. The asslgnee of a luorizage may he lnlldﬂl
defendant in the action to set mllde a mortgaule as
usnrlou~_

-\'il".~‘ \'. Randall, 2 tfode Rep., 3!.
.
i\ccounta—Asalgnor and Anlgnee. Tilly
zuuignor of an £\t't_'O\llll as m,||"u.m| 3m~uriiy to ill“

"~"*"lt»'"l‘t' i5 not a llt‘t‘tPBRI\l'_\' party to a suit brougim.
against

the

debtor

hy

thp ngglgnoe tlp0il

l\('t-ount.
Allen \'. .\llller. ii ti. Bt.,;i7t.

33. B)’ the l\ro\'i.~'iona oi the Code. the asslgnlelil.
of an account is lls legal holder; MB title L‘ llnuw
an-re equitable title, as before the adoption 0 we
Code, but a le:.{ul title. He holds it not Will! In.
incidents of invloiahiilty which attach to :1)"
merelal P11Per,lt is true, hut still as its legal ll? ml:
and, as Hll('h, ls prinm,/lleh’ llﬂ ["'"lwr rcprcsen 8
as against the debtor.
Id..3’77.

34. In an aetion oi eleven llﬂfbm Nth;
the Port of New York against another Oi We l of
an aecount of fees received h_\' him on aeeoun ah

‘ 28.

As to parties necessary in BU“-it to foree

lien, see also Carpenter v. Williamson, 15 (‘at lose
Burton v. Lies, 21 0:11., 87.
. . 159.
.

F.ast.1nan v. Thurman et al., 29 t.‘al., 38.2.
Fallon \'. Butler, 21 Cal., 2i.
Skinner v. Buck, 29 Cal., %33.
lieyman \'. Lowell, 23 Cal., 106.
Powell v. Ross, 4 t‘al., lll7.

the whole eleven:

Held. that all the iml'b"\"n

tern should he parties.

Deen v. t‘haml>erlln, ti Duer.. $9.1.

Hoe also Allen v. Hlllmh '6 N‘ \ " “T; .
l-‘reemanx. Newton. 3 H. D. Smith. All
85. llljlmction. in an action ‘O rostrum
the Persons to whom the bonds are I" M

qulty oi redemption is
a necessar_\' party to a suit for the foreclosure of a
mortgage, and th e objection that he is not made a


issuance of bonds by an l|1eol'P0"‘““‘I wmi£_:u,;,1
are the neeessary parties.
.
Patterson v. Yuba Count)‘. 12 "M" ‘M
See also Hutehlm-on v. Ham I"'-- M‘

Where spurious certiﬁcates of stock in a railway
corporation, issued by the otliccr having apparent
authority to do so, and undistlnguishablc on their
face from the genuine ccrtiticahm, arc in the hands
of various holders, the corporation may sue all
such holders in one action for the cancelling of

42.

151
As to the case of two iirms having one

common member, and one ilrm performing work

I for another: how it must be soul.
i-Inglis v. Furnlss, 1 1-2. D. Smith, H7.

Decker v. i-‘urniss, H N. Y.. till, rcvcrsim: Ii
l)ucr., 557; and see iii N. ‘l'., ‘iii.

l? N.

43. The personal representative of a dcccascd
partner cannot be joined as a party defendant

37. It would be a fatal ob_jccii0n to a bill in

I with the surviving partner, to an action for a part
nership debt, unless it be shown, on the face of ihc
complaint, that the pialntltf cannot procure Hills

such certificates.
N. Y. d: N. H. R. R. ('0. v. Scbuylcr.

\'.. -"sr.’..
And see 38 Barb., -'>‘i7; l .-\bb.. H7.
equity by defendant to set aside a patent for fraud
in its procurement, that the patentcc is not a party.
He would be a necessary party to any proceeding

to avoid or set aside his patent, on the ground that

faction i'rom the-survivor. (Voorhccs v. (‘hild's
Exr., l? N. Y.. 33!; t‘opcutt v. .\icrchant, -i Bradf.
Sur. Rep., 18; Higgins v. Freeman. 2 Duer., 6-30;
Voorhlcs v. Baxter, 1 .\bh., 45, S. t'.; is Barb., 592;

it was issued through iraud or inisrcprescltintlon.
His rights cannot be determined or impaired in

dam, 30 Barb., lltl; Dubois‘s Case, 3 Abb., 177:

any side suit between third parties.
Bldg}; Boggs v. .\ierccd Mining t‘o., H t‘al.,

lra—Rccart v. Townsend, ti lIow., 400; Parker v.
Jackson, ill Barb.,3il. The objection is waived it

Moorehouse v. Ballou, ill iiarb., '3-til; Tracy v. Sny

(hu

not raised by demurrer.
Wright v. Storrs. ti Bosw.. till).

38. Partners. \\'here two partners in a mine
make a contract with a person not interested in the
some by which he becomes entitled to a share
of their interests. and a like share of the pmtils
of theirlnterests, the two are the only necessary

44. Trust. Enforcement of.

Where the com

plaint charged that A. was indebted to piaintitf,

and had conveyed his property to il., to be disposed

parties defendant in an action brought by the per

of for his benefit, and had drawn an order in favor

son they contract with, to determine his right to a
share in the mine and the proﬁts on their interests.

of plaintitfon 15., who had accepted it, and ihrthcr
charged that B. had subsequently conveyed a por
tion of the property to A. without consideration,
praying: that B. be compelled to execute the trust

Settembrc v. Putnam, Ill) t'al., till.
39. in an action to takc an account of a mining
Partnership, and dissolve the same, and sever the

in favor of plaintiif: field, that A. was a proper
and necessary party to the action.

interests of the several partners, all those owning
lnterestislin the partnership are necessary parties.

Isaacs, Turner rt L‘o., v. Payne, 7 t‘ai.. H2.

comﬁwted to receive and sell on commission a

45. In an action by one of several ccstuts gm‘
trust, to declare and enforce an implied trust in

quantity of lumber to be forwarded to them by the

relation to land, all the persons who are entitled

40. The defendants were partners, and, as such.

Plaintiif.

to, or claim to be entitled to, a portion of the trust

Before it was all sold, Briggs rctircd from

estate, are proper parties defendant.
Jenkins v. Frink, 30 (‘ai., 5%.

the firm, and the business was continued by \’osc

on his own account . Held, that ilrlggs was jointly
re!4i>0nslble with Vosc to the plaintiff for the pro
ceeds of the lumber rccclvcd by Vose after the dis
-"-"|lliiOIi. (Briggs v. Vosc, ill N. \'.. 474; and sm
ilurlburt v. Post, i |lnsw., ‘Bl. Persons giving

Ni. ii‘ a debtor assigns his property t.o trustees,
to be by thcm sold, and the proceeds divided pro
rulu among the creditors, one creditor cannot, after
the property has been converted into money, main
tain an action against the trustees ior'an accounting

credit to a ilrm supposed to consist of live persons.

and for judgment for his pro rala share, without

without any knowledge of two other partners, in
the absence of any allegation or proof that the
connection of t hosc two with the firm was notorious.

making the other creditors parties, and the assignor
a defendant.
.\icl-’herson v. Parker. 30 (.‘ai., -I55.

"F Was in any way disclosed, have the right, but

are not bound. to sue all the partners. (Brown \'
Birdsail, 29 ilarb.. -'>iiM A partner making a sub
with a warranty. in his own name, without disclos

47. ii‘ a Mexican grant of land is continued to
the wrong person. and a paicnt from the United

States for the same issued to a person who did

"H: the fact of the sale being on behalf of a part

not own, or claim to own, the grant, and had no

nership. may be sued alone. Wookingham "
Lnsher, as llarb., 656). And where one of several

hold the legal title in trust for the real parties in

partners makes a joint and several promissory note,
and sttbscrlbcs to it the name of his firm, he may

interest.
~
Salmon vs. Symonds, 11) Cal., 30].

right to the patent, the patentec will be deemed to

be sued on such note alone. without joining the

48. Award. In an action to set aside an award
of arbitrators. the arbitrators need not be made

other partners.

41-

Snow v. iloward, 35 Barh., -'3").
\\'hcre a lease is made to two partners, and

defendants.
Knowlton v. Mickles, 29 Barb., ~l7il.

ill‘-‘i’ afterwards dlssol w the partner.-lb i p, and agree
it). and do, each occupy st-pnrately distinct bortlons
oi‘ thtI dcmlsed premises, they do not thereby affect
the lessor's right to maintain an action for the rent

against such lessees jointly,
ilurlburt v. Post. i Bo.-'w.. ‘-H
hee St. Paul's (‘hurch v. i-‘ord. 3| Bari» 16

I

49. Fraudulent Conveyances. V\'hercthccom
piaint il,‘IiliIl.'~'l the original debtors and their as
sisrnces seeks to set aside an assignment made tor
the bcneilt of creditors, it. is not necessary to make
all the creditors parties defendant. Theassignecs,
in such case. represent all the creditors interested

in the iro~i. it Wottid he oih-~r\\'l.\w, it theurilon
were tot-.~tahihdi and earn out the a~'-ietntn-nt or
for |N)!'llOlli-i of the trust fund.
Bank oi~ llritlsh .\'ottn \tn--riva \..\n_\-iatn.
ti iiow.. I-“Iii.
50. in an aetion h_\' t'l't‘tll|Hl'.~ n-.:atn-t an a-t~l:.:Ilt‘(' for the heiieﬂl of t'retillorv~'. lot‘ an neeuiliII,
and to have the t\SHii_'l\llit‘lli Fel'tiI'IIlHIZ II- M, that
the asdtznom, and the permits to he ll'fi‘i'h‘l| h_\'
the'alt4-ration of the :n~~h_'n|n~-nt, were lll"'0h\Jl‘}'

57. ‘lint \lauulv~r. it in not ltet-eamry tojoln
all the portion to a tort an duh-ndant»; one or raon~,
or all. may he -med Jolltti) , or nwh tiepamtely. it
Jnhl|~.. JIHI; .\'lt'ul\ \'. .\iiehm-l-, it N, Y., ‘AB.
\\'IWI'" a tort. how‘ u-r, eo|nh~ta of a verbal nlandw
in l\\u or nmre, a M pamte aetion ttitint he hrought
iiiilliliﬂl rm-it: iiu-_\ t-annol he nnedJolnil_\'.
Iii.
I-‘or~_\ th V. i~'.dminton. '." .\hh,, till.
58.

To ﬂag l'rm~o~mling-t on a Judgment. in

an neilott to t~|N_\' proem-<ittn.:,um ajutigtnentagaimt
]m|'t|t‘B defendant.

(larne-r v. Wrhzht. ‘.’i iiow_.. iii.
51. Retro and .\'exi..pf Kin. .\n aeiion nizniuat
heirs to reeovera til-ht ul llo-tr nI|eer~tor mnnt he
again.~d the heirs jointly, and not aepamteiyz hot
this does mat make them joint (‘i‘l|lUI'F.
Kr-llo-,n.: \’. Ultn-teml, ti liow.. HT.
-'52. The term “next of kin" mean~ those to
whom. iliitiei‘ the statute of distributions, the pet‘

:~onal estate of the (h‘t'i‘li‘4t‘(‘ would paw-. and
includes the widow, hut not the hn-hand ot \lI(‘ll
widow.
Merchants’ lnsnram~e i‘o. \'. lllnman. fit
Bari)" ill).
53,

Stockholders.

in an aetion to eltartze the

sl0Ckh0ld(‘l‘t§ per:-'onail_v with the debts oi’ t|n~ireor
poration,_iudgment ereditora of the eorporation
are not proper parties defendant, without qlmwitn:
why they are not made parties plaintiff. Young
v. N.Y. & Liverpool Steamship i‘o.. iii Ahh., 25*.
in such an action the eorporation is not a tlt'ees
:-mry party defendant.

Perkins \'. Church, ill Iiarb., til.

thn-e dt-it-mi.\nt~, hronght by one of mid defendant!»
ngaitn~t the plaltttitf in the llrat wit, and agenerai
i\~i"li£lu't' of the mid dei'etninnt.~>: Ilrhl, that the
other two di-it-ndnnin in the tlr~l judt.:tm~ht 5llOil|il
ht“ l- in (‘II tnade partied.
lion 1 rs \ . 'l‘all|n.ulg\-. iii ilon.. ~'».13.
50. l'rincipul and Surety. \\'here a principal

and ntlh-l\‘ are linhie npon the .~ann~ instrument.
lilo-\ |na\. iw sued jointly in one uetioh. ii'l\l'Illil‘|l
\'. l.’l|n-~,_;5i _\'_ Y,, mt; Leroy \ , Hliaw. '.' lhtt-r., (UM
\\'hi-re the liai-iilt_\' ti!'i'~eaull dith-rent in:-itratnentﬂ,

aithou~.:h on the mine paper. they eannothe sued
J0iIll|_\'. IIILI lie ltidder \ . I-4I'ht'I'tileI'liot‘ti, 10 Barin
ii‘i'\: .\lh-n \. l-‘o-agate. ll lim\'.,'.’i\.i \\'hereapt'mIi
l-.--oi-\ note had a L(\\l\I'1lll'l'l' written upon it. the
eonrt held that the maker of the note and the
tzuarantoreonld not he ineiuded in the santeaetlﬂth
1|. see Phalan v. ilinua. I ii. II. Htaith. mi
_
.I\nd
linwwter v. Silence, t .~\~iden, ‘.!li.

60. Rec:-Iver. The receiver of a bank tibizﬁinti
(‘t no
not he Joined mt Party defendant in ﬂllhgm
against the hank on a lllﬁlll'_\‘ demand W

54. Execnto:-s—Legaeles. lnanaetionagain.-4t
an executor for the rm-eover_v of a lezaey whh-h, tin
exeeutor alleges, has hm-n paid ll)‘ him to a stranw-r!
for the henetit;o[ the legntee.<, the st ranger need not
he joined as a defendant. (‘Henson \'. Thayer, '.’i
llarh., 82.) in an action h_\' u. rt'ni(lttat‘_\' legatee for
his share of the residue, all persons interested in
the residue must he made defendant.
Tarnelle v. Hall. 3 .\hh., Lllﬁ; and .'-t-e 'l‘owner
v. Tooley, 3% liarh.. -‘M.
56. [*‘m'eig'n State. .\ltholn:h a sovereign or a
sovereign State. in his or its political eapm-it,\', ean~
not be sued in the courts of another Htate for the
purpose of enforeing any remedy, yet a foreign
State may he made a defendant in an action, to
give it an opportunity to appear. and thus enable
a eourt to decide more intelligently
in relation to
demands which are h‘Utl‘.{llt to he en
foreed against
other defendants.
I\ianni~ng v. the ‘State of .\'i<-aragua.
ii iIoW..
517.

56. Negligence.

Where the plalntilf

evil]
plained that, while a passenger
in the ears of
the Harlem liailroad (‘0mpany, he was injured
hy the eonjolnt negligence of the servants of that
eompany and the servanta of the New Haven [tall
road (‘ompan_v: QM:-y—\\'l1etlt(:r the plaintiff ean
jomvhoth eompanies as defendants? (('olgro\'e \'
N. X. & Harlem R. R. i_‘o.. ti l)ner.. 38?; 2-" N. \'., iii"
Master and servant n1a_v he _loiti0(l as defendants
in an action to recover for the ne
K"?-!(‘ll('l‘ 0|‘ (hp
servant.

how"

relief la prayed. and no eanse of action 1‘
u:4ain>I -ueh reeein-r.
M
Arnold \'. Huifolk iiank. ‘.5 llarlm L owm-rs,
iii. Relief.
dPDo.~¢lted
t‘ertain
with A.aeeuritlvti
as~al!enl. '0
“"-"'0'
W“ memtiii.
by
tn-:_'otiate loans on theta. .\..ih \'i0h“‘0n oft‘.
trmt.
Wlli'ri'iilN)ii
(|lHiN|at4\ti
the of
owners
the tWt‘l"'“i“"‘
hrmnzht a\tittliZ1\"‘St
w various Pan
A. a i

all the irttttaft-rues of the l~'\}t‘iii'lllt‘8, Praying ,“f)p1?l(‘
PI'inte I'l“lt‘| ti'_'tilllRi each. as the nature 0 the
tran.~*aetlon with eaeh required: Held. mm
tra|n'.l'eree- Pﬁllld not he joined as defendants.‘ id‘
l.exinzton and Hh: -"iiinlly R‘ R CU‘ V‘ "0".

02. >‘lu-ritl‘ and I)eput_v.
lh(:!lll‘-:\'

not present when goods are wrontzfllllyv in’: ac‘;
his depat,v. is .\'et ilnhle as a treﬂlmaser ‘Or ‘~(l0W‘ilil
oi‘ the (lt~ptil)',l\Il(l |na_\' therefore he ioimr r W
the d£'hut_\' ns a defendant. in an aetlon it

l'Pt‘()\'t‘|')' of tlntlnures for the wrongful takilm
Kim; v, um-r. I linen, Hi.
'
HI, 5
See. liotvever. \\'t\tt‘I'bl"')' V. \\ esu-1'“ "
.\'t-lden, -'v‘.l\'.
.\lonlton \'. Nortlm. 5 Blll''’-- 357'
.\'lelmla V. t\llelun‘-l. '-B -\'- Y" 2'“

63.

Ml-doinder In Error.

I‘ ‘wank ma:lt:tl\|e

Jolnder oi two pa-moo- as e1Hie[mniat|t~, win‘ “mt

.\ionti'ort v. Hughes. It E. U. Smith 591

no joint interest in the -~illiJt“-‘t l‘mm'r"{ ‘:2 mr.
and are tltttier no joint liability. WHL ‘m H

reeted hy the eonrt l)0lH\\', ll" t'-'\"l"'r
r-iterﬂngI \'. llan-on. l t'al.. i7"~

1.323

64. lﬂectmonh
The plaintit'l' in cjcctmcnt
may sue one or more defendants, and they may

partncrahip property. and makes his co-partm-r

answer separately. or demand separate \'ct‘tilt'ia;

a ticlcndaut for want of authority to Join hhn us

unless they do so, they will be concluded by a gen
eral verdict.
Winana v. t‘hristy. i('al., 70.

plaintiff, the recovery must he entire for the “'ll0|i'

injury: Qtm-y, whether such non-joinder of parties

to the extent or

right to answer separately and have separate ver
dictlt.
Richie v. Dorland, 6 1 'ai.,.'tt.

joint right of action into several actions.
Id.
4. in an action upon a bond or written under
taking. there can he no constructive parties _|oit1ii_\'

liahlc with the proper obiigors.

66. When the premises are ttnoccupicd, partica
out of poaacssinn. claiming title, which claim is

Lilldi-ill_\’ v. Flint. ~l (‘ui., rel.
5.

accompanied with the exercise of acts ot owner
.-hip.as inclosurea, cultivation and the like. may

(Nightingale v. Hcatnrcll,

tl('al., fill.» The law will not allow a division of a

character of their possession, subject only to their

All the parties having an interest in the sub

jcct matter should be joined as plaintiffs, but the
defect moat be taken advantage of by answer, or

bc made defendant:-t.
Garner v. .\larshali, ii t‘ai., ‘Mi.

B1‘. l:‘Jectment is a posscaaory action, and must
be b

When one partner auca for injury to tin

plaintiti‘ is permissible.

65, The plaintiff may Join any number of par
lien defendant without regard

3.

apportionment of damages, where it does not
appear on the face of the complaint.
Whitney v. Stark, .5‘ (‘al.. 514.

ught against the occupant; it determines no

rights but iit0t-tc of possession at the time, and it

6.

When tour trustees of a private corporation,

matters not who has, or claltlla to have, title to the
premises.

owning aufiicicnt stock to control its business, con
duct the business in a grossly negligent manner,

systematically disregarding the by-laws, keeping

68.

in an action

of ejectment to recover an

undivided interest in a mining claim, it is not nec
essary to make the parties defendants who are in
possession of the claim, holding other undivided
irnterests, who assert. no right to the interest sued
or.
Waring v. (‘row. ii (Ial., :ltiti.
69. tfases where the court below set aside a
Judgment by default in ejectment, and allowed the
landlords of the defendants to come in and defend.
Barrett v. Graham, iii (‘ai.. 632.
Roland v. Kreyenhagcn, l8 t'al., L33.

no account of receipts and expenditures, failing to
pay their own assessments without any excma-:
Held, that a stockholder may sue in equity for an
account, making the corporation and said ll'lU4i0cs

alone parties-no objection being taken that all the
stockholder:-t were not parties--and the trustees
will be compelled to make good any loss occasioned
by their groa.- negligence or wilful mlt~'t-ontlnct.

Ncall v. ilili, lo’ t'al., l-I-3.
7. Joint Owners of Land. Joint owners of a
single tract. of land cannot be required to bring

aeparate actions for the recovery of possession
against each person in possession where there are
several of them, merely because they hold and

70- Where the occupant is the mere servant or
°"1i)|0.\'9, his occupation may be the occupation

claim separate parcels thereof, and have no joint

of his employer, and, if so, the employer should he

them.

Worthington v. .\ahhy. ‘.2 Met. (Ky.), ii.‘-ii‘.

made defendant in ejectment.
Hawkins v. Rcichcrt, 28 t 'ai.. -‘ﬁll.

71. if the tenant in [)0Q8t'iiHitiIi is sued in eject
ment the landlord may. in cases in which his tith
is drawn in issue, be permitted to do-l'clltl the action
in the name of the tenant. but not in

possesetion; but may bring Joint action against

his own

name.
Demlek v. iieringcr. *2 (‘al-. N"

SECTION 12.
[(")"'i?8i>0nding with Sec. H, Parker's (‘al. Prae.
36!. Recs. ﬁll-3'7. Ky. l‘ivil ('ode, and

8. Parties United in Interest Must Join. The
words "those who are united in interest" in thi.»~

section refer to such 0i1S(‘Sti.'~l those of joint tenants,
or co-trustees, partners, Joint owners, or joint con
tractors, simply where, in fact, a separate Judgment
in favor of one of them would not be proper on the

case as stated in the complaint.
Jones v. i-‘etch, 3 Bosv/., 66.
9. it is the right of a party who is sued to
require that any person jointly liable with him
shall be made it co-defendant. (\\'ooster v. (‘ham
bcrlin,‘B Barb., orz;. lint when Joint debtors rt-side

in different States they may be sued separately in

Sec. liii, N. Y. t'ode.]
"

APhliea to Equity.

The fourteenth section

M-‘hi.’ Practice Act H2Rec., 1 ‘olo. ('o(leiwas intended

:0 apply to suits in equity. and not to atﬂiulis at
aw.
Andrews v. .\Iokchumne Hill t‘o., 7 l‘al., ‘.53’.
2- Generally. The rule requiring all persons

;L“::i('l"al1)' interested to he made parties to a suit
mmﬁlwnsed with when it is impracticable or very

nvonienit as in the case of joint associatiotls.
“""1P08ed oi‘ nutnemus ill(li\'l(lllillt~i.
Gorham v. Rlit~‘Qt'ii, it l‘al.. -‘ill.

the Htatea having _iuri.~;diction of their respective
per.~tons or property. (Brown v. Birdsall. 29 llm-h..
-"riih. and the _iudgmcnt in one State against om
joint debtor is not a bar to a subsequent action in
another State against the other debtor.

-

Id.
10. The rule that persons only severally and not
jointly liahlc cannot be joined as defendants, has
not, as a general rule, been altered by the Lode.
The only exceptions are those prescribed by her.
I2". <5:-c Hoe. 13. Colo. Code). No exception is cre
utcti by r-it-c. MT tscc i‘nlO. (‘()dP, Sec. 73), M1100 tip

“W Schmidt v. Huntington. i t‘a!.. Pl‘-.

causes of action which may be united under that

the money. The court .-should retain conirolo\'cl'
it for the beneﬁt of iiim-c t'liill|t'(i "ll'."l’Piti.

.~cction must atfect. all parties to the action.
Id.
LcRo_V v. Shaw, 2 Uuer., 62$.
it. An t\itl)rlit'_\‘ claiming a lien on a judgment
for costs cannot, in an action to recover such coats,
no collusion being charged, make the judgment
debtor a defendant.
Adams v. Fox. iii iiarb., H2.
1 2. The executor or administrator of a decemwd
joint debtor or owner of real or personal property,
cannot be joined in an action with the nurvivor for
a debt due the joint debtors, or for an injury to
their real property.
iiuckman v. Brett, 22 ilow., ;’:€t;

Where the parties are so nutncrous that it

in him power to tit'ttI'l\'v them. m‘mith v. Lock
I3 Abb.,

wood. I t‘ode lit-p. .\'. t~i.. Iilii; iii Burl», 'lih; and new

in an action by a receiver of a judgment

Brooklyn. I3 iiarb., I03; Kirk v. \'oung.ii .-\bb.,h‘i;

Wood v. Draper, i .\bb., :22; Bouion v. tfitpot

H9; 35 Barb.,
13.

I9.

would be iIll|)tWiiIit‘ to bring them all in, or, it
brought in, to prc\'cnt the suit being continually
abated by death or chntigc of intcre|t,one party in
int--rent will be allu\t1~ti to commence suit on behalt
of himself and all the other! interested with him;
and this state of [nets must he distinctly stated in
the outset, by proper a\'crtn(-nt in the complaint.
in-catnw those others might acquire an interest in
and control over the suit, of which it would not be

Rotmevwclt v. \’arnum, 1'.’ llow., itli; .\ieKenrie v.

debtor to set aside as fraudulent a con\'eyancc to
i.‘.\mon-aux, ll liarb,, ﬁitiz Towncr v. ’l'00l£'.\‘~ Ii‘
one defendant, and a subsequent con\'cyance of the

same property of such defendant to another defend

i1arb.. 3-I.-t.t The nature of the common interest of
the parties must appear to be such as would entiilc

ant, the judgment debtor is a necessary party.
Shaver \'. Brainard, ‘.!J Barb., '51.

them, were tin-_v all before the court, tomalntaln
the action in

14, “Then One Party May Sue or Defend for
the Beneﬁt of All. tinder Section 37 of the t'i\'il
Code (Colo. t‘ode, Ht-c. lib one party may nue for

their own right, or in their own

i1t\Ilit\~. tiiabicht v. i’emla-rton,iHattd..ilt‘i7.l The
parth-.~ being thlrty~ti we in number was held not

to he an e.\'cut-c tor one suing on behalf of all.
the benefit oi others; i, Where the plalntitl has a
common or general interest with many others; 2.
Where persons interested, but not having a com
mon or general interest, are nltlnerotnt, and it is
impracticable to bring them all before the court
within a rea.~=onnble time.
B. 6: L. R. R. Co. v. .\ich-alfe. I Met. ii\'_\'.t,
liiii.
Fiintv. Spurr. 17 B. Mon., Slit.

Kirk \'. Young. 2 Abb, t'>'i.

20. A mcmbt-rof an unincorporated ansocitliloﬂ
cannot maintain, in his own name, for the benefit
of the an.~mciatlon, an action on a note given io,0r

held by, the t\s.~m~iittitvti, without showing by his
complaint the articles or other instrument which
gives him such right or authority. The mere incl

that the .%0('ici )' is unim-orporatod, and its ni_(‘!Ilb('l'\‘
numerous. will not warrant <uch a suit.

15. \Vherc a fund was devised to a t.ru.~t-tcc for
the beneﬁt of the superannuatcd preacln.-rs of a
particularconference, it was held that the super
annuated preachers of that body, so entitled to
the bencﬂt of that fund, had such an interest as
would enable them to maintain an action for the
proper execution of the trust for their own and the
future beneﬁt of others entitled thereto, under .-sec
tlon 37. Civil (‘odc.

Walker v. Paul,

MS. Opin. Ky.

1 't')ill'i

.-kppeals, June, 1.85’),
16. in an action to subject to sale a turnpike
road with its franchises, etc., for the payment of
the debts of the company, if the stockholders be
necessary parties, where they are numerous and it
is impracticable to bring them all before the court,
one or more may be allowed to defend for all.
L. & O. T. P. P. (30. v. Ballard, 2 .\i.et. <i\'_\'.t.
166.
17. .~\trustee to whom a mortgage is made by
a railroad company for the benefit. of bondholders.
and who has nointerest except as trustee, in not
authorized by section It‘; (12 i‘ol.), sup-r'!t, to bring an
action in his own name for its it)l‘tf(:l()Stti'(_"
but
where the mortgage makes it his duty to
'
5-U0, he
may do so without making the bondhold
PI‘-h parties,
upon showing that they are numerous and that it
iSllTi1)l‘tt(!l-iC<iLb1Q to bring them b
cfore the court
within a reasonable time.
B. 6: L. R. R. Co. v. l\ietcalrc. 4 .\iet., ltm
18. In such case
r
I
brought

a statement that the plainttti is Rpct‘i!\".\' 3mh‘“"
lzed to brim: suit on behalf of the company. ma‘
blcht v. Pembcrton, t :-Kand.,tﬁ'F.t For one am.\' ""1
prosecute or defend "tor the bcnetit of the whole.

where the right to be protected, or the obllgﬁilo"

to be enforced, in not common to all. titecd i'- Til”
I-I\'crt.'rccn.~, '.’l iiow.. 319.) Persons having atlvcr:-:
or oontlicting iI1il‘t‘t-t-ii.H in relation to the t-tt_i\JP*1

matter in litigation ought not to be joined. "-tmn‘
\'- Van Schoonhoven, it Paige, $5.) Where the righk
i-'~ common, but there is a question as to its cuf0ﬂ‘l
ment. that does not constituteac0t;tiictingintert=‘i
Brooka v. Peck, ztﬁ Barb., 31. .

t-ice Bishop v. Edmiston, l6Abb.. iﬁli: "‘"""
ing 13 Abb., 346.

‘/81. A creditor cannot maintain ad action on

respeciittg limited-partnerships.
I ' rs.
UH‘ bcnctit of hint.aeit' and the other tt‘tdli0
\\’hcn, in shell case, a creditor sues the ant-an:
for himself alone. lb" "8~“i!m('e mny make

objection, for the tin-at time. on tit? U18‘
tjreen v. Breck, I" Abbe 42'

22. An action may bi‘ brought by p"“:::
creditors. in behalf of titemt;cl\"~“8 and um“ ent
itors, for an accounting, and to obtain 8 judtlmme
that the defendant clout? up his ‘mm by $11]: the

assets and distributing the P"°c°“d5’ “be, im
creditors are so numerous that ii Wonld R
practicablc to bring them all before 111" Conn‘
iirotikt-i V. Peck. 3R Barb-' 5'9‘

23. The fact that certain parties in Interval are
numerous and unknown is a sutiich-nt cxcusc for
not Joining them as defendants.

(‘oe v. Bccltwith. Iii Abb., ‘Mi.

Sin 000, t‘. in the sum of 86 000.1). in the sum of 83 me,
etc., "for the which payment, well and truly to bc
tuadc, we severally bind ourselves, our heirs," ctc.,

and signed and scaled by the obligors, is held to be
an instrument embracing several obligations, each
of which is ajolnl obligation of the principal and
one surety, and not joint and several.

SECTION 13.
 See. l5, i‘ariu-r's t'al. l’rac.
Act, and sec Secs. 8i-'~‘iil, Ky. i'odc, and Sec.
38,i_lhln('0(le, Sec. I20, N. Y. t 'ode.]

People v. iiortlcn, 21 (‘al., 5'6.

ll.

\\'hcre a promissory note, and a mortgage

to secure the same, are executed and delivered to

the same person. and the payee of the note and

i. This section iii in derogation of the old rule
of common law, that one or all. and not any inter
tlCal., lhii; 25(‘al.. 5'35. in certain parth-ulars this
case is overruled by Lewis v. (‘larkiu cl oI., iii

mortgage endorses the note, and assigns the mort
gage to a tnird person, who brings an action on the
note, and to foreclose the mortgage, it is not a
misjolndcr of parties defendant to Join as defend

Cﬂl.,399J

ants the endorscr and makers of the note.

mediate number. may be sued. (Htearna v. .-‘iguierrc,

Eastman v. Turman, 24 (‘al., -380.
2. in all cases of joint and several contracts,
the plaintitf may elect whether he will sue the

H3.

in cases of Joint and several contracts, an

administrator cannot be joined with the survivor.

defendants severally orjolutly.

Humphrcys v. Crane, 5 (‘al.. i78.

Stearns v. Agulerre, 7 (‘ui., I7".

I3. it is optional with the plalntitf to join, in
the same action, parties who are severally liable on
a bill of exchange or note. An obligation to sue all
the parties is nowhere imposed.

3. To create a several liability. express words
are necessary.
Brady v. Reynolds, ‘)3 (‘al.. iii.
4. Where a promissory note was made payable

(in-cu v. Buruct, 1 Handy (0hioi,'1B5.

toS., and. previously to its delivery to the PII_\'Q'l‘,
was endorsed for the accommodation of the maker

I 4.

by H. and brother and defendant, upon an agn-e~

can impose no such duty on the plalntltl‘.
Id.
.

ment of the endorscrs with each other that each

would become surety if the other would:

it may be the right of the defendant, by

action, to brim.r the parties before the (‘ourt, but he

lleld,

15.

that the endorse-rs were guarantors, and were
jolntly, and not severally, liable in a suit by the

Although the several parties to a bill or

note may he sued in one action, yet their being so
sued tliN't'~' not make them Jointly liable (Alfred v.
Watkins. i (‘ode Rep. N. 8., 3-13) orjoint debtors.
Kelsey v. Bradbury, 21 Barb., fill.

ililyee, or 5 third person, taking the note alter
maturity.
Id.

16.

An action by a subsequent indorser,agalnst

prior indorscrs. to recover the amount he has been

5. Wherea sheritf seizes gnntis on two attach
ments in behalf of different plulntliTs, and the
Pl'0PPl’l)' being claimed by a third party, the plain

compelled to pay in a suit brought upon the note.
is an action /or money pm'dfor the use of the defeat!

tiifs in the attachment suits execute to the sin-riﬂ‘

ant, and not an action on the note within the sec

MDavie lndemnlfying bonds, tin-re is no joint
liability between the plalntltll-t to the sheriii‘. F.aeh
h0nd must be sued on as an Independent obligation.
White v. l~"ratt, I-‘i (‘nl., 521.

tion (Barker v. t‘assidy, lti liarb., 177); and there
fore such an action umnot be maintained.
Bralnard v. Jones, ll How.,

6- The common law rule, that WliH'v defend
'

ante; are sued on a joint contract, recovery must
be had against all or none, is moditicd by our

SECTION 14.

[Hi-c. iiﬁti, t‘al. Prac. Act.]

Practice Act.
7- Ina suit against two on a joint :u~.-.~=t-.-siin-nt

1. Associates Under Common Name. It‘, in a
complaint against a company by its company
name, under this section, there is an entire ab

for taxes, Judgment may be rendered against one

sence of any statement showing the existence of

People v. Frisby, ll-it'al.. iii'.’.

only or the defendants. if the other he not liable.

the conditions named in the section, and judg
ment is rendered against the company by default,
is the Judgment void, or are the conditions mat

Id.
3-

it is no mlsjoinder of parties defendant for

ters to he pleaded in abatement, and if not thus

"19 Piaiatiﬂ‘ to sue one, or any number more than
‘"19, 0|’ all the persons severally liable upon the

pleaded, waived ‘I

same oblliiation or instrument.

Wclch v. Kirkpatrick, Slit Cal., 202.
2. if the complaint state substantially the
conditions named in the section, and the shcriti‘

People v. Love cl ul.. 2'') Cal.,
l_9- Under this section, a plaintiff may. at his

‘ “M1011. line one or more or all the persona sev
Qmili‘ liable upon the smnc ohll_i_'atlon.
Id.
meln0.“.-\ bond in the following form:

know all

R“mt-leulili we. A. as principal, and B., t‘. and I). as
sum -, an bound unto the people in the .~'t-\'t-ml
ﬁtﬂiixcd to our names, viz.:

B. in the sum of
returns that he has served the summons on one
of the member of the company, and judgment by
dcfault be rendered against the company by its
name, to be enforced against the joint property oi
the members, the judgment is not void, but may
be enforced by execution against the company

property.
Id.
l-i——1li.

].'.it't
.. The rule In ditl'erent it the death ()t‘(‘tlI‘tl pm
\ tut“ to the nrutum-nt ; in that event, further pm
0

ii. Sueh jlld‘.llll(‘ili I! not a jttth:ttwttt ttguttnt
the person sel'\‘t‘(l with prove-n~, hut tutttitt-t the
l--mtpntt_\'. .\ l'0lll|)itlillt whieh contain». no other
lit'SiL',I1|liit)lt oi‘ the tmrty plnintlﬂ' thou tho ttzttne
of ti co-partnership t'trm. i- th-teetive; hut -on-lt
deteet can o|tl_\' he tttnde mtttlnhle to Ilelt-lttl'|ltl h_\
lientttrrer forth-feet of |ll|I'Ht'.ﬂ,(II’ h_\ til-niul in the
mmwer of any t'ﬂ\lﬁt' of at-tion and uh)‘ t'iittl| Hlt‘I'l ttIlt|eI' to t'\‘ltit'llt't' in -ttpport of the elttitn.
Giltttatt dz t'o. \. t'o.<gro\'~-, 3.’ t‘=tl__ Ari,

(‘Q1|iltl{~(1\lt uni) he had upon tear» given utter
~ttu;:- ~ttott of tho do-nth IR nuule.
Ill.
8. (‘nun-ynnee Pending lijertmcnt. if the
plulnttti hm eottvt-_\ed the lit-ttttttttlt-ti PI'I‘IIllt\('$
|N'lltllllt. I'_lt*t'llllt'llL the Vmtrt, by the eonttentot
hoth the ||htttttitl'mul \‘elitit't', ttt1t_\'. under the pro
\'t~tom~ oi the l'nu-tiee .\et. make an order mutin
utn: the unm--ot the oriuitmi plnintitl.
Sicm v. r~‘lwnr. .tn t 'nl.. MR.

SECTION 15.
il'UI'l‘t‘rl])Olltllllt! with .-iee. hi. Parker‘! tnliforhin
l’rnetiee :\et, and the last elutm-, with H--e,

32. i{entttek_\'t'odl-.1
1. Right to Intervene in Case of ’l'rnn-ti:-r.
The 1-llXt0ﬂllh and seventeenth Wtitrtts ot the
Prttetiee At-t (Sees. l~'mnd iii. t'olo. t‘odm. and tttttettti
tm-ntu thereto, give a party the right to itth-r\'ene
in an netion in ease of the transfer oi llll_\' illl4'I‘t"n
during the pendeney thereof. or \\'ll0'l‘t' he ir
directly interested in the .'-itl|)jt'('l tnntter in lttieu
lion; and tilit~T(.‘1\l\i)9 done either in-t'ore or utter
the issue has heen Joined in the ease.
Brooks \'. Huger, 5 t‘al., iii.
2. The Death ot tltewtfe after suit hrought h_\'
ht-r.<elt' and husband for the hotnesteml, (iel'ettt.~l it
rt-eover_v by the huslmnd, though the rhzht to
reeover existed at the eotnnteneetm-nt oi’ the suit.

9. if the plntttlitf in elm tmeut ll"ilIl§h’r!~ the
tlenutnded |l|'|'Ill|M'I% penditut the netlon. and the
(‘ourt onlern the aett-in eontlnned in the name of
the orh:inul plnintitl, he muy rm-o\'erjttdgment for

both the pn-tuh-en ntui the rent.~ and proilth.
Id.
In.

Thu

Milt‘ and tran-tier hy the hlniutiti ill

eleettno-ht ot the dettuuuled pI‘l'll\iIM'i!', pentlilw. W‘
netlott. inn tmu~terof the euuse of netion Wllhin
the ttlt't\IlltlJ ot the ~ixt~-t-tttlt seetlott oi‘ the Pt'ﬂkr
llt‘I' .\el c.‘-we. I3, I 'ui0. i'|)d\-I; ttttd

the action lllt\,\'

he eohttnttt-ti in the luthte ofthe urhlllllll i‘\‘“mm'

ll.

Id.
lilvoru-, Po-mltng Action for -‘‘'‘l''°"“‘' 5''

tute of “'lfe. .\n uetion hrottt-{hi ill i|l0.i‘lim “Wm
of htt~lmnti and wite to rt-en\‘et' the Wife’!-' wmmk‘
e~tnh~, tltM"~ not uhttte in eonseqtteneeot' :ttiiv0:‘t"l‘

and the .'~lll|N't|llt'l1l marriage of the wife Wil
nnother

nmn

after the

eotnmeneentent of W‘

(lee \'. .\ioore, ll t‘tti., ~iT'.’..
3. Death of the Huqlmnd. it, utter ll (let-rel.-_
ot'tlivor(-e whieh directs a division ofthe eommon
property, the httshnttd dies, in iltlpplt'lIit‘lil:\l'_\‘
decree after his death, without a revlvor as to his
lteirs, directing a sale oi the property and n divi
sion ofthe proceeds, is void as to the heirs. it is
not enough that his executors are made |mI'lles in
his stead.
lwald v. (forhett, 32 l‘ttl., 41:1.

4. Suggestion of heath of Plaintiﬂ‘. \\'here
the plaint.itfin an action died hefore trial, and a
stthseqttent order for judgment t.-ontu_ined a recital

ttetion.

'
t‘ulderw0otl \'. ['_\'ser,1il i'nI.. 39.

12.

it. pt~mlim_' an twlion hrom.zht in the

lllllllvh of ltu-dmml and with to re<-over ‘ho wihé

-'“‘Ptmtte '-Matte’. the tdttintiilk arr d“'om‘d' the
netmn Illtl_\' he prowettted to u Judgnwm mh ~
names of the mute |»luintitl':~. theft‘ mm“ "N? W
tlon taken to the jt||I](\PI' of the llmim‘mi ht Sup.
|Iit‘lllt'Illtl| unuwer.
Ill.
l3. The right ot‘ the plntntitf nth)‘ bi‘ “ﬁignfi
tlttﬂttg the uetiott. and the suit Pl'08"t‘as m L

name. or the untne of the tt:~'»‘~dl-mu‘ "my be
as follows: “ This action having in-en eontinut-d.
in eousequence of the death of the pluintitl‘. it)‘ his
executor. Sa-tnuel Webb, and the jury luwinu
found a verdict in favor of the plaintitf“: Ileld,
that the recital sttﬂit-iently showed tt Mllggesliolt of

the death ofthe original plaintiff, and it eontltttt
unee and a. revival otthe Otltlﬂt‘ in the nmne oi the
eX€(‘l.ll.0I'.
Gregory v. Haynes, 2i t,‘ul., H3.
5. 'i.‘he eontinuanoe oi‘ the name ol'the tl\‘t’t'ltﬁt’(l
plaintiﬂ', instead of that of his exeeutor, in a_iudg
tnentfendered after the Hll\tHi"\llit)l\. is an error of
i‘ortn only, and does not make the jtttlgtttettt void.
Id.
‘6: The Death of an .-\pprllr|Ilttll'lt."l'tii‘t:tllllt'Ill
ot his ease upon appeal, does not eotu-ttltttte unv
t_'i'Ollllti for delaying t'l deeision, or t.lepartitu.z frmh
the ordinary course ofproeedure, exeept a.~ to the
entry of the judgment whleh m
it)‘ he remlerr-ti.
The entry should he of It dav anterior to the appel
lant‘s death.
.
Black. \'. .\'h:tW, 20 t 'nl.. tlti.

tuted for that of the piuintltf.
Worm-t' v. ’l‘nrm-r. iii ii. Mun-. 73'

SECTION 16.
_ i‘ariur.
_ -_ outﬁt:Ft
- {mitt
i"‘"""""l>"IHliI\tz with sec. 1..
l’l'IN'iiW' .\et. See. 40. K)‘. Pode, and the
1.

part of Set‘, l‘.".'. New York t mi"-i
.
, SH‘
Perth-~' Brought In ~\Vhen .\¢‘“"‘5sr,

unlv, note ion See. 15.

--

‘I

A pt'o\'i.~‘ion QR\'illﬂ the rlghi or

"""“i"I'H1\:.'t\ittl-t seeret trmts may bi‘ inSP
deeree. thotuzh -ueh ereditors aﬂ‘ I10‘ P“
“IN.
littek Y, \\'ehh. H'olo. Law 311"’ W‘
nit litigation
3. .\ t-ourt oi t-qttll.\' Wu‘ no‘ Pm.‘
gdilh6
"F l'iI't't'Ittc-ui. 'l‘ho~ \\‘|lH"' stthjeel ntnltttrttllil “in

llal'lit'r4 hllﬂllid lw in-(ore it, nttd their rr-P“‘
Plﬂlltw detertnllh ti onee and i'ort'\"‘!‘.
\\'i|'~ot1 v. |Atﬁ~~'Il. 3 (‘ul.. UL

SEt"i'lt).\'S iti-18.
4. it is the duty of a court of equity, when all
the parties to a controversy are iwforc it, to adjust
the rights of all, and leave nothing: open for future
litigation, if it can be helped.
Urd v. .\icKec, 5 Cal.,5l5.
5.

15 7

ill. in an action against several persons fora
spt-citic performance of tin-irjoint contract, to par
chase real estate of the plaintiti',and secure a part of
the price by their bond and mortgage, all of them

must be served with the summons, or appear in
the action, to enable the court to rendera judg

When a husband sues to recover a hotne

stead, and the wit'e does not appear in the action,

ment which will bea complete determination of

the Court should order her to be brought in, so that

the controversy; and, it‘ the action is brought to

trial upon the answer of some of the defendants

a final decree may be binding upon them.

only, when the others have not been served with
process, or appeared in the action, the court will

Marks v. Marsh, ii t'ai., ill.

6. The right to demur was given to enable the
t'ourt to carry out the provisions of this section.

not permit the trial to proceed.
Powell v. Finch, 5 l)uer., 666.

Warner v. Uncle Sam, 9 t‘nl., titﬂ.

14. When it appears that t.he presence of other
partles than those beforcthe court is t'tecest~‘ar_\' to
the complete determination of the controversy, it

7. if a determination of the controversy cannot
be had without the presence of other parties, the
Court may, on its own motion, under Sec. l‘; of the

is the imperative duty of the court to order such

Practice .\et (Sec. hi, Colo. Code), order them to be
brought in before a final disposition of the case.

persons to be made parties to the act ion. (I)il\‘ii~ v.
Mayor, etc., of New York, 2 1Jtter., 063; Shaver v.

Scttembre v. Putnam, 30 (‘al., 490.
Brainard, 29 Barb., 25.)

.»\ithough such parties may

Johnson v. Chandler, it! B. .\ion.,-589.
he non~rcsidents. tStttt'i.~0Va!1t v. lircwer, l7 l-low.,
8. The plaintiff filed her bill to remove a cloud
upon her title to land, created by her husband's
deed to one of the defendants, and she Joined in
the bill three other defendants, one of whom had

671 ; 9 Abb., til.)

Semble, where parties are ordered

to be brought in, and the cause stands over in
consequence, the defendant is not entitled to costs
—he should have dcmurred, (Mitchell v. Bailey, 3

bought a portion of the land from the plaintiff
and her husband, and two of whom had a mort

Madd., iii); and the order may be made at any
stage of the action (State of N. Y. v. .\ia_vor of N.
Y.. 3 liucr., 121); before judgment. (t‘aswell v. Ne

gage upon the property executed by them: Ilcld,
that the latter were unnecessary parties, as the
grantee in the deed,and those claiming under him,
Were the only parties necessary to a complete

ville, 1:2 How., 44).

But the court will not order

new parties defendant to be brought in against the

will of the plaintiff unless the presence of such

adjudication of the ease.

new parties is necessary to the determination of

Peralta v. Simon, 5 ('al., 313.

the action.
Sawyer v. Chambers, 11 Abb., 110.

9. One who was statutory guardian ﬂied his
petition to sell real estate belonging to his wards,

15.

This section must be confined to actions for

was appointed commissioner to sell, and gave
bond for the payment to his wards. Huit was insti

the recovery of real or speciﬁc personal property

tuted against the guardian and his surety upon the
bimd given, by order of the (‘lrcuit t‘ourt. and
"ec°"'1’-l'.V had: Held, that the suretics upon the
i§uardian’s bond given in the County t‘ourt were
not indispensable parties, and the recovery was

to an action on contract to recover money (Id.,);
nor to an action in the nature of a creditor's bill

(Judd v. Young,7 How., 79); and it does not extend

(Tallman v. Hoilistcr, 9 How., ﬁlth‘); nor to an action
to wind up a partnership (Dayton v. \\'ilkes, 5
Bosw., 033); and in such a suit the court may order

right.

error to order the sale of attached

a person, not a party, but having an interest in the
subject matter, to be made a party. (Waring v.
Waring, 3 Ahb., 240.) And in an action for the

effects, where the defendant has only an undivided

recovery of personal property, seized under an

interest with one who is not a defendant; such

execution against a. third party, the plaintiff in
the execution is entitled, on applying, to he made

Johnson v. Chandler, 15 B. Mon., 5-‘itl.
10.

it is

person should be made a party.
Talbott v. Pierce. it B. )ion.. :3l)2.

a defendant-.
(‘onltlin v. Bishop. 3 iiuer., 646.

11. When the aﬂidavit of a garnishee and that
of his creditor show that the money sought to be

_.-I

recovered of the garnishec belongs to one not a

P‘"‘1.\’ to the suit, it is notice to the plaintiff, and
ﬁre court should require such person to be brought

16. To entitle the landlord to defend, in his own
name or otherwise, he must be shown to be the

landlord of the defendant, or have privity of
interest with him in the premises in question.

Godfrey v. Townsend, 8 l.iow., .‘ii-IX.
Forcpaugh v. Arnold, l? B. Mon., 632.

12. By the phrase hwhen a complete determi- ,
nation of the controversy cannot he had without
the presence of other parties." is meant that there
‘""" llersons, not parties. whose rights must be
ascertained and settled before the rights of the
Parties to the suit can be determined; and there are
other cases in which a defendant may require other
parties to he brought in for the protection of his

- Hslits. But this lsa pt‘i\'i|t.“'._'tT'. He may waive it.

SECTION 18.
ﬂ

[Ca]. Prac. Act, Sec. 658.]
1, Substitution. Win-re a tenant finds that
there are claimants to the property he should file
a bill of intcrpleader, nmking all the adverse

claimants parties thereto, and offer to pay the
rents into court to abide the ultimate decision of
the case.
McDevit.t v. Sulhvan, 8 Cal., 092
Mcliiahon v. .-\ilen_, l2 How" 39'

SECTION 20.
1 i‘ttl. Prue. Art. SH‘. 520.]

l. Connolldatiom The supremeeourt will not
eonsolidnte suits brought upon distinct causes of
uetlon.
\Vallnee v. Eldﬂtlgt-, ‘Z7 t‘ul., iiﬂ.

2(l-26.
ul0llt'Ol)jl.‘t‘t. wt t'ul.. 570;. in it suit to entbreea
tneelmnie'n lien, n nubuequent nmrtgngnr has no
nimolttte right to intervene, and will not beallowed
to do no, t\l'lvt‘ttI|r\'tuloI1ttlJle delay. til L‘ul.. 16!). The
tiling ofnn interv--ntion isthe Q-mne as eotnmene
ingun origlnnl nellon. ti2t'ul., ill’). it is toohte.

on nppeul, to raise no objection to the right 0tpar
tiesto lnter\'enehelou'.

tltH'nl.. ‘.!..'7.l

Where one

tennnt in eotntnon Filll'!4 to recover possession of the
lltlgen »ustnined by the ouster. ltii

SECTION 21.
(‘O-lvlttllltu ennnot intervene.
lmrtner \'. Pnlnn-r, ‘ll t‘nl.. iii.

[i‘ul. Prue. Act. HM‘. i’\'..'|'.i
l.

Suit by Obligt-e.

ﬂee also ‘.'i i‘ttl.. -ill; 3210].. I3".

(Hoe \\'illttt'd'a Eq.Jur..

lll6—l2-I).
King v. llnil, 5 t‘nl.. 82.

2. A. and ii. executed n joint note to t'.. it.
being surety tor A. ll. brought an netlon neninst
C. after the mnturity of the note, to eotttpel him at
once to proeeetl to eolleet the amount due upon the

note from .\., the principal debtor, and obtained It
decree requiring t‘. to commence legal proeeedlmz.-t

SECTION 24.
ll‘t\l. Prue. .\vl. M-t'.t':u'l.l
l
into-rumtlon in Attrwhtnetit. \\’iiettnsuh
ﬁN|t|t-Itt .ttttu'ltitttI t'l‘t-dltor intervenes in an action
4vltltn: wtide an attncluneut

clerk nnd sheriifn sutlleient nmount to pay their

lmmed lllt'I‘t‘lll, on the tzround that there is no debt
due from detentinnt to p\lnlnllIi. the ullegutions in
H11‘ illL‘1\'illtt.' on the part of the lntervenor tmwr»
WK "1" vmnnlnint hnve the MiIilt'~ etfeet mt d(‘tiluls
in the un-wer, and ret|ulr§- nillrmntive proof by
the nlnintitt of his ezunw of notion, in tit-Inuit of

costs, and tendered t‘. the serviees of an nttorm-_\'

“'|llt‘ll the lntervenor will hnve Judgtnent in hi~

against A. for the collection oi the note, upon li.'s
tendering to him it sum suilieh-nt to pay reasona
ble costs and (‘.\;|N'llt-Wt-l. or be forever barred from
collecting the name from ll. B. deposited with the

employed by B. t‘. refused to commence the action,
and A. subsequently heeatne insolvent.
livid,
that this was not It eomplinnee with the decree
upon the part of B., the l~ltlI'('l_\‘, nnd that he wzus
not rclen.-zed from his liability on the note.
Dane v. Corduun, 2i Cui., l-38.
See Smith v. t-tpnrrmv, 13 t‘nl., fytltl.

favor.
t*I‘ V. lhtnels, 2| t'ni.. 2*“.

SECTION 25.
U'ui. Prue. .-\et, Hm-, ml]
l. Supreme Court \\'lil Direct Modiﬁcation
\\'here the merits of the cutie were not ln\'e.~‘ti$~'t\ll’d
in the lower eourts, by rt-:\§on ofthe nneertnintyas

SECTION 22.

to the proper motto of proeet-tling under the unem
ttlﬁll-i ]ll‘t)\'l~iltlll.§ oi‘ the l’metlee .\et relntimz to

[t‘J.|. Prue. .\et. Hee. ti'til.]

interventlons. the Supreme t‘ourt awm-ded it new‘
t. Intervention. A party may intervene when
he is or becomes direetl_v interested in the subject
mutter oi‘ the litigation, either before or after issue
joined.
Brooks v. Hagar, 5 (‘nl.. 2251.

ll'lill, itltliOlH','h the tl0t'i~l(m of the t'ollI'l M10“
upon the main qm-.~:tlnn involved was approved.
and the only error ("3t'I()8t‘(l might htt\‘i‘ ml‘
cured by n direction to modify titeJudtlIIlPl"
-"~p(')'er v. lhtnels, ‘ll t‘nl., 2*].

2. Theinterest must be in the matter in litiga
tion, and ot‘ such direct and immediate character

that the lntervenor will t.-ither guilt or lose by the
direct legal etfeet of the judgment.

Horn v. Vulcan Water Co., l3 Cal., 6'2.

SECTION 26_
ee. ‘J32 CM. Pmc‘ Ac" $00. la,
1.
3. In an action to foreclose a mortgage on prop
erty claimed as it homestead, the wife should be
allowed to intervene.
Dillon v. Bryne, 5 Ual., 456; id., 30-3; 10 id., 296.
-1. In an a.ttuehment suit, judgment creditors
of defendant may intervene to set aside t.he attach
ment because void as to them. (Davis v. tippin
gietor, 18 0:11., 378.) Also subsequent attaching cred
rs.
Speyer v. Ibmels, 21 Cal.. 230; 2* id., 073.
5. County may intervene in n sul
i
u mud, to secure taxes due.
Yreltn Co. v. Adams, 7 Cal., 37.

concerning

6. The petition ofan interveno
_
1' must be treated
as a complaint. (6 Cal., M3.) (in intervention, if
the proceedings betw een_ the debtor and prior cred
itor are not void, but vmdnbie, the defendant can

Place of Trial.

ttbjvelion l0 lllt‘ Place M

trini must be made in npt time or it is \Vttl"0d-‘

1).. .~-. r. &- l’. n. R. Co. v. ltol)t‘I’"" 'iL"“‘"
ﬁt; 3 Coin. Lott’ llep.. '2“.

'3.

Probate Prom-edings are not visit t\1'U°n"

within the meaning of thin title.
Estate of Seott. l-3 ('nl.. 23'.

3. In Actions Aﬂ‘vct;int:RPl\“§‘- -‘“"‘“g cm":
are real estate within the meonltlil "L and an :0

erned by, the provision“ of this section
\t’mt.~ v. wnm-, tn t ‘ul_, :m; 2‘; £11.. 31
the
4. \\’here a suit for real estate is liroughﬂgnoi
wrong eounty, motion to eluunze the venue I“
demurrer is the proper remed.\';
there is no (lit-lcretiolt in the eourt. 11"‘ cum
it matter oi’ right.
11!.

5. (1., beingoneof four defendants in ejectinent,
moved to transfer the action to the i'nited Htates
(‘ourt, and an order was made staying proceeding.-i

until the motion could he heard. 'l‘hercti|mti plain
titf dismissed the action as to t‘. and another do

fcndant, and took. Juthzment against the other two
who made default. t‘. aftcrw.-mix in--isted on his
motion, and tiled atiidavit tending to show that
the defaulting defendants were occupying the
premises as his tenants. and were in collusion

with the plaintiif. The motion was denied and
an appeal by L‘. Held, that the denial of the
motion was proper, as after the dismissal as to t‘.
it could not be entertained.
Reed v. tblderwood, 22 L'al., till.
6.

As to .\ttachments.

This section has no

application to a case of an attachment sued out in
one county, where the defendant is served with
process, and seeking the sale of land in another
county; but such proceeding is gowrncd by See.
100' (Colo. Code,Scc. 2*), which authorizes the action
to be brought in any county where the defendant

'

refusal to act of the local Judge, or other reasons
showing that the object and reason of the law
requires its issuance.
Is‘! purlr Eiliti, ll t‘al., 25.

4. in Suit for Debt. \\'iwrcvcr the debtor is
found there the debt is owing by him, and he may
be sued and compelled to pay it without reference
to his residence.

(‘it-meus v. \'aii, MS. tipin. Ky. Court of
Appeals, December, H-3'5.
J. “'hcn Default not Authorized. This section
does not authorize judgment by default against a
defendant served in another county, except where
the cause of action is local, or where it aﬂects
himself and another served in the county in
which the action is brought.
Randall v. Shropshire, 4 Met., 327.

Pottinger v. Mayiicld, it B. .\ion., 64?.
6.

Jurisdiction not to be Obtained by Fraud.

The courts will not sanction any attempt by fraud
or misrepresentation to bring a party within the

jurlsdietion; and if by false statement made for
the purpose a party is induced to come within the
iurisdiction, and is then served with process at

resides or is served with process.
Nixon v. Jack, iii ii. 1\ton., W9.

7. Subject Partly in two Counties. Where the
I'“"’Jt~(-t of the action is partly in two counties, the
action may be brought in either.
Lower Kini:s R. W. J: D. Co. v. Kings R. &
i". Canal ($0., 2 Colo. Law ltep., -I73.

the instance of the party practicing the fraud, the
service will be set aside.

7.

(‘arpenter v. Spooner, 2 Sand., 71?; 2t'ode
R., H"; Ii id., Zi.
Goupei v. Simonson, 3 Abb., -i7-i.
Appearance Waives Question of J uris

diction.

question, and such appearance confers jurisdiction,

iii: Ky.

which cannot be ousted by subsequent objection.

Civil (‘ode, Sec. 9i.]
Penalties,

Forfeiturea,

Defendant, by appearing without objec

tion that thc summons was not served, waives the

SECTION 27.
i-\'- Y. i‘odc. sec. 12:; cm. Prac. At-1.
1-

159

Smith v. Dipcer, 2 Code R., 70.

Etc.

Proceedings

T01‘ mandamus to compel the execution of ti.
sheriffs deed can be commenced in the county
Where the reiator resides. The provision of the
statute that action against a public otiicer for " acts
done by him in virtue of his ofﬂce." etc., applies

N01‘!-:.—'l‘he corresponding sections in the Codes ot
other states have not the words, “or where
the plaintiff resides," and in that respect
ditlcr from the t‘olorado (‘ode.—ED.
H

"my to the aihrmatlvc acts of the oiiieer, by which,

secnons 3'0-32.

in the execution of pi'0ccﬂs\Ol' otherwise, he inter
feres with the property or rights of third persons,
and not to mere ontissions or neglect of official

I Cal. Prac. Act, See. 21: N. Y. Code, Sec. 126.]

duty.

See Note 3, Sec. 26, mm-.
1. Change of‘ Venue. Plaintiff may have
placc of trial changed upon a. proper showing, and

.\ic.\iillan v. Richards. 9 t‘al., -UL
Sei.‘ POM. Secs. 2-i and 3".

it is error in the court to refuse.
(ircwell v. Walden, 23 ('al., 165.
2.

SECTION 28.
["al. Prac. Act, Rec. 2): N. Y. t‘odc. 5"" 1331 KY
Civil Code, Hoe. 106.]
1. Transitnry Actions. Probate procecdiI\iZS
Me not civil actions within the meaning of this
title.

First Subdivision.

As a matter of practice,

when defendant moves to transfer the cause to the
county of his residence, the plaintiff may resist by
counter motion to retain the cause, on the ground
oi convenience to the witnesses. Reasonable time
allowed to prepare motion for hearing. tLoehr v.
Latham, 15 (‘al., iis‘). (‘ourt on proper showing
may rciuse to change the venue. (Jenkins v. Cal.

Stage t‘o., 2.‘ (“al., 537).

If plaintiff neglects to resist.

Estate of Scott. 15 (jai.. '_’‘.ll.
motion it is doubttul if he can subsequently move
2.

Residence ot Corporation.

The principal

Pi-'tce of business of a corporation is its residence
within the meaning of that term as used in this

section, fixing the place of trial.
Jenkins v. Cal. Stage t,'o., 22 (‘ai.. 5-'i'7.
3. Hnbens Corpus. The writ of Imbcas corptu
shall not issue to run out of the county except for
good cause shown, as the absence, inabiiit.‘/' 01' '

to have cause sent back.

Pierson v. Mct‘ahill, 22 Cal., 127.
3. It will operate against the application where
the affidavit of the party shows that all the wit
nesses of his adversary reside in the place from
whence removal is sought. (Sloan v. Smith, 3 Cal.,
-110). The aitidavit should state the facts in such a

manner on to emihle the court to draw its own
lnl'ervncc1~' as to |)l'UPI'it‘i)' of llw (‘hIU\L'|‘. (Ida. Tin
grnntlnz of time to tile county’ niiltliwitn in a mat
ter of disen-tlon in the iU\\'1“l"i‘i)ilI'Ll\|lii will not in

(iii "iv fmw of llw t‘1)ll\|i!i\i|l‘. ill i‘al., ML it comes
too llilr uit~-r nnuwvr to the Ilit‘i'iiN. (looms \'.
lliititliill, .t i‘:il.. it-\; 3 M., NH. The right may lw
illl|l|l(“l\ii0ll. tl'raake.~
v. l"r'-vr, it t ‘ul., M.’ .

revlewed on appmi.
Pierson v. .\lci‘uhill. "'..’ i'al.. 127.

\\'liih-, iii i'iil._ If.’.h.
-1. Second Subdivision. .\lli-zoiion~ in tlwntl'i
davit that It strong ])Tl‘jildi(‘i‘ u\li~'lﬁ in tlw plm-0
where the suit is hrou:zht. nguln.-st iiiv |illl~\Iii‘i-U4 of
di-ft-ndnnt. on iweoiiiit of which mutt lﬁ hrou;_'ht, l~i
not suitlelent. Wlekens v. .lonm_ ‘:4 1 ‘ul.. MM. Tin
grunting or refining: of ii cimngv of \'i'lilli" tor this
cause is tli.~wretlonnr_\'.
\\’ataon \'. \\'liilli('}', '5! ('al., 37;».
5.

Third Subdivision.

I3.

l‘l(‘

All

Subdivinlon—TIu\

on the ground oi‘ the im-upm-it_\' of the Jiuigi-.
People v. .lost~ itznnon do In Hlli'l‘i'ii, 2| l':\l.,
73; ‘El M., 392.

7.

Bios or pn-_ludlce upon the part of Hit‘ itiiiigv

cont~'tltutos no legal lticupiu-lty to sit uii tiw trial oi‘
the cause, nor is it sutiich-nt ground to 1l\|ihUi'i'/.1‘ u
change of the place oi‘ trial.
People v. \\'lllintns, '_"ii'lii..31; l‘.! i1I., Bill.

the

lwfvnilnntn Must Join. Cnlcm

All Ilia-iii'[|‘lItli\iiL\ niu~t_loil1 in tl\i'iiPP"¢8

tlon. llllll -- ,i!ootl n n~on lw HIIUWD Wit)” mi‘) d"
not.
'

Hlln~r\\ lav motion will he iit‘llii'(l.
.
ii Wen-l., rm; H “L, Til); l limv. Pr. llep..l-all,
2 t'd.. 77.

H.
Fourth

iiiattav.

Too Itllv iifli-r di'liiUt'rPi’ over

rul--ll.
'
.Inmm V. Fro-ti, ‘.5 i‘t\l.. 2%.

it-We notm~ nhove .

Jliilg0—lnm\
if lhv jiith.'r i~
paclty, Prejudice. Bian. etc.
clearly related to either party he "5 lliM|llliiiilt'(L
Even if no lliIj!‘(‘ii()Il is Iliittlv, he lm-t no rhzht to
act, and ULl‘,.fii[. of his own motion, hidl't'iilii' to pit.
In such case an order ("Milli-<--ili'.' the vzwv in \ui(i
6.

i‘rl\'ilvue must he clnlnwd by

inothm ut the proper time and place.

Iﬂwretionnry.

The i:runtinu of n rlmngv

oi u-nuv t~ iu\\l'l'l‘ill)lil\I'_\' with the vnliﬂ bPi0“2
Illiii--vi lu |'i'%li‘\\' only in caws of i.(f(ﬂS.ﬂilD.-:
ilﬁ-oi-li \'. I-'i~hvr, l'it‘nl., l-'~l; 3 it!.. 41"; ‘-*2”-. 1'-i~
Alilionuli ilw n'li|ln\'it ~how no lviri\li‘1lll-"“‘~‘mH‘
lliv i't-un i.:runt- the ﬂ|I|Ii|i‘i\UHIi it hilfi ll('U'd Judi‘
i-iuliv in ii tmittvr within it“ i‘\IL'I\i7Al!l(‘I‘, and

Win-i-i~ it tun i"i|H|i'i‘ with (\i~iI‘i‘t'iii|lL and by mi‘
on!--r the plum oi trial is t‘|l£\IiL!i'iL
l’i'h|iiv \'. .\i"£lnii. '.'i l‘iil., 7".

if».

Iinpnrative -“'hen.

\\'ln-n- :i mil for real

t'ﬁlilil' l~ hruuuht in the wrong i-ount_\'.i1ittotl0ni0
(-lmm.u- the \'i‘IHI\' and not (ii‘ii\\ll'l't‘l' in the ]‘>l"0;P;(‘r

I'M1i0ii_\‘.

in Mii'li mt.-it‘ lli('I'i- iﬂ tiu diel('i'0il0D U

‘i ‘ourt, the ('|illlIL',i‘ lwim: a matter of rlghi.
8. Disqualiﬁcation of Judge-Hie Impera
tive Duty to Change the \'entu'. I'lldi'I‘ UH’ ('mi0.

(l$~L‘i, Secs. -15", 467) it juilge, who before he went
upon the bench was oi‘ counsel in :1 case, is dis
qualified from presiding at the trial, lillit"H& all
parties consent that he m.i_\'.
.-\mi in such c:u<v it
is his iinperativcduty (ifcountv Jll(li_"t‘) of his own
motion, or on suggestion, to 4-el-tit‘_\' the vine to ilw
I)lstrlct (fourt-—without requiring petition tor
clm.nge oi‘ venue under t.he statute. A Judgnn-nt
rendered by one so dii-iquulliied is void.
()‘Connel v. Gurnett, i i‘olo. Law i{"p.,.‘il7.

Watts \'. \\'hlie. iii i‘nl., X21.
to llw gem-rni rule, iii al.. 1

l6. Tlw court is not houmi oi its own ".l"u‘m
il)(‘|liiIl‘.Ii‘ the \'(‘Illi('. i\'i\l|U" "- Rundu“'.a Cal?
iiil.)

U\'i‘!'l'lilvi| no for as it vontllets with ii atts M

\\'iiitt-_ l-ii'iii.. Ii‘.‘l.
H. Pluhﬂu‘. Mu’. Trul1_~lII“- Imp:-rs. If illr
an
d"ﬂ_m|nm ]".m,m-,, n ,-hﬂngo of venue. the hlninthe

|nn_\' |ni_\' the 1-oets and trnn.-tnll tlti‘ i’"l"‘r8 w R.
voiiitt_\' fixed an the l)"\i'~‘ of trial. and lH\"¢‘ me 0“
‘,|m-l-(l on the I‘IIh‘IidIIF nml triﬂi

lirooks \'. lliill'_'ifU0‘. -'i'.’i'M.. '5“
9.

costs.

In the absence of any statutory pro

vision, the general ruin is that costs abide the event
of the suit, and in case of u change oi‘ venue from
the County Court, on the ground of the disqualifi
cation of the judge, there is no authority to make

I
18. Generally. \\'lu-n
two motionﬁ 3"‘ i"'“d'
|Iii{——niiP in t-liutuzv the \'l'Iilli' and om‘ in dlgnlﬁ

the payment of costs a condition precedent to such

an entry ofu jlll‘L{lIli‘Ili oi ilisini-usal, without tlml.
fornml ()I‘tii'f' (lt'Il)'iDiZ the vlmngv Of “‘"‘“" ‘jaw
73.]
tunl (lvnlnl
In vlintmlniz
of the the
mine.
\'i'i\ll\‘
li’L‘0P‘‘‘
the court
7‘ Guprmv
M“-|u‘“‘
A (~i"

change of venue.
Id.

ly on n mutt.-r wit Inn its own <~ogni1J\tl"!‘

l't‘0|lli' v. Sexton, 2i Viilu 5"
10. What Motion for Must State. L’
pon appli
cation for change of venue, facts shall he stated
auflielent to inform the judge of the nature of the
causes for change, and their alleged loundutlon.

Hughes v. People, -3 Colo., i-‘Vi; l Colo. Law
Rep., 411.
'
11. If the application be bztscd upon the
diee of the judge, while Iucts are to be stated preju
.lhcy
are not to be set out beyond w
hat are necessiiry,
when they involve the judicial
acts or clmmcter of
the judge.

Id.

I9.

Remoﬁng (‘auaen to F1-do-ral (‘0""“‘ T0

l1lilii0I'iZv the transfvr of on action,
a
are i-w\'m~al (li*f('Ildﬂﬂli~', from the Sum‘ w wt; the
ernl Pourts. on tin: ground of nlli‘m18,'t‘- 3“ Qf
be within the dt-scrli’“°" " The
80i1l~ii‘lliiiii*(l to immh.-r, and all must Join Iin lm:
uDDllcation. i(‘ulIii.'rW00d "- Huger’ w (‘a"'1ll(‘

:~:<mw v. iiraiy. 28 (,‘nl.. am Avp"c““°“ mggln-t
before trlnl-not granted after Judgnwm TCUIU‘
Part of tlefmitlziiits.

i.\ioonr\.V "- ‘“m?“" “mm

Law R011. um The nu-rv tllinu 01 n '“"- mg no,
lssuingprm-mm and without ai'P"a"‘nW“;n_C',iv.
constitute a mit which may he r"m°""“" '
ln“lr"llnuir min“);

ershipof 

petition ofintervcntion. tBtIt'tiick v. Peterson, ir!..
3li.l _ Petition for should show atlirtnatlveiy that
the parties were citizens of dltferent States at the
time ofthe commencement of the suit.

V. iii. (‘o-n. it. B. i.'o., id., 3ilti.i
i. ‘Vhat the Summons Must Contain. Under
the (‘ode the summons must contain such state
ment of the cause of action as will inform the

The entire suit is

removed when one or more of the parties actually

interested in a separable contro\'ers_\' flies the

when the petition for removal is filed.

SECTION 35.

defendants of the particular matter or transaction
concernim,r which they are called upon to defend.

proper petition and bond. The right of removal
depends upon the case disclosed by the pleadings
Latham, £11.. i67.i

The phrase "in consequence of certain acts and
doings of the defendants as will more fully appear

iiiarnt-y v.

by the complaint," is too indefinite. The service
of siicit tiei'ecti\‘e summons will not confer upon
the court Jurisdiction of the persons of defendants.

Actions on an adverse proceed

in: to prevent the issuance ofn patent for a mining
claim are causes arising under the laws of the

ii~‘rank 0. it

Smith v. .-\urh-h, :i ('oIo. Law Rep., 42l; ti

S..\i.(‘o. v. Larimer .\i. & H. t‘o., id., i!t'».) Hrder
removing terminates the jurisdiction of the State
court till remanded by tinaijudgment.

2. .\ statement in the summons "that said
action is brought to recover ofthcdefendant herein

United States, and may be removed.

(‘olo., Ms‘.

Van Wort v. .\iuihaii, 2 ill., 277.

named the sum of 37:36 -3", evidenced by a prom

im-tot'_\' note dated Ilec. I. i.~'7:t, which is more fully
set forth in plaintiff's complaint, filed in this court
in this action, together with interest and costs of
SECTION 33.

this suit." is a sutiicient compliance with the sec
tion t‘cqiiit'ii1t.t "the ;_'c|tcrni cause and nature of
the notion “ to he stated in the summons.
iiarndoliar v. Patton, 5 (.'olo., id.

[l';ii. i'i‘ul'. .\(‘i, H00. 22; X. Y. L'0d(', Sec. 125; Ky.

i‘i\'ii Code, ~\'t‘('. 65.]
l.

ﬁununons \\’aived.

appear

ance by a defendant waives stiinllions and gives
the court jurisdiction oi‘ the |)t~t':-01]. iiitlys \'.
Hlmttuck, 2i t‘al., .31; i t'al., ‘..’NJ.:

3. lfthe .~4utnm0ns be radh-ally dei‘ccti\'c it will
not support a judgment by default-as if return
able in thirty instead of forty days-—and failing to
specify the amount for which judgment will be

.\'ot, however,

8 special appearance to move to disittiss.
(.'0otnbs v. Stretteii, 4 tfolo. Law ltep., -iii.

taken.

People v. \\"oodliei'_. 2 Cai., 241.

2. Suit is not (‘u|nIneli('|.'(l till the iswltiiig of
the summons.

4. 'i‘hc court may allow summons
amended.
Pollock v. Hunt, 2 (‘al., ii“.

Green v. Jackson, to ( 'al.. RH; is ut., mt».
3. Action Denned (.'onnneneed. An action
will be deemed commenced within the meaning
Of the statute of limitatlon.~:, if it appears that a

to

he
5. The only object of summons is to bring the
party into court, and ifthat object be obtained by
appcarancc and plca(iin;:, there can be no injury to

complaint was ﬂied irrespective of the issuance of
summons thereon. or ofthc fact that the complaint
was amended before sumnmns was issued.

him.
'
6. In actions for fraud, the summons must
apprise the defendant that, on failure to answer.
Judmnent will be taken against him for the fraud.
A mere notice in the summons that a money _ludc

Sharp v. .\iagulre, i!H'ai.,5TT; 2| i(l.. -‘iliii.

ment will be taken will not support ajudgment

SECTION 34.
\

i'or fraud.
Porter v. Herman, s Cal., 619.
1- Ti‘me Witliin “’hich Summons ﬂay Issue.
Under this section, when a writ of summons is

quashed because tataiiy defective in form, a new

SECTION 36.
writ may be awarded by order of the court.
Barndoilar \'. Patton. 7) 1 'oio.. iii.

(Cal. Prac. Act, See. 25.}
1. Judicial Notice of Territorial Jurisdic
tion. (‘ourts will takejudiclal notice of the terri

if summons not sent out within one month

aﬂer the filing of the complaint, as provided by
the Code, the suit may be dismissed. The tiling of
a petition to remove the cause to the Federal i‘ourt

torial extent of the Jurisdiction and sovereignty
exercised zIcﬂu~to by their own government, and of
the territorial divisions of the country into States,

0'11 special appearance to move to dismiss, is not
sum‘ appmmnce as waives summons.
(‘combs v. Stretteli, i t'oio. Law Rep. iii: 0
Colo., Z16,
3.

The court is authorized to direct a summons

m i-“SUP alter the expiration of the time prescribed

m this section; the exercise of the power rests in

counties, cities, towns, etc.
People v. Smith, 1 C111,, 9.

2. Where Service is by Publication, the de
fendant hns forty days after sérvice is complete in
which to make defense.
‘I
I
Conley v. Morris, 2 (‘olo. Law Rep., 402; h

the legal discretion of the court, and its action will
(‘olo., 212.

"Oi be set aside on appeal, unless it clearly appears
that the discretion was not soundly exercised.

Dupuy v. Shear, 2:0 t‘ai.. -rs; s:um1.. -m.


Hkiies v. Baker, 3 (‘olo. Law itep.. uI.. Jill . o
(‘olo._. E5: 5 ('ai., 465.
I .
Brown v. Tucker. 4 C010. Law iiep.. itvi.

S51 "l‘i( ms 236--~iil.
thnn the vendor. The object of the notice itito
gltie an opportunity for rlefmn-te, and also to ttotlf)‘

3. Answer After Time and b‘:-tore Default.
.\n answer tiled without leave of the court, utter
the time for i\liﬂ\\'t'l’lIig ha:-1 expired, hut in-fore

third person» of the litigation.

Ricltarllmn v. \\'hltc, in t‘al., ltrl; ‘.5.’ ul., ‘ill;
default ha:-t been intended, is not a nullity, but at
most an irregularity.


The Court in it.-t Diwrotiou mav Strike Out

The only way to charge a purchaser of

tirotwrty. lwlnllmt It BU“. with constructive notice

an answer so tiled, retain it, or pennit another to
"T iii!‘ Mill. hi it) llliliit " "ﬁll" "i "I P""¢""
he tiled; but liitttntin-t-minot asof right |ii\\'(- 1tti(‘l|
according to the statute.’ H V l at
amnver struck out. For tin-ac purposes, defendant
¢\\lli \~ MW‘-'\Wﬂ.\ .
0 -. 1
is not in default until his default. has been t\l‘ltltlll_\'
5- '1 ' hil i b lT“('l 0'' " 1"
'
I’ gl "'1' - '"D "‘ “T "W‘£;l::eer
t
I ﬁvttlivltt purchaser from the part; anon to
entered in accordance with the statute.

. i-tfected hy the judunn-nt rendered, or whlcti may
{ he rendered, in the unit in Wltit‘li notice is giwa.
Gregory v. llaym-a, iii t'al.. -‘M; 1-’: ti. 35;
SECTION 37.
itfal. l’rac. Act,

Actual Notice.

.\ party taking an interest

L in land |)('ll(“l1i{t\ torecioi-mrc, with actual notice

:35; N. Y. Podc. Set‘. 12".]

of the action, is bound to the same extent as it in
1. What Summons Must Contain. Under the
Code the summons must contain such a statctm-nt
of the cause of action as will inform the (lt'ﬂ'lidiil\l

pemlcml were filed.
Sharp v. Hunicy. Sup. t‘t. t‘ai., Jan. irltiat not

of the particular matter or transaction concerning

reported.

which he is called upon to defend.
Smith v. Aurlck, ti t‘olo., 2&4; 3 (‘M0, Law

——SEC-HON 39.

RP]I., 421.
2. \Vhen too Indeﬁnite. The phrase “in con

[t‘nl. Prac. Act, See. ‘.’>\'.]

sequem-e of certain acts and doings of the defend
ant. as will more fully appear by the complaint on

i. Stttumolu - By \\'hom Served. Uourts will
takejudicial notice oftlte signatureof their oil1l't'f
(Anttcrnon v. llcii, it (‘al., 321). Should Plﬂnme

tile herein, to which reference is here made,“ is too

that the FlIiPI'HT tiPl'\‘t‘d all process within his {Mir

iudetinite.

diction, where no place of service is stated. lU1im
v. Brannon, fl t'nl., life. A mistake in the date 0!
the return may he corrected at any time diittcr Y
t-ieannel. ll t‘al._ 15%»; but correction shall Boi

The service of such a summons will

not confer upon the court jurisdiction of the per
sons of the defendants.
Ill.
3.

utfect vested rl;_'ht.~l.

\\’here the law expressly directs that process

tNewhall v. t>ro\'ust.'ii>"'~

Pi"; h'irI.,‘Ji|. lteturn is conclusive and camwi ll‘
attacked collaterally, even for fraud 0|‘ t‘"Ui15i""'

shall be in a specitied form. and i.~‘.-~tte¢i in a partic
ular manner, such provision is nmmiator_v, and it
failure to comply with the law in that respect will

liaery v. Bttchanun, 5 t ‘al., -ll.

render pr(w0SH void.
2- Rcturna-By \\'hom Mode. All returns
Id.
must he made in the name and by the ut1Ul"l’“Y
4. in actions for fraud the summons must ap- . of the shcriti, though v_\;.t(-uiml hy deputy. 4Ji'Fu::
prise the defendant that, on failure to :m:~'wer,
v. .lovee,5(fai,, mu, if rt-turn made byﬂlld mwm
mun“‘ of deputy only, judgment then-and er
jlldl.’Il't1QIit' will he demanded against him for the
fraud. A mere notice in the .~summons that a
money judgment will he taken will not support
a _iudzment for fraud.
Porter \'. Herman, S (Zo.i., tilil.
See also notes to Sec. 35, ante.

be void.

itowiey \'. Howard. ‘Ii Pal-. 401-

_

. 3. The .\t‘tldavit of S\?l'\'lt.‘0 rcquimd “F mi"
section mu.~=t show that the person servlt1tt““"“

duly authorized as provided by the section‘
Mchiiilon v. Reynolds, ii Cal..37~‘:

SECTION 38.

SECTION 40.
[L‘al. Prac. Act, See. 27.]
1. Lis Pendens. This section does not apply

[K_v. (‘ml-*. Secs.“ to R7; t‘al. Pram -'\‘-‘ii Sec‘ NJ
the
1. How Sumtnona Served.
oration lﬂ mm‘
agent or receiver of a foreign POFP

Ser\'l¢i' "P0"

to actions of ejecttncnt, but to equitable actions to
enforce liens, turn equitable into legal estates etc
Watson v. Dowilng, 213 (‘ai., l25; ‘ll id., lf'il. .
2. A bona ﬂde purchaser of land without notice
of proeeeciings pending for condemnation, no notice
of lift penden-s ﬁled, is not atlected therebv. (Renal '
v.
of Mountain
Its perulensLake
ntttst\’i’:tt1-r(‘lo.,
he tiled or
13appear
Cal.,-‘i0ii..)
of record
noti (it
t,‘al., l-ii), except in ejectment, 26 (‘al., 125.

3. Where notice of (is pendem was not til (1
plaintiff cannot successfully set up that notice
would have done no good to the purchaser hec'tu<e
he could make no defen.=:e, or no better defenite

eient under this section.

at

Ganchin v. Phr-lan, impl.. 010-." i 0"?"
2.

Person bromght lain State under iilﬂulw u

or Frami, Exempt. one hrﬁughi ""0 M 6will
under prom,“ of ‘he ¢-Om-ti, to attend tiP0nl.li@sum
of acansc. is exeml" [mm Pm” ‘anspectwdtnaﬂ
while
trial. uc~'c~'~=arii_\'att1'mllﬂt~!
(Books v. Furwclli ! lb‘-‘re
0010'inLaw
r
W 1"“
‘Inc hrotmht into jurisdiction hi’ "and my
be legally K{'i'\’(‘tl.
2 Sand.. '.!i72 '-3 rode Rep" "0;

as to the service ot‘thc autntnonsnre waived by the
appearance of defendant, and answer to thc merits

N. Y. .1 Brooklyn .\i. Co. v. Hill. lt'olo. law
iicp., 383.
4.

Service by Reading not Good.

2. Allldavib Suﬂlciency of. Where the attor
ncy of record makes an affidavit that diligent
search has been made for the defendant, and that

he conceals himself to avoid sen ice of process, it is
sutilcient for an order for the service of summons
to be made by publication.

sin--riff"executed on .i. by reading the within"
insntlicicnt. it should state that a copy \t'u:-t deliv
ered

to, or

offered to, and was

rcfu~cd by the

defcnda'nt.
Sec. 43, Code.

Anderson v. Parker. ii (‘al., ﬁll.

3.

An afildavit for an order of the publication

ofthc summons, upon the ground of the llbti('li(‘('

ofthedcfendant, which states that the defendant
could not, after due diligence, he found in the

Uavldgc v. ('oiston, l .\ict., it-3; itl('al., iiili.

Ii. l'rcsnmption~' in Favor of (Hticm-. \\'hcn
theshcriff return»: a prtwcsn “t'xct'tit4'(l," the pre
sumption isthat he |wI'l0l'ntt:(l hlsduty and exe
cuted it as required by law.
Wcbber v. Wcbbcr, l .\ict., H; 111., iii.

country where the action was pending; that atilant
bad inquired of Foztz. who is an intimate friend

of defendant, as to his whereabouts; that Fogg
was unable to inform him; and that plaintiffdid
not know where defendant could he found within
the Htatc-—ia unsutlit-icnt to authorize the publica

tion.

A publication made upon such an aiiidavit

6. Service on Infant Only. The return showed
ti|attiwsltcrifl' served the process by (lt'll\‘t‘l'llll.{ a

will not give the court jurisdiction of the person of

copy to the infant only:

the defendant.
Swain v.t base, l2t'al.. 2%.

Held, in the absence of

proof to the contrary . that the infant mu.~t be prc
sumcd to be over fourteen years old.
lic\'ct‘l_\' v. i’erkih.~. l lmv. |l\'y.l. Z'»l: I Mt-t..

hi.
4. Sheriff may not Serve when a Part)‘. Set‘
\‘it't-ofprocess by a sheriff in a suit in which he is
plaintiff, although he may not have any ]w('tlllliii‘)‘
interest in the result of the hllli, is not a valid ser
vice.

4. .\n atlidavit to obtain an order for the st-r\'
ice of a summons by publication must show
whctlh r the t1'.~‘l(i4-lit'(' of the person upon whom
service is i-§()iH.'lli in known to thc atllant, and if
known. the l"'.'~l(lt‘ll(‘t‘ mu.-t be stated. An ailidavit
which merely l‘c]it':ti.\ thc law,:ua;:c or substance of
thcstatttte is insutllcicnt. The ultimate thcts of
the statute must not be stated in the atlidavit, but

the probative facts, upon which the ultimate facts
Knott V. Jarboc, I .“M.. 51H.

depend.

8. Service on a Corporation.
A shcritT's
return on a summons against a t-nrpnrnilun, that
he had served the same on the president and secre
tary of the company, is primu _/'/I('iw evidence that

u“‘l)eraou.~i named in the return were such otiiccrs.
iR‘)W(‘ \'.'I'ahle .\loltntaln \\'ab l‘ t'o., l'i (':ti.,
So of partner.

illt.

M.. H’).
9. in a suit against a corporation, service fltttst
behad on one of the otlh-crs or ac.-nts named in
"10 i‘0dc. t~lt-rvit-c on the party in pos.-'1-ssioti who
(1008 not appear to be one of the otlim-rs named will
"Oi entitle the plaintifftojnthnncnt by tltlattlt.

Aiken v. Quartz iitwk t'o., ‘i t'nl., l'.'ﬂ; I" l':'..
-‘H3.
.
I0.

On a firm

where summons

was against

Admns 6: ('o., and -crvt-ti on i‘. ll. .\lacy, and

liicketson v. Rit-liartis-on, 26 Cal., 152.

5.

it is not sufficient to state generally in such

affidavit that, after due diligence, the defendant
cannot be found within the State, or that the
plaintiff has a good cause of action against him,
or that he isa necessary party; but the acts con
stituting duc diib.:cnce, or the facts showing that

he is a il('i‘t‘SSiiI'_\' party, should be stated.
Id.

6. Before _iurisdiction of a defendant can be
acqttlrcd by publication of summons, it must ap
pear by atlldavit, either that the defendant resides
out of the State, or has departed from the State, or
cannot, after due (iillgcncc, he found within the
Htatc. or that he conceals himself to avoid the
service of summons, and in addition thereto, it

must also appear by a-tlldavit, that a cause of action

nmhillg appeared to connect him with .\datns &
t-xisis against the defendant. or that he is a neces

"OJ Held, tlltlljil(iL'lll0lll b_v (lcfttttlt could not he
sary or proper party.
iiraly v. .<ca|nan, till 1 ‘al., tilt).

ﬂustained.
Adams v. Town, It ('al.. 217.

SECTION 44.
i"ttl. Pt‘ttc. .\('i, St-c. 30.]
1. Order for Publication. The s'c('tlons ofthc
Pm‘m"'e A" brovldimg for the service of summons
or1 & defendant by publication, being in derogation

orthe common law. must be .s'tt‘i('tly construed and
p‘m'S"(‘d- (Rlcketson v. Richardson, 2!; (‘ai., I52;

:.‘0]""'f“.8 "- HEde, Iii l'al., 342; People v. llubi-r, 2"
*1" '51-) N0 presumption in favor of jurisdictiott
will be indulged.
Mchiinn v. Whelan. '27 t‘al., :to9_

7. An atiidavit to obtain an order for thc publi
cation of summons, on the ground that the dc
ft-ndant cannot,aftcr due diligence, be found within
the State. which does not state whether the t'csi
deuce of the defendant is known, and does not
show that the atliant does not know where the
tit-t‘cndant may be found, is insntlicictrt to author
ize the publication of summons.

8.

III.
When the atlidavit for publication of sum

mons presents sulnc evidence tendin;.,r to prove
t'ilt'il Jurisdictional fact, but of a character clearly
too inconclusive to justify an order of publication,
the order is erroneous, and-the judgment will be
(l on appeal; but it is not v0ld- 1ft11(‘''‘1‘ 1*’

a total want of evident-e upon whieh to ha-w the

it). Nam .~‘ummun-\ In-med, When. When an
order is tuade for the servlee oi’ summons by

order, the judgment is \'0it\. in the former ease
the judgment cannot he attacked collaterally. but

puhih-attou and a summons is is-mttml and a supple

only on appeal.
Forbes v. liyde, Iii t‘al..1H2.

mental w-tn]-taint is ut‘tt-rwnrds tiled. undasuuv
uions i'\!~lll'll tin-rmn, the original action beemnes
Illt‘l‘1{t'il in the in-tion as .~utppletnented, and the
eourt will itul m-quire jtll'lmllvllﬁii of the person

11.

An ailldavit to obtain an ul‘dt-1' for pul|ite:t

tion oi‘ summons, whieh states that the dt-|>o|it-ut
“ has agood cause of action in this suit against the

said defendant, and that he is a prupt't' party

of uln~o-ut ll‘ ietuliitita by ptthlleution oi’ the orhzinai
suuituous, but the a-umtnons ls:-‘ued on the supple
lt1t'nlnl eonipluint must be Sl‘|'\'\d by puhiieation.

defendant thereto, as he verily lit-lit-ws," does not
state any fact tending to show a eum-'0 of aetion,
and an order and publleation based on it It? Void.
Hahn v. Kelly, 34 i'ul.,It9i.

12. Order. Pom Ind Suﬁelency of. An order
for the service of a summons by publication must

.\le.\liun v. \\'lu-inn, ‘II i'nl., III9.
Forbes V. Hytle. iii M.. !ii'.'.
‘:0. Ilow Summons ‘Should be Publllhed.
it i-ier\'i<~e on a defendant is attempted to be pro
eun-d by pttblientlolt. the summons mu.-t he pub

lished as it was wlieti the order of publiention was

state the facts proved by the afiiduvlt upon whieh
it is bltiltéd. It is not sufficient. for the order to state
generally that the defendant resides out of the
State, or cannot, after due diligvnee, he found
within the State, or that a cause of ﬂ('llUIl exists
tr-.£ain:-it the defendant.
itieketson v. Richartlson, 26 (‘al., l-52.

13. \\'here, after complaint ﬂied, and before

made.
.\ie.\linn v. Wheluu, ‘Z7 t‘al., $9.
21. Order, Court Act! Judicial” in Grant
ing.
(Ht granting the order for the publication Of

summons-t, the court acts judicially, and can know
nothing about the farts upon Wl\lt'h the order 15 i0
be granted, except from the ailldayit.
ltieiu-tsou v. iiiehardson. '13 (‘al., 152.

any summons was issued, an order was obtained
from the _iudge that “ summons do issue," and that
it be published, and without any ihrther order
summons was subsequently issued and published :
Iield. that the attempt thus to acquire _iurisdit-tion '
of the defendant was inetfeetual, and that a judg
ment rendered against him by default, without any

SECTION 45.
i(‘nl. Prue. Act, See. -'il.]

other service of process, was Void.
People v. Huber, 2) Cal., til.

1.
quired.

An order to publisha summons made in

strlet (‘ompliunee with the method pointed out by

14.

Compliance
in servive of process by publication 8

advance oi‘ the iusura-nee of the sutmnons is a uni
the statute must he oliserw-ti.
lity.

_

Israel v. Arthur, 4 Colo. Int“ Rep" 3'“
Id.

15. The judge has no power to order a summons
to issue, but only to ordera summons already issued
be served in a special manner.
[(1.
Me.\iinn v. Whelati, 27 (‘al., 304.
Forbes v. Hyde, 3i (‘al., 342.

2. 0tl|er\\'i.'w Mu)’ he Attaelmd C0llatﬂ'ﬂ“."
ii‘ the reeord oifered in evidence shows tiillﬂitl;

atively that the statute regulating service b)‘ P“ t

lleaiion was not eotuplied with. sueh rt‘00Td 15”“
protected by the rule that judicial ﬁndings W‘
deeisive in eollaterui proceedings.
[(1.

16. The affidavits and orders referred to form

3. Time Allovred to Answer. lncasoorsem

no part of the judgment roll; and it is a matter of

ice 1)!’ Ptthlieatiou, the defendant has fort!’ dilys

no consequence whether the jurisdiction of the
Court appears affirmatively upon the judgment

after service t-ornplete in whieh to answer.
(‘oniey v. .\iorris, 2 Polo. LBW REP" 61:6

roll or not, tor if it does not, it will he eonelusivcly
presumed when the judgment is eollaterallv
attached.
.
Hahn \-'. Kelly 6: Morse, 34 l‘al.. 391.
1'7.

Affidavit

Greweii v. Henderson. 5 Come “'1
including W
4. if some of the publieatlons,

or 0rder—Suﬂieiency oi, How

Tested. The question oi’ the suﬂk-ieney of an aili
davit and order for pubiieution oi‘ summons may
be ra-ised by 1notion made in the suit or by ab
appeal supported by a statt.-ment.
'
‘ ‘
Sharp v. l)augm-y, 33 (_‘al., 503.
‘V113.

C0lO., ‘Z12.

Skiies v. Baker, 3:11.. '11"; """\°'t_m)‘

last, are made on t-iunduy,

the paper. it does not vitiute the
.
. 32
Sa\'int,'s & Loan Soel1'i.\' "- nmmpmn
(‘ul., 357.
dim‘?
5. Where serviee is attempted in B modesmme
ent from the course of the common ltliiidbP

Discrepancies in the Published .\'otiee.

must be strh-tly pursued to gi\-e_|urisdiell0"~
_re the summons as published, on being com
Jordan \'. Hiblin, 12 ('01-. W"

pared with the original, discloses certain disere
uuctes of a purely literal character, it is held sut-iri).

6cal.

ll: sense and meaning, the original
. am the published version of it are identi

A Judgment rendered against a pa

f\h80t\t (mm the Htute. upon puhiieni
summons thirty days only, is void

-i\1TlB(ii(‘tion of the person of we defendant.
Sharp v. Daugney, 33 Cal., -TM
Id.

4. Allidavit by Printer. \\'hcrc sen ice is had
by publication, proof thereof can only be made by

[t 'al. l’rnc. Act, See. 32.]

thc ailidnvlt of the printer, his fon-mun or princi
l.

Severn]

Defendants-—l’art not Served.

Where the record shows in general terms the
appearance, the appenrnncc will be coniincd to
parties served with process.

pal clerk, and should state that the person making

it holds one of those positions. An aiiidavit com
mencing: “A. li., principal clcrk, ctc., being sworn,
dcposcs," ctc., is lnsuillcicnt. (Sicinback v. Lessc,

(‘heater v. Miller, in i'nl., &';~'.

'17 i‘al., 2J7.i
2. The common law rule is so moditlcd as to
permit Judgment against it portion of thc deicnd
ants, whenever the‘contract purports on its face to
be the contract of all the parties sued, and it turns
Hill in proof that a portion only are liable.
Lewis v. iflarken, is t'al.. 39:0.

.\iiidavii by publisher and proprietor

held suilh-lent, us being within the spirit of the
statute. (Sharp v. iiaugncy, -‘iii i'nl., .'»tL"1.) Aili

davit need not s-tatcaillnnt to be “principal clerk,"
if made by the only clerk in the ofiicc.
(iray v. Palmer, it (‘al., 616.

5. Admlsolons by Defendant. The court will
3.

I-‘oroclosuro—-Personal

Judgment.

This
takcjudlcai notice of the signatures of its officers,

section does not apply to actions for the fore
but not of parties to the action.
closure of mortgages on real estate.

When, therefore,

ilirown v.
proof of service consists in the written admission

May, l'.i L'al.. 346).

A personal Judgment cannot be

given against a party not served with process in
an action on jolntobllgntion of several deft-ndnnts.
4.

of defendants, it must be accompanied with evi
dence of the gcnulnencss of the signatures, (Ah

Treat v. McCall and Brady, l0 L‘al., oil.

derson v. Bell, 9 (‘al., 315). Verbal acknowledg
ment of service is not sutiicient. Qiontgomery v.

Persons Jointly pound.

Where, in an

action against defendants jointly and not severally

liable, a portion of them only are served with pro
cess, the clerk cannot enter judgment by default
against the parties served. A judgment so entered
is void.

Kelley v. Van Austin, 17 t‘nl., ﬁiil: 30 i¢l.,e'iH.
B. Payment by Join t Judgment Debtor.
Where one of two defendants in a joint judgment

Acknowledgment of service

need not state the place where made.
(Anderson
v. Bell, ll (‘al., 315). \l'hefe service is accepted with
out date attached, the time of return will be held
as the true date. When the place where the writ
is served is not stated the court should assume it
was served within the jurisdiction of the oilicer to

whom it was directed.
Franc v. Brannon, 3 Cnl., 194.

pays it, but not with the intention of discharging
lt,he is entitled to use the judgment. for his pro

tection and indemnity, and may enforce it against
his co-defendant for his legal proportion of the
debh
i_‘oii‘ce v. Tevis, 17 ('al., 239.

SECTION 38.
[l.‘al. Prue. Act, See. 34.]

1. Time. Place, et'c., of Service.

The only

t)lij('('i of designating the place where process is

in an

St'I'\'i.‘(i., is to determine the period within which the

action against detendants jointly indebted, where

answer must be iiled, or when default may be
taken.
Whltewell v. Barbier, 7 i1‘al., 62.

6. Several Jndginonts, When Proper

one onl_v is served, a several Judgment may be
entered.
liuchfleid v. Franklin, ti L‘al., M7.

2.

\\'hcre the evidence of the place of service

is lnsuﬂiclent toaut-horize a _iudgment,advantnge
of it should be taken either by appeal or motion to

SECTION 47.

vacate the Judgment.
Pico v. Sunol, ii L'al., ‘Bi.

[Ca|. Prue. Act, See. 33.]

'

’ l. Proof of Service—0l' Public.-lion, by "HE
Sheriif. The return must be in the name of the
sheriil‘, not the deputy. (Joyce v. Joyce, 5 ('al., Hil;

2! Cat, i0l.) " Upon James Street. one of the PI")
Drietors of the company," is not sufih-lent.
O'Brien V. Shaw's Flat J: T. i'ann| i'o.. ill
('81., 313.

2- By Person Other Than She-rill’.

The aﬂidn

\'lt must show the person serving to be competent

under the law. (McMillan v. Reynolds, ll f‘al._.37?"l

SECTION 49.
[Ca]. Prac. Act, See. .'i.").l
1. Jurisdiction. “Fhen Takes Eﬂect. The
court acquires Jurisdiction at and from the time

when the service is completc—in case of publica
tion, ten days after the last ])l1b|i('ilil()li—tlIltl has
control of all subsequent proceedings. Ifjudgment
be rendered before the time allowed by law for

and show aillrmatively compliance with all the

answer expires, such judgment is premature, but
not void. it can be reversed for error, but not

rcqulrenients of the law.

attacked collaterally.

Brown v. Tucker, 4 Colo. Law Rep., 268.

.\ic.\illlan v. Reynolds, ll t‘al., :T;2,
See nah-, Sec, lo,

3- No Jurisdiction “"lthotit Service. \\’hc|i
Want of summons upon a party aillrnmtivcly ill’
Ii"‘f\!‘-Q by the record, the jurisdiction of the "0""
does not attach.

San Juan, etc.. t'o. v. Finch. 6 i'0lo.. 2H; 3
t'oio. Law Rt-p., ll.

2. Such judgment may be vacated on motion
or reversed for error, but not avoided in a collat
i-ral pr()<‘'emliiig.
.
\\-'hitewcll v. Barbier, 7 l‘al., 02.
3. Service by Publication will Sustain a Per

sonnl Judgment, when beforejudgment unattach
ment was sued out and levied on the property oi

ion
of the goods shed for, in had on denturn-r-the
avernn-at iwlmz a legal coneinaion merely, and not

the defendant»-the case then-h_\' heemning, in its
nature. an action in rem.
whether such service,
without attaehnn-nt, would authorize a ‘)1'i'N0i\lli

tiw faﬂson \\ ilil‘ii the right rwtg.

tiitiitt-r v. (‘ord

Wt'ii.‘Z t‘olo. Law iiep., 427; ti ('olo., tilt) Allega
ot vaiw- and titttttngeﬂ in reph-vin are mater
ial, whieh, ttitlmu eontroverted. are admitted, and

iudement, not decided.

Brown v. Tucker, 4 i'oio. Law RA-p,, ‘Jill.
4. An Action in Peraontun, in courts other than
Admirait_v courts, no man can be deprived of his
property without having been tirat cited to appear

need not he pru\'t'n.

Tneker \'. Parka, l Polo. Law Rep.. 308.
3. B3 l’mnwnger agninnt (‘at-rier. in suit

and make defense, unieaa h_\' virtue of some poul

against a railroad eotnpnny hy a passenger, for
in_inrle~ rem-ivmi throngh dt-fendant‘a negligence,

tive statutory enactment.
Lorlng v. illﬂiey, l (‘ai.. ‘N.
.1. Authority of Attorney Presumed.
The
authority of an attorney-at-law to appear for par

it in not Item-:nutr_v to state in the complaint the
particular facts eonatitutlmz the negligence. Bil

auflielent to state, generally, that the iniury was

ties for whom he enters appearance in an action

the I‘enilii of defendant's nmtiigence.

will be presumed. where nothing to the contrary
appeam. (Hays v. Hhattuck, '.'.l i‘al., iii ; 1lit‘al., i9‘L|
A party may appear in person, or hy attorney,
but not both; and if he appear by attorney he can
not assume control of the case. (Board of t‘omra. v.
Younger, ‘ll t‘al., l-t7.) But party may dim-harge
his attorney,and settle his case, and m-mble take

Flark V. i‘. ii. Jr Q. ii. ii. (‘o., 3 t‘oi0. imr
i{ep., 31-1.

4.

Ohjm tiolu to the Complaint other than

that it does not state facts suﬂicient to constitute a
eamw of action, must he made in the court heiow
to entitle them to notice in the Hupreme (‘ourt.
’i‘w-ker v. Parks, i t‘oio. Law ltep.,I!llL

eitarge of and manage the ease.
Swanston v. Morning Star “ining t‘o., ‘.2

3.

(‘ompiaint “nut he '~'nliiciu-nt. lndei"‘“d'

eat of I'Z\'hihit-t. The (‘ode requires that a com
plaint shall contain “a atatetnent of facts consti

Polo. Law Rep... -'i'>'i.

6. ‘Want oi‘ Jurisdiction Must Appear from
Record. in an action upon a judgment of a eottrt

tutim: the eauae of action." The avermeuill Oi l-hi‘

of general _iuriadiction, the defendant cannot show
as a matter of defense at law, that the court did not
acquire _iut'lsdletion of the defendant, or that juris
diction was fraudulently acquired, except by ex

allegations, it cannot he aided

complaint alone can he looked to in determininll

its autlieh-nc_\'.

if defe('ti\'e for want of tntliﬁflll

exhihlu-x made part of it.

by referent!‘ i0

A complaint not Qtlllﬂl

a cause of action without regard to exhibit! llbﬂd

amination of the record.
on demurrer.
t ‘oio. Law Rep., ‘Z16: 5
Brooks V. i’uddO('k, 2

(farpenth-r v. City of Oakland, lit) (‘ai., -i-‘iii.

C010,, 36.

6. More Infonuaiitien not

Fatah

\\'ill‘l'P'

secnoas 51', 52 .1. 53.

notwlthatanding formal defects in u eﬂmP\B|""

[1 ‘ai. Prae. Act. Sees. 36, :77, 38; N. Y. t‘ode, See.

enough is alleged to support a judgment in few"

140,010.; Ky. Civil Code, St‘t'S. 11.3, no, 117.]

of plaintitt‘, it is not anhjeet to general demurrer

Turner wt at. v. Killian, 2 Colo. Law Rep.

l. Pleading:-i in Civil Actions.
The only
pleadings allowed are the complaint by the plain
titl‘, the demurrer or answer by the defendant, and

7.

the dennn-rer or reply hy the piaintiti'. The plea
in ahatement must be regarded as a defense in the
answer. (Stone's adm‘r v. Powell, 18 B. Mom, 343.)
The same rules of pleading govern in all cases both

t

h_\' the eomdgnor, and alleging hlﬂlch M mntm
—cU4-P

of carriage, is good on demurrer. l Colo. Law ii:-it.
Martin v. .\iei,aughiin,

at law and in equity.
Brown v. Aubrey, 22 (.‘al., -Wt.

$5; 5Coio.. -'87.

8. "The sum" Henna the \Vhoie l’f"°i"‘;
United in One Body Politic. and "the Sum‘ '"“
“the people of the State" are equivalent eX.l‘1l;‘;:
sioas. A complaint hrought in the name Of ‘Of
State of Colorado" in in effect a suit in the mum r

SECTiON 54.
lCal. Prac. Act. See. 39; N. Y. (‘ode, See. H2: Kv.
(lode, Sec. li8.]

475.
On Contract for Carriage

averm--nt, in a stilt against a earrier.

“ "W people or the State" and in good 0" d‘‘‘“,‘{‘M‘'''e5

.

Brown v. Stat», l Colo. Law RP?-~‘

i. The Complaint -First Subdivision.
A
atatenieiit. in the hody of the complaint, which
shows that an individual is a neeessary part‘;
does not make him a party. His name must he
the “style“ oi the action, which is the names of the

'

(?ai.. -Mi.
9-

in pieadintr. under the Vode,

stated with certainty.

(lhjection

is raised by demurrer.
Mannin*.r \'. iriaas. 5 t‘oio., 37.

parties
piaintiil‘and defendant ~ R 1 U ‘'3V head of the
c""\1)inint_
-

\\/‘likes v. “orehead. MS. Opin. KY. (‘ourt
of Appeals, Sept., 1856.
‘

---

I0. Complaint
Statute
of Lhnitaﬂ0l18~ Where fraud is (‘Ommt‘.

_

2.

Second St1bdivinion—Repie\'in.

The plain
_

"ltfllt to recover in re
H in the chatteh-t,
'
V-Pievintzeneral
dependZr“:-mn
~
property
either
ms

peeiai, .
and this should he alleged. A complaint whiel
notes that plaintiff “ is entitled to the po.<qr1qaion“'

ted more than three years bM0"°
ment of the action, the eomplﬁm
that the discovery was made within
‘L
Years next preceding the inrrtitution of the I"
Pipe v. Smith, 5 ('olo.. N6
\

bil(."l‘l().\' .34,
ll. Suit on Penal Bond in the Complaint.
tin a penal bond. the breach assigned must be as

167

I0.

Defense Need .\'ot be Anticipated. .\lat~

ters coming properly from the other side need not
‘broad as the condition of the bond.or it will be
had on demurrer.

be anticipated.

in an action on a contract it is

unnecessary toallcgc that defendant had author
ity to make it; this is implied by the execution of
the contract. if defendant labors under infancy
or other disability the fact must be relied on by way
ofdefense. So in an action against the trustees of

Volorado Springs (‘o. vs. Hopkins, -3 (‘olo..
illlti.

I2. The Asslgneo of a Debt t-iecm-ed by Trust
Deed holds the same equities that the original
creditors held, and a bill by such nssignce for refor
mation of the trust deed, containing allegations
which would be good if made by the assignor, is
not demurrnblc on the ground of the ltHt'tit.£lllIlt'lll.

a town-—acting otlh-tally, the presumption is they
were acting rei:ularl,v and legally.

Louisville v. liyatt, 2 ii. Mon., iTi'.

_

Hhelbyvilie v. Shelb_vville '1‘. P. t'o., l )ict.,
Denver B. .\l. ('0. v. .\ic.\lllster, 6 ('ol0., em;
5-i.
liuddington v. Davis, 6 How., M12; 5 .-\bb.,

8 Colo. Law llep., 2i i.

I 18. Mutual and llependent Conditions.

The

conditions of an agreement helm: mutual and de

pendent, before either party can enforce or rescind
the &mtract, he must allege compliance on his
part, or facts that will excuse non-compliance.
Webb v. Smith, ti t.‘olo., -'itL'1; Ii ('oio. Law
Rep., 380.
14. In an Equitable Action by as Judgment

i
1

40; i6 liow., Sid; 2% 111., H0; 36 iiarb., ii‘.b;
I Manning (.\lich.), I53.
20.

Must State Facts Snﬂloient. That the com

plaint does not state facts sutlicient to constitute a
cause of action, is ground for reversal, whether the
objection was relied on in the court below or not.
(“falters v. t!hlnn,l Met., 199.) Other objections to

the complaint must be taken in the court below.

(‘reditor to set aside a conw-_\'ance made by the
Tucker v. Parks, 4 ('ol0. Law licp., 306.

judgment debtor, on the ground of fraud, and sub
ject the estate so conveyed to the satisfaction of
the Judignn-nt, averments of the insolvency of the

The Code governs all cases of pleading, legal

i-Imory v. Yount-, 4 ('olo. Law itc-p., 425.

and equitable, by the same rules - evidence
included.
Goodwin v. Hammond, iii t'al., M9; 121., IE2;
16 id., 24:].
22. Essential Elements of Pleading. The
principle of pleading is to present the cause of

A Demurrer Admits all the Facts “'ell

action on one side and the dctensc on the other.

debtor, and that the debt existed at thqtime of the
conveyance, are essential. .\ complaint not con

tainim: them does not state a cause of action, and
this objection can be raised at any time.
I5.

21.

(6

liow., 402.) The complaint should show the debt
Ploaded, and where there are sufficient facts well
Pleaded in a complaint to constitute a cause of ' to have been due at the time the action was com
action, though there may be defects therein, dc
murrer is not available. Plalntifl‘may. in a proper

case. be required, on motion, to make his complaint '
more detlnite and certain, as to matters within his
kIl()Wi('(it!('.

Wilson v. ii., S. P. <1: i’. R. R. 4'0. , l ('olo.
Law itep.. 397.

menced. (li Barb.,569; 32 id., 92; iii N. Y.. 27] : -i
Bosw.,6il.'i; l7 Abb., 184.) it should state every iiu-t
which the plaintlffmust prove in order to main
tain his action.
(3 Selden, 478; ill N. Y.. 363; 3
i)uer.,ti32; 20 Barb., -I55; 2Ker.,3‘2li; ii \Vheah, l7l.)

it is not necessary to make it appear on the face of
the complaint that the court has jurisdiction of
the person ofthe defendant-, or the subject matter

l6,

General Requirements.

Thel‘ode require"

that the complaint must contain a statement of the
facts constituting the cause ofaction, with scarcely

any other requisitions than it be made in'ordlnary
and concise language, without l'9P¢‘l“i""
Hill, for, etc., v. Barret, H B- "0"" 54: '0
(‘al., 27.
17. The Code makes no change in the law which

ofthe action. (Kt:-ning v. Nott.-‘l .\bb., 30!.) Facts
relied on as entitling plalnt-iﬂ’ to injunction, order
of arrest, etc, independently ofthe cause of action,
need not be stated in the complaint, but in aili
dnvits.

(12 H.ow.,5-‘ll; 1:: id., am; it Abb., 315: 2 Selden,
560',’ll i3arb.. Iii!-‘i: I Code

R('P., N. h'., 57; 2('mlc

Rep., 1; :'(I.,M; ti £11., 150, hit), 211; 3 Sand., 736.)

determines what facts constitute a cause of action;

it simply changes the question whether Plaintiff's

.\'OTPI.——Ol' course, in those cases in which the

statement of his cause shows flli'l§ constituting 8

object of the action is to obtain an in_ium-

cause of action in trespass. 1lﬁ-'~'1lIIll)-‘i|t 0'' Othpr pm.‘

tion, the cause ofactlon, and the facts upon

ticular form, into the more general

Question’

Whether it shows a right of action in any form

Hence ionncr adjudications are authorities, except
so far as they relate to the distinctions between the
different forms of actions, or formal and merely
technical allegations.
Hill v. Barret. H B. .\lon., 85
Goodwin v. Rtebbins. 2 Cai., lili
l8- Alternative Pleading Bad. When the
causes of action are set out in the alternative. ‘"1"

which ﬂaintiﬂ‘ relies as entitling lnm to an
injunct on, must be stated in the com
plaini.—l<3n.

23. The Word "Facts" in the (‘ode means
precisely what the term has always meant when
applied to the subject of legal pleading; (I)ows_v.
Hotchklss, 10 N. Y. Leg. Obs., ‘bl; 1-i Abb., loll).
“Facts constituting a cause of action." import

those fﬂcts which the evidence on the trial will

0i“‘hich is good and the other bad, the Pleading
must he held bad on denmrrer—bPil1$!“‘""4i-"‘"‘d

prove, and not the evidence which will be l‘t'(]llil‘(’(l
to prove the e.\'istencc of the facts. (ll ooden v.
Strew, iii How., 5").
The facts required to be set
forth are “physical facts." (Lawrence V. \\ right, .8

zuzalnst the pleader.

l)uer.Ji1'i'l.

it 8. Mon., 86.

he--P --—.

Real trnvcrsable facts.

Man n v. .\iorewood, .5 Sand., 566.
33. liniy 'l‘hnu~ I-‘acts nilﬂtliti he Muted which
t‘mu~titliic the |'utnu- of uvtiotl, the defense. orthr
rt-|d_\'. .\ puny must tllit-av c\'er_\' fact which heir
n-~|uin-ti to prm c.nnd will he precluded from prov
lug xiii} fact not uilci_'-~d. ltirt-en v. l'niincr,i-';t‘ui..
Iii; 3'.’ ill_, LT»; iii |'al., lid; H IH., 137;. ii ‘Wilt: iii!‘
intention of the t‘odc to require plendlngatobcso

‘:4. Legal Coueiuitiomt. “.\n ulligntlou oi it
legal t‘0ili‘lliiiiOll tm-rely i-* one which K\\'t‘it no fuel,
but matter of lnw only. it in not ctt~_\' ulwuy:-t, in
practice, to tieterluiitc whnt ullvuutions urn ui that
chnraeter,on:11-count oi the ditih-ult_v in deciding
when im-ts will he held to he implh-ti from, and
therefore i"iltiii‘ut'e(i in an uiit-izntion ill iilentiinﬂ."
Hutch \'.l’t-1-t,'.Ll liurh.. SQ: |’lI..'.5L'i; 2i.~‘elden,

'35.

W3.
Inference of l°actn Not .\'uﬂ‘iclc-ni.

{mined as not only to upprim the parties of the
fact» to in ]iIﬂ\'t"t| by them rt-§_|n~etl\‘ei}',liitt to nar

it it-'

not suﬂieieut to give such it qtnteuu-ut, an if ml»
mltted to a jury they mhxht ln_/er a [net or fuvie
constituting a cause of action mr tleﬁ-um-i, but the
1-tt.ui.elucnt should he such that the law alone,
without the aid ofu jtl|'_\', dt-terlninen the existence

row the |-ruol til the trial.
|‘i\'|'t‘_\ \'. Sabin, ltH‘ni.,'2.i.
IN. Ultinmte and not Prolmtivc Fuctm

of the cause of action lot‘ deb-n-ei.
P828 V. B()_\'ti, H “u\\'.. HT.

it is

the llitlinutt~ utul not the prohativc facts which
simuhl iw uverr~-ti, it is error to exclude evidence
in t-i~h\ii|li~ii 'proimii\'t* fuels. iilﬁihtil not i1\'t‘l’I'0d iii
tin- complaint.
uirewvll \'. Walden, 2-‘i i‘ui.. 163;
Milo-it \. .\i"lk~r|not, iii 17)., ‘Sip. The title of the

plnintiii is the ultinmte incl in cjecttnent-1iM'i$

'36. An Aiiegation of Duty in of no uvml,
unless the i'u('t.~& IIQ‘t'l‘ﬂN\T)' to ruhw the duty urc
eluted. Touver that by it certain _\iitiL{li\"Ili, or by
rmz.~:on ol'n eertnin hond exet-uteri iv)‘ th-~ ti"rt‘litii\iii
he was indehted to pluintitf in it given sum-or
owed unyduty-—would not constitute any fuel of

goiu: to e~tui»li.-iii his title are prolmthre facts.
'
33.

.\iur~i|uil \‘. Hlntl‘l~W, ii.’ t‘ul., ‘I71.
‘.\'egath-c Aliegutiomr are frequently ncrﬁr

mr), though the)‘ cannot he proved. tlFii'a|-J11‘
.\-t to 11mm! in‘ the poulhic perforinnut-eoi'the obli

which at court would take notice.
Pity of Butihlo v. Holloway, It Seldcn. -tin;

tzutlon. \\ hit-it is the lmsls of the uetionmr to M9‘
ii\‘c nu illit't'('lit‘t' from a fuel, which i~ in itnii
iIltiliTt‘I't*ilL
i‘il_\'tlt' \'. Trendwt-ll. iii i'ul.. ‘..’.'.'".

3 Abb., 2'»; ~i Per. und IL, till.
27. l-‘acts Which lmpiy Promise. ii irom the
facts st.utcd ll promise is implied, it is iltltiect-mmr_\‘
to aver in terms that the promise was made.
t‘rnp.~=e_v v. Sweeney, '27 iiarb.. Iii"; ‘Ii id., iii;
if) id., zit; 17 N. Y.. ‘Mi; 5 Barn. and .\hl..

lint we i’. H. v. H. t‘. i‘. A: T. V0-. 4 Fill"
30.

law itcp.. id".
Direct Averment i"ut-tn must he stated bi

direct a\'er|m~ut.nud in unequivocal lantttlﬂtllﬂﬂud

not h_v intereucc.

Aiicizutio|\~iii_\' \\’li)'"r """‘mh\w

HF: l (‘o\\'.. 25: Stephen Pl.,1l3l.
28. Allcgata and Prohuta.
it is a cardinal
rule in equity as in other pleading that the nlh-qnlu
and probata must agree, and avcrments material
to the case omitted ﬁom the pleading cannot he
smpplied by the evidence.
Green v. C-oveland, to (_'al.. 317.

ili‘i|ii'n|N'i'.
.\ioon~ \'. iitu-2~e,IIii‘1tl.. -Till.

O

Hiring:-r v. iiuvi.~i.id..2ii!it 4 it!-"Jul '3““""m'
37.

I-‘ucta Must he Statcti-Not (‘onclusion-.

The fuel from which the t'nllt'llil-iitill in drawn should
bi‘ lilltlwl. but not the I‘0ii(‘itl.~liull of law. ll,t~\'lnseti
v. Hchwurtz. '2...’ 4 ‘nl.. 229.) "\\'romziul or unlawful.

\\'herc the

“ is the owner and holder of a note," “a1nountdlii‘

complaint in an uetlou for trcspam also seeks
equitable relief. ii the law and equity are insepa
ruhly mixed together it would he dcmurrahle.
(Gates v. Kciﬁ, 7 t'ul., 124): hot it is not necesnurv
that there should he exprt.-.~i;~' word.~: showing where

“lion u note,“ “the prutnise to pay," in t'0ll1m‘"‘

29. Legal and Equitable Relief.

the declaration in trespass ii,'tl\‘t'.~t oil‘ and the hill

court. in an-1.u\nnpsit; that “location was dill)‘ ‘md

properly made according to the provisions of mi‘
net.“ are conclusions of law.
H
-:.’t'iti..~_z:>--m; mm..2.'n; 21 id..7i; lﬂid--“"1
Lil |'t!., ttitlt i1l., till.

38. The \\'ordn " Duly." "“'rongfuli,\""i“'ld

in equity he.t.:in.\'.

"linlawfniiy." when used in reference to iesilﬂi’8

Id.

30. Natural and Artiﬁcial Persons. The (‘ode
Iililktiﬁ no distinction between the rules of pleading
applicable to natural persons and those applicable
to artificial persons. (San Francisco Gas (70 \'

San Frnncisco,ii (.‘al., iti'7). The word “person" in its.
iegnl signiﬁcation is a. generic term and include;
artiﬁcial as well as natural persons.
Douglas v. Paciﬁc M. S. S. i"o.. i Cal. 304
it 1. Allcgatlon of Facts not Changed hy Code
Under the (‘odc, whichever ground the plendcr
adopts,
hisfacts
complaint
must contain
the eatneall
gutlon of
as are required
at common
law
LMiller v. Van Tassel, 24 (‘al.. itii.

.

32. Facts Only Wlust
he '3
.
- tatod.
Ti i
the facts as conlra distinguished
from the‘l:\:'u;3:or::
argument
we facts. . from hv
_ 110th esis, and from evidence of

fncta.
illusuge,
while
andthe)‘
haddohetter
not vltinte
be omitted.
a pleadiﬂllv
lhiiiﬁ" ‘.
Dermot. ill ('ul.. 371; id id., 570.

That a met-unit

was “duly convened" would inﬁll!" mm “ ‘if
regularly convened. ti‘eople v. Walker, ‘Ii 3“ "
Siﬂﬁ; 2 ;\hh., ill). .\n allegation that a policy W5‘
“duly assigned and truttSl'crrcd" lndicateﬁ
nssignmeut wax hy sealed lnstrumenh '
sidcrntion is inferred. li"owlcr R 3- L
insu. i'o., ‘Ii iinrh., iili.l

wns'_“duly authori-/.ed" to hriuit 11" M
allegation of fact. Oi}-'crs v. .\laciutd0. "
En).
H How.. liih. If "tiui)"' imi‘ 11")‘ t'i"nr legni stﬂon
tlcancc, whether an net \"i\5 duly dmw ‘B “ﬁn” r
of law tohe determined hy the fiM‘i*~ Mmmfmroa.
“nchndo. ii ituer., -3i7i. That it “ ill" ““" do“ p

tested“ is nuﬂicient to Mini“ ""id"uc‘;..‘:tit.d|\i'o0'1'
Green v. Palmer. 15 t?al., ilii; lid

\

3-‘iii

neglect to pn_\',und notivvHi' lI“"'i“'§'"

Si-2(-"l‘l().\' -">4.
bury
sued
eral.
duly

v. Huckrido.-r. 2 .\hb., life. That the piaintitl'
by a "guardian duly appointed" is too gen
i.\‘eer v. Unit. 5 .\hh., 482». That plaintiﬂ "was
appointed chamhcrlain" held sutlicicnt on

demurrer.

(Platt v. Stout, H .\hh.. 17:4).

7. .'~‘ult .\|{tl.|ll'tl an Agent.

in an action

against an agent for not accounting, a request to
account and pay over must be alleged and proved.
iiushncll v. .\lc't‘auh-y,7t‘ai., i2l.

\

The tind

ing of a referee that a corporation "duly accepted"
a bill, importa that the otlic-er who signed the accept

48. For Goods Sold. A complaint for goods
sold, which avers that defendant is indebted to
plaintltf in a certain sum for goods sold and dell\'

ance had authority to do so. ti-‘arnier'a ilk. \‘.
l-Jmpire Stone Dressing ('o., iii .\bh., 17:. An allega

ered to him at his request. and that defendant has

tion that an execution was "duly lt~Lt~'llt'tl“ held

not paid for the same, states a cause ofaction.
22 t'ul.. ll'.!.

auillcient.
French v. Wiliett. l0 Ahh.. 10;’.
39.

Allrgatlon of Tender.

in an action for

non-delivery of grain, to he paid for on dmnand
and delivery, it is not necessary to aih-ge u tc|tdeI'
of the price at the time of demand.
Crosby v. Watkins. i2 ('ai., $3.
40. As to Averment of Demand and Refusal.
Nee iiahorh-h v. Emerlc,7 t‘al., ill’; liodge \'. t'lnt‘k.

17 a'd., 5~‘|i; -'»'l‘. it..40t¢; l i£ast.. '.!0i; i it. ct .\l., :ts‘~t;
H .-\hh., 215; 4 ii. it i‘.. It'_'7: ‘.4 Bart», Iltltt; .'iti M.. 619;
2.’irl.. fill; 2 D. & it., 51: l" .\bb.. H3; ti ilo~iw., 212%;
‘I I-1. D. -\‘|nith, U34 Ii Hill, CH3; ii Johns. ii; :8 liarh.

‘lift.
-ll. Breach of Contract.
.\ coutplailtt for
breach of contract must state a hrem-h in unequiv
ocal language.
Moore v. Hesse, 30 I 'al., 57 .

40. For Money Bad and Received. A count
in a complaint for money had and received. which
does not allege a demand, is dcmurrahlc.
Reina \'. Cross, 6 (‘al., 29 ," £11., 68.
50.

An action for money had and received to

the use of the plaintiff, lies whenever defendant
has in his hands money of plaintiffs which, in
equity and conscience, he has no right to retain;
and this whether there be or not any contract or
privity hetwceu the parties.
l\' reatz v. Livingston, if) t ‘al., Mi.

5!. Statute of Limitations.
.-\' complaint
\\‘lllI'll shows a demand barred by the statute of
lintitatiotts is dcmnrrablc.
Keller v. Hicks, 22 (‘al., 457.
52. For Professional Services. A complaint
which avers substantially that defendant was at a

ﬁkillman v. .\luir, l .\ict., '.’>'.: i:I.. -'~'~: 2id..

M; 3 Marshall, 5Jt'.!. ‘
42. Records and Papers Can Not be Made
Part of the Pleading.-I by merit-i_\' referring to
them. They must be annexed as cxltihits or ittcot‘

porated.

(People v. Dc la Guerra, 2| t'al., TS.)

certain time indebted to plalntiffin a certain sum
for professional services rendered at the special
instance and request of defendant, is sntllcient
without stating in terms the value of the services,
or defendant's promise to pay them.

in
\Vilkins v. Stldger, 22 (‘al., 232.

an action to foreclose a mortgage, where the cota

piaint has a copy of the mortgage annexed, and to
Whit-it it refers, a correct (lQHM’I'iPIlUII ofthc land in
the mortgage is sntlh-lent tor the purposes of the
suit.
Emeric v. .lauu-s, 6 t 'al.. 13'».

43. lndehitatns Asnunpslt. A count in the
Ortilnary form of counts in imlvhiuil-u.w rm.mmp.¢i(

for goods sold and delivered, and for mone.\' Paid
and expended, is sutiicient under our system.

If

the allegations are deemed too general, hill of par

"('"|ﬂl‘H may he demanded.
Fruborn v. (ilazer, iii t‘al.. iii??
44- Indebtedness on Account. A th-claratimt
is insutticient which alleges an indebtedness and
sets out an account, but docs not nllc;.;c a sale and

53.

Against Carrier for Refusal to

Carry

Passenger.
in an action to recover datna_-_:c
against a common carrier of passengers for I-efnsal
to carry pialntltf, it is not necessary to allege a
tender of the fare. it is autlicient to allege that
plaintiff was ready and willing to pay defendant
such sum of money as it was legally entitled to
receive.
Tarbell v. Ccn. l’ac. it. R. (.'o., 34 (.‘al., 616.

54. For JointTort. \\’here two ortnorc persons
are sued for a joint wrong done. it may be neces
sary in order to a joint recovery, to prove a previ
ous combination between them; but this need not

be alleged in the ootnplaint.
Herron v. Hughes, 2.3 L‘al., 560.

(leli\'er_v of the articles.
Mershon v. Randall. t I‘al., Still.

I 45. Supplemental Complaint.

it is no objec

tion to a supplemental complaint, attacking an
aasigmneut for fraud discovered after suit hrought
It-S creditor, that it fails to hrimz in all the utitct‘
creditors,

55. Different Groumls for Recovery. A com
plaint Which states the facts in the ease in ordinary
and concise language, is not demurrable, because

such statement. shows that plaintitf is entitled to
recover upon two different legal grounds.
.\iills v. Barney. ‘)2 (.‘al.. M0.

Baker v. Bartol. ti t ‘al.. i\‘i.

46- Suit by Member of Joint Stock Company.
A mmPlaint alleging that plaintltfaud defendants
are members oi ajoint stock company, that defend
amﬂ excluded plaintiil‘ from participation ill its
business, that they have received large sums of
mﬁney from the same and refuse to account or pay

56. A “'1-ittea Contract may be declared on
according to its legal effect, or it may be set out in
hare rcrba. If cleclarcd on according to its legal
etl'ect, the defendant may. hy rule of the common
law, crave 01/er of the instrument ; and if it appears

that its provisions have been misstated he may set
out the contract in hrrc rcrba and demur on tin

an-"'m!1t;. ('tc.. entitles plaintitl to relief hy decree
amnning his interest and directing an account.
Smith v. Pagan, l7 t'al.. 7~'.

S-—.— 2

ground of variance.
Htoddard v. 'l‘readwcll, Jli (‘al., Zllt.
57. On Sealed Instrument. in a suit upon an
instrument under seal, set out in har n-1-bu in the

complaint, eonsiderution need not be averred. The

(ill. To Reform Contrnct. in an action to
reform u coutrnct, the tnistalte or error must be
ltpt-elt\ll_\' pleaded and its correction prayed as
lll(.lt‘|)(‘liilt'l\\ relief.

seal imports consideration.
"lﬂhollll \'. .\ict‘nltill. 2i t'ul.. l2.‘..

Condition Precedent.

\\’hen the deviant

tlon states a condition precedent, and falls to aver
performance. the defect tuttst be taken advanuuze

tninty us to time and place to enable dell-use.
Wottttttt \-. t'onant, ldt‘ul.. 249:.

of by demurrer itt the court below.

l-i ipp \'. Stout, 2 (‘al., 460.
50.

0?. Divorce. in tN'li0ltlt int‘ di\'0|'t1' the Charge
of l\l‘\l“.t‘l"_\' should be stated with reasonable (‘GP

Tort, or Aasumpslt. or Contrnct.

When

pel‘t-ltiilitl property is tortiously taken, the pnrt._v
aggrlwed ma_v waive the tort and sue in ttsauntpltlt
t'or the value of the property.
l"ratt v. t'lttl'k. I2 t‘al., -“til; 3 M., 4-18.
60. Where it breach of contract is a wrong, the
party il1it_\'Htl(‘ in tort, instead of suing upon the

mmmct'

The plaintitltttusl

aver nnd prove ~tlwugh not denied—-resldenccln
the State for the time required by the statute.
tltcnnet v. ilennet. '5 (‘ai.. 3tItl.l .\\'ertnent oil mac
riaue, if not denied. need not he proved. ti-ox v.
Fox. ‘It t‘nl.. -‘ﬁt. Ability of the husband to pro
vide for the wife must atiirntatively appear by the
complaint when application is on ground of (allure
to provide.
\\'w~hhurn \'. \\'tutithurn,t| t‘al.,it!7.

08. IQ]:-etment. 'i‘he State may maintain an

Sheldon v. Stcatner. " Uncle Snnt." l-H i‘ai..
5'.Zti.

61. Suit by Corporation. The allegation that
plaintitf is a corporation under the laws of the
State is suﬂicient to show legal capacity to sue.
0" . °\)
Cal. Rtcttnt Nov. ('0. v. \\’right,6 (‘oi qd
‘b

t,‘nl.,~i4l.
62. The Right to Sun a County is not limited
to cases of tort, malfeasance, etc.,but. is given in
every case of account after presentation to and
rejectlott by the board of commissioners. The
complaint must aver such presentation and rejec
tion.
Mc(Jo\v|t v. Sierra tZo.. 7 l‘ai.. 12%.

action for real estate. Jlrown xaritate, 5i.‘"l"-.
196; I I olo. Low ltt-p., 39!). in actions to recover
real prop<-rt_v the complaint need not state the
residence of the parties. The location oi the
Prctnises. nnd not the residence of the pawl’?
determines the county. (Dull v. Filler, ltital.,i’¥.
l 4 olo. Law Rl'|i.. tm. The pialntitf in such action
is not limited to any particular form of c0utPMm'
but the form tnny be adapted to the facts to bi‘ WE
in issue. He may allege that he is seized oititft
premises or of solute t-state therein, in i'ec,for In;
or for years, or ma_v aver former possession t! d

ouster; but whatever is put in is:-sueand dt-termlllt
is conclushrc and tinal. (‘J5 t‘al., M.) lie ma)‘ “If”
title in general terms; but if he attempt totlm3| ii‘
his title he must set forth e\'~'I',\' lll‘Pl"‘-"3"-V ‘"2:

63. Treble Damages. In a suit for treble dum
ages given by the statute, the complaint must
expressly demand such datnaues, and either recite
the statute, or conclude to the dnlnagc oi‘ plaint.it‘l'
against the form of the statute.
(,‘hipman v. Entcrie, 5 t‘a.l., 2'39.
64. Special Damages cannot
unless alleged in the complaint.

be

recovered

Tucker v. Parks, 4 Colo. Law itep., 3H6.
Stevenson v. Smith, ‘bi (.‘al.. 102; l2 t'(l.. l7l ;
-id., 296.

65. General and Special Damages. ila1|tat.:'es
which necessarily result from the injuries cotnplained of are called general damages, and Hill)‘ be
proved undera. general demand for relief; but such
damages as are the natural, although not the neces
sarg/, result from the injury, are termed special

damages and must be stated in the complaint.
(Tucker v. Parks, i ('olo. Law ilr-p., M6; -1 Coms.
liltl; 2 Barber, 525; 10 N. Y., 371 ; 1iiAbl).,3ll),OI'1h0):

cannot be proven on tlte trial. (2 Kcrn.. %'2' l5
How., 2&3). An averment of special damage is
necessary to prevent surprise to the (.it.~I't-tttl:tttt
and is not t-ravorsnble. (Tm-ker \'. Parks, 4 i‘oio.
Law Rcp., 306; 15 l{o\v., 263); except where the
speelnl damage is the foundation of the cause of
action, tn which case it is a material al
and if not controverted, is admitted
Iogamom
4

Pcrrlng v. Harris, 2 M. 6: Rob. 5' see ii \’
\'.,-')‘26; i l-I
‘ '
‘ U

. D. Smith, 460,

including Probate of it will. which form a linil. ‘(I
t‘al.. I'M.

Must aver title or posttessioll.

"6 11;;

'55).
"\\'tl-8 lmtﬁessed
.\n allegation
of" certain
that plaintitf
lands therein
on a do)‘
(lesti

7“;

"wltieh said premises the said ttiaintiﬁclaiazlln
fee simple absolute," is an allettﬂilﬂll OK“ 176'. .
the plaintiff in tee sltnple absolute. 13‘-‘ ill:-H‘
Exact time of ouster need not be aliei!£‘d- ll“ M1
iP<3l. But to recover on prior possession plilll"ML

must allege and prove acttntl ouster. M W "lam
Avcrmt-nt of wrongful withholding t‘q“l";e‘a_
to nvcrment of ouster. (‘£2 (‘al.. l7tlt. 1ill “ﬁg-M
tion that the possession of defendant is WT"
ttH‘""'
or unlawful" is not a statement of fact. W

clusion of law. no cat.,2zm. The allctitl‘“’“'.mtl:-ﬁri
be construed most strontzly aualttst tilt‘ ‘ihcﬂltlsill.

A complaint that in one place alleges mm! In no
Possession, and in another that he 15 "‘“' 5 N r bf
cause of action. {it (‘1ll-- 449- Hjecumm‘ mu-lien
maintal ned by the purchaser at sale to enror:';nwL
Of municipal corporations tor street tmprovém M

(1 ('olo. Law ltep., 144). To maintain <'J@°l“,‘On ma
mining claim plaintiff must alleill‘ l““W mm“,
ni.~o the tiisco\'er_v oi':t IIXIP Pl'i"r m me Pnm
ment of the netirm.

09. Against Executor or Adlnlnintrator.

in

171
Statute oi Frauds.

in an action on a prom

suit against an executor or administrator, the com
plalnt failing toallege presentation of cause to, and
rejection by, the defendant, does not state ftwts
sutiicient to comttitutc a cause of action. tlnt'al..

ise of defendant to answer for the debt or default
of another. it is not iic('t-ssur_\' to aver in the com
plaint that the promise was in writing.

555).

80. lihridence of Limitation. Facts taking a
case out of the provisions of the statute of limita
tions must be specially set out in the complaint.

(‘no in possession of personal property no

administrator can maintain an action itt his own

name for its conversion. "
.\luuch \'. Williamson, 24 t‘ul.. lift.
70. To Cancel ttonvoyance. in a hill to set

Wakefield v. tireenhood, 29 t'nl., 597.

Smith v. Richmond, 19 t"al., 476; ii t'd., 42%;

29 t'd., '1); 30 id.. 4-i-i.

aside conveyance of real c.-uate as fraudulent
against creditors, there is no necessary incon

sistency in averrlng the grantee to be a tictltious
person, and that the deed in his name was made
to hinder and defraud creditons.
Purket v. Polack, l7 t‘al., Ii'..'7.
‘it. A complaint to set aside grant for fraud
must state specifically and deﬁnitely the facts con

stituting the fraud.
(lakland v. (‘arpentler.2i (‘al.,tH2: ‘Z7 lrl., ltiti.
72. To Vacate Judgment. To obtain the aid
of t-hancery to vacate a judgment, a party must

uhow that he has exhausted all proper diligence
to defend in the suit in which the jutitzment was
rendered. If he relies upon fraud and deception
P"“'l-iced upon the court, he must allow how he
suifered thereby.

tltiddle v. linker, iii t‘ai.. 29-‘n.

The facts and circumstances t't)tis'tiiiil.li|i{ the al
legrd fraud must be set forth. H‘astlc v. i’nuicr.
‘B tJal.. 75.) When the judgment was by contes
sion, a general averment that the intent was to

hinder, delay and defraud is insutiiclent.
.\lt-cker \'. Harris, iii (‘al., 278; 3') id., 666.
73.

injunction.

in a bill for injunction the

mere allegation of a great and irreparable lnjl1l‘.l"
lo a vested right is lnsutiicient; the facts stated

.\icyer v. Binkleman, 5 Colo., 6‘..*.’.

iii. Tl-over. To maintalnjoint action in trovcr
it intint appear that the spccltic thing sued for calm
into the hands of the defendants successively.
Simmons v. Spencer, 2 Colo. Law Rt-p., H6.
82.

Trover liea for the value of goods illegally

withheld under claim of lien for freight money.
Marsh v.U. P. Railway ($0., 2 t'ol0. Law Rep..

205.
83. The conversion is the gist of the action in
trovcr, and without conversion, or its equivalent,
the action cannot be maintained.
Rogers v. Rule, 2 (2al., 471. '
84. (‘arr-ier
Fniessthe complaint alleges that
defendants were common carriers, they cannot be

held responsible in that character; and unle.~i.~‘ it
is alleged that the defendants received or “'t.'I'C to
receive compensation, their promise to carry will

be regarded as made without compensation. (9
Bari», l~'>~':.

It is not necessary toallege theamount

paid or to he paid.

(2 New Rep., 4-35; 13 l:2ast., note

A; 2 La ltaymond, U5); and perhaps the state

ment that dcfendants received, implies that they
were to be paid therefor. (15 N. Y., 446). It seems

inustsatisfy the court that the apprehension ofsuch

no previous demand of goods is necessary. 6 Dncr.,
35). it is not necessary to allege that the loss was

|"JUl‘&‘ is well founded.

without fault on the part of plaintiff.

llmnch Turnpike f'o. v. ('t)liil‘t-I. Yuha (‘o.,
iii L‘al., tau.
74- An injunction will not be granted in the
rim instance on a bill which charges fraud only

on information and belief.
Brooks v. ifiiara, l t'olo. Law liep., -3-iii.

75. Injunction against the negotiation of notes,
alleged by ﬂl1ﬂit‘iHii bill to have been executed
under duress, will not bedlssolvetl on the face oi
the paperg_

ltichnrds v. Wcatcott, 2 lios\v.,5iiIi.

85.

Where a

railroad company

undertakes

gratuitously to carry a passenger, and he receives
injury by the negligence of the company's agent,

the company is liable; in such case a cotuplaint
which stated that defendant received pialntitl‘ as :1
passenger, and while he was a passenger, he, by the
negligence of the defendants, was injured, was held
to state a cause of action.
.\'olton v. \Vest. R. it. (.'orp., -15 N. Y., H4.

Lyster. .\dr., v. Stickney, 2 (‘olo. Law Rep..
El.
.
76. I-indorner. in an action against the maker

86.

On a (.‘heck.

A complaint lnan action by

the payee against the drawer of a check, must

Ola note, or acceptor of a hill of exchange, in
Which the place of payment is fixed, it is not

allege notice to the maker of demand and non

necessary to aver presentment at the place and
refusal to pay,
th:7‘
.\iontgomcry
A complaint v.isTutt,
lnsuilicient
ll (?al., which treats

such case plaintiff relies on facts which excuse
notice, he must state such facts in the complaint.
An averment of due notice will not be sustained

payment ofthc check.

(3 .-\bb., 252).

Where in

by evidence of facts excuslng notice.
Harvey v. Fowler, 4 Sand., 665;

and seel

( maker and guarantor ofa note as joint makers,

and contains no allegation of demand and notice.
Ughtstone v. Laurencel, -i (,‘ai., 217.

78- An endorser of a note payable on demand,
zgjlctnantl being made until thirteen months after
Th‘J0d|'S<l%n1’ent to plaintiff, is prima /acie not liable.
exéuse 1:: is unreasonable. in such case facts to
wl i.9 W deli‘-" """‘ eSstlntlal in the complaint
1 lb is insuﬁieient without them.
Jerome v. -\'tebhlns. it (‘al.. 457.

Kernan, 26; 5 Sclden, -"ll-').
88. Subdivision Thlrd—Prayer for Relief.
Ubjcction to the prayer of a complaint cannot be
taken by demurrer. if the specific relief asked
cannot be granted, such relief as the case stated in

the complaint authorizes may he had under the
prayer for general relief. and even in the absence
of such prayer, where an answer is ﬂied.
Rollins v. Forbes, 10 (‘al., 299.
demurrer to "so much of an anttm-r as
wt». up a ttpceittl contract" in not sutlich-ntiy
npm-itic and Will not he considered. if it be

lnnrtifh-i:iily

framed, the court will, under the prayer for g--n~
eral relief, disregard mistakes: and grant -tu~h
urmmd of tit-murrer at all that ntntcnwnts colt
tnin--ti in a pleading are lrrelevtmt, such state

reiiefas will conform to the complaint.
'l‘t'ueb0d)' V. Jaeotmon, 2 t'nl.. ‘Jill.
|m'Iit'~ llltt~l ht‘ ])t)llll0‘(l out f~[)1~t'lfl('1\ll_\’.
t'rm.~l»y V. l'. P. Railway t‘o.,l t_'oio. law

When trehiedmmnzt-1~ are claimed under a

statute such damages llllihl be eX|\l't~--l_\' lu.-4-rted
.{I'll., U7.

in the complaint, \\’lllt‘h numt either recite the
8. .\ complaint brought in the name uf“tlu.~
Htttic of t ‘olor|ulo" in, in effect, tt suit in the name
of "the people of the HU\ll'," and lit £006 on

statute, or conclude to the tlntnagc ufilw plalntitl",
against the form of the statute.

t'hipn1an v. l-hncric, 5 ('al., ‘.31’.
91.

BPUWII V. Hlulv, I l'0|u. IMW “BIL. -EDI; -1

\\'here suit it-throtnziit to test the priority of

the appropriation of water. a prayer for an injunc
tion to prevent further or future in_iur_v is proper.
il.

Marius v. Bickweli, to t‘al.. 2i7.

t‘0l0., till. °
.\ euitiplulttt by t-onnhznor ngulnstamrrier,

ll\'t'l‘l'lllK owm-miiip in the former and breach Of

.\ mi so in trespass, 7 M.. 12'».
ii‘ there he no answer the relief granted

shall not exceed that demanded inthe complaint

t'0flil‘ttvl hy the latter, is good on demurrer.
“artin \'. .\lel.aughlin. l t‘ol0. law Rep.,

it ‘ode, Sec. i:'i'ii; but in all other cases the court nmy
grant any relief consistent with the case made by
the complaint and embraced within the ii-mue.

tlt‘il\llI’I'vl'; hut the defendants appearing, plead

92.

.‘ttl-3; it t‘0lO., 195.

to. .\lisjointh~r of partien defendant is cause for
im: and ~.:oing to trial without ob_iection,ahmtld
not lw |lt‘ltI‘tl to complain that the miqjoinder was
at a later pcrlod corrected by plalntitl’. t)lliicr v.

Smith v. Havens, ti t'olo.. ‘N7.
\

SECTION

65.

Blake, ‘.3 t‘oio. Law ltcp., 433; 6 t‘0l0., iii.) 90.

[t'al. Prue. Act. See. 40; K)‘. Code. -“ct-. I21; N. Y.
t‘mle, Ht-e. Hi; Ohio Code, t-‘cc. hT.]

lllll-tJOll'ltlt‘I' oi causes of action can only be taken
t\tl\'untat_'t' of hy demurrer and exception to tile

Under the Fmle.
l. Demurrer—Gencrally.
the oh_je('ilon for uncertainty in raised h_\' Il(~
murrer.
“anning v. llnm, 5 ('olo..
2. \\'here it appears on the face of the cunt

ovt-rruiimz.

plalnt that the claim sued on is barred by statute.

t rn-r. cl uI.. v. Killian. '.’ t‘oio. Law Rt~'l'~
em! m -n
'l‘\u‘rner

Green v. Tnney, 4 Coin. Law Rep" 521
11.

\\'here, notwithstanding formal defectltn

a complaint, enough is alleged to support it Jud!’
ment in favor of piaintlﬂ', it is not subject to i-'“"'

and no facts are stated taking the demand out of
the statute, (h-murrer will he t-iustulned.
Pipe v. Smith, 5t‘olo.. H6.
Meyer v. Binkh-man. ict.. ‘.'Ii2.
3. llemurrer should he sustained to a pleading
which sets up remote and merely speculative
damages.

12.

t7-'1.
.\ complaint not stating it cause of actltm

without regard to the exluhits, in bad on demurNT
tllrooks \'. Paddock, 2t'ol. Law Rep.,2l6; 6L‘0lo.,$l’l
That am "plaintiff is entitled to the possession
of the property is a conclusion of law.

Jones v. .\'athrup, i t‘olo. Law Itep., 3:1),

linker v. t'ordwcll, id., t2‘ ; 6 Colo» M'

4. A demurrer admits all the fuels well
pleaded, and when there are suillcicnt fttt-ts well
pleaded in a complaint to constitute lt cause of
action, though there are defects in the ph-adinfz.
demurrer is not available. If a material fact is
t\llt'.’tZt‘.(1 in terms too general, the plalntitl nmy. on
mot.ion, be required to make his complaint more
speciﬁc.
Wilaon v. 1).,h‘. P. dz l’. R. R. (.‘o.. 4 t'olo.
Law Rep.. 397.
I
5. In an action on it repievin bond for the
delivery of property, “ in cm-t-e the return thereof
shall be awarded." the hrcnch assitzned must he as
broad as the condition of the bond; to alleges
failure to deliver merciy held had on demurrer.
Uolorado Springs t‘o. v. Hopkins, 5 Colo...
2206.

13. Under the ("onstltution 0i't'0l0l1ttl0 t Set‘.
‘d
15, Art. ll.) private property cannot be dtl.lliil[,;t“'
without
llt|ltlt'i', whmw
compensation.
property in
Aninjured
adjacent
by UK;
wept‘an

ﬂing ot a railroad along the street, can tun

the

an action for his damages. An nnswt-r by me
muroad °0l1lPlm,\' setting up a license from

°“>' it! had on demurrer.
.
‘
hm
.\lolandin v. B. & C. it. R. t,o.,lt0l0.q V
Rep-. W. hm nee t‘lty of Dermru-_
Bt\\'0t', 1 t‘nlo_ Lgyw Rep,’ I1‘.-1'; tlfltl .
hertson v. South Pueblo, |'d__ M2.

I

14. l'nder the t'odc tﬁec. till the answer 1&2:
speciﬁcally deny each allegation in the tttJlI1l(3;m.e1
intended to he controverted. Hence ﬁlm U B

denial, by way of the old “opt-"W11 m‘°m'
6. Answer over, waives demurrer. (Meyer v
lllnkleman, 5 t.‘oio., 262; Stanhcrry v. Kerr. t‘olol
Law Rep Witt) Q0 doe
.., .. . sustained.
.
s takingt-.an
t“ amend,
after demurrer
t

,
. _,'Jil.
Uougherty v. Little, H.010.
lbw, ml’

15. Dcmurrer Ill"l\U‘l B814‘
applh-ahle to all ti_\'Plf'ITl5 Of Pleadin
tletnttrrer runs through the whole

llurd v. Smith, -3 t?olo., ‘B33; ti (.’oio.,
\\'ehh v. Smith, 365; 1 t‘ai.,20ti.
But see for exception to the rule, Tucker \'

Edwards, ~i Polo. Law Rep., 518.

had on dcmurn-r.

been o\'ert'ttleti, (1008 not an \\tii\'t‘ ulJ_|t'(‘ilf)llr~ to
25.

Waiver of Ila-murrcr.

liy answering a

the answer, but that it demurrer to the rcpllculloti

complaint in an equitable action instead of-do

be filed it will relate back and test the ~iliilt‘l('llt'_\'
of the answer.

murrlng, and by \'oltlnturiiy going to a llt‘ill‘iIliI
upon the merits, and falling to raise the question
ofjurisdh-lion at any stage ofthc trial, the defend
ant will he held to haw waived all objections to

Bmwn t’. Tucker, I t'olo. Law ltep., MB‘.
it),

su

i-loadcnturn-r to the answer involves the

cicncy of the complaint: if that be bad, it is

the nature of the relief sought and decreed.
Fruc v. lioughton, ii t‘olo., Iii-\‘; ti (‘olo. Law

unnecessary to decide upon the sttfllclcncy of the
answer.
.‘dftl'tili V. .\it‘l)0|ln|ti, H B. 1\lun., 517.
17.

The defendant may avail himself’, on plain

tiff's demurrer to the answer, of any objections to
the complaint. which are not deemed waived under
section 60 of the (‘odc, by failure to make them by
answer or demurrer. .-ilifcr as to objcctlolls thus
waived.
‘ Mitchell v. “attlngly, l .\iet., 337.
IS. A demurrer brings the whole of the plead
imzs before the court, and in deciding upon the
d--murrcr it is the duty of the court to decide
W-Iainst the party who committed the first fault.
i5 .\ion., 5‘ ; 3 Man. 32.’). if the complaint is insuf
ficient it must be so adjudged.

Young v. Iiuin|n;‘\i .\ict.. 2'39.
10. Departure. it lit not a good ground of
dcrnurn-r that an amended complaint departs
from the cause of action set out in the original.

Hord v. Chandler, 13 B. Mom, iili.
20.

A Demurrer "to the Whole Case." though

inartiliclal, puts in issue the sufficiency of the
facts alleged in the original and amended cont

itcp., 303.
20. Jurisdiction. Where a cause was tried by
a court having Jurisdiction of the subject matter
and competent to administer either legal or equit

able relief, an objection to tlic_lurii-tdlcii0l1 of the
court may not be raised for the first time in the
appellate court.
Id.
27. Suﬂiclency of Facts.
t)b_iections to the
complaint other than that it does not state facts
suflicicnt to constitute a cause of action, must be
made in the court below to entitle them to notice
in the supreme court.
'

'l‘tlckcl' v. Parks, 4 Colo. Law R(‘[)., 308; see
note 4, ante.
28. Any Apparent Matter in liar. Where the
complaint shows the cause of action to be within
_ the statute of frauds, demurrer will lie.
Graf v. \\'orthwine, l liandy, iii.
29.

plaints to constitute a cause of action; and if the

complaint shows his cause of action to be founded
on acontmct champertous by statute or at common
law, and void, the demurrer should be -iit>iUtilN'd
Miles v. Collins, 1 .\ict., ltl-i.

When the cause of action appears on the

fate of the complaint to be barred, there is in law
no cause of action alleged; and the defendant may
either demur or answer, setting up the statute.
But if the complaint does not so show on its face
the statute must be set up by answer.
Bturgls v.~iiurton, 3 0. St., 2|.-3; ii t‘al., 42%.

30.

‘Vixen One of Several llefitlltlltlliﬁ‘ De

mum the true inquiry is: Does the complaint
show cause of action against the defendant who

demurs?

2|. Complaint In Replevlm in an action to
recover the possession of chattels a complaint
which only avers that “plaintiff is entitled to the
possession" of the goods sued for is bad on de
murrer. it must allege ownership either general
HI‘ Special in the plaintiff.

if so, the demurrer should be over

ruled.
Slevln \'. iteynolds, etc., Handy, 37.

81. Exhibits referred to, but not made part of
the pleading, cannot be regarded on demurrer for "
insufllciency.
Nathan v. Lewis,i Handy, '.L‘t9; 2 ('olo. Law

Baker v. (‘ordwcll, 2 Colo. Law Rt-p., 427: ii
(‘olo., 199.

Rep., 216; t'd., 427; ii t.‘olo., 36; id., 199.
32. Paragraph. A pleading under the Code
which sets up two or more causes of action or

22. Uncertainty. Brevity in pieadinil "4 '0
_he commended when it intelligently expresses :1
cause of action or defense; but a loose and whole

defenses, but omits to separately state and number
them, is not for that reason demurrable. The

mic adoption and re-adoption of exhibits attached

irregularity can be reached only by motion.

to pleadings of the adverse party. R8 FRI‘ 88 a-ilP“ca'
Me, and with certain exceptions, is too uncertain
in be tolerated under any system.

San Juan, etc., Co. v. Finch, 6 (‘oio., 214: 3

iiartford Township v. Bennet,9 0. BL; 22 liow., Z3; 24 id.. 316; 13 Abb., 195.
33. Apparent Defects Only. It is not within
the oﬂlce of a demurrer to state objections not

apparent on the face of the pleading.
.
i’oc \'. lieckwith, 10 Abb., 126; 19 How., 399:

Colo. Law Rep.. ll.
23- A Cross-Complaint must set forth the
i;l"0lil1ds relied upon for afllrmativc relief with the
mini‘ -‘iirictuess as the complaint.

ll Barb., :i2.‘).
34. A Portion of one entire cause of action or
defense cannot be the subject of a demurrer.

Lord v. Vreeland, 15 Abb., 122; ".34 How., 320.
24.

Disposition of Demurrer.

it is error to

Title the plaintiff to plead to a cross-complaint
“hilt; demuﬂers thereto are pending and undis
lmsct of.
Iii.

35. A Demurrer Admits facts thatarc relevant
and well pleaded, but not conclusions of law.
' H

Hall v. Bartlett, 9 Barb., 297; ii .llow.,_2h,
i Horn. dc liurl., is‘; lit .\bb., :50; 24 t al.,
W}; S t'al., 39?.
36. .\Il.-tjoinder or Non-Jotndn-.
\\'ln-re it
appears on the face of the complaint that there
isa miajoinder or non-joiuder of partiea,0hjection
can only he raised by demurrer; and failure to
demur for these causes in a waiver of the defect.
2 Iluer., it'll; 3 Kernau, 3l2'.’.; iii liarh.. 'iIi2; id.. 29‘;

47. Fifth 8ubdiv’aiou--Mi\|olnder of Cause;
of Action. Suit on recognizance for the appear
auee of H. to answer criminal charge.
The
complaint, after setting out the cause of action
on the r\'(‘0|{tii7.tttiee, avera that H. to secure his
auretim executed a trunt deed to'l‘. of certain war

3 id" 451; 6 B0ﬂ\\'-.600; 4 Aim-. lili.
mnta and mone_v. providing in the deed that tn
37. pk,‘ Qnbdlﬂaion. A d(."m".(.r on "H. - case of a forfeiture ot‘ the rec-cmnizance and the
grmmd “mm ‘ho court hm‘ no ,urh““(M"n' Mlhur I liability of the aurctiea thereon the trustee was to
of the Persona of the defendant or of the auhjet-t
"Dilly ""‘ l"'"i“‘"}' l" mt‘ P'U'""'"‘ OHM‘ "'m“l:“;'

matter oi the action," and "does not state facts
autlicient to constitute a cause of action." is auﬂi-

'"“‘" ‘ma UR" "’ hm." mo pmpony m “pp 0 '
"PM. "I1 tl"lll""“"'- m be '* m“‘1“‘“d"" of ‘'‘‘“'“’s M

(,k,m|}, expucu.

action, the trunt deed having nothing to do with

Ellison v. Hallecir,tit‘al.,3ﬂll; 14 111., an.
38.

‘'19 'i"'",'‘'-‘'l‘'‘ ".'_:'k"‘:"""°"-‘_(. ‘ m

Demurrer to the jurisdiction of a court of

general jurisdiction lies only where the want of

‘it. it several causes of action are imi"'°P"‘5

jurisdiction appears ati’inut\tivel_\' on the face of

joined in the mono action. objection must be tttiten

the complaint. tltherwiae of courts of limited and
especial jurisdh-tion—there every tact essential to

either hy demurrer or answer. or it will bedeemed
to have been waived.

conferjuriadiction must he alleged.

,\iue0ndrny v, .~'luunon.u, i Cal.. Iii“; W id"

l.)oli v. Feller, iti CRL, -m.

217; u m., an; 2 m., zrr; 7 m.. 121.
-ti). .\ complaint which joins an action 01
ll‘t'~l|1l\&.'-t, t‘Jt‘(‘iIl\t""L and prayer tor r--iiel in chau

39. Second Subdivision —Capacity to Site. A
county has legal capacity to sue. (Placer County
V. Asten, S i‘ai., 305.) A ml at State.

40.

eery will he held had on demurrer.

Brown v. State, 1 Colo. Law Rep., 891; 5

lii;.'clow v. t‘ove, 7 t‘ttl.. Hi; £11., 124.

('oio.,
Ulltlul‘
a 406.
demurrer t'or the reason‘ that the

"0' A dcmurnr m" compmim on t u L
ii
that it no-ekaa remedy at law, and also cquim"
i - 'r0u!1d

complaint does not state facts sutiieient to c0nsti-

tutcaca.useofactlon,t-he defendantoan ohject that
the pialutitfhas no legal capacity to sue.

41. Third Subdivlsion—.-\nother Suit Pond-

5!. Sixth Subdivision-No Canoe of Action

iug.
when The
it Biit)Wrl
defendant
Upon its
mayface
(lt‘llllll"
that to
there
the complaint
is another

This
"1 wlllch
‘~"""""'
I10 "r
cause
dmnurr"
of action
H ommned
at all as
m Iﬂtlllnﬂ
muse
'

action pending between the same part-i(-.~.‘ for the
same cause.

d‘‘“'“d'“‘m '3 stated m the complam"
Sumuu-rs v. Fariah, ill (‘ﬁlo 347

Moorc V. Sheppard, i )let., 9?.
12.

52

The pen(ienc_\' of another suit in arm

state for the recover_v and collection of th

A (lmnurmr on the ground that no P899”

er

of action [3 gmtetl need not specify reasons. ""1995

ante

(ho di-{L-use relied on is one which. it) be nude

deht, could not aﬂ’ect--the right of piaintitf to

available. must bi" 8ll(‘c1"-ll." i)‘l‘“d”d'

ecute an action for the debt in this State.
Opin.S“bdi“*i"n—Defect.
Ky, Court App., Jan.,or
M57.
43' “S.
Fmwth
Mhdoin-

53. To entitle plaintiﬂ‘ to subject the mil or
dor of Parties. where a defect of partiea isnmm|._ . tin absent debtor to the payment of his 0 ll ~

out upon the face of the complaint, the objection

"““t 8how that hp H “-“hum remedy a

must be taken by demun-or. or it is “'“i“_.‘|_

if the mu d1,;(.105(.8 “ remedy M mw

Dunn v. '1‘0'I.el', it.) (-al., 167; 16 id" 557. 2

dismissed on demurrer.

hum" MU; 3 K°m“"' 31?-’; iii Barb.. 1:32, '
238; -i Ahh., um,
ittr

Lupton v. Lupton. 3 (‘ai.. IN.

54. When the complaint states B
precedent and talk to over pertornmnce-t
must he taken mivantage of hv derntlrn-‘I’ i

Motion to strike out names of parties plain

titi improperly joined utter demurrer ovcrrtlietl
I
waives Summers
the objection
raised 10
luv
the, demurr
347'
er .
I court in ' ion' .
A v. Farish,
_ Cal"

it is' too late to urge su

45. ‘Vher .
‘
I verdict.
_
all intelestedeil“in.
Humm “ Smut‘ 2 Ca“. mo: 3 "L. 3%
ed
the complaint, and the issues tendered are .:i(mpl):
65. In an action on an undertaking exe('L\~lﬂ\
3§:llu:_::“1:‘l?11°ii~y of euits may he :t\\'tit‘ti(-(l, A v t" "¢‘1"a81‘ l)l'0i)el'l.\' from uuachmmt’ “aid was
mmed

r

oi

inultii'ariou.~inesR will

'Pmmc V H_

not

be Hus-

_‘

46' NnSJ0h\("er1“;‘|'“,‘-T1)Cit‘-'36‘).

the d€‘.111iii‘i‘81't)1~_ <)I l)i:untiﬁ's not ohjectctl to hv '
for no

Maint must allege that the property attal‘kmﬂ'0T

released upon the delivery oi the under“
it will he bad on general demurrer‘.

. answer cannot be made a grouuli

I mmtoting
hil(3ii1)1i'tiYiiiﬁ8
as show ti‘ Mmscl‘
‘- “-“
entitled
recover,
'
Rowe v. Bntriga-iuppt, 31 Ca\_, ma

'

am. 3 min“

\\'illlmItRon v. Blatton, it (.ai.. '

t'

'1";

56. Objections to the pra."¢’l' or the compWm
0/anuot ‘i€@\t‘,:k(_.n lg d:m“:.r:1(,;.;n an

57. if a party in his complaint fall to show
tnat he is entitled to the spccitic relief prayed for,

5:3.

67. Objections to a complaint arising from
matters of form are ‘not the subject of a demurrer.

but shows a right to other relief, gem-ral demurrer
will not be sustained.

()ttcro v. Ballard, 3 Cal., ms.

Foster v. Watson, iii 8, .\ion., 387.

68. it is a rule that when the fraud is com
mitted more than three years before the commence
ment of the action, the complaint should show

58. Seventh Subdhrision—Amblguity. A de
murrcr to a-pleading for ambiguity and uncer
tainty should point out specially in what the

that the discovery was made within three years
next preceding the commencement of the action.

mnbiguity or um-crtainty consists, or it will be

(Pipe V. Htnlth, ii (‘ol0., H6; 9 (‘ul., 423.) The com

disregarded.
Blane v. Klumpkc, '.!l t'al., 156.

plaint must. allege ignorance of the fraud and

when discovered.
59. Where the demurrer specifies the alleged
causes of demurrer, it excludes all other grounds
ofobjection than those particularly set forth, and
others cannot he insisted upon in argument.
.\'ellis v. be Forrest, 16 Barb., 63.

69. The allegation that letters testamentary
were granted and issued by the county court is
suiﬂcient, without averring an acceptance of the

60. That from the complaint it “does not
appear that plaintiff had any title to the note

trust and qualification thereunder.
Mattison v. (‘i_1lldi-i, 5 (‘ol0., 7-i. _

when the suit was commenced"—does not suiti
t-ientiy assign the cause of demurrer. (“'hite v.

fact, and it is a ﬁle of pleading that it is necessary

Low, 7 Barb., Hit.) .\'or does the statement that
"there is a defect of parties defendant."
Skinner v. Stuart, 18 .-\bb.. H3.

The execution of a note is a traversable

t.o state a time when every material or travcrsable

fact happened. The objection for uncertainty is
raised by demurrer.

61. Where the complaint, after setting forth
certain matters of inducement, avcrred in succes

Manning v. Haas, 5 (.‘olo., 37.

sion several distinct acts done and committed by

the defendants, whereby, and by each of which
acts, the defendants became liable to plaintiff, etc.;
Held, that such complaint must be regarded as
analogous to a declaration containing several dis
tinct counts, and separate dt'Illll!'l‘('l'H might be

Im'1‘l'i)°iicti to the several causes of action con
tained in the complaint.

Ui-{densl.)urg Bank v. Paige, 2 (‘ode itcp., 7.3.
62- .\liseeihneous.

7|. it seems that a mere statement of legal
conclusions, with a. demand that the defendant
show by what authority it exercises a franchise,
as was ancleutiy tolerated when the proceeding
was by information in the nature ofa qua il'(|rr(|nlo,
would not be suilicient under the (?ode.
C. & G. R. it. (To. v. People, 5 (.‘olo., 39.

72. A defect in pit-adlng may be aided by
pleading over.
Id.

A demurrer to the whole

Pomplaint, when some of the counts are
should be overruled.

good,

Weaver v. ('()l1'._'(.‘l', 10 (.'al., -23:; 1 mt, as; -i

10., an; as m.. an; m.. mm.‘

73. in an action by an indorscc against an
indorscr an answer which alleges that the con

siderttiion received by the lndorser was less than
the face value of the note, is bad on demurrer.

Dunn v. (.lhost, 5 Colo., lfil.
63.

A statement of facts in a d1_'lllUl'l't‘!' is not

admissible. The only otlice of a demurrer is to
raise issues of law upon the facts stated in the
pleading demurred to.

74.

It is not sttliicient to over in a pleading that

an ass-lgnec is not a bona ﬁdc holder, in an action
by the assignec against the drawer; the defendant

must aver that t.he. plaintiff had notice of the

Cook v. De La Guerra, 2-! (‘al., 3%.

original transaction, and the burden rests on him
64.

A complaint

setting

forth

that

plaintiff

Purchased a quantity of goods from W. & P., “then

who assails the title on that ground.
Boughncr v. Meyer. 5 (‘ol0., ‘ii.

and there acting as agent of the defendant," is only

another form for declaring that he purchased them
from defendant, and is sutilcicntly certain to pre
Vent any misapprehension of the meaning, and is
good on demurrer.
Cochran v. Goodman, 3 (fal., 245.
65.

In an action for the breach of acontrach

Want of any averment of special damage cannot

be reached by demurrer. Htich averment is only
necessary where the right of action itself t1tfP0l1d$
"PO11 the special injury received. For the breach

75. Objections to a pleading not made in the
court below will not be noticed on appeal.
.i“assett v. hiulock, 5 Golo., 460.

70. The statute of limitations is a personal
privilege which the debtor may assert or waive at
his option; to be available. it must be set up in
some form, either by demurrer or answer. (brat
ton v. \Viggins, 25 0111., iii). If not apparent on the
face of the complaint, must be set up by answer.
Smith v. Richmond, 19 (‘al., 476.

Of contract on action lies, though no actual dam

age be sustained.
i\ici‘arthy v. iieach, in (‘al., Ni.

77.

An objection that securities sued on are

not demurrer,
by
promissoryand
notes
a demurrer
must be taken
having
advantag:c1
been ‘fl ;

66. It is no Hound of demurrer to a complnlnt
that t.he christian name of one of the plalnuml
does not appear.
Nelson v. Highland, 13 i.‘ai.. 74

without

pointing out

this

defect,

considered waived.
Powell v. Ross. 4 (]ai., 197.

it must

7.8.

if 0v--r_v

ﬂu-t

("Nl‘n"ll|

tn thv vinim nr

$ECT|ON 58,

dt‘ﬁ'll!it‘ lw not vslnlvtl tho adwnw party may

PM‘ PH“ \M‘$W.¥L}

dmnur; and if any fnvt not u-mu-ntlai to thv claim
or (it-l'enso—-I’. 0.. any oxm-]\t inaunhiu lt\t'l:-—-lw
stnivd, tho t\tl\'l't‘N‘ party nmy tnmv lu -trikv out

i'tNl\'. dmntlrrvr l'i\lili()l lw ~u-¢tnim-tl.
-"
lit-ut.~u-h \'. i’m‘t"t', in t‘.\l.. »u.
80. A rlvﬂ-vt \\'lll(‘ll will tit-t1~nt tin» plnintlti‘zI-mm U, 1-H-(,\».\r in “-lmh. Ur m ‘MN is “ Km“
K1-"undnf dN,mrn.,-'

"'"|'h. "' “Mum 3“ "I" 12*‘
2. \\'lu-rv thv lion-minni in nllu\\'\~d tlmo tn
nnnwvr until tiw piuintlti ﬂit-eta on \\'hh~l| munt 0t
titv vutnplnittt iw \\iii :0 to trlni, the plaintiff

th~- uno~u.s¢-tttini parts.
l’nltn~-r.
I-3 t‘nl..
Ill.
79. Urm-n
"ll\t‘H§\'.thv
i£I‘utll\tln‘
iw lIH'lll'|t‘(l

in llw untnv timv. us in m~-of .~wrvlv0 Ht’ vopy 0!
not statv fm-ts sntiit-it-nt tn (‘(!il§llllllt' n mtm- uf nctlun, must distinctly spvcify tho. grounds
whh-h tho nhjw-tinn.~z are lmsvd.

H1-ht, stttth-iontly to point out liw oh].-t-tiun

relied on, to enable defendants to insist on tho ur-

gumcnt that plaintitftmd not capacity to me.
(‘0m.liank v,Hmltl1,9.\l)b.,ltiR; l7 lImv., 1&7.
3. Unless the I-!l‘()l.lll(lS :-ttatvd hoin('lt1d1-d in uno
or morcul thv vu.usm4 ut‘1i¢-murrvr n'n|nt-ti in thv

4. 1‘nm tlm plnintitl had no l‘BP8(’“Y ‘O ““"’

t::\)u:~t
(t)‘l!els"::nQ. “Tit. dunur
mvand answpr “ ‘tingle
I t
,

Cnllw of d(‘I1\llt'I’('I' ii‘ tlw fnvt Mllwﬂrtl nn tho fﬂ"

It on, (-i mum v, \\ hP(-lt"l‘v i Hum-_, £i7:$i.
Hhillmnn
nnr to the
whole v’.
( ft\‘\"()\i:lI:?(:'h~;¥i.{0\\l

of ‘hp ._"mpm‘m_ and m Sm.“ n NW, 8 “Hum u
drntttr;utwtt|tL~ tn n \\'tll\’t't‘ oi‘tlw0i)J'i“‘u0n.'-mlkm.

2.


UP inkvn

'“""w' liuulu-_\' \'. **id\\'t-ll, H ii. .\lnn., ~Jul.

An ansv H

of action is f' ‘ieild‘)‘“(1(1Cn\urrt.-r in the same muse
or ) den by this snctiun of the (,‘ndP.
The practice in New York under similar provisinns
. sums to he to require the party in Meet lw \\‘|ll(‘l
he will stand.
. D
I
Howard \'. Mich. Son. R. R. (‘0., 5 Hnw ‘Mi
.\'u'rr:—'l‘i\e bvttor rule would be to hold the an
cascor
(WOr.l)‘§dtm ' m - nmrrm.‘ M m
swer toanswer
be H. wnivor
I

contains
mh““ “"Jl‘dS‘adef:L(;0n smmd m which
0"“ mum‘
1"
n um,('ann"t dPlnur in 11 part of

I-"1-’~l‘nh:1m v B 1
nllegvd in tho nn.~wcr and Pt'O\'vIt at tho lrl'\|'
F0tl\' \'. ‘Mnlivr, ll 8. .\l¢m-. 3*‘
¢,hJN.uU" ‘ohm crmipinint. mtwr lha” mm
t tu cottstitute u
it dues not a-tlulv fuvt:-I 8lllli(‘l(‘ll
h 0 co“ rt l)0i0\" .
cause of uvtion. must ho mndv in t
to entitle tin-tn lu twtico in the h'uP\’l‘""’] t '0ur1.
L-,_

Tuckvr \'. Pnrkti. 4 (‘niu. LBW R*‘P~~ '"“
int l't\(‘l‘ sum‘
h.
A ﬁlll\lh~ to state in tiw P0tttl\ltl
' in
(‘l('Ill
(‘1)l]i~‘lllUl4'll t1illW‘t)f xwtinn um) lit m
|\d\'nntago oi at any mm‘. In mm M Judgmﬂl;
0fdel)tm'fm'ft1\u ',
vrmlitnr in set ﬂﬂldv (‘Oll\'t‘}'1lll(’(’
' 0VM
v

l0 defunlant umnot demur in a Part and
3. T}
r '
.
answorunoti
.
but one t~1\ut;:tr(§~a.n.{)-fa
complaint

I

".h.'H.. ,_, M. (lvmurror M um“-t-r hut sntl't\reJ"‘1'1'

ixwm tr _ “'m, demm‘ N in “ m,;“._.‘,‘10" that he 1!
The two plea-K prem-nt entirely
ditl‘er~~nt tlt'i't'ﬂh‘1'N. The latter iienien the t*Xl~liL‘llPt'
of the oriuinal. Jmi-.z|m-m tin pleaded. the former
admits its L'Xl8l('Ilt'\' and avem snlisllwlintt thereof.
Had the defendant amended the former plea and

objection that several eanaes ofaetion are improp~
Q‘I'l_\' united tYoumzs v. ;~leeley, 12 How., Sit’); 2 Hil
ton, Ilii.'l; ti lim~\\'., mo; itI.. ttlii; or that the aetion
was eotnlneneed before the muse of action accrued
.-\ud so of an

gone to trial thereon. his ohjm-tion would not he

(Smith v. iiolnn-s, iii .\'. \'.,'.’7l i; orthal the plalntitl‘

eonsiderml in the Supreme t'ourt; but tryimz the
issue raised by the plea of nu! (it-I record was no
waiver of his exception to the ruling of the hull"

is not the real party in illlvrrni. trlavage \'. Corn
i-Ixelmuge, i itos-w., 2i; or has not legal eapaeity to
she, or any defense that requires to be npeeially

against the plea of tl(‘t'0l‘d and sati§fa<-tion.
Tueker v. Edwards, 4 i'uln. Law lit-p., 5l\'.

pit-mled.
.\iusseiman v. t‘aeu, 3| llarb., till.

8.

Di-feet of Parties app.-arlmz may be taken

advantage of by demurrer. Moe. :33.)

if it does not

appear it may in taken by suggestion in the
tUl)iWel'; if such objeetion is not in.~'i.~Kte(l by tlt~
murrer to answer, it will be regttrtietl an \\-aixmi;

and the. case may. if [)I‘Ilt'H(‘tlh|t', determine the
controversy between the parties before it. if there
are other indispeu.~mblu parties the eourt Rhottid
require thetn to be brought in.

(See. hi.‘

Johnson v. t'hanilier. lit ll. .\lon.. .'\"iil ' 17
fd..6l-3.
9. rltat-ute of Fraud. if the pialntiti"a com
plaint does not show a promise in u-riling made by
one for the undertaking of another, no jtnlgtm-nt
din be rendered (3 .\iar.,-H3; S B. .\ion.,»i2.ii; though

the defendant should fail to plead and wt up the

13. Win-re the defendant demure to the eon)
plaint for failure to state (1itI.~‘e of action without
objecting to want of proper parties, eapueity to sue.
or the fortn ofaction, he waives his right to insist

upon these oiijevtionn, and for the purposes of the
demurrer the eomplnlnt will be deemed unohjei
tionahle by reason of any such defects.

(Loomis v.

Titlt, l6 ilarb., Mi; 3 (‘oio. L. R., 303; ii t‘olo., 313.)
An incurable defect in not waived by anyplending,
but may be taken advantage of whenever the par
iit'\‘ are before the court. tiiurnham v. i)eBe\'oise,
3 Ho\\‘., 1510; in iiarh., -iii-i.) \\'hen the court has once
aequlred jurisdiction of a person, it is not ousted
by his as.~muiing a eiinrneier or an olllce which, if

originally posst-ssetl the court would not have had
Jurhuiietion-me by hc(‘t)lt1illg a foreign consul.
Kappei v. Hendricks, 1 i.larb., 449.

statute.

Smith V. Fah, l5 8. .\ion., 440.
to. Answer Does not Cure Fatal Defect ill
complaint. Where the complaint Betti forth no
cause of action, and the defeet in not cured by

SECTION 61.
[L‘nl. Prue. Art, Hee. -16; Ky. Code, See. i;l-5; tihio
(‘ode, Sec. 9.2; N. Y. Code, See. Hit]

answer, advantage may be taken by motion in

arrest of Judgment, or by writ of error.
Fible v. Caplinger, 13 B. Mon., 466.
ll.

Defect of

Partlr-n.

An

1.

The Answer---‘Vhat it Must (Jontain—Ac

don by lindornee or Annignee. in an action by

answer denying

that plalntitl‘ Will! the holder and owner of the
note sued on, and averring that it had been
as-'il€"£‘d by plalntitl‘ to another by deed for the
benefit of creditors, may be regarded as a diiatory
plea; not,however, resulting. even when sustained

M‘ proof, in the dinIul.~u-tnl or abatement of the
action, but furnishing ground for an order of court

requiring the additional party to be brought in

an endoraee against an entiorser, an answer which
alleges that the consideration reeei\'e<l by the en
dona-r was less than the face value of the note, is
bad on demurrer.
iluun v. Ghost, 5 (‘olo., itll.

2.

It is not sutﬁelent to over that the asslgnee

is not the bmmﬂde holder, lnan action by assiguee
tigtlillﬂi drawer: the defendant must aver that the

plalntitl‘ had notice of the original transa-ction,and
the burden of proof of bad faith rests with him who

under pain Of(liSlIllS.'~ltll without pn-_jtniiee.

The

defect of parties not appearing in the emnplulnt
I-‘ properly

taken

by ull.\iWt'I', which, although

Presenting n'othiug in bar of the nethm. prem,-his

an obstacle in the way of recovery until the neces
KiH'.l' party is h|‘utlt£lll in.

17 B. .\ion.. 60;’.
Vanbuskirk v. Levy. 3 .\let.. I35.
"-3- “'hen

Objection

Raised by Demurrer

and When by Answer. This section means that
if ""3 0b,le('tion is not taken by demurrer, when

mm nmd“ ‘S l"'O]>er. or by answer in (‘ilSt'R where
that is "'9 lll>l‘l'0priate lIlf'lilOti, it is w:ii\'e(i..iI’.
Kernan, 336: 33 ilarh., -327i. An objm-tion that
u1“"‘ lit a defeet of parties, not htken by demurrer
Or answer, is waived (‘.2 K4-r., .'>~li; 3 id., 336; it Bosw..

nssnils the title on that ground.

iloughner v. Meyer, -3 (f0lo., 71.
3. ‘When Reply not Required. Wiien the an
swer sets up no new matter, but merely denies the
allegations of the eomplaint., no reply is necessary.

Meyer v. iiinkiemnn, 5 (‘0lo., 262.
4. Supplemental Annver. Where the defend
ant puts in no general rienialor otherdeiense based
upon the facts as they existed at the commence

ment of the suit, hut sets up as a defense matters
1-mb>~eoue11tl_v oeeurﬂng. he is not required to plead
hv leave of the eourt by supplemental answer.
Seetion 7-i (t'ode of ‘Hi, Set‘. 77l is inapplicable to
sueh n ease.
""1 3' "Mb-.l1r2:u1., an; ~l Abb., ms; 2 Hiltm1..-"Mi
5.

lit-p., 533.
“'hen .-\n.<wer to Sierits does

not “'1-rive

and eannot be taken for the first time on the trial

Plea to Jnrhdlction.

The defendant filed a plea

(29 Barb.. 92 Iii t'|l., '.3!\‘). or on appeal till N. Y., ‘..’tih'2
to the jurisdiction. which was taken under advise
6 hut‘?-. 58h’: 011.. 1N2; 01.. Ht; It -\hh,, i-‘ti I, "or in any

ment hv the eourt, and at the same time left with
other mode or at any other hiitgv

of the t-uu.~‘e_"
intended to he controvcrted. This provision in
the clerk an answer endorsed, “ to he filed subject
to the plea to the _iurisrliction.“ 111-M, that the an- i effect if not in terms, prohibits any qnaiitied
denial, and so forbids the old plea known as it
swer was not filed in such sqnsc as to waive the
"special traverse."
plea.
liougiu-rty v. Littic,lColo. Law itep.,'Jil.

Stout \'. Hiottx (‘ity A‘ l’. R. R. i'o., '1 Coin.
ti).

Law Rt-p.. l.

Accord and Sathfaction i\lustboPleadetl.

if adefendant desire to rciy upon an accord and
satisfaction he must set it up aaadcft-use in his

6- When Answer Must be Positive and not on
Information. Where an alleged tact is presump

tively within the knn\t‘lctlt:c of the defendant. he - answer.
Blrdcil V. Bled-wil, 6 t‘olo., Mi‘, 2 i'olo. IA!
cannot be permitted to answer on information and
ii.cp.,~t;I7.
hclief, but must answer in the form positive.
iii. A Material Ailrgatlon in an affidavit in
Little Plttsburg Con. .\i. Co. v. Stanley, 2
attachment must be taken as true unh-as denied.

(.‘olo. Law iii-p., h‘l.
iianna \'. iiarkc-r,6( ‘oio., 30-‘i; :it‘olo. L. R., flit).
7. An act charged to have been done hy the de
fendant in person, being a matter within his know i
edge, cannot be denied on information and belief
"That the defendant made and entered into an
agreement,“ a copy of which is sci out, in matter

Wchle v. Kcrhs, ti t‘oio., lti7; ti ('oi0. law

01")’ ht‘ rcvcmcd on plain and arbitrary abuse at
such discretion.
Dyer v. .\i(-l'hee, ii i'oi0., 1H; 2 Colo. Law

presumably within his knowledge.

Hanna v. iiarkcr, 3 (‘olo. Law Rt-p., Iliti.

Rcp.. 3'‘.
ii’. A Motion to Ameml. being addressed to
the cmund discretion of the court. ruling only will
8. Several l)et’enses—Separate Statement of.
The answer may set forth as many defenses as the
defendant may have, but each defense must he
stated in a separate paragraph and numbered.
I

itcp., til.
18.

triabie issue.

People v. Weber, 3 ('olo. Law Rep., 62.
19.
9.

Answer Must be Responsive.

must be responsive to the complaint to rain‘!
San Juan, etc., Co. v. Finch, 6 t.‘ol0., 114:3
Colo. Law ltcp., ll.
l‘acl.-1 lh-lied on for Aﬂirmntive Belief.

.-\ns\\'cr over, waives demurrer.
set up by way 1)ft'I‘ti!ii+-(‘()IIl[)l$-“Ill, must be Bull-ed
i-itanhe-rry v. Kerr, id., iii); 6 ('oio.,3B.
Webb v. Smith, t'(i., 369; 6 t'olo., 838.

with the same strictm-ss as in a complaint.

But see Tucker v. Edwards, 4 Colo. Law

20. Id.
The statement of a conclusion arisini~i from

Rep, 518.

the facts under the law is not prohibited by an!’
10. Cannot Amend After Finding. It would
be an improper and dangerous exercise of discre
tion to allow an answer to he amended by the
allegation of a new and diiierent state of facts,
after finding upon issue joined.
Sears v. Collins, i Colo. Law Rep., -bit.
ll. Fraud Must be Speciﬁcally Picaded in
an answer as well as in a compktint, and unless ,
pleaded evidence tending to eslahlish it is not
‘admissible.

I ‘stem of
icadin .

i-iafma v. lgarkcr, 6 (,'oio.. 3-"33 3 C010‘ L“

iicp., 309.
‘Bi. \\’aiver in Equity Suit. B)’ answering w
a complaint in an equitable action, instead of do
nmrrimr, and falling to raise the Question OHM“
diction at any stage, the defendant will be held W

hit\'i' WitlY(‘d all objections to the nattm‘ of 11"
relief sought and decreed.
i-‘rue v. Houghton, 6 ('ol0.. 315; 3 Cole. 11""

Tucker v. Parks, 1 (Solo. Law itcp., 306.
12. Plea of Custodia Legis. An answer in i
replevin setting out that the property is held under -3
an attachment which issued out of another court
is not in the nature of a plea in abatement, but
is a plea in bar; not a plea to the juristiietion
of the court, but that the subject matter of the

Iicp.. fiili.
22. Every
iilatorlal Aliegaﬂon ofacotnplﬂim
not denied by the answer may be taken M in)“

and need not he pt'0\'(-fl by plaintiff.
Wall v. i.ivct:a_\'. ii C-oio. LBW Rt‘?-' 441:5
-4&3.
23. Thetjoio.
Dra\\'ees
of 8 am of E1chnn8°'ancf
unconditional acceptance endorsed thercOl1- (‘awn

litigation was already pcndcnfc lite in a court of
not be allowed to hlcad a want of cousidcrtli0
competent jurisdiction, with rightful authority E
to protect its own otilcers in the execution of its
process. The right to tile such a plea is not waived
by previous demurrer to the complaint.

Parks v. Wilcox, 4 Colo. Law Rcp., -iii.

for their acceptance, in an action ll)‘ ‘he pn'wi0'. 6
Law v. iirinker, i Colo. Law

RPP-~ H‘

Colo.,
23. Plea
in .")-'3").
Bar Not ‘Valved by Demun-"I
The answer in r(-picvin setting up that the i>r‘c0P-1

13. For Damage to Property by Railroad. : crty is held under attachment which issued 0“ in
in an action against a railroad company hv adja
another court, ‘is not in the nature of a pit-ame
cent property holder for damages resulting.' from
alvfitemcnt, hut is a plea in har: not a plea to M
use oi street. for railroad, an an
.
swer setting it a
license from the city presents no defense
7
D
' Jurisdiction of the court, but that the .Rlih,il?(‘'‘ ": a

ter of the litigation was alrcad_v p"""""” 1'“ n
M 0£l.{Ie1l(:.i’i11R;..
i
"
B. &' C. R. R. i,o.,
4 Colo. Law .,
court of competent iurisdiction, with r _

‘Won

thority to protect its own ofilc:-rs in thc 01'“-’\_G not
b 1;. Special?Traverse Bad—Denials Must
Se \peclﬁc- Under the Code, the answer must pee ﬂcail) deny each allegation of the complaint

oi‘ its process.

The right to file such ph.-a I-t

waived by iirevious demurrer to ill" ""'"lPl:m Parks v. Wilcox, 4 Colo. Law R1‘!-‘" 4“

25. Tender in Answer Binds Defendant.
When the defendant makes a tender in his an
swer of an amount as due plaintiff, he is bound

3]. Fraud, Covin and Misrepresentation. .-\n
allegation in an answer that the writing sued on

thejury that plaintiffls entitled to a less sum, still

was obtained from the defendant by fraud, covin
and misrepresentation ofthe plaintiff, is good. it
is not a mere conclusion of law, but the avermcnt

Judgment must go for the amount so tendered.

of a substantive, traversablc fact.

thereby, and although the evidence may convince

(‘ofimau & Sherwood v. Brown, -l t’olo. Law

Whitehead v. Root, 2 .\ict., .-‘M.

itcp., -H2.
32.

[Section if) of the Civil Code of Kcntuck contains
the following: The answer shal contain:
2. A denial of each allegation of the peti
tion controvcrtcd by the defendant, or an '
knowledge or information

thereof,

su

-

cient to form a belief. 3. A statement of
any

new

matter

constituting a defense

counterclaim or set-oil‘, in ordiuar and
concise language, and without repct tion);
and it is there held: 1
‘£6. Insufilclent Denial. The general state
ment that defendants do not owe, and ought not
to pay. the amount of the hill, "for they do not
admit the regular protest and notice," etc., as
charged, is no proper answer, because it neither
denies any allegation of fact nor states any new
matter const ituting a dcfemie.
tflark v. Flunell, iii ii. .\ion., 33-3.

27. Facts Constituting Justification. .-\n ac
tion to recover damages for loss of goods cast over
board by the carrier, must state all the facts neces
sary to ajttstificalion oftln_-jettison.

Thcavcrment

that the loss occurred by the danger of the river,

beluga mere conclusion of law from the facts, is

New

Matter

not

Stated

(‘an

Not

be

Proved. Under the (‘ode the plaintiff is entitled
to notice of every defense intended to be relied
upon consisting of “new matter constituting a

defense," by a statement of such new matter in
the answer; ll not alleged in the answer it cannot

be proved at the trial.
Ilenton v. Logan, 3 .\ict., -I34.
83. Infancy. A statement in an answer that
at the time of the execution of the note sued on
the defendant was an infant under the age of
twenty-one years, is sufliclent.
It is not neces
sary to aver that the note was voidable.
Stern v. Freeman, 1 Met., Still.

34.

\Vhen

Answer Aids

Complaint.

The

allegations of an answer can come to the aid of

the petition only in cases where a discovery is
sought, or where, from the. character of the transac
tion, or the altitude of the parties, it may be fairly

presumed that the defendant's means of'ini'0rtna
tion are better than those of the plaintiff.

Dudley v. Price, it it. .\ion., 2-‘vi.

not sufiicieut.

Bentley v. Bustard, iii ii. l\lon., tiiiﬁ.
28. In Action on Merchant's Account. An an
swerin an action on a merchant's account is too
indefinite when it merely states that defendant“ is

35. Inconsistent Defenses.
i'nder the Code.
the defendant may rely upon as many matters of
defense as he chooses, whether inconsistent or
not, and it is no error to overrule a motion to com
pei an election between various defenses. (Craw

not to the best of his knowledge and bellefindchtcd

ford v. Adams, .\iS. Upin. [i)uvali, J.] Ky. Court

to plaintiti‘ as stated in the petition." The answer
controverts neither the sale nor the delivery. 110!‘

the value of the goods. but denies simply that he is
iruh,-bml as alleged. Every item in the account
might be correct, except a single one, of inconsid

of Appeals, June, is-37.)
In California the rule
is diiicrcnt: See 17 L‘al., li’3; H i<l.,-ills‘; 21 id.. 671;
13 |'(l.. tl'.£l; 25 £11., 35.) But waived unless objected
to by demurrer or motion to strike out, (13 t‘al.,
62!; 25 id., 37.) And allowable there under circum

erahle value, and yet the answer in its P!“"“‘"l' run"
beiiterally true. Such generality and \'"==""""“‘-“

stances.
22t'al., 071; 32 t'd., -I5".

of pleading is opposed to the provisions of the i ‘ivil
Code regulating the subject. Deinurrcr to the an
swer was properly sustained.

Francis v. Francis, 18 8. Mon., 60; I3 M-v 175
29- Want of Knowledge. The answer avers
that defendants " have no knowledge of any of the

86. Knowlmlge or Information.
An answer
Sttttitig that defendant “has not enough knowl
edge or information to constitute a belief," etc.:

Held equivalent to a denial of “any knowledge or
information thereof sutlicicnt to form a belief."
Hutchlns v. Moore, 1 .\ict., 111.

m‘""“ "'3' "ii in the petition, as the foundation of
Dlaintitfs claim, and no means of forming a belief,

and therefore deny them all, and require proof."
Held, that the denials of the answer present no ob
stacle to the recovery sought by plaintiff; and that
Other matters of defense set up in the answer. in

cons“Stout with the facts thus impliedly admitted,
are ttnavaiilng.
Corbin v. t‘ommonwealth, 2 .\Ict., 380.
30. The Answer Must Contain a Denial of Each
Auegiltion intended to be controverted, 0!‘ 1l".\'
knowledge or information thereofsuflicicnt to form

a belief. And every material ailezzatiﬂll 01' ill" Pi"
tition not specifically controvcrtcd by the answer,
must‘ for the lmrpo.-res of the action. be taken as

(Under the Ohio Code there may be a “general
or special denial“—otherwise the provi
sions are the same as the Code of Ken
, tucky.)
37. New Matter which must be specially plead
ed under the (‘ode comprehcnds every fact not up
pearing in the petition, which defeats the action,
and which the plaintiff is not required to proye to

make out his case, whethcrsuch new matter existed
concurrently with or arose since the alleged cause
of action.
_
Shur v. Statics, i Wes. Law Monthly, 311.
38. Statute of Limitations. W here the statute
of limitations is relied on as a bar it mu st he plead

ed specially, or it is waived.
true.

39. Copy of Inntrnnwnt. \\'hi~t| it petition ro
f'~-|'.-' to a copy ofan instrument an part ilit-rent, an
answer that the defendant eannol Mule Win-tin-r
the copy he a true one. and calls for proof. l- not in
form or suhatance a denial of a material aih-..'ation.
Bentley v. iloretw, ii ti. !~it., -‘ilk.
40. In an Action to Recover l{('Ili upon an In
denture ieanimr, land for five _\‘vtit‘t-i, the ammwr twi
ting up t.hat the indentnre was not attested nor ae
knowiedged by the lessor, and ihvrt'for|\ did not
convey the term, and that the team-es were not in
debted for any rent under the indentnre. stair

fm-ts auftieient t.o cmmiiiute an equitable and |wI'
feet (.ii.'f(‘Dii0. under the t‘ode.
Riehardson V. Bates, ti U. St. 237.
41. An Accord and Saﬂﬂaetion moving from
a stran;.:er or person having no pt-enniary iliil'i'i‘ﬂi
in the subject matter, if aeeepted in tliht'|iiiI'L'.t‘ of
the debt, eonstitutea a good defense toau aetion to

UL

iii. Knonlmlge or information. .\ denial of
any kiln“ lwiﬂv or information nuflleh at to form it
iN‘ii\'i an to the aile-_'atio|nt of the complaint, form:
ti vonilvh tr iI~\iit'. and i- in iilH’it$" had on demurrer
t7 iio-w., 67"; I i-‘.. ii. Smith. -‘Ml; nor eafi Judgment
lw |_'l\en then-on as frivoiom~. dd.) But-h ndeniai
nmy in‘ ~irm-it out an ~ham in any mu~e when it

in piniIti_\‘ iu'¢‘ii iimi the t.it‘it‘l1lll\lil hill! in fut
knowh-ll;.:e or information anfiieleni to form ahellef
|\ iii-w., 2*; i I-1.ii. ronith, -Tn; i'v -\hh., ‘Ev; or has

reaih llivntnt of ohiniliilii! knowimige ii (‘ode Rep.
.\'. HI, an ; or the fuel in prmnfnptiveiy within his
kliowin-d,;o ti ,\i)h., H7; ii iio\\'., I-Ti; tii‘.ai.,-‘£1 I41.
-RH; '35 f:I.. ititl: although the answer he verified ll‘!
liow.. l.'>i; |'d.. -hi. 'i‘hn-t aneh a denial was atrurk
out in an aetlon for an aanauit. where it Was
applied to the iirmtiliii ll .\'nnd..7iI'ii'. and so where
the 1-out-*ntn of the instrument executed by the
fi\'f1'iidni|t were thus denied the denial Was tttrilelt
out.

enforce a liability against the dt-htor.
Leavitt, ete. v. .\iorrow, ti i i. St.. 7 .

42. The defendant may ph-ad Varioiia matters
of defense Which could not he entertained hefore
the adoption of the Code, either on aeeottnt ol the

The nilmzniion ofa defendant brought in by

sup;-ietnentai emnpiaint of hznoranee Oi ll fad
adtnitt--d hy the answer of the original defendant.
to wiioav interest-t he has sueeoeded,does not pill

separation of law and equity Jurisdiction of the
:-ourts. or the form of actions and of pieadingu.
iiill v. Butler, 6 ti. h'i., ‘J17.
43.

Rightsand Rt-Inedies not Changed-Only

the Mode of Enforcing.

But (‘(iiiil‘tli‘l8 are neither

ehanged nor the rights of parties altered; the mode
by which eo|iti'aei.~§ may be enforced and existing
rights vindicated is changed and enlarged.
Id.

44. \Vhat " These Defendants do not Admit. "
etc... is not suilieient answer to put the plaintitf on

Hiit'li fuel at hunn-.
i~‘orhm~ \'. Waller, 2;» N. Y.. U".
50. .\ denial of ‘‘an.\' knowlediﬂ‘ Orinfonnnuon
nuﬂieient to form n ht-lief" makeﬂ a eotnpleu‘ de‘
niai, and the defendant need not and should mi?
add “and therefore denies the same." (13 iiow..ll-1

.‘i.-\bb., 3; m.. m: '1 i’ai:.'t'. ‘Hi; 7 308“ mow
(_“L.._m: 2' Mn l_m_'_

MM whm. “ dt-fondant has

made an lnsuflh-tent ltiiettmiiin 0‘ ‘mm or know‘.
edue or information. foll0“‘\‘d ‘'5' mi‘ word” “and

therefore d--nh~s." eh-.. this further ttllvilililon “m

proof.

be disreearded.

H2 iiow.. 3*’! 5 5"-' 35"

Admmld

Btnn!_:ardner v. Turner, 13 0. i~it., '.’.i'>‘i.
kﬂl)\\'iWit!i‘ Witholtt ndditn: ifti'OrmM.i0ii Wm "3

45. Ownership of Note.

Allegations or deni

als that a party was at a ])iiI'li('iilill‘ time the owner
or holder of a negotiable protnis.~:ory note are not

mere (-one,lu:-tlons of law.

As statements of fact

they may be indefinite, hut this defect is not the
subject. of demurrer.
'i‘rustees, etc. v. Odiin, 8 0.81., 293: iii id.. ‘IE.

[Set-tion ii", X. Y. Code. The answer must eontain
a general or specific denial of eaeh material
allegation or any knowledge or information
thereof sniiieient to form a belief. A state
ment of any new matter constituting a
defense or eounter-claim, in ordinary and

concise language, without repetition.)
Y 46. Partial Defense. It is not essential that.
the‘answer should constitute a defense or counter

ehnm to the whole of a complaint or’of' any single
eount. It is suﬁieient. if it constitutes a defense or
counter-ehtim to so mueh as it professes to answer.
.\i1el3yrlng v. Bell, 163'. Y., am; 5 Duer 3i2'
ii) How., 6“.
,
‘
47. Counter Statement Mex-elv. Bad
. liien-ly
making a counter statement or giv
ing a different
version of the matter from that eo
ntalned in the
eotnplalnt. without denying the al
legations of the
eomplaint, are not specifically eon
troverting such
allegations.

do. iPl'0hii' v. .\iei‘nmher, i-3 How.. N92 | F" '
Smith. -Tni). .\'or is it sufiieient for a defelidani .w
sav he is ignorant of whether or not thi‘ I“?
aiie*.zed againat him are true. ‘'3 Voile Rep" 15'"
. That defendant l~"‘not informed and cannot sill"
whether or not. Ml‘-.1-‘i ‘mi ‘‘ sumdcm dmmlilefut

any i1\lf'pO!~‘e. (20 Barh.. 4%). And soot an Iif 5‘;
tion that "the defendant does 00' know 0

_

information or otherwine.”

Ha.Vre v. Hashing. 7 Ahh.. 3'71.
5l. Denial of Fact; ill 8 Grow’ not dani
Where the Pﬂmplmni “Hares ‘hm def:l:lee0l
assaulted the pinintiﬂ and seized him bi’

lar and shook him viotenti.\'."""’ ““‘w“ “denied
in
that defendant did assault said Piamim and ifon
him by the collar and shake him vi0|P"llS' has
demurrer held inautileient. "The defﬂndtzgmtbem

grouped three of the eharges and dim‘ Id be
under oath in such manner that if he 511"" one
guilty of two and not guilt)’ M ‘h“ ("her
. The
his amover would not he iiteru|l.\. “mrucdistine
denial should have been "I "Mb chm-gm hole
““‘1.\'. it the defendant intended to put ""3 W
of them in issue."
. ~ “Iowa
Hopkins v. i'lverott. 2it‘od" R"P-r 11"
b

And so where the complaint charges a

breach of contract in cutting and carrying away
of wood and timber, an answer denying that the

defendant cut and carried away any wood and
timber would be indefinite and uncertain. (Beach
v. Barons, iii Bart», 2lli5). An answer is not frivol
ous merely because it. denies conjum-tlvely instead
of disjunctiveiy.
Livingston v. 1lummer,7 ilosw.,o'7(.l; '.£ii(.‘-al.,

I (Goddard v. llcnson. 15 Abb., 191; 30 ('-ai., It'.t‘>; 29
|'d., 312.) \ This defense may be defeated by the sub

sequent discontinuance of the

former action.

(Averill v. Patterson, 10 How.. 38; 10 N. Y., -"»(i0.)
To support this plea the answer must show pro

cess issued in the former action.
in (‘al., -522.
[Section 46. (‘ai. Prue. Act, allows a general denial
where the complaint is not veriﬁed; but
“if the com via nt be verified, a specific

529; 32 |’d., 10!); 30 id., SN; 31 i(I., l-*5; 15
id., 6%; 17 £11., 561'.

denial to me I allegation of the complaint
controverted by the defendant. or a denial

53. The answer may deny all the allegations of
a complaint in such terms that if any one is true
the denial is false, or it may deny specifically such
allegations as the defendant intends to controvcrt

rules of pleading, both under the old and present

onthe trial. But it is not clear that anything in
(lode pleading warrants the grouping of several
allegations, and denying them in the aggregate
in terms which are not inconsistent with the truth
of any one of them.

require denial of every specific avcrment in a
sworn complaint, in substance and in spirlt,and
not merely a denial of its literal truth. Whenever
the defendant fails to make such denial he admits

58.

Evasive or Eqnivooal Denials Bad.

system, are

Young v. Catlett, 6 I)ucr., 448.
54. Alternative Donials.

thereof accord ng to his information and
belief.“]

intended

the averment.

to

prevent

(15 (‘al., (flit).

The

eva_sion, and

A speciﬁc denial to

c/ach allegation is a separate denial, applicable

Denials should not

only to the particular allegation controverted.

be in the alternative. (Pl How., liil; 2 .-\l)b., 467). That
defendant is “ not indebted in manner and form as

(9

('al., 453; 31 id., 185). In a suit on a note alleged to
have been executed as partners, a denial simply

alleged" is but the denial of a conclusion of law,
and not sufficient (1 (‘ode Rt.-p., !l1);(.-xcept. that

that the defendants were partners is not suflicient.

when the complaint alleges that defendant is in
debted, without stating the contract on which the

(ii ( ‘al., 499).

debt arose, the defendant. may take issue on the
indebtedness. (3 .~\bb., ﬁlth; 2 (‘ode llep., (l7). Cir

in the complaint, is bad.

An answer denying that. defendant is

answerdenying that anote was made and deliv

cumstances of aggravation are not traversablc (1-l
iiow., iii), nor allegations of special damage (15 id.,

ered on the day named in the complaint. (16 (‘al.,
379). A denial of indebtedness, without denying

255;, unless the special damage is the gist of the
action, in which case it is traversable. 2 M. 6:
Rob., 5.)

any of the facts from which the-indebtedness fol
lows as a matter of law, raises no issue. (9 Cal., 33).

indebted for goods, etc., in the exact sum set forth

(18 Cal., 33(1). So an

Denial that the note was “lost as alleged" does not

put in issue the fact of the loss, but only the cir
55. 1\'ew.Matter is that which admits and
cumstances of the loss, which are collateral and

avoids the cause. of action set out in the com

plaint, and constitutes defense.

immaterial. (lli ('nl., 3'79). In a suit on a note, a
copy of which is set out in the complaint, a denial

(12 Mom, -i-‘>3; -‘i

D“°l'-- 65; 2 Kt;-r., 17; 3| llarb., rm; 6 i:!., 1-H; 31
Abb-9 H7).

of indebtedness is no denial at all. (14 ('al., 112).
Where a eotnplainl is verified, an answer denying

The answer must allege all those fuels

which, when the case of the plaintiff is admitted
01' Proved, the defendant must prove in order to
defeat a recovery.

“generally and specially each and every allega
tion in the complaint, the. samcas if such allega
tion were herein recapitulated," and also denying
each allegation in the same form, with certain
qualifications and exceptions, does not raise an
issue upon any fact. stated in the complaint. (14
(_'al., -ids). It is not sufﬂcient to deny that defend

(1 I)uer., 266; H .-\bb., 1-17; 4

B03“-v 2; 32 Barb., ‘EB; 25) ((1., 170).

The words,

“lnllﬂt contain" are imperative (id N. Y., 215');

and defendant cannot give in evidence any new
matter not set up in his answer, (7 llarb., 1-\‘;2

Coma. 501; (6 N. \'., an; 12 .\bb., us; 23 N. Y., ﬂitl),

ants “ wrongfully and unlawtuliy entered and dis
posse:-sed plaintiff," because such allegation admits

even though such defense appear from evidence
Olfcretl by plaintiff in support of his ease (2 Ker
man, 9)- But if issue be taken on an insullieient

the entry and ouster.

(14 Cal., 91.)

“And said

defendants deny, for want of information to enable
all'3‘i.{ation, it may warrant the admission of evi
them to admit, the sale and transfer as alleged," is

dence constituting a defense.

not a sufiiclent denial. (ii Cal.,59)- N0!‘ is a 00"‘
White v. Spencer, -1 Kcr., 2~i-\‘.
in which a defendant can set up lniti;.(ut.ing cir

junctive denial. (29 Cal., -32il)- N01‘ "' d"‘ni“'l of
merely non-essential averments_—as that defend
' ant received $3,000, in gold coin, to plalntifl"s use.

cumstances in his answer, is an action for libel or
Slander. He cannot do it in an action for assault

that defendant became or was lawfully bound by

56. Mitigating (iirculnstnnces.

The only cit:-=o

(31 Cal., 231).

0" bimeri’- (1 (fode Rep. .\'. :~'., LL\'); nor for seduc
UOn"24BBl'b-, 611); nor for crim. com, (3? Barb.,3\‘-‘ll 1
"Or for damages for killing plaintiiTs dog.

Dunlap v. Sn_v(.l(.-r, 17 Barb.. 561.
57- Another Action Pending.

In suit upon a judgment, a demal

the judgment, is only a conclusion of law, and
raises no issue of fact. If the judgment can be
attacked collaterally the answer must specify the

'
' of inva lidlty.
pomts
People v. .'\_'upervi.sors

An answer of

another action pending must show that the two

ban

‘
H
i*rancis(,0. 27

(.‘al., (5-3.
S60 11180 ‘.19 ('01., -SIH; 26 id... -116; ‘.5 111., 519; 22

“lions are for the same identical cause. (ill .-\bb.,
93?’ And between the same parties or their privies.

59 Veriﬁcation of Answer. in all uuwa not
.
' within the exception of the statute, an anmur
'- rltied.
t.
ill mtion to a complaint duly' \t
::l:;"ol.::3 :tLrlick(en out on motion; and application

till. A denini in nu l\ti.~iWt3I' that the relulilolioi
trustee’ and crdut qur Irud exists between i te par
‘
l ' I Wm“ m
~
neeeas t_\ ‘o a
g
ths, dispenses aith the
.
the complaint or pt-oting prior dunand and re

Zztlllllittiulllilglllllcn‘
as by (‘L*1‘ml it ma y be made at the

fusai.

Dflllmnel‘ V- “'l\\"T\l!. "('31-~ ‘Q
60. Inability of counsel to obtain defendant 1»

Parrot v. Beyern, i0 t‘ul.. tiii.

70. it is not error for the court to refitse‘p;:;
mission to set up the statute of limitations

Verification in time, may be ground for an exten-

answer to the merits.

sion of time to answer, but cannot avail on a mo-

Hlllllﬂ "- "'"‘d""' w "M" 372‘.

tion to strike out the answer for want of vcritieation.

71_

New "Rue,-__ “qmn Nut

H

“ how "ma mm.

tions of an answer, although stated in atlirmative
0|. 11!.
Part ohludgment Roll. Though Stricken
form, are in t-tfeet only a denial of ‘thcmalIl:;z:tIl:‘J::
Out. An answer notwithstanding an order to
of the complaint, they do not consl
‘ct M-vd.
strike it out, is still entitled to its plnee on the ' ter within the mcnnimz of the tram t .
-

Judtzment roll

dard v. Fttlton. '.!i t‘al., tiilh, as where the ‘anti:

I‘ Abb tt V Don l-as ‘N (‘til ‘:95
0d
it W-' i t’ It If

II t‘

n

states that there was no consideration fort it n
' nttedun. in sueh case I\Hl‘*‘i‘|~‘. H “N-muff. til

62. File A
r
me. "I
e ore
e an .
An answer tiled without leave of the court after

,
, . ‘ r u'olo. Law li¢'i’'
Am‘ n “ ‘ mp‘ n 0 '
1 an M‘ll()tl'tit law

the time for nttswerlm: has expired, hut ht-fore default has heen entered, is not at nnllit_v. hut ttttttost
an irregularity. Hiowers v. liickersnn, ll-' t‘ni.,

72. Equitable U0-ien~te. n
for money had and received, if adn ;‘t‘l‘\)l:::t;\:-‘R;-1::
ft-me he relied on, it mu.-ti he i'“'" 0‘

42).) The court in its discretion may strike it out
or not, or permit another to he filed. For these
purposes the defendant is not in default until his

hie.

default has been actually entered in accordance

,.,hm,M y,,. l,|,.,,.|,.d M ,,m,-h wlw,-.~ there is an opt’or

with the Smmm°
Marks \'. 2-layward,-IH l\l-.'"rd
Au |-;.,mm"-1 by dcvd or matter Of I'ﬂ‘° .

it occurs. it is conclusive as evidence.

63. Judgment on th

i'len.din|.:s.

\\'hen the

Fittltdreau V. liowne_\','B(7I\l-- 35‘
74. Supplemental Answer. Newtmttterosztgi

plnintitl'eiaims that all the denials are bad, if the
answer contain no new matter, he may test the
sufllclency of the denials by motion for Judgment
on the pleadings, or by motion to strike out the
answer on the ground that it is sham.

rim: after isstte must he set up by Bupplcm

answer.
Jessup v. King, i (,‘ai.. til.

it sets
up
111:1}t.
ter which is false. (i‘ierey v. Sabin, iii .61; an
Suclt answer may he stricken from the
~
moth n, supported by atiidavlt. _ I .

ill.

and
not pleaded in good faith.

64. Inconsistent Defenses, When Available-.
if no 0l)_ie(.'tlon be taken by demurrer or motion to
lm-onslst-ent defenses, defendant on the trial may
rely upon any of the defenses,

' Uusturrs \__ .rhM‘-0' H FM" 330: _;_> ‘[1" 5m,

10. An one-M-|\t.iai. or \vhM '8 W‘ ““"° m,1 M.

lfridius v. Morreli, 2') Cal" 31; 13 id" ,;._;;_
65.

When fttcts showing the illegality of a con-

an

immmm-tut allogutluil, is one Which can hi‘
it

tract sued on are sutliclently ailegedin the answer, I B“.k.k(.n [mm the pleading Wmmm leaving

. insutlleient, and need not be l"'°"“d °r (USP!-0ved~
Such mmmr mm; hp stricken out.
Green \._ pahnm-' 1:, (‘Mn til -' is ML. 17“; U
m 104- 19 m.. 551
.
.,
" it fad
60. Where an orieinal
answer
presents
no de_H
fense,ttndjud\.{tne1tt is rendered on the pleadings
' '1' C0“(:‘tn‘m‘.lu l.\g::v::re(l in one Pan 0‘ 8

the pl-.tint.itl‘ cannot recover upon the pleadings,

although such facts he not pleaded or insisted upon
as a defense.
Post v. hloore, -l0 Cal., 347.

on motion of plalntitl‘, it is an abuse of its discre-

‘Hm h

is

M m

3 J1

tion for it. court to refuse leave to defendant to tile I. pleading is dinwth
a suﬂieient, a-mended answer.

led in another Pan‘ we

Ln - I

rlury M‘

puny "cﬂrylng u is gut?” 0In}:;l. strdngly upmst

F1]
. ii) i,ul.,
iv
0
t. e 1 1 \v, BM
caudry,
H).

that
averment
ell-T5
UN plead"
Wmwhie
be taken
as true.

1

i
6'7. “ Defendant for Answer Denies" is Good.
An answer which eommences by stating that “ defendant for answer says he denies, " etc., is unexceptlonahle.

Bell v. Brown. ‘ ’ Cm" 671‘
1
1
\

mt phmu“

ok up or appropriated
the water is sufficient.
Wilkins v. McCue, ll) Cai., (ﬁll.

If the complaint contains two gignof 008

the answer takes issue "" the aimmletti on the

' only the plaintiff is entitled l0J““~’5“

Espinosa v. Gregory, 40 (?al.,

68. .\Iisceliatteons Matters
:
If the complaint
in an action to enjoin the diversio
!
n of water alleges
that plalntitl" has appropriated and used the water
I
for more than five‘ year“
' ll a denial ti ,
,
-

ever at an)’ time used or to

78.

O ti M
- . I.lfi-int_:weil v. t;t‘lﬂlHi~’- 31 U1"
,_ ..
"“1'
» dlliii
'79. Judgtnent \Vhlle l)emtu'I‘t‘I'Jill;-:11"cm
Irregular.
it is lrre;:uinr to rill"? demurm.
llguinsi a defendant on \Vllt.7i'~1‘ lwha" “ul’!'t?i’.llll
is on file, without disposlnﬂ Dr in“ dﬂu
ll judgment so entered will he r('\'vl“‘-“‘_‘1
Irlestres v. tfletnents. ‘ll (‘"1" 43'
80. A Plea Profeulng to answer the whole
complaint, but in fact only answering one of two
counts, is bad under the (‘ode as well as at coin

183

'2. That the subject matter of the cross-bill is
germane to the matters set up in the original bill,

is all that the law requires.

mon law.

(‘hrlsman v. lleidt-rer, 5 (_?olo., 589; 2 (.‘olo.
Law liep., ‘2.lo.

\\'allace.\‘. B. R. (‘0., iii t‘al., 461.
81. Recrlminatlom The doctrine of recrimi
nation or eomperuulin crtmiuum applicable in suits
fordivorce and the several offenses Which, by the

statute, constitute grounds for divorce, are pieada
ble in bar to such suits, the one to the other, within
the principle of the doctrine.
t‘onant v. i"onant, l0 4 ‘al., 2-ill.
82. In an Action for Divorce on the ground
of faiiureof the hllﬁiiillld lo prntridc tor the Wife,
the residence of the husband with the wife within
the period of such failure is no bar to the applica
tion, when it appears that they were not living

together at the commcnccmcnt of the suit.

3. The In-cet'\s.-try facts showing the necessity
for equitable relief may be set up lnacross-bill,
and may he relieved against-—the cross-hill to this
extent partaking of the nature of an original bill,

seeking the aid ofthc court beyond the purposes of
defense.
in an action to obtain money obtained by

duress ofimprisonment upon a void warrant for
fornication with defendants daughter, the defend

ant oannot set up asa counter-claim loss ofservices
of such daughter on account of plaintitfhaving de
bauched her.

Washburn v. Washburn, ii t"al., 475.

Hickman v. h‘(‘hwartz,2 t‘olo. Law Rcp., 562.;

83. in an action for divorce, if the answer does
not deny the marriage, it is admitted, and need

not be proven.
Fox v. Fox, 2’ t 'al., -W.
Bennet v. liennci, 2i id., -345'.
84.
Equitable Defense in Ejectment may be

5. In an action for injunction to restrain pro
ceedings under a void judgment, matters of fact
touching the merits of the original suit. cannot be
set up by way of cross-bill.
San Juan and St. Louis .\i.-& S. ('0. v. Finch,
3 Colo. Law R0p., ll.

interposed in an at-tion_of c_jcctmcnt; but, in such
case, the defendant becomes an actor with respect.
tothe matter presented by him, and his answer

must contain all the essential l\\'('l"Tl'li_'lli8 of a bill
in equity, and the equity presented must be of
such character that it may be ripened by a decree
of the court inloa legal right to the premises, or
such as will stop the plaintiff in the ])I‘()h.'(_'(.'illi()ll of
his action.
Lestrade v. Barth, i9 ('al..6til): 2-l t'd., l-lti_; a'(I..

tst; ti m., 2*.

6. A cross-complaint must set forth the ground
relied upon for aﬂirmative relief with the same
strictncss as is required in an original complaint.
11!.
7.

\\'here atlirmat-ivc

matter in

an answer,

which establishes a prinm _/acic right in defendant,
is admitted by the reply, and plaintiff fails to in
troduce proof controvcrting such matter, non-suit
is proper.
Mcrts v. Mullen, 4 t'l‘olo. Law Iiep.,1il.
-

85. Ifadefendant in cjcctment desires to de
fend for only a portion of the premises, and to

limit his liabilit_v for 1nr.me proﬁts in a corres

ponding Proportion, he must frame his answer
mcordingly and specify the portion of the premises

8. The doctrine of set-oil‘ or counter-claim does
not apply to revenue matters. Those entitled to
receive funds raised by taxation llltl!~‘l~ present their
.dcmands to the proper ofliccr for pa_vmcnt.
.\iorgan v. Pueblo & A. V. R. R. t‘o., 4 Colo.

for which it is intended to defend, and disclaim

Law Rep., 27; 6 (‘ol0., 478.
as to the balance.
Guy v. Haniey, 21 (‘al., 397.

'islons
of Sections
47 and
48 of with
the Call
[ Tlm prlsl))\l‘lliil,
Practice
Act are
identical
See

B6. In Trespass Qnero Clansnm Frlgit an
answer justifying the aggravating matter but
admitting the plaintiff's title and possession, does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense.
Pico v. Colinas, 32 (.‘al., 57 .

tions 62 and iii of the Colorado t‘ode.]
9. When a creditor having a debt due him
by mortgage assigns the debt and mortgage, a
jndgtncnt. in favor of a third person against the
creditor, purchased by the debtor after the assign
ment but before notice to him, constitutes an off
St‘l,prnfnnlo, to the debt, in an action upon it by
thc assignee.

.\lc(l'abe v. Gray, 20 ('ai., 509.

SECTIONS 62 AND 63.
Will. Pmc. Act, H008. 7-la‘; N. Y. t'ode, Sec. 150; K _\'.
Code, Secs. l2li-1:93.]

1. Counter-Claim, Set-Off and Cross-C0|n
pialnt. The Code authorizc.-- the filing of a cross
Wmtlpiaint asking afiirmative relief. This is the
0illlivaient of the (_‘ros.<-hill as known to mull."
Practice, under which a person not a party to the

original action may be brought in.
Allen \'. Tritch, 5 t_..‘nh).. ‘I32;

Rep.,-56.

I t'olo.

Law

10. A counter-claim is a cause of action in
favor ofthe defendant, upon which he might. have

sued the plaintiff and obtained aﬂirmatwe relief
in a separate action.
_
_
Baileau v. Thompson, 33 (,‘al., 400.
ll.

Where the plaintiff‘s action arises out of

contract, defendant may set up any counter-claim
arising out of contract existing at the commence
ment. of the action, even though the contracts are
not the same.
Stoddard v. Treadwcli, 26 Cal., Z94-300.

1'3. In an action for the price of goods sold and
ita suitoru.
Hobbs v. Hull‘, 23 t'ul., Gill.

delivered, there being a warranty as to the quality
of the goods, the breach of the warranty may be
relied on in the defense by way of reeoupment, to
mitigate the amount recovered ; but it is not

[i-44-etioii hill of the l\'i-ntuclty (‘ode is as follows:
The i-oiinli-r-eliiiin, inentioned in this chap
ter, tiltl~ll be a cause of action in i'aVorof the
tiefeniiaiiis, or smne of them, against the

available as a complete defense to the action.

pl.iiniitl‘s. or -mine of them, arisln: out of

Earl v. Bull, 13 (‘al., H5.
iii. A joint claim by two persons cannot he
pleaded as a conntcr-claim by one defendant, but
he may amend and allege that the whole claim

the t‘tlIliI‘1lt‘t oi‘ irniiﬂnctiiin set forth in the
|)t'illltlii its the foundation of plaintitiif claim
or coiiiii-i-tmi with the subject of the action.

Nee. l‘.’~. .\ iii-i-oil‘ can only he pleaded in an
action rHUntlI‘tl on contract, and must be it
cut!-w of lll'ill)ll arising upon contract, or

has been assigned to him.
Stearns v. Martin, 4 (?ai.. 229.
I4.

tUl‘I‘!'llllllt‘t| by the decision of a court]

Demands being joint and several, are not,

23. ii in siifllc-leiit that a counter-claim arise
out of the ll’Itili\i\l'lit)fi set forth in the petition. or
is cotiiii-etetl with the subject of the action. (Tint

strictly speaking, due in the same right; yet if
the legal and equitable liabilities on claims of
money become vested in one, or may be urged

ley v. 'l‘insley, I5 ii. .\ion.. 40.)

against one, they may be set off‘ against separate
demands, and rt’:-c l'('I‘8!L
Russell v. Conway, ll ("ai., illi.

Hlone, ‘.2 1“\"l., Ii~‘!l.i .-\ counter-eiaim must bi-against
the plaiiititiii or some of them. A cross petition ls

iii. A set-ofT can not be pleaded by one of sev

allowed when the defendant has it cause of action

eral tlefeiidiiiits sued on joint liability.
t‘ollins v. Butler, ll t‘al., 22f
affecting the subject matter of the original salt.
\\'ells v. iioyd, l l)uv.. 306.
[The Uhlo (‘ode, Hi-i-s. tr}, 91, and Hi are similar to

Under this section,a claim to constlluiea

set-oft‘ must be such that the party pleadimz it
inii_'lit obtain a several judgment against his

Ky.)
24. There are three kinds of defenses which

adversary upon it; this excludes a joint debt as a
set»ofi‘ai,_'ainst a several one.
Howard v. Shores, 9) Cal., ‘Z77; if id., ‘ZZ7.

may be set up in the answer:

ist, Matters which

at common law were usually pleaded in bar: it

17. \Vlienjtidgrneiits in dlITCTt'Ill courts are to
be set off‘, the moving party must go into the court
in which the judgment again.-it himself was
recovered.
Russell v. Conway, ll Cal., 101.
1.8.

in action for an

assault and battery, that plaintiff committed the
first assault is it good counter-claim. (None ‘

(‘ountcr-claim; Iidg Set-oft‘. Although the answer
may be so unskllfully drawn as not to distitigttilil
between the three, yet if it contain sutflcientfactsto
show a defense under either. the court will Mi
permit the defendant to be prejudiced by 1115110‘
mﬂkimz the proper distinction between the three
kinds ofilefeiise. (iiill v. Btill0t',tit). i-lt..'2ﬂ7: Hid-~

i
i

Plaintiff recovered judgment against the

defendant for seizing, as sheriff’, under exec-ution,
certain exempt property. Defendant then pro

:iii.

cured an as.sigiiiiient- to hiiii of the judgment on
which the execution issued, and moved the court
to set off‘ this latter judgment against the former:
Held, that the motion was properly denied; that
defendant, being sued as a wroniz,-doer, the judg
ment for the plaintlti‘ for the value. of the property
must, as between plaintiﬂ‘ and defendant, be re
garded as standing in the place of the property
and
takethat
advantage
if defendant
of his own
were wrong,
allowedhe
inwould
this way
prac

have the liability discharged by the princitlh

When a surety is sued alone, he may Ml "P!

by way of counter-claim, the equitable righi lo

l

making him a party, if no unreasonable delay ii‘
mused thereby. (Green v. linrneit, l Hands‘. W
A counter-claim must have some direct tUiltl(‘(‘il0u
with the cause of action set forth in the petition.

(Evans v. Hall, m., en; 2 m., -nu. .-\ t'Otitilf‘i'-Citillil
cannot be allowed to one of several defeniiaili-‘

against the plaintiff‘, when it appears that another
of the defendants is primarily liable.
Ernest v. Kiiiikle, 51). t~.'t., -'»‘.!i.

tically, defeat the purpose of the exemption’law
Beckman v. .\ian.love, is (‘al., 388.

\Vhere a negotiable promissory note not
I1e
ue is -taken bona ﬁde as collateral security for
pre-existing debt, it is not subject to any defense

existing
at ti16 (1 Me4 of
the Parties,

we 9-Stllgnment. betvi.e(,n

24. A counter-claim secures to defendant "if
ftili relief which a separate action at law,0ral'1“
in chancery, or a cross-bill. would have securvd

him on the same state of facts. (2 Ill1€r-'i"l2‘- Inn‘?
be for either liquliiiited or nnliquidated dan1B£l~
(34 Barb., HT; 4 E. D. Smith, 2&3).
equitable or legal defense. (ii BOSW-,
must be something which resists or modifies In

plainiiirii claim. (2l .\'. Y., 196; 21 Burl’-'13;
And the right of plaintiff to claim and of (Win

Payne v. Beasley, 8 (3-al., 260; 14 Cal. EH
21.
' .
d emands against a partnership,
ht to and
purchase
. .
set tll0(t‘i‘l0iqls:;
as a defense due by him to the partnership

Naglee v. Minturn, 8 Cal. M0 - Q id ‘W

ant to counter-claim'mnst be reciprocal
an

300; 2i How., zen. For strictly there 0 (31

M no

Bari!"

counter-claim when there is no claim
r cl)ill'l‘£'r'
3ii)- A joint debt cannot be set off 0
claimed against an individual debt.
Q HOW"
t_‘ampi)ell v. Genet. :2 Hilton. 1*’? \
complaint; and so the averment of want of consid

eration in the answer, though stated in affirmative
[(‘al. Prue. Act, Het'tluIl iti.]
form, is in effect only a travcme of the allegations
of the complaint. Want of consideration Httttttls
on a different footing from failure of consideration.
Allen V. (Yarpenter, 4 t_folo. Law Rep., 430.

See notes ante, Section til.
1. Statement of Defenses.
The defendant.
may set forth in his answer as many defenses as

he may have, but each tit-tense must be stated in
aseparate paragraph and numbered. (l’t-opie I’!
rel. v. Weber, 8 Uoio. Law ltcprrtrz). An elluituhlc

8.

defense may be made in it legal action, and theR~ I
tore the defense that an assignment by a surviving
partner is fraudulent and void as against unpre

1
fern.-d creditors may be interposed in such it-gal
forum. And although such defense be not avcrred
in the pleadings, yet if plaintiff‘ establish the smne
in making out his case the objection that it was
not

pleaded

in the answer

Inconsistent Defenses.

up new matter which is false. (i’iercy v. Sabin, iii
t_‘ai., 2'1.) Such answers should be stricken out.

tlostorff V. Taaffe, ctc., lb‘ (.'ul., 385; 32t'd., 56!).
4. Test. ofhlaterialty. \\'hct.her an allegation
is material may be determined by the question:
“Can it be made the subject of a material issue?"
tirccn v. Palmer, 13 (‘ai., -ill.
5.

will be considered

(ihjcction to an answer on

these grounds

must be made in apt time, or it is waived.

as waived. and defendant may have the benefit
thereof.
.‘siaii.<hnry v. Ellison, -t Colo. Law Rep., 463.
2.

A Sham Answer is one good in form, but

false in fact, and not pleaded in good faith. Itsets

(irogan v. ituckie, l (‘ai., NB; iiid., 432; 13 id.,
ti‘.Ei; ‘.35 ('al., 25.

If inconsistent dc

fenses be set up the defect must he I‘t'ilt‘hl'l| by
motion to strike out or in some cases by demurrer,
and if no objection be taken to the answer on this
ground defendant on the trial may rely on any of .
his defenses.

SECTION 66.
(Cal. Prac. Act., h‘ccs. 5i and 55.]
l.

Veriﬁcation.

An answer unverified to a

veriﬁed cotnplaint may he stricken out on motion,
and an application for Judgment as upon default

Klinit v. (“ohen, l-‘i Cai., till; 25 id., 37.

3. Ht-verui defenses, inconsistent with each

may be made at the same time.
Drum v. Whiting, 9 t,‘al., 422.

other, may under proper circumstances be set up

in a verified answer.
Bell v. Brown, ‘J (_.‘ai., 67].
4. Each Denial of an answer must be reg.-trded
as applying to the specific allegation it purports to
answer and not. as forming a part of an answer to

-r

2. The word “bellet" is to be taken in its ordi
nary .~=cnse, and means the actual conclusion of the

party drawn from information. Positive knowi
cdge and mere belief cannot exist together.
Humphrey v. Mctfani, id.,50.

some other specific and entirely

independent

allegation.
itacoulliat v. Rene, 32 t.‘ai., -W).

4___

3. If the pleading does not contain any state
ment of matter on information and belief, there
can he no occasion for any expression of belief in
thc afildavit as to such matter. Verification by

one plalntiifis suﬂicicnt.
SECTION 65.

Patterson v. lily, 19 t‘ai., 2*.

[L’al. Prac. Act, H4-c. -'li.]

4.

The

verification

of

an

answer

may

be

omitted wheneverthe defendant would be excused
I- When Reply not Necessary. in an action
to recover possession of real estate piaintiti’ailegcd
title in fee, and ouster by defendant.. Defendant
denied title and entry, and alleged affirmatively

from testifying as a witness to the truth of any
matter denied. (9t.‘al., -ILL’). Objection for want of

verification must be made in apt time.
6 id., 69.

title in plalntitfas heirsof W.,(l(-ceased, and which

had been purchased by defendants at a sale made
by the admlnistratrix, one of the plaintiffs. under
an order ofthe county court. The replication ad
mitted the sale and making of the deed as alleged,
and payment of the purchase money, but avcrred
want ofjurlsdictlon in the county court to make

SECTION 67
[(-al. 1)]-ac. _"\("t~, SOC. 56.]

1. Items of Account. It is too late to object
at thetrlal that a bill of particulars is not properly

ibf: order ofsaie: Ilcld, that the avermcnt of want
veriticd

by

the oath

of the party. . Objection

Ofjurisdiction was matter in avoidance, which un

thereto must be promptly made.
der the Code (Sec. 75, (.'ode of ‘Hill was to be consid
Dennison v. Smith, 1 Cal., 437; 3'2 td., 437.
credas controverted, and as to the issue thus formed
piaintiffheid the affirmative.
W'urts v. Mullen. 6 (Jolo., 576; 4 Colo. Law

Rep., Ill.
2- Want of Consideration.

in an action on a

See also 17 id., M; 3 t'd., 244.
—

SECTION 68.

Promissory note it is not necessary to reply to an

[L'ai. Prac. Act, See. 58.]
averment of want. of consideration contained in
the answer. The instrument in suit being ofa
class which imports a legal consideration, prima

/Gcie. it is unnecessary to aver consideration in the

1. Description of Real Property. Actions for
the foreclosure of a mortgage are not governed by
this section. (6 ('al.. 155). This sectionis directory intended them to be understood, and that they
merely, and a complaint which describe: pretti
were in (Mt under:-tood by those who read them
ises suﬂiciently to identity them, though liable to
in their covert rwlnte.
special demurrer, yet will support verdict.
lil(‘al.,1llH; i2 id., HS; iii id..482; i5i1I.. iii;

Maynard v. Fireman's Fund,etc.,3i (?ai..ttl.

1:; ut., nu.
2. in action to enforce mechanics‘ lien it in
not sufiicient to (icm-rllw the property as “ a dwel
ling house lately ereeied by and for J. W. (3., Hltlated on Bryant sin.-ct, between second and Third
streets, in the city of '1-tan Francisco, on lot No.
—." The fact that (Y. owned no other building
on that street. would not cure the defect.

SECTION 73'
L Ju',.uncM|u" in L||,..|_ To mm,-,muw ‘
Jmmnmuon m an acuon for “hot, mp answer
mum ‘we, the "um M mo d(-fumawry mmm
- ¢|mmpd_ 1; 1|; not gumptem to get up facts which

'

only tend to establish the truth uf such matter.
' Without an averment of its truth the fuctdetailcd
can only avail in mitigation of damngea.

secnou 69.

l

Thrall v. Hmiiey, 0 t‘al.. 33'.

[Ht]. Prue. Act, See. 59.]

I. Judgment-How Pic-.adetL In an ttﬂion on
a_iudgment obtained in anotlwr Htute, where the
transerlpt of thejudgment shown the jurimiietion
of the court on its face, it is not necessary to aver
jurisdiction.
Low v. Burrows, 12 Cai., ISI.

2. In pleadim: the judgment of a l’rohatt_
if-ourt, being court of limited jurisdiction, it is
necessary to act forth the facts which give jurisdic
tion. (6 (‘al.. (3:32). The law presumes nothing in
favor of the _illl'iStli(.‘i~|()T\ of Justices‘ courts, and a
party who asserts a right under a judgment of Jun
tice's court must show every fact necessary to con

SECTION 74.

Mt. Sc-o. M: Kentucky (‘ode, Sec. m;
[t‘al. Prue.
N. Y. tkxie, Sec. 167; Ohio Code, 91).]
1. Joindcr of Cnunen of Action. i'micr the
Practice Act it is competent for the plmntlli lo
I recover real property with dmnage for withholdiﬂ
I it. and the rents and profits, all in the same action
and as one cause of action.
1

Sullivan v. Davis, 4 Cal.. '.."ll.
is B. .\ion.. Sill;
Gale V. \V|iit-I‘ t'0., ii t'1!.. '25;

so. 81., -.:t' 1itiBnrb.,iiIL
2. Where the party is entitled to both leg!“ Mid

'
fer jurisdiction.

! equitable relief in a matter arising out ofthe some

Swainv. Chase, 12 t'3ai., 2%.

! transaction the whole matter may be iiililﬁivd ‘ind

ﬁnally Settled in the some action (‘)5 (‘ul.. Liitll.kw3! i0
W

i

SE01-‘ON 70'
Wm’ Pm‘ Act‘ 590- “W
1.

Condition Precedent.

i "Bk Juilitlnent against the indorserofa pr0|t1‘:1ii".g
I 11010, and decree againat tnurttmgor foret‘ L

That the plaint-ill‘

pm-iy to secure the
mortgage given by another
_
' same note. (24 (d., :32; 2% nl., lib; -:.: ut., em. The

value of property t.i§.~tro_\'e(i and dam ages

has fully performed on his part all the conditions

Hill)‘ be

of the contract, is sufficient.

6 Cal., 253.

.

Joined.

I

'1

3 Cal., 440; 12 m..

See id.,-i86.
also ‘Cal-"1"°= "1"<'- ' 231; Z4 U1.. en; 30

3.

All matteﬂi arising from and constituting
.

- '
may be litigate-d in
I H " 0' "'9 M010 trumuu tion
r Km

t

l| the sameuction. Every action undc
d 3".‘i
may he termed an action on till‘ t‘ﬂ1*‘»“n

i 1mound of relief which 08" M rcimnled

SE61-‘ON 71'

the case may be included in the action.
[C-al. Prac. Act., See. 61.]

toavaii himself of a statutory privilege. or right
given by particular facts, he must show the facts;
those facts which the statute requires as the foun
dation of the right must be stated in the complaint.
~
Dye v. Dye, ll Cal., ltki.

the same suit.

(‘()!til‘ti(.'i if the two causes arise out of the Him
'

transaction.
Jones v. Hteanisliip t‘o., i- (.81-. H7.
4- The provisions of the t‘oior8d0 ('
the joinder of causes of M11

I Oihvr

comhrelienslve than are the (Ode! 0’ 111;‘. an!
. states.

[Ca1' Prue‘ Nit‘ Sec'62']

\

A cause of actionon
(9 (‘ul., tii‘.’).

tort mav be united with 8 cause of action P

-H7). Dalnm.',e:'~: and penalty ma)‘ ‘"3 "‘-‘°‘“'em in

1. Private Statute. When the pleadcr wishes

Statement of Libel and Slander.

Under our i"-"K10 them ‘Q S(.arlI"fi-7I'iIfl'{'~

- limit to the joinder of c:ui§es of actilllli
\Vot'd8

“Hand

they all affect the some pa;-ties» bum pmtilnrader

which on their iace appear to he entire

defendant, and tiiTeei them in we ﬁn‘; pmﬂof

may, under certain eircumst
I l_v hannless
ances, con vcy a court
meaning wholly dliTe rent from the ordinary and
natural int-erpretatio it usually put upon them. To
render such words a ctwnable, it is neceasarv for
the pleader to over that the author of t-he.libei

and capacity, and do not I‘L‘(lUh'e diﬁcre
trial.
Eo.—i~.‘~ee

Stanben-y v. Kerr, 8 Colo. UN Rep" ya ‘

M Miller 5. As in misjoinder of paﬂlch m
Billke,ii(‘ulﬁ.. Ila‘; 2Colo. Law Bi‘?-'


2. ii’ the defendant demura to the complaint, it
is error for the court to refuse the plaintiff leave to
amend his complaint before the decision on the
demurrcr.
.
Lord v. Hopkins, 30 ('al., 76.
l. Allegations .\'0t Denied. In replevln, if the
allegations of value and damage are not denied,
they will be taken as two—except as to special

3.

The party desiring to amend alter demurrer

sustained must make his motion to the court, and

damage.

Tucker v. Parks, 4 ('olo. Law Rcp., -‘I16.
2. Every material allegation not controvertcd
is taken to be true. Those allegations are material

he cannot object on appeal that he was not per

mitted to amend, when he made no otter to do so.
Smith v. Yn-ka Water t.'o., H (‘al.. ﬁll.

which are nece.--.~sary to the relief sought.
Id.
Wall v. Llvezay, 3 td., -Hi; ti (‘olo., 465.

3. When an ultimate fact is admitted on the

SECTION 78.

record, probative facts tending to establish, modify

[Cai. Prac. Act, See. iiti.)
or o\'ei'('0ine it, will not be considered by the (‘till rt.
A verments of I
l. Amendments Discretionary with Court.
(.\iiitord v. Eatudillo, 32 t'al., lftl).
To allow an amendment upon a point sulmiitteti
an-re t'\'iti(‘Iit'i‘ are not admitted by a failure to
deny them in theanswer.
after verdict would be a very questionable exercise
of discretion.
Racvnlliot v. itcne, 32 Cal., 450.
4. Htatcnieniii of the answer relying upon a
set-oif will be taken as true, unleaa controverted
by the reply. Not so of matters in avoidance that
do not amount to a net-oil‘ or counter-claim.
Ashby v. Woodtblk, 3 .\iet., Sill.
See notes to Sec. til, ante.
6. A material allegation in an atlidavlt in at
tachment must be taken to be true llllit_‘H~i denied.
Wehic v. Kerbs, -‘i (‘olo.

Law lit-p., 5*; ii

Colo., H57.
880 note i, Ht-tr. iii. male.

Sears v. Collins, 5 (!olo., -lit’; l (‘olo. Law

Rep., 489.
2. An amendment to a complaint which
changes an action er conlraclu to an action or delicto
will not be allowed even under the latitude in

pleading tolerated under the (.‘ode.
Givens v. Wheeler, 2 Colo. Law Rep., 429:
ti (.‘olo., H9; 5 (‘al., 222.
3.

A motion to amend a pleadim,r is a matter

resting in the sound discretion of the court, and a
denial ofsuch motion is not a ground for reversal,

unim-.~4 it is a plain and arbitrary abuse of such
(ii8('l‘t.‘ii()Ii—\\'iliCb is not the case where two amend

SECTION 76.
[i‘al. Prac. Act, See. till.]
1.

Material Avormcnt.

Those allegations are

material Which are necessary to the relief sought.
1" l‘E‘l)lc\"in allegations of value and gcneﬂtl dam
82" are material.
Tucker v. Parka, i Polo. Law Rep., Iillti.
2- An liIl('§ﬁt'IltiBi or immaterial allegation is
one which can be stricken from the pleading with
out leaving it insuﬂicient, and of course need not.
be Proved or disproved. 9 t‘al., -I99.
3.

The following questions will dctermim' 1"

every case whether an allegation is material: (‘Fm
it be made the subject ora material lssuei’ in otllf-'1!‘

ments have been previously allowed, notwith
standing the proposed amendment was a denial of
a material allegation of the complaint theretofore
uncontroverted. The court in its <ll.~u-retion may
protect the plaintiffagalnst hardship arising from

the lachcs oi‘ the det'endant.
Dyer v. McPhee, 2 Colo. Law Rep.. -iiiiz ti
('ol0., 174.
Brown v. Nachtrlcb, 6 Colo., 5l7; 4 Colo.
Law ltcp., til.
4. Amendment. Bringing in Interested Par
ties. In an action brought by two of four tenants
in common for the po.-..-ession of real estate, the
complaint alleging right t.o one-fourth in each

plalntitl‘, it is not error to allow an amended com

words, if it be denied will the failure to l""“'° ll
decide the case in whole or in part? If it will not.
then the fact alleged is not material. It is not one
of those which constitute the cause of acti\'L‘ d9‘

plaint joinlng two other tenants in common, and
claiming the entire property. Sueh amendment

does not change the cause of action, nor does it
prc-_ludice the rights of defendants, who claim

lease or reply.

Green v. Palmer, 15 (‘al., 413

adversely to the title asserted by all the plaintiffs.
The consent of all the plaintilfs to be thus joined
will be presumed, nothing appearing to the con
trary.

SECTION 77.
[L‘al. Prac. Act, See. 67.1
L Amendments of Course. Where a party
declines to avail himself of the opportunity at
forded in the court below to amend his pleadings
“POD their being ad_;udged insutlicicnt, he does so
at his peril.

Colo. Springs ('0. v. iiopkins, 5 (‘O10-, 33'-ii 1
Colo. Law Rep., 2“.

hr: -=.

Weese v. Barker, 4 Colo. Law Rcp., 505.
5. When thcjudge, under this section, in vaca
tion, sets aside a Judgment. the action, when

attacked on a collateral proceeding, will be pre
surned to have been taken on notice. Having
juri.sdlct'.ion oi‘ the subject matter, Jurisdiction of
the parties will be presumed, unless the contrary
ailirmatively appear in the record.
W
Hughes v. Cummings, 4 C010. Law Rep., tn.

6. As to notes alleged to have been procured by
duress. in a suit to ('t\nt‘('l them, the administrator

a clear abuse of discretion in the court below.
(Roland v. Kn-yenhugen, iti (‘ai., 455). So of a

may, by way ofamendment, set up the lnsolveney
of his intestate at the time of the execution of the
notes; but not the killing of the inte.~tat-- by the

refusal to set aside such judgment.
Mulhollsnd v. lleynmnan, iiit'al., iliﬁ.

\\'oodward v. Backus, ‘ll f‘ai., l-‘i7.
17. Where an attorney appears without author
itv and conducts defense the remedy of defendants

defendant.
Lyster, adm., v. Htiekney, 2 (Join. Law Rep.,
433.
-7. A liberal allowanee of amendmentlt, due
regard being bad to the rights of parties litigant,

often conduces t.o the furtherance of justice. (Leb.

i

in bv motion for new trial and not under tliiil sec
tion.

.\ieKini,v v. Tattle, M t‘al.. ‘J5; t2ui.,->‘i'\\~i.ii.
18. The court may in its discretion and upon

Mining Co. v. tfon. Rep. Mining t‘o., 8 (‘oio. Law
Rep., -till; ti t_‘oio., :r;n. Five months allowed for
relief under this section.

proper terms allow am:-ndnu-nts at any staze of

Leahey v. l)unlap, 6 t‘ol0., -553; 4 t'oio. Law

M.. ‘Xvi; l? M., ‘D’-'>; 32 |'d., ‘Z40; ‘Ilt'1i.,T-:‘Z7

tho "'“:iLt‘al., I70; 7 01., I33: 9 M.. -16; iii i'Ii., 6%; N

Rep., -39.

8.

In order to make the pleadings correspond

with the proof, the court may allow amendment
striking out or adding the names of parties.
lt‘al., 191; 2 (‘ul., 237; it M.. 56.
0. \\’here _iudgment is entered against the
"defendants,“ some of whom were not sued,
though their names appeared as defendants by
mistake of the clerk, the error may be corrected in
the Supreme Court, or the court below, on motion.
llrowner v. Davis, 15 0111., ii.

I9.

ld.. ‘£48; 30 “L. Zllﬁ.
The power of the eourt under tbisand other

sections of the (‘ode should be liberally exercised in
mould and direct its proeeedimra so as to til:-pose
of cases on their merits and without llllI‘t'ﬂ5lllltlltlt!
(leli\\‘, regarding nu-re technicalities as obsim.'ll'5 to
he aimided rat her than as principles to which eﬂbd
"5 ‘O ‘W ttiven in derogation of substanUali’i8M
ltoiand v. Krt-yenitaizen, is t‘ai.. -I-n: iii id.

M2; ir~'id., me; it at.-.m.
10. An alteration by the court of a judgment
so as to include a party not served with process, if
not void, is voidabie at the election of the party.
(13 Cai., 558). In such case the proper praettce is to
move to correct judgment. in court below.
-3 t,‘al., 2»i-5.
11. The plaintiff should he permitted if he
desire to so amend his complaint. as to present
for determination his legal rights. Uillt"l'\\'|M‘ the
complaint should be dismissed.
Me-Donald v. Bear River, etc., (.‘o., l-') (‘nl.,
1+5.

SECTION 79.
I‘ ‘HI. l’rae. Act, Section 69.]
l. I-‘ic-tltlous Nmne. This section permits;
defendant whose name is unknown to be su:-3 bi‘
any name; if bond is required to be exeetltj mi
plaintiff to defendant, by a \\'l'0hg namumet
re|ned_\' of the latter upon the bond is eomlH ~
Morgan v. Thrift. 2 (‘al., 33;’.

2. W hen defendant was sued as James. ﬁt‘;':‘:§
returm-d upon John, and judgment was ren WM
against J.: Held, to be error
something in the reeord to show that the P1 12, It is no ground for setting aside judgment
by default that the defendant was ignorant of the
law requiring him to answer in ten days.
Chase v. Swain, it (,‘al., 130.
13. \Vh_ere two defendants are jointly sued and
service had on both, the clerk has not authority to
enter judgment by default against one of them,
and his act in so doing is without color of law and
void, and may be disregarded or set aside.
Stearns v. Aguirre, 7 Cal., 4+3; see '28 UL. lid;
30 id., ‘.5i):'>; id., 198; -id., -31-‘).
14. After adjournment of term relief against a
judgment can only be had by motion for new

trial on the ground of accident or surprise, whieh
ordinary prudence could not ha-\' e guarded anal nst.

2% Cai., 333.
15. A judgment by default should not be set
aside unless the defendant shows by competent
proof that the _iudgment was entered through
mistake, inadvertenee, surprise or excusable neg
lect; and the payment of costs should be imposed
as condition.
People v. O'Connell, 23 t_‘al., ‘El.

served was the person sued.

Hutter v. Cox, ii t.‘al.. 415; see 3 UL. '31

SECTION 80.
Rights.

Hnbstantial justice spoken of in wit‘

seption is substantial

legal justice, to be time

"lined and determined by fixed rules and P0’-‘Mon
statutes, and not the abstract and varyinll
in.
‘’f ‘‘‘i"“.\‘ Which may be entertained by 011‘
dlvidual.

Harris v. Brown, 1 i"al.. ill.
2. in pleadimz, doubtful ianguB\‘.l°"§"°5B;:,r‘,],(;,(‘,
most stronaly awtiiisi "19 Plmder Um “ah. I‘ 1; will
such eonstruetirm should not be glwn U kc the
reasonably bear a different on?) 3*‘ Wm um
pleading abs-urd.

1\iarshall v. Shatter. 32 ('81-, 1'6
SECTION 81.

“-'‘"- Prlw. .-\(.-t. See. 71; N. Y. (‘ode, see. It
16. \Vherc a default judgment is set aside and
the party permitted to come in and defend, the
Supreme Court will not interfere unless there was

“ode. -Kev. m-:; K _v, l‘ode, Sh‘. 101.]
1- A Liberal Allowance of Amend
plcamngliv due regzurd being hall to the r

litigants,
justice.

often

t\ﬂll(ill(‘t'H to the

furtherance Hi

liberally construed and carried out.

3.

same defendant at thejsuli of another party havlnt:
either a general or special property in the goods.

Lebanon .\|. ('0. V. ('00. Rep. M. i'0., ii i 'olu.
Law l{t1L. 403; 6 (.‘olo., 371.
2. This section applies to description in plead
ing as well as to errors in other respects. (2) (‘al..
Tﬂi). The section is most beneficial, and should be

Denver, H. P. & P. R. R. Co. v. Frame. 6
(.‘olo., 653; 8 Colo. Law Rcp., 359.
8. When the plaintiff recovers the goods or
their value, the only general damage is theintereat
on the value from the time ofthe taking to the trial.
Special damages must be specially pleaded.

32 t‘ai.. ll.
Sec aiso2~H‘al., Mi; 2'» #1., Hi; iii id., (Ni; is
B. .\ion.. ill"; l .\icl.. xiii; ii 1). Ht., Hi; i
iiandy, Lilli.
'
lioty v. Rigour. ii H. St.

Tucker v. Parks, 4 (Ioio. Law Rep., 1l)6. 7. Where different courts have concurrent ju
risdiction of the subject matter, that court first ob
tainingjurisdiction is entitled to proceed without

ilrdinarily the court will not give leave to

interference by another court. If a United States
Marshal seize property under an attachment from

amend an answer for the |mrpost- oi‘ interposlng
the defense of thc statntc of limitations 12! liow.,

4:35), or usury. or any tlt'i'l‘llﬂt' of the class denom
inated unconscionable.

lri Abb., 'Ji\‘; ".2 limv., 2'29; ill td., 72.
4. \’arlance— Amendment on Account of
Must be Made. or it is \Vaived.
\\'hcrc a
variance between the complaint and proof may

be cured by amendment in the court below, an

objection on that account‘ comes too late when

the Federal (‘om-t, and a claimant of said property
sue in repicvin in a State (‘ourt, the Marshal may
justify by pleading the attachment. The remedy
of the claimant in such case is by intervention in
the attachment suit.

Parks v. Wilcox, 4 ('olo. Law Rcp., 49.
8. This action is at least commensurate with
the action of detinue at common law.

McLaughlin v. Platte, ‘I7 ( ‘ai.. -il'ri.
9. The primary object is to recover the thing it

made for the ﬁrst time in the Supreme t'ourt.

Smith v. Roe, 4 t °olo. Law Rep., 393.

self. The value is recovered only in tin.-alternative
that the property is not returned.

Hunt \'. Robinson, ll t'al., 2'77.
10.
SECTION 82.
[t.‘ai. Prac. .-\<-t, Sec. 99; N. Y. t'ode, Hem 206; Ky
(.'()(l(',
‘A17; Ohio (.'odc. H00. i'H.]
1. Claim and Delivery-—Generally. .\ franw
building erected upon, and attached to. realty, can
not be recovered by proceeding for claim and do
iivery of personal property. (Eddy v. Hull, 2 ('0lo.
Law itep., lib‘; -3 (,'olo.,57tii. Fixtures, when severed,
may be recovered as personally.
Sands v. Pfeifer, iii t,‘ai., 258.

2. in an action for the possession of personal
PmPt‘l'l.\'. It complaint that plaintiff " is entitled to

me Pﬂssesslon," etc... is bad on demurrer. His right
‘if-'i"-‘lldﬁ upon his property in the chattels, gen
eral or special, and the facts showing this should
he alleged.
Bakcr v. Cordwell, 2 t'olo. Law Rep., 427: 6

t.'olo., MI.
3- This action will not lie against the taker-up
Y0!‘ the possession of an estray animal, without ten

dering the amount due him under the statute.
Hausc v. ltosc, '2 Polo. Law Rep..

To render the defendant liable to the ac

tion he must have converted the property to
own use, orits equivalent. (2 (‘al., 571.) It is
material whether the plaintiﬂ"s property in
gum]:-l is absolute or qualified, provided he has

his
not
the
the

right to possession. (22 id., 139.) tine partner can
not maintain this action against another for goods

belonging to the partnership.
Buckley v. Carlisle, 2 t3ai., 420.
1 i. The right to immediate possession is neces
sary in order to maintain replcvin. (Curd v. Wan
der, 5 O. Ht., 02).
Ownership without right to

immediate possession will not do.

(Williams v.

West.2tzl., 82). if dei‘endunt‘s possession is lawful
or innocent until refusal to surrender, demand
and refusal must be averred.
Hhur v. Htatlcr. l Wes. Law .\ionthiy, 317.
12. in‘ actions for taking and detaining per
sonal property, no circumstances of aggravation
being shown, the measure of damage is the value

of the property and interest thereon.
Dorsey v. Manlove, l-i t‘al., 553; ii id... 2'2; I-i
UL, 535; ‘23i¢I., M9.
Tucker v. Parks, 4 Colo. Law Rep., 306.

4.

In an action of repleviu, where a return is

iidiudgeti, it is comp<.-tr-nt for the court to give dam

ages for the detention up to the time of dt_'iiVL‘i'_\'.

SECTION 84.

and if no error appear. the matter is rm m(_imlicu.lu.

(jolo. Springs t‘o. v. iiopkins. l t'olo Law
Rt-p., ll: 5 ('olo., 206.

5. Special property in goods may, under the
"Ode. enable a party to sue in his own name in re
Plevin, Or in trovcr.

Where the entire property I8

In the consignor. he is the proper party to sue;
where the entire pr0pcrt_\' is in the consignee the

latter sues; when both are interested, one as gen
eral and the other as special owner. either may

sue. A rec0\‘er_\' in such action, pr0P€'l‘l.\' |ns‘"“°
led,will bar any sub.sc<|t.tent action 8._"T8i!lBt the

[Ca]. P|‘:i.t'. Act, Hm‘. l0'..’.]
1. Uudertaking——Action On. In a complaint
on a replevin bond, because of failurc to return

property, it is Ilt.‘t't‘.“~Si.i,l'_\' to allege that an order
was entered directing it return of the property-tine
condition of such bond being for a return of the

property “in case return thereof shall be awarded. '
The breach assigned shall be as broad as the courtl
tions of the bond.
Polorado Springs t‘0. v.

Law Rep., ll ; 5 ('olo.,

SECTIONS 94.

2. In an action of replevln where the return of
the property is adjudged it is competent for the
court togive damages for its detention up to the

time of delivery. This will be (‘I)DChIIi|\'("II the
damages in a suit upon the bond.
Id.

[t‘al. l'rae. Act, Heetlons i‘3J to i~ii.l
l. Atuehment Lie-n. Two nets are neeesmry
to create an altneltment lien on real estate. to-wit:
Herviee on the oeenpant, or posting on the premises
and filing in the rveorder's otllee.

.

3. In an action on the bond, the fact that the
p,,|.l,.r \._ pm moo’ l volo. Lav: Rep., 2:. H
defendant brought his action before an ineompe- I
2_ In Cm 0; Summon, 1,, iublk-||tl 0113‘.
tenttribunai is no defense, and plea that title of | Mmchnwm M mod om and |N'|cL|' p(‘|'!T)[l1l:h::lthe
the property so replevh-d in him, is bad. H (‘al., ilil).
"Wu, may M ,.,,m|,,r,.d_ H |,, not mm" 8
me
Where the defendant, in his answer, failed to
Judumvm and ,.x,.,.m|,m M gem-|-at or spa: W
elalm a return of the property. and on trial the
"wmhm M ‘hr prnpony M made_ The 5 (‘Ede
Jury found for the defendant, and the eourt ren"Mm u“,5mm,,ur Nu. pn,po|-[y’ ‘.~t(~¢-nun lit,‘ to‘
dered judgment against the plalntlﬂ for min,

of hm,’ Wqumn“ the ,,h,.,-"1 m I-“min n 0:

which were paid: Held, that the payment of the
judgment was a complete discharge of plaintit!"e
sureties on the undertaking. (7 64., tliln. Where
the bond substantially conforms to the act, the

,.,.,.d,, and, an" Judgment, toenforee thei ;;
"row" \._ Tu(.k(..|.' 4 ‘-mo_ Law R(-p,, h n h
3_ UN‘ um Roloam‘ |,,..|,,,|g“,,.m_ An 0;
the NM‘ or the “mwhnwm M mowed m we N 8.

assignee ot'del'eudant.~4 can maintain an aetlon on
it. uiid.,ll‘.h. .\'o reeovory can be had upon a bond

mom UH. mum. do“ um "Po;-aw so as to release 0:
obmm.M,_ U“, Mmclmmm pan. Tim attachttlfge

purportingtobea joint bond ofprineipai and sun»
lies, but signed by the latter only. (ll ((1.. 12h.

up" HM“ “xii” 8,, M m ﬂmf0r|;pr|o|-lt_\ on
mm,“ H“. Judgnwm.
‘

Otherwise, of undertakings

under

our system.

p

l.m.u,r v_ H0 Hon. 1 P010. Law l{ep., :5;

A

They are original and independent eontraets on
L Exempuon ‘va‘“_d U"h,,,,, (duﬂlnelr. ml
the part of the sureties, and do not require the slg- ' dvﬂmdum in MmM"m,m vhummg ,w,._“.;.np1'or
muum or the principal‘
levy "implements or stock in trade ' " ":1 or

M‘

kept tor the pttnxme of oarryiml 0" M“ ‘_'-“I in.
business." not Bpeeitieaily exempi by "1"" " “O

titled to select such articles as are suitable
his trade or busim-as, and a fhilure on his :10;
to make sneh selection in a waiver of his r;

SECTION 86.
[Pal. l’r-ac. .\et., Section l0<i.|
l. Defendant May -Roclahn.

This bond is

a.\'si§_:nable by the sheriill (3t2ai.,ll2.) Inanactlon
thereon it must be alleged that defendant neither

H“ nu)i.lt-hymer v. Pook, l Colo. l.nw B0Pt.3l5¥ 5
Colo. 306.

,

I

levying
5. The
an attachment
she;-ii!’ in not
upon
Liable
properly
for damai!es
notgliigcnnt

re-delivered the property nor paid the value thereof
as recited in thejudgment. (7 1'd.. FM); id.,3ilI). The
liability thereon is limited to the damages aun
tained by a failure to return the property. (ll id.,
2132;. The sureties only bind themselves to make

eally exempt by statute, inease the (1! L Q m
declines to designate the artieles he dvﬂln
elalm. Behymer v. (‘ool-t, i Colo. Law- Rel’-' :“‘':

5

good any judgment that plaintiff may lawfully
obtain against defendant; their liability eannot
be more than 'th~..- value of the,property fixed by
the judgment in the original suit. (7 i1I.,3t‘>t~'). in
suit against snretles it is necessary to allege and
prove that the property was (lt'llV(El'Cd to the party
l‘0qtlit‘lttg it and for whom the bond was given. (id.,
570). A bond \va.'\_ made to the sheriff instead oi
the party to be protected by it, by mistake, and

l.‘olo., 39-3.

I r

6. Nothing Exempt From Attachment 0
l’urehnm.~ Price. Under the ninth“! I10 Pmpc fl)‘

a claim for tilt‘
is exempt from levy to satisly
ndant connoi
ptlrelunw price thereof; and a dele
by seleeting eueh property under the mm aw
division of the exemption law, exemp i ll (F0111
sn ‘h liability.

(

.:

Behymer v. Cook. 1 mm. Law Rep.. 316. ‘

then corrected; this did not invalidate the bond.
‘olo. Ii‘-i-1

Turner v. Billagrani, 2 (,‘al.. 522.

7. GBl'I(liahe’es Not Diet-hargt‘-d by Bum?‘ C23
tions lift and ill U ‘ode of l~T;, Settllons lU'lLg!)l'i!e of

of Colorado, do not Provide ‘or the discllendani
garnisltees upon the execution b)‘ the do toned;
in attachment of the bond therein H1911t under

SECTION 92.
[Cal. Prae. _-\et., Section 109.!

but oni_\' for the release Oi l"‘0P‘3rty mken

l. Claim by Third Person. if in the bond
to indemnify the sheriff for replevying property
claimed by-a person other than the det'en(laltt in
the writ, the obligees undertake to indemnify
him from any damages he may sustain by reztstm
01 any costs, suits, judgments and executions that
shall come or may be brought t\gt1lliSt him the
sheriff cannot maintain an action on the bond
because a Judgment has been rendered, but must
ﬁrst pay the judgment.
_

_ 1. were)!
'se(_mm'w

attaeiunent and t.he proeeeds of U": :‘::cuu_d in

in the hands 0! the oilleer. A bull‘

accordance with the provi:-.ione of said
as on
secure the discharge of a fund in the hall under
iiarnishee would not be valid as a st:tt.t1tof.\ 960.0‘

ta-king. (Henry v. Gold Park .\linlni§ £°~
Law Rep., I96). But if the garnisiu-epti d
the money, agprovided in the Rlﬂllllﬁv" '

""1! have that money released by I!“ "3

‘-"-"mill; bonds pursuant to said mctionk
Lott v. ~\litehell, 32 Cal., ‘El.

8. Ruling on Attachment Subject to Review.
The action of the court below either discharging or
refusing to discharge an attachment, may be re
viewed by the:-iupreme Court, whether such action

was had before or aftcrjudgment in the case on the
merits.
Wehic v. Kerbs,3 t‘olo. Law Rcp.,:'n' ; ii t ‘olo.,
iii‘.
9. Defective Traverse in--Attachment Sun
tained. \Vhen the uiliduvit of defendant travers
ing the grounds ofnttiu-hmcnt is defective, the at
tachment will be sustaim-ti. A traverse tiled sixty
days after the Miidavit, which denies that defend

out.

Wehie v. Kerb:-4, -'iL‘0io. Law Rcp., 3%: 6(‘olo.,
I67.

10. Not Allowed in Trespass. l'ndcr the stat
lltc of('oiorado an attachtnent is not allowed in
actions of trt-spass to mines, even though the plain

titfelect to waive the trt-spms and sue us for mont-_\'
had and received to his use. The implied promise
in such mac is a pure ilction of law, invented to
mtpport the old action of n.~tsutnp:-tit.

Taking ore

from a mine without the consent of the owner is a
trespass in which none ofthe elements ofa contract
can be found.
Tabor V. liiz Pitts. ('on. till. .\l. (‘o., 3 ('olo.

Griswold v. Sharp, 2 l "aI., i7.

Tabor v. Big Pittsburg, Ii ('oi0. Law l~tep.,
2i'.’; 8 (‘ai., ‘Jiti.
I7. is an Auxiliary Proceeding. The remedy
by attnclum-Int is nota distinct proceeding in the
nature of an action in rem, but is a proceeding
auxiliary to an action at law designed to Hectlrc
the payment of any judgment that may be oh

tainhi.
v. Adams, ti (‘ai., 277.

unt “ it" about to iratuiuh-ntiy dispose of his prop
erty, is not suflich-nt. it fails to traveraethe aﬂlda
vitaaof the date when the nttachnu~nt was sued

10. When Attachment May Issue. The pro
cess of attachment is u (‘|'i‘llll()ll of statute, and
is a remedy only given in i'2U~'l’.‘i of indebtedness
arising upon contract.

I8.

Statute Must be Strictly Pursued in.

Pro

ceedings by attachment are i-datutury and special,
and must be strictly pursued; and when it party
relies upon his attachment lien as a remedy, he
must strictly follow the provisions oi’ the attach
mcnt law.
Roberts v. Landecker, 9 t‘al., em.
19. Attachment Before Debt Due.
Wiiere
goods are fraudulently purchased by an insolvent,

the creditor may attach before the maturity of the
note, and other creditors subsequently attaching
cannot complain that the suit was prematurely
brought (Patrick v. Montader, 13 (')al., ~i-'H), on the

ground that the debt was equitably due.
i8 id.,378.
20. When Attachment Cann_ot Issue. in an
action to recover damages for collision (2 t]ai., 94),

Law llcp._. ‘I32.

11. Pro-rate Upon.

in this State attachment

or for tt'(-s].»:|ss to a mine (Tabor v. Big Pittaburg, 3
(‘(111). Law ltep., 2'32), attachment issued before

suits are not made returnable to terms of court.

the summons in a suit is void, and the subsequent

Therein no.-4u~-h close of actions as mentioned in

‘'3 (‘lode of H77. Sec. Hm of the(‘ode of('ivil Proced

issuance of summons cannot cure it. (9 Cal., 538).
Issued upon a debt not d ue is void as against cred

ure, and the ])i‘I)('.t‘"(l.'i of attached property cannot
bi‘ dist rlbutcd as provided in that section.

itors who.~'e rights are in_iuriou.-ly affected.

Baum v. Gosline,-‘i Colo. Law Rel)-i 279

1* m., -‘i7-'*.
21. Judgment. The judgment in attachment

12. tfontm. see Lewis v. Parker. 4 ('olo. Law

Rel)-,3iIl, in W|llt'll the (‘ode provision is sustained,
if attachments are properly returnable and re
turned at the same term ofthe court.
13. Release of Lien by0|-daring Return. The
return of an execution “unsatisﬁed “ by order of
iilaintiifnine tnonth.-utftcrlevy. must be taken as
a release Ofthe lien whetlu-r acquired by the exe
clltion only or in the first instance by attachment

suit need not direct the sale of the property at
t:u-.hed. as the law makes it the duty of the sheriff
to sell it-.
Brown v. Tucker, 4 C010. Law Rep., 21%.
Low v. Henry, 9 (,‘al.. 538.
22. Judgtnent Against Garnishee. Unless the
unswcr oi't.{nrnisl1ce di.~‘cioses liens having priority
of claim upon funds in his hands, Judgment must
be rendered for the amount he admits to be due.
('uhoon v. Levy, -1 t'al., 244.

~80 far at least. as respects any junior liens.
Hpeelman v. t‘hati'.-c, 5 t‘olo.. 247.
I

I4. Merger of Lieum The lieu’ of the attuc||
mentlnerges in the _imignu~nt and thenceforwurd

its only cﬂ'ect is to preserve priority of lien.

SECTION 95.
[ Ky. t'od|-, Sec. 221 : Ohio Code. See. 191 ; Cal. Prac.
Act, See. i'.!l.]

Id,

15. Past-Due l.)ebt—Ground of. It must hi‘
held that by the iith s.ub-division of section I ofthe
attachment act of i.~i.‘~il {Seth "1 ""d“ or lml)‘ the

I. Atlidavit in Attachment.
'l‘he affidavit
must state some one of the grounds enumerated.
\\'h(-re the petition (complaint) states all the facts
HI'P('(,‘HSIIF)' to authorize an attachment, and is

loiglillature intended to define a separate and ad‘

sworn to. no additional atiidavit is necessary.

ditional cause of attachment. to-wit: An ind9m'
edncae existing upon the ovcr-due

in:~'truH1P"t-“

and 1l('l.'Olll’llS speciﬁed.
Hlrnmons v. (‘alifornia Powder i'H.. i t.‘ol0.

Law RCIL, -3l‘.’.

Scott v. Doneghy, I? H. .\Ion., .‘i2—i: l Mt-i.,

l-36; t'd.I im.
2. The nfildavit must_state in terms or in sub
stance the nature of the piaintifl’s claim, -that the
claim is just. and the amount plalntiﬂ‘ behevcs he

is entitled to recover. These provisions of the
(‘ode must he strictly complied with. t\\’orthit1g
ton v. Cary, i .\ict.. 470).

ﬁtherwise the ntfidavit is

insufficient.
l7 B. Mon., -‘d2.
3. An attachment is not void which issues
upon a defective aﬂidavit. it is within the rule

that the proceedings ofa court which has jurisdic~
tion of the person or subject, are not void, however
erroneous. The atﬂdavit may be amended. ((\“|'I'l
v. Brown, 4 Met., 312). If no change of priorities
will result from the amendment. (It Law tiaz., -int.
But see 18 Cai., l52l. The ground for an attachment
may be stated in the language of the statute. with
out stating more particularly the facts relied on.
(tloston v. Paige, 9 t). t-tt.). An attidavit is insutii
eient which avers that defendant is indebted to
plaintiff on an express or implied contract.

subsequently, dcnyim: that defendant "ts" about
to so tlltt|)0~r of his property, is not good. it
fails to deny that defendant was about to perpe
trntc the fraud at the time the attachment was
sued otti.
Id.
3. .\ denial, in the answer of the defendant to
a complaint upon which attachment issued, upon
attidavlt chanting fraud, ofthc fraud chargamnkes
an issue to he tried on motion to discharge the st

tachnu-nt. The mum is on the plalntitl.
Talhotl v. Pierce. it 8. .\ton., iii.

4. on the trial of an attachment the atlidsvits
of the plalntitfand defendant constitute the plead
ings, and have no other effect. tliunt-an t‘. \l ick
iiffe, 4 .“ct., liH.l if the defendant fnii to traverse.
the attachment must be sustained.
Hpuhiim: \'. Himms, I .\iet., 342.
[t‘ai. Prac. Act, See. 122: Ky. Code, Ht-1_-. 224.]
1. Attachment Bond. it is no objection to an
undertaking in attachment that it runs to the

I.

it ‘ul. Prue. Act, See. i2i.]
8h\I't\s and Debts Due Defendant. Flindt

in the hands ofa receiver appointed by It Pomp‘
tent court are not subject to attachment. M
Adams v. Haskell, ti (‘al., H3; 4 at, M

People instead of the defendant, as the latter can
sue thereon in his own name.
Palmer v. Vance, iii (‘ai., 5-36.

But see Phelan v. (ianehin.5 (‘0l0-| 1*
2. The Remedy upon an attachment bond
does not dt--pend- upon the existence of probable

2.

Where an attachment was issued bi‘ ""'°°“"

cause to sue out the attachment, but upon the
question wiwther it has been rightfully or wrong

oftirst instance against the properiy 01' " d"mm'

fully obtained. The recovery oi‘ such bond is for
the injury by being deprived of the use of his
property, and loss by deterioration.
tl’etit \'.
Mercer, 8 B. .\ion, 5i; 1H irl., M43). The discharge of
the attachment is conclusive that it was obtained
without good cause.

dered to make the amount due the creditor onto?‘

and the shcritfhad executed the sametfiml “"“5°r;
the goods, chattels and propel'U' of ‘he dd?‘ 1'
Held, that the sheritf could not maintain anmt 0;‘.
in his own name to recover a sum owintt ‘" mun

tachment debtor by a third person it" “"“‘“ H’ '
and delivered.
Hubiette \'. .\h~iimdo, i t‘ai.. I'll.

Mitchell v. Mattlngiy. 1 Met., 2&7.
3. The Only Damage that can he recovered in
a suit upon an attachment bond is what results
from the attachment itst-lf—not what is occ.-.tsioncd
by the action independent of the attuchmr-nt—
including the costs and a reasomthie attorney's fee.
(Trapnull v. Me-Afee, 3 .\ict., 3i; td., ‘)8. But see i
()al.,4i0). Complaint on attachment bond must
allege that the attachment has been discharged.
(Nelle v. Thompson, 3 .\iet., 1'21).
And hence
defendant, in a suit in which attachment is issued,
cannot set up as a counter-claim a demand for
damages for maliciously suing out an attachment,
although plaintiff is it non-resident and has no
property in the State.

SECTION 101.
l.
ment.

gation in an atlldavit in attachment must be taken
as true unless denied.
Wehle v. herbs, 3 Colo. Law
Rep.. fa‘; ii
0010., 167.

the recordcr's oillce.
Porter \'. l’io Plco, itioio. Law Rep-v '
(‘ai., ii.

Attachment Lien-Merger.

Judtztnent does not become a ilen upon
until transcript of the Judgment docket d
noted for record in the recorder‘! office: 8" ‘~up0n
lien created by the levy of an atwchmcllllomm
realty is not merged in the judgmemt bi?‘ 0‘ the
an independent lien until the trtttiﬁcf Eda
Jlldgrnent docket is so tiled with the rem 31*
Emery v. Yount, 4 Colo. LBW Roi’-v
mchmﬁnt Ml’

3.
2. The afiidavit alleging that defendant “is
about to fraudulently conceal, or remove or dis
pose of his property," etc., a traverse tiled six days

Two acts are Ilt‘(?t".~'Htlt'}' to create an aliac);

cupant, or posting on the premises. and ﬂu"

2_

Execution and Return of “'rlt of Aiuctlb.

ment lien on real estate. to-wit: h'l""'|co on mmili

Id.
SECTION 98.
iKy. Code, Sec. $9.].

Return.

The return of an at

not be amended so as to postpone the ﬂgittl 01
itors HL1bS0qtl0ttil_\' attaching.
\\'ebster v. Haworth. ‘t’ i 3"" 2L

The presumptions are in favorofthe regular

in a corporation have been transferred as security

lty ofthc acts of the officer, and a return which
simply states that the property was attached is
suflicient prima _/m't'c to show a due and proper ex

for a loan a lnoritzagee is the only proper gar
nishec in order to reach such shares. (7 t.‘al.,' M2).
After delivery and pn-.~_-entation of an order, the

4.

cution of the writ.
ititter v. Scannci, ii (‘al., 348; 2 Mel.. ‘.544; i

debt due by the drawee cannot be reached on
attachment issued by creditors of drawer.

i2 id., 92; if» £11.. :;~‘.

Duvail. 391.
No Parol Instruction of Plaintiff in an at
tat-hment or execution respecting property seized
by the shcriti'nndcr the writ, will discharge such

sheriii'from liability. The statute is express that
such instruction must be in writing.
Sanford v. Boring, it.’ (‘al., 539.
6. The Deposit in the Rocnt1l0r's Oﬂlce of a
copy of the writ with a description ofthc property,

is suﬂlclcnt to operate as notice ofthe lien to third
parties; such lieu cannot be divested by failure of

the sheritfto make proper return of the writ.
ititter v. Hcannel, ll t'ai., 2\'~'l.

2.

\\'hi-n a garnishee, in discharge of a Mile,

answers on oath that he was released by plaintltf,
who abandoned his examination, he should be
discharged by the court without lttrther delay,
unless his answer be controverted by the afiidavit
of-plaintitl‘. (3 t'al., 2-.'>‘l). He can only be required
to answer as to his liability to the debtor at the
time of the service of the garnishment. (4 (‘al., iota).

Should be allowed to amend his answer when a
mistake is made to appear. (5 id., lis). Agarnishee
who fraudulently disposes of property after notice,
is liable for the value of such property. and may
be sued by the attaching creditor.

ii ((1., 2452..
SECTION 103.
[K_v. (.‘ode, Sec. 237.]
I. Intervention in Attachment.
All inter
venor tiled his verified petition, but there was no
formal order of court recognizing him as a party
to the suit, thoutzh be was so treated in the progress
of the cause, and the action was tried as though

he was a party:

3. Receiver as Garnishee. in the absence of
spt-eitic statutory directions, where the property
and l>usit1ess of a corporation are under the con
trol of a receiver. he is the proper person upon

whom service of process should be made to bring
the corporation in as garnishec.
Pheian, impld., etc., v. (lancbin, 5 Coio., i-i.

Held, that the irregularity was

no ground for reversal.

SECTION 108.

Schevein v. Himms, 2 Met.. '.’U‘J.
[t‘ai. Prue. Act, Section 130.]
1.

Perishable Goods

Attached.

N0 order of

court is required to authorize the sale of perishable
SECTION 105.
[Ca]. Prac. Act,

goods seized under attachment.
Low v. Henry, H (‘ui., -'>'1i

i. Liability of Garnlshee. The liability of a
garnishee dates from the service of the attachment

and atiidavit, and from notice to appear. (Johnson
v-(/'lll'I':r,2Cai.,3'i.l Entitled tojury trial. (5ltl.,‘..’iil.)

SECTION 109.
l(/‘al. Prac. Act, Section 132.]

Lit-n of sub-contractor, tiled and notice given as

1.

Application of Attached Property.

No

required by statute, attaches from the time work
commenced, and takes precedence over 8 P.'m'"|5h'
ment. served on the owner against the head con
tractor after the work was commenced, and before

direction in the Judgment nor special execution
is necessary to tu|ii|ori7.c the sheritt‘ to satisfy the
Judgment out of the property attached. It is made

the filing and servinaz notice of the lien. (7 id., 35*).

his duty by the law.
Brown v. Tucker, 4 t_‘oi0. Law Rep., 26%.

The ex-sheriﬂ' could only be zarnisheed as a private
ttilrnisheed by a creditor of plaintiti‘ is no defense

2. The application of an attaching creditor to
compel the shcriti‘ to pay over the proceeds of

to the action.

goods attached, there being conﬂicting claims be

individual. (id., H4). That the defendant has been
The remedy is by motion for stay

"T Procecdiligs until the attachment is disposed of.
21 id., i2Z; 22 id., 687.

tween sew.-rai attachingcreditors, must be made by

motion.

If notice of the motion is not given by the

party moving to the other attaching creditors, it is
the duty of tho sheritf to do so if he wishes the
decision to bind them.
Dixey v. Pollock, .3 (.‘al., 570.

SECTION 106.
[(?al. Prac. .-‘let, Sec. 1%.]

1. Proceedings Against Garnishee.

in pro

ceedings against a garnishce, it is the duty of the

court simply to render judgment against him for
the amount found due by him to the Jtttiglllﬁm
dem‘"'-

(6 (‘al.. itl).

.\n order that the garnishec

PM’ the money into court is improper. (id.: 5 id-.
lb). The liability of _t:arnisin-c will not. be affected
by the failure of plaintitf to require him I0 l1PP""'

1.

SECTION 111.
[Cal. Prue. Act, See. 134.]
Action on Undertaking in. The under

taking only operated to release the property from
the custody of the shcriifpending the suit, and not
as an actual substitution of security.
Low v. Adams, 6 (‘ai.. 277.

and answer under oath. (9 (.‘al., :3|.i'_'t. \\'hcrc sltarcs
1. Bond Discharﬂng the Attaclnnent. The
bond only operates to release the property from
the custody of the sheritf, and is not an actual
substitution of security compelling the plaintitf to
proceed on the bond alone to collect his judgnn-nt.
Low v. Adams, 6 Cal., 277.

I. Motion to Ulschargm Tllll IOCli0il (1015
not obviate the neeeuity of speciiying the particu
lar pointn of irregularity on which the motion to

discharge will be made.

A notice of motion to

disclmrge attachment "because the said writ am

improperly issued," is not milieieut. The notice
should specify the grounds of the motion, and
wherein it will he urm-d that the writ was improp

2.

In an Action upon

this undertaking the
erly issued.

complaint should allege that the property at tm-hed

Freehorn, eh-., \'. Glaser, ll! (‘at-.317.

was released upon the delivery of the undertaking.
(Williamson v. Blattcn, ti (Zal., 3|"). Recovery can

he had on it only to the extent of the penalty. tlil
SECTION 1 17.
[Ca]. i‘rnc. .\('t, See. lil.]

Cal., 5%). Such bond, though not in conformity
with the statute as to form, if given voluntarily to

the sherltfon delivery of the property, is valid asa
common law bond. (td.; l7 id.. 433.1 All under
taking given to the sheritl‘ to procure release of

goods atinelu-d is for the benefit oi‘ llw plaintiff
who may sue on it; and it the sheriff takes a unfli
olent etatutory nndcrt.aklm.', he has no further
responsibility.
tt‘nrlre v. Packard, 29 i‘/ul., "Hi,
When the liability of the sureties in tixcd by the
condition of iudgment in favor of plaintltf, the

sureties may tender the tuli amount of such Judg

I. The Return of the “'rit.
The sherill'~
return is conclusive agatnst the piaintitiland his
action must he for false n-turn.
Buchanan, 5 t‘al., 3i).
The return

1i~.¢ery \.
eannot be

amended where a third party has acquired an
tltterest adverse to the attachment. (M-\yaiin\.
Pro\'ost,tH1i.,$'i; \\"ebater v. llalworth, 8 ui....1;.

A mistake in the date of a sheritfs return am) be
amended at any time.
Rlller \'. Scanm-I, ll t‘n|., 3*‘.

ment, and if piaintitf refuse to receive the same,
the sureties are discharged.

SECTION 118.

Haya v. Josephi, 215 (‘nl.. 51; ‘Hi |'1i.. iii.

I . Pro rate of Attaehlntt and JlldK"“"" Cred;
itors. ln.i‘olorndo attachment writs are not mad!
[The text of Sec. 2i2, Ky. t'ode, isas follows: if the
defendant at any time before jud ment

returnable to termsot court.

'l'herc 1! ll"-‘Mn

causes a hond to he executed to the pin ntitf,

of actions as is mentioned in Hem l13\"‘Xl‘~‘l'm“W"

hg_ one or more sutiicient sureties, to the
e ect that the defendant shall
.1-form the
Jbudgment of the court, the attac nnent shall
e disclmrged, and restitution made of an '
property taken under it, or the proeee s

ert)' cannot he distnbuted mt l"'°"ld°d m man‘

no of the Pode. and the Prmds “"‘“‘“'hPd Pm:
U
. on.

Bantu v. Gosline, 1lt‘olo. Law RN)" ‘:9

thereoi.]
3. This Bond Discharges Attachment. The
execution of the bond eontenlplated hy these sec
tions operates t-o discharge the attzwimu-ni, and
the obligors in the bond must perform the Judg
ment of the court. In action on the bond they can
neither contest the grounds for obtaining the
attachment, nor the liability of the property to be
taken under it.

2. Contra. \\'hPl'08llt\f‘hIll('IllRtllt8i\i‘\‘iil")Uf:1:
by several creditors. and their arits are pi‘()llNr:"Q;
returned to the same term, nndjudgments an ab

"\B"\.\' entered thereon, an order will he t'Illt'l't‘I(:’ed
reeting the sherlif to divide the proceeds reaI {us
from the attached property among such attm rime
creditora in aecordanee with the section 

Hazelrigg v. Donaldson. 2 .\let., H5

secnou 122.

4. Bond for Retention of Property and Bond
for Discharge.
There is a distinction between
the bond for the retention of the property pending
the action and the bond for the (
attach1neut. The former is to be regarded as a

lnjunctlon—Genertl||y'

.-\n injunction will
m a bill Whmh

not be granted in the tirst instalivfuf

b ML

mere obligation for the f0rt.hc0mi.ng of the prop
erty. (2 Met., 209; Bell v. Western, etc., ($0., id
°I
538). If the defendant desires to claim a die
charge
of the attachment- his hon
d must be to the eﬂect
that he “shall perform
the judgment of the
court.”
2 Met., 44?; id., 558.
5. Aliegatlon oi‘ Breach.
such bond the alicg

broad as the conditi atlon of brea-cit ll
H".‘t IN\ as
ons of the bond.
t,‘oior-ado Springs (to. v. Hopkins. 3 ti.‘-olo
206; l Colo. Law Rep., ll.

charger; fraud only on information and 0 an
Brooke v. ti'HtH'H. 1 t‘nl0. Law HOP-1'
I

' 1 non of‘
2. An injunr-tion numnht
tilt‘ neg(;:aI;ehetﬂ

notes, etc..:1llege(i hy s-uiiil'i\’"_i M" ‘owedoume
executed under duress. will not bediss0
face of the papers.

3.

45,

Lyster v. i~'~tickne.\3 '2 ('M0. LBW R32;
t
A Jmlmnent r\'t\d“i"’d mmmst 8 M" l I‘

who has neither heen summoned nor ‘P

Edinpnr 1:11
not errom-one mf'i'0|."v ‘mt Void. Pt rimﬂwg '

(iersueiiJlltii{Tt1t"I1l DIM’ be prewnwl 0


Han Juan and St. Louis M. Jr .‘-‘-.t'il!i;;d __- ,.
.'l Polo. Law Rev" 11; 6 “"0"

4. in a suit to enjoin proceedings on a judgment
on the ground that it is void, the only question is
as to the validity of the judgment. A dissolution
orthe injunction is in etfect to hold thcjudgtnent
valid; it is irregular l.herel'ore to render another
judgment for the safne cause of action, else there
may be two judgments for the same cause.
Id.
5. Proceedings to enforce mechanic's lien,
though statutory. are governed by the rules oi'chan

cery practice. Hence resort to injunction to res
train action thereunder is not a rcle ~ of errors in
the proceedings enjoined, and this rule at law does
not apply tojudgnn-nts that are void.

properjurisdiction oi‘ the court, and not trenching

upon it.

('l‘ho|npson v. Williams, ti (..‘al., -93; t'd., -i~iil;

iii £11., iii; 21 a'd., l5l.)

lie is mere injunction master.

it! |'d., ii”.
14.

The county judge who grants an injunction

may dissolve or modify it upon a proper applica
tion.
Creanor v. Nelson, 23 Cal., ~l6i.
15. When Courts Cannot Grant, One Dis
trict (‘ourt cannot, by injunction, restrain the
cxeeution oi’ the orders and decrees of another
court of coordinate jurisdiction.

Rlckct v. Johnson,8 Cai.,3i; i¢l., 66; id.,2ti8;
l'd., 52!).

11!.

\Vhite v. t‘ross, 3 Colo. Law ltcp., 513*: ii
6. in an action for injunction to restrain pro

Cal.,T7.

ccedings under a void judgment, the only issue

that can be raised is the validity of the judgment,

16. The only exception to this rule is where
the court in which the action or proceeding is

and matters of fact touching the merits of the orig

inal suit cannot be set up by way of cross-bill.

pending is unable, by reason oi’ its jurisdiction,
to afford the relief sought. Where several l'raud

Id.

7. .-\ postmaster, being an oilicer subordinate
to the postmaster-general, is bound to obey the

orders of the latter respecting the location of a
post-otih-e within a city, and the courts will not
undertake to enjoin him from doing so.
\\'estern Star Lodge v. Hchminke, ti t‘olo.
_
Law ltep., 857.

ulcnt judgments are confessed in several courts, it
would not be necessary tora creditor to bring a
diifcrent suit in each court.

Fhlfelder v. Levy, it (‘al., iiiﬁ.
17. An Action on the Case will not lie for
improperly suing out an injunction, unless it. be

charged in the complaint as an abuse oi‘ the pro
cess of the court through

8.

One court

will not enjoin a judgment of

another court of co-ordinate jurisdiction, nor pro
ceed i ngs there under.
White v. Cross, 3 t'ol0. Law itep., 553.
9. (Jae who makes a voluntary contribution to
a particular fund for a particular purpose, cannot
invoke the aid of equity to prevent by injunction

malice, and

without

probable cause.
Robinson v. Kellum, 6 (.lal., 39‘.).

18. The Civil‘ bode has not- diminished or
changed the'dfiect 0! an injunction. The mode
of procuring has been. changed, but when procured

it is entitled t'i»1i1e same force it always had.
Keith v, l\'.ilsen, Ii .\iet., ‘All.

such application.


Bttbcoclt v. (‘ity of Fun liu Lac. t i‘olo. Law

Rep., 216.

10. in an action to enforce rights provided for
bi’ law, but which have not theretofore existed
either by contract or usage, preliminary injunction
will not be awarded to establish and maintain
them pending the litigation, the object of prelim
inary injunction being to preserve. existing rights
until the end of the controversy.

Unlawful and

l. Causes for Injunctlon—Flrst Subdivision.
\Vhere one has an outstanding deed which improp
erly clouds the title oi‘ the true owner, on the appli
cation oi‘ the latter, (fliancery will order such deed
to be cancelled and annulled, and so will interfere

to prevent a sale and the consequent execution of
an improper deed.
Shattnck v. Carson, 2 Cal., .-'>s'il.

unjust discrimination be

tween railroad companies engaged in the carrying
business may be enjoined in equity in a suit by
the party aggrieved against the party pmcllclllg
such discrimination.
Sana.» v. Hume, id.. -‘ll-‘~‘.

12. Fonn of Writ —\Vho May Grant. No par
ticular form is necessary i'or a writ of injunction.
The substantial thing is an authentic notiﬁcation

lo the dei'cndants oi‘ the mandate of the judge,
Which they must then obey, or disobey M N191!‘
peril.
Summers v. Farish, l0 t‘al., 347.

13. There is no constitutional prohibition to

we grant oi authority to county judge to tl“'8l‘d
inlllnctlon. The grant of authority to award in
Junction in cases brought in the District Court. is
mere power to issue meme process auxiliary to the

2. A sherltfmay be enjoined from selling prop
erty belonging to the wife, under an execution
against the husband. (Aiverson v. Jones, ill (,'al.,
ii.) (‘redltors may enioin judgment against the
debtor procured by fraud. (Hcyneman v. Dunne
hurg, 6 id., 376.) A ferry owner may enjoin en
croachment on his right under illegal license.
itfhard v. Stone, 7 id., ll7.l ldquity will compel the
cancellation oi‘ deed for homestead, obtained with
out payment of plil‘('iitl.S(.! money. (Still v. Saun
ders, 8 (‘al., 281.) Interference with water rights
may he enjoined. (8 (,'al., 392.) injunction is the
proper method to stay threatened injury to right oi
wav, (Keith v. Pfciifer, 22 id., 485); or to prevent
the diversion of water, (Rapiey v. \\'(.-lch, 2'3 11.1.,
452); orto prevent the opening oi‘ a road, (Curren
v Shattuclt, 2-l t'd., 431); or to restrain waste on
mortgatzed premises, (Robinson v. Russell. 21 zd.,

473); or to restrain the commission of U’l'l|Jll88
about to be committed by taking down fences and

opening a road through plaintiffs land in pursu

in |)0stM‘sninn may he eniolned from waste. (Whit
m-y V. .\iieii, 2| ut., ‘til: 21 ML, I73». iiijltnetion to
rest rain injuries in the nature of waste should not
he in-ued in-fore lwarimt on the merit.-'\,c.vu-e|\ilii

ance of an order of the Board f)l’('Ilii\ltlh‘l)' tnade.
t‘illN’K of urgent n|:t‘1‘ssity.
3.

Grigsby v. iiurtm-tt,:il ut.. 403.
Second Subdivision-Jrroparnblo

iiicka \'. .\llehael, lo ut.. an.

Injury.

Where pn.-mines containing deposits of gold ar~~
held under patent from the i'nlted .‘~itaies, an in
junction will lie to prevent miners from excavat

ing ditches, digging up the null, and tiooding a por
tion oftho premises for the |)tit'})()l-w of extravtlng
the gold. Uioggs v. .\i. Mining t‘o., H i‘ai.,:t‘.‘il; l

ut., till.) Where plaintiff claims notitlc. hut only
a franchise, sale of the realty l-an work no irr~-pur

0.

Jmignu-nt and Execution. Fourisofequliy

will not iiih-rﬁ't‘l' to enjoin a judgment not manl
featiy wrong simply because of a defect in the
l-videm~e li'ieo v. 1-iunoi. ii t‘ai.. ililh; but only when

the iudgnwnt Wan renderml or procured through
fraud or accident unmixed with any fault or negli
gem~e on the part of the party seeking relief or his

agents.

ll'hl-ips v. Peabody, 7 id.. -'10; l‘.‘ id.. Nth. A

able injury to him, nor cloud his title. i"0\\'lU v.
Hays, 2 Cal., 463) The removal of gold from a mine
is taking away the substance of the estate, and is
within the class of trespass in \\'ll|t'ii injunctions

defendant having no defense to an action cannot
go into equity and enjoin a judgment by deiault

are now nniversali_v granted.
.\ierl-vi .\lining i'o. v. i~‘remont,7 ill . Iil7; iii

v. Ford, ii ut., iii; l5 id.,;'8B; ltlld..

on the ground that the sheriff's return of servim‘
on him was false and that he had no notice of the

;Dr.’; ii td., L37.
7.

4.

lnjum-tion has been allowed to i‘t"-tiﬂlili

transfer of stock in lnining company. ilii iiow, H7;
‘.94 Barb., 3|“). To aid an aeiion for the recon-r_v of
specific personal property. (iii How., 92; a‘ £11., All;
in i¢l., 475). To restrain the obstruction of water
courses. iii iiow., 89; 39 Barb., 312). To rm-ltrict
the use of demised premises to the terms of Hit‘
lease. (-i Sand., 369; 2 Bosw., 570; ut., titi-‘n. To

restrain the publication of private letters.

injnn1'tion is error.

How.,~llll).

interfering with property oi the Wife. (4 Barh., 1513).
To prevent waste or injury to ~l_a-n‘d.

(.\iiil)urn \'. iiays, '.lt'al.,-ﬂit.

for iiieani taxes. since a tax rived is made prim“
ﬂu-le evidence of title.
Palmer v. Bowling. t-i i'al., its-\',

ill

To restrain a divorced husband ti-om

in mm involv

.\ bill in equity will lie to re:-itrniii asaleotprept‘-_I’il‘

Frctnont v. Bolling, ii ut.. ii‘??

How., 49). To prevent misappropriation of the
funds of a moneyed corporation. (5 ‘-\,bll., 277'. To

restrain a nuisance inte:l\.=rln'g' jﬂth private
rights. (13 Barb., 200; l 1ﬂ5if.,‘4l‘ii;_ i5. id., H5: 13

Tanm and Asnonnmc-nu.

ing iliilll|ii_\° the question of taxation the issue is
atrh~tl_v one at law, and equity will not take
eognir.anee thereof, and in such case to i-'.l‘1""_ an

Burr v. Hunt, is l'd..IiIlil.
ilurnet \'. (‘inc-innati. 8 0.1%.. T1.
iiaker \'. Biitt‘k, ti ld., -"ii.

8. “'hen hrinnction Should Not be (lrante(i
To restrain one in pos.svs.-don with g00d’Cl&lIl'l 0;
title from cutting timber. lﬁlitith \'. \\li$0D.l

l-'»i?arb., Hti ;

ll u1.,.-396; m.. 194; iii id.,-3i7; mn.. 2-F7). Tq restrain
municipal corporation from improper use of pub

i‘ai.,-'i2~l.

.-\ stranger to the'title.tlt0ughll1 W

sion of real i'.'iii\i(" cannot enjoin the owners TF2‘
enforcing their title. (Preadwcii v. PB$’"°,1'r’ua'

lic moneys. (13 llarh., 501'). 'I‘l.'y}'eveht fraudulent
disposition of property. (‘)5 iiarb., 41$; 5 Ho\\'., 33;
see, however, 3 Kernnn, W1. By a stockholder

-liltb. injunction will not
remedy at law hy motion.

issue when there M
timmn )'. Hiliegasﬁlql

against a company.

(‘ill B-arb., 46).

By a taxpayer

an id., -'96; iitl i1i_, :mo.

.\'w to no P~¢'°“d"‘i5‘

to restrain contractor from violating contract
with the county. (4 Abb., 57; 32 Barb., 410). To
prevent the removal of the remains of the dead.

in another action, if relief can he had the-..il'¢rl1_;
(Bowers v. Talmadge, iii How., 32'); 33 Barb-' ° ‘(L

(11 .~\bb., 30). To restrain proeeedings of a lI‘l8giﬁ

Hand.,til'); t~'t‘al.,-‘ﬂit.

irate out of court. (5 Abb., 253; and see t'd., l7ll.
To restrain a creditor from proceeding against an
insolvent corporation to obtain a preference. (21
i~iow., 313). To stay proceedings on an execution

titnes be allowed to prevent multiplicity 0! “hb

But injunction will 50138.

Woodruti‘
241; 7 m.,m;
v. Fisher,
m id..l7‘N;
iiarin.
11 3-

l-'~‘ M“

t'd., 150.

(15 Burl)-. 5%) or on judgment. (2 Abb., 261; 3%
Barb..1il9).

'l‘o restrain a railroad from removing

ii.

lnjnm-lion ha:

‘tiang“\‘°M w

ing cases; l\ierci_\' to restrain an act ‘
its rails. (iii How., -323; ll Abb., 136). To restrain
a. bishop from prosecuting a sentence of an ecclesi

astical tribunal.
(iii Barb., Nil). To prevent
multiplicity of suits or vexatious litigation.
Third Avenue R. R. Co. v. Mayor, etc. of
New York, :34
Y., 159.
.

me Peace, morals and welfare of the

Kcrnan. lfiti; 37 Barb., l99.i
a. To Rest-rain Vvaste.
IlUlill(:i.iOli lies to
restrain threatened injury to real propertv in tin
nature ofa waste, even it‘ piaintiil‘ is in litissl‘-ssioli
ot the land. (.\io0re v. .\iassinl, 32 Cal. Still‘
id
lu7).' Against cut-ting timber, Which while ‘r0 7
ing is part of the realtv
ting eonstigtutzs
H
.
. v ‘Mid its out

ab“.

(ll liow., iii; t:tBarb., -J19.) To restrain the P
ration ofproeeedings in another action.
tiI|T.i To restrain proceedings 0" 8
AM) 97::
.-\hh.. Lilli; ll liow.. 365;
however. in me~;mdo_
To restrﬂ

sure ofan art or invention taught dot?"
M1 oath that he would not disclose it- {Low mu.
I1

382.)

To I't'IIIlJ'8iII a foreign corporation

cm

ingbnndm (:94 Bm.|,_',-,~t9., Tomstminiimtegfgrw
proceeding under -'~'._tate law.

it! AM’-' ‘AM

T

train a receiver. i‘..'i liarb.. 155'’

o

prevent iht‘
by 3 m“_

construction of a .-~-wt-r in a public Him‘

nicipal corporation. t-‘i2 lia

ill?

, till.) To restrain the

awarded, and thus has personal knowledge oi the

exercise ofa trade contrary to t‘()\'\‘lli\Ili with a spe
citic penalty for breach. il:i liow.. '.!ii.i it would
be otherwise it‘ no penalty was specitled. ii¢l.; see
ti iiosw., 354; 7 t¢l., tiiii.) To prevent a consequential
injury from a lawful exercise ota right. (ill iiarb.,

order, he is bound thereby. i_l-lliiott v. Osborn. i
M., !lilti‘i. Not to be l~t'l'\'Cti on -iunday.

‘J2... To restrain the collection ot a tax illegally
imposed. (l Abh., -I; t'rl., TH; id.. ‘Iii; i Barb., iii;
£11., 17; sec, however, 4 .\bb., Ii'_".'.; To restrain a forw

t-losure suit. (ii) Uow., 24i; see Iii linrb., 32*‘; 2" N.
\'.,iii‘.’; 26 Barb., 5'19.)

To protect a mere nominal

interest. (3 .~\bb.. 2152. '.Z‘~l.i To protect aclaim on
an illegal contract. (3 h7and.,tili.; 'l‘o restrain the
continuance oi’ the use of the sign of a tits-.~:olve(l
tinn by the lirm continuing the business. ti A bb.,

31".) To restrain a municipal corporation from

Whitney v. Butterih-id, 13 Cal., 333.

SECTIONS 126- I 27.
[i‘il|. Prue. Act, Sec. lit’); Ky. (‘odc, Ree. -'l07.]
1. Release of Errors. Proceedings to enforce
a lIlL't'llllll|('.'l~i lien, though statutory, are governed
by the rules of chum-cry practice; hence, resort to
injunction to restrain action thereunder does not
release errors in the proceedings enjoined. Nor

does the rule tis to rcicalsc apply to judgments
that are void.

San Juan 6: St. L. M. & S. ('0. v. Finch,3

paying money under a resolution claimed to be 1|

icgal. t3 Abb.. ii.) To restrain a municipal corpo
ration from selling its real estate. (7 .\bb., M8; 611.,
13%.) To restrain, at the instance of an individual
taxpayer, an act injurious to all the ttutpaycrs of
the city. (16 How.. lili.) 'i‘o restrain the imposition
or collection ofa tax or oi’ an iissesslnenl. (Sec 15
Barb.,2'i5; 24 id., I87; I .-\bb., 32.2; H How., 22!; l-'|
FL, 161: ‘.35 Barb., Iilil; I5 Abb., hi; 8 liarb., t;l;i; l

.~\bb.. Til; Iii Barb., 323.) To restrain a judgment
debtor from compromising suit brought to cancel
securities as usurious. Mi liarb., 65.) When the
rwi object of the action is to obtain a review of a
previous decision. ult'odc ROD., H3.) To restrain
the lessee of an inn from discontinuim: to keep the
inn open, as he had covenanted to do. (ii Him

Colo. Law Rep., 11; 6 L’oio., 214.

2. ['ndertaklng. Where an injunction was
dissolved, and the suit in which it was issued is
dismissed by the action oi‘ the party, this is no
admission that the injunction was improperly
sued out. In such case, to maintain the action on
the bond, it must be shown that there was no

proper cause for the injunction.
Unison v. \\'hiteside, Ii (‘ai., iluih
3. An injunction bond, though given to all the
obligccs by name, and using no words directly
expressing a several obligation, yet necessarily

Paige, 2i: '2.~'wans.. 413.) Generally where the inju
ry is such as may be amply reconlpctlscd by an ac
tion tor damages. (I2 Iiow., 2ls; 27 M., ZPH; 2 (‘ode

creates a several liability—thc design being to
indemnify each and all of the obligees.
Hummers v. Farish, 10 Cal., 34"‘.
4. No Recovery can be had on a bond purport
ing to be the joint bond of the principals and
sureties, but signed by the latter only.
t‘lty ol'Sacramento v. Dunlap, l-i Cai., 42.1.

Rep., 6; id., ill); 4 ilo\v.,-57.3.) 'i‘o restrain corporate
election. (32 Barb., 55; ill .»\bb., Ii‘*..’.l To test the li

lnquired Into in suit upon an injunction bond.

tie to a public otlicc.

The court in which the injunction suit is tried

mons. I7.) To prevent the publication ot'a libel. (ii

5.

The

Ground

of

Injunction

Cannot

be

must determine whether the injunction aﬂs prop
-iAbb.,3i33; l-i How., '.’33; I0 £11., i75; ii .\bb.,

M; 5 id., 171', i itI., 121].
10. Discretionary. The granting and continu
ing of injunctions rests very much in the sound
discretion ofthe court, to be governed by the na
ture of the case, (Hicks v “lchael, l-3 Cal.. 107), care

being taken to avohfabuse of the writ. (De\\'itt v.
Ha_\'s,2id., 463.) The granting and continuing of I
injunctions in cases of alleged trcs-pass, where the

erly or improperly issued; after such determina
tion, and not before, does an action lie on the
bond. Dismissal for want of prosecution amounts
to a determination that the injunction was im
properly granted.
Dowling v. Pollock, lei Ual., 625.
But see Galson v. \Vhitcside, 3 id.,3U9.

6. After Answer, in'a suit to settle a partner

l"Jllry is likely to be irreparahlt-,are matters ot‘dis

ship, an

cretion. and this discretion should always be exer
cised in favor of the party most liable to be injured.
Hicks v. Compton, l8 id.', 82.

dissolved,but no order made ﬁnally disposing of
the case. Defendant thereupon sued plaintiff for
maliciously and without probable cause bringing
said action and suing out said injunction: Held,

injunction obtained

by plaintiti‘ was

State v. Sullivan. 17 id., l0‘).
that the order dissolving the injunction was inter

locutory, and, there not having

been a final

detertnlnatlon of the suit, the action for malicious

SECTION 124.
[Ht]. Prue. Act, Sec. llIl.]
1. “'hen Grant-ed—(ln “'lmt Showing. \\'il('Il
injunction is sought upon the complaint itself, it
I8 the usual practice to present the complaint to

UK‘ Judge, in advance of the tiiin . and obtain
the order or allowance of the writ; snch practice
'-S regular and not in conﬂict with the statute.
'.H°)'1m\ll \'. Lanticrs. l2 ('ai., 107). Wllilﬁ B Part)‘
is not as a rule bound by an injunction till served

‘"1 Mill; .\’€'t if he be present in court wiicll it is

[ll't\h‘(.'(.'lltl()ll can not be maintained.
\\'o0d v. Laycock, 3 Met., 192.
-'
Rodman v. Fosline, 2 id., 325.
7. Damages. A party ﬁling an undertaking
to obtain an injunction is deemed to have waived
the right to insist on a trial by jury, and consented

that the dzunages may be ascertained in the mode
prescribed by the statute; and an order or refer

ence is no violation of the constitutional right to
trial by jury.
_
ltussell v. Elliott, 2 Cai., 2h.

8. in an action on an irdunction bond, the de
fendant cannot object that the business enjoined
was a public nuisance.
Cunningham v. Breed, 3 ('ai., M.
9. The amount paid to counsel as tee to procure
dissolution oi‘ the injunction is properly allowed
as a part oi‘ the damages.
Ah Shale v. Quau Han, 3 t‘ai., 2l6; ltl id., 5&3.

4.

The Proprieiy -of Inning the Injunction

cannot be reviewt

on appeal i'rom an order

granting an attachment for the violation of such

injunction. uirim v. Grim, l E. 1!. Smith, tan.
Appeal from an order granting an injunction does
not stay the operation of the injunction pending
the appeal, and attachment for its violation may

be issued, notwithstanding the appeal.
Htone \'. Purlan, 3 Code Rep., i08.

10. But plaintitf musthave actually paid such
fees; the fact that be is liable to his attorney is not
sutiieient.

SECTIONS 132-133.
[l‘al. l’rne. Act,8e0. ii-‘i-l

\Vllson v. McEiroy, 2') L‘ai., 170; 2‘ id., ii.
11. When an otiiocr is enjoined from paying
over money in his hands, legal interest only can
be retrovered as dnulages, in an action on the
injunction bond.
Lally v. \\’ise, LN t‘nl., -'>‘i9.

motion to dls.~eoiw an injunction is haaedontht‘
bill and answer alone, the general rule is to dissolve

SECTION 129.

ease. v. I’erklns,9 L‘ai.,-538; l3 |'d., luiii
_ '13
Punk~uiar
Gardiner

1. Muut he Obeyecl. So long as an injunction
is in force it. must be Ul)i'_\’(‘tL notwithstanding it
may have been improperly or irregularly issued.
‘.3 Edw. (fit. 11., 18*; 4 Paige, 444; Smith v. Reno,
l‘2i; Smith v. ;\usten, 1 Code Rep. N. S., i37; Krom

v. Hogan, 2 (_‘odc liep., iii; -i How., 223; I5 id., Si;
1 Ducr., -i-ii; 5 Seltlen, Mi.) And an injunction
directed to a corporation is not only binding on
the corporation, but upon every person whose
action as a member or oiileer oi‘ the corporation
it seeks to restrain. (I(l.) But service ofan injunc
tion order on a person not a party, and to whom
the order is not directed, does not bind him by the

injunction.

its utmo.~d etfeet is as a notice. (Ed

nnmson v. McLeod, 19 Barb., 356); and scmble he
cannot be attached for disobeying it. (Watson v.

Fuller, 9 HOW., 426). When an injunction against
the further |)ros<'et1t-i011 of a legal proceeding is

served Qpon the promovcnt therein, it is his duty
not only to refmln from taking any further active
part in the proceeding enjoined, but also to direct
the ofliccrs oi‘ the court and others who act in the
proceeding at his instance and under his control,
to refrain from any further steps in the matter,
pending the continuance in force of the injunction.
(Mayor of N. Y. v. Conover, 5 Abb., 244; St. John’s
College \'. Carter, 4 My. (it t‘., -W7.) A party re
strained by injunction from doing a particular
act, cannot stand by, passive, and see t.he injunc
tion violated by his partner in business, at the
expensc oi‘ the partnership, without being guilty
of a contempt.
Neale v. Osborn, 15 How., 81.
See, liowever, People v. Albany R. R. (‘,‘o.,

1.

Motion: to Vacate or “mlify.

the injunction ii the answer denies all the equities

of the bill. There are exceptions to the rule. but
they depend upon the special circumstances of ilk‘

2.

id., Hit; ‘ll id., 82.
Where, on the complaint, an injunction WI-L‘

itrnntcd
selling the
restraining
premises defendant
pending the
from
suit,
s\ir\'cyln.g
it was d Bolved on the filing of an answer setting up PM"-P
mount title in the defendants; Ilrld, that 1?’
injunction was properly (lit-LQHl\'\‘(l, because te
validity oi deiendant's title should be judicialb
iil'lt‘I'IlllIll‘ii before its operation be eD.i°"1°d~
t‘nrtls v. Httttt-r, it’) (.‘ni., 2B.
3, ,\ 1.-w-rsnl orajndgrncnt whichawardl Pills‘:
tit!’ poases-udon of a tract of land and i"‘rpomnlel‘i
enjoins defendant from committing waste. ii
reversen the injunction decree. even if the latte:

be not included in the record sent up to the am?‘ .
into court. (.\ic(iarrahan v. Maxwell, 98 Win Hi‘

Preliminary injunction dis.-u)l\'ed upon noi1-ﬁll“
Harris v. hiciiregor, ‘.5! M-. 194

SECTION 136.
See notes to Section i'Z7, ante.

SECTION 141.
1. Surotiea May be Sued ‘Elli! Principal. if
der this section suit upon an irlillncllon bond :n(.iy_

he brought in the ﬁrst instance ﬂglilngl thejdr SM
pal and sureties, and the damage" M “iiilkt
awarded in such action.

, ..
l)ilt?k(‘i v. rm-0, -I (‘oiO- I»-W Rel"-' M

12 Abb., 171.
Field v. Chapman, 13 id., 320.

_4

2. A Corporation may be Punished for Con
tempt of an injunction.
People v. Albany R. R. Co.
,
How., 35%

12 .»\bb., 171: ‘ill

the
defejudgment and \V ill not he
ndant has appealed and given
proceedings on the judgment.
Howe v. Searing, ll Abb., 2.“.

SECTION 144.
[Parker's (‘ai. Prac. Act.. Sec. 143.]
1. Receiver—Geucrnil3'- lathe abseuce Orig:
ciﬁc statutor ' direction. where ‘ho propmmvioiil

business ofaéorporaiion are Under we con"; W-.
receiver, he is the proper Person upon whom as‘

vice should be had to bring ""1 °°'‘'"'“'i°n
garnishee.

Phemn. itnpl., v. Ganebin, 5 C0lo..li.

2. The fact of a receiver of a railroad corpora
tion being non-resident is immaterial where the.
receiver is operating a portion oi‘ the railway with
in thejurisdiction of the court issuing the garni
shee process, and where the sum due the judgment
debtor is payable.
Id.

13. When He May be Appointed. After ver
dict and Judgment. for the plaintiti‘, in an action to
recover real estate, and while a motion for new
trial is pending, a receiver of the rents and pro
ceeds of the property in dispute may be appointed,
ifthc iacts oi‘ the case are such as to warrant it.
11!.
ll. The purchaser, at judicial sale of a min

3. When the court appoiniim: the receiver is in

lug claim, may, when the Judgment debtor
remains in possession, working t.he claims, and is
insolvent, have a receiver appointed to take
charge of the proceeds during the period allowed

another State than the court out of which the gar
nlshee process issues, it is not incumbent on the

latter to ask leave of the former before issuing such
process.

by the statute for redemption. (Ilill v. Taylor, )2

Id.

Cai., 192). Receiver may be appointed in proceed
4. A receiver is amenable to garnishee process
in the absence of statutory provision, and where

ings supplemental to execution.
lhﬂmway v. iirady, 2i.-l Cal., 586.

the process does not tend to disturb his rights un
der the general order of the appointing court.
Id.

15. When Receiver Should Not be Ap
pointed. in the absence of a statute, courts of
equity have no jurisdiction over corporations to

5. Under the Code (of Iii-\‘3, Sec. 40) service upon
restrain their operations or wind up their atfairs.
the agent of the receiver ofa foreign c.orporation is
suﬂicient.

They may compel the oﬂicers of corporations to

account for any breach oi‘ trust, but the jurisdic
tion for this purpose is over the oﬂlcers personally

Ganebin v. Phelan, -3 t_‘olo., 83.

and not over the corporation; hence it is error to
appoint a receiver and deercc a sale of property
and settlement of the affairs of the corporation.

6. ‘Vino May and Who May Not Appoint.
County Judge cannot appoint a receiver.
Ruthrautfv. Kress, 13 t_'al., M9.

Ni-all v. Iiill, l6 (“al., 1-8.
7.

Courts oi Equity have the power to appoint
1.8.

receivers and order them to take possession of the

in the proper cases they can also order the defend
ant's agents and employes, although not parties to
the record, to deliver the speciﬁc property to the
receiver.
Er partc Cohen, 5 (‘ai., 494.

the withdrawal of the property from the hands 01
one lntimat.ely acquainted with all the aﬂ'airs of
the concern, and placing it in the hands of another

who may not be equally com petcnt to manage the
0

business.
Williamson v. Monroe, 3 (.'al., 355.

3- 1" proceedings supplemental to judgment.
the court may appoint when it has all the parties
before it.
Hathaway v. Brady, 26 Cal., 5iiti.
9.

Receiver—His Powers and Duties.

17. in a foreclosure suit the plaintiil' has no
right to have a receiver of rents and protits of the
mortgaged property appointed pending the liti

Aft“

gallon.

clever may employ counsel.
Adams v. Woods, 8 ( 'al., 315.
10.

\Vhere the allegations of the bill are gen

eral in their nature, and the equities are fully
denied by the answer. such case. is not presented
as will justify the appointment of a receiver and

property in controversy, whether in the immedi
ate possession of the defendant or his agents; and

Guy v. Ide, 6 L‘al., lui.

Upon the application of the receiver in the

suit for dissolution, he can obtain the necessary
Proceedings for procuring a correct application of

SECTION 147.

the balance of'a_iudgnwnt held by the partnership
againsta third party, after paying the Jlldgment
creditor of the partnership.
Adams v. Hackctt, 7 (‘al., 187.
11. Generally a receiver can pay out not hing ex
cept on the order of the court, but there are excep
tions to the rule; nor will he be denied reimburm_~

ment in every case in which he neglects to obtain
the order, eﬁpecialiy in a court of equity.
Adams v. Woods, 1.3 (‘al., 207.

l2. On an application to the court alter ﬁnal
Judgment for an order fora receiver to pay over to

the Pl‘tZ'i'8l1iniI party money in his hands as re
ceiver, it will not be presumed that the receiver
transcended his duties and took possession oi‘

[ Parker‘s (."al. Prac. Act, Sec. 148.1
1. Dismissals and Non-Suits—“Then Proper.
\\'hen it affirmatively appears from the piaintiﬂ"s

evidence that the want of due prudence upon his
part was the proximate cause of the injury com
plained of, it becomes the duty of the court, upon
motion made for non-suit, to decide as a question
of law that the action can not be maintained.
Behrens v. K. P. Ry. ('o., 5 i.‘olo., 400.
2. \\'here the plaintiil‘ shows upon the trial no
cause of action or makes out no case whatever,
and no motion for non-suit. is interposed, it is not
only the right, but may be the duty, of the court, to
direct a verdict for the defendant. This practice is
common to both the (‘ode and common law.

P!'0l)(‘l'i-5' to which he was not entitled; nor is the
opposite party entitled to have an issue framed
and submitted to a referee or jury to ascertain the
Ownership of the money in the receiver's ll3ﬂi1$

“’hitney v. Buckman,2t'i (.‘al., -i5i.

.\iurphy v. ('oi>b,5 (‘olo._. ‘J31.
3. Pleadings Not ‘Vithdrasvn by Dismissal.
A plaintiﬂ'has the undoubted right to dismiss his
suit, either in whole or in part; but the pieadmgs

will l‘t'lI\llili it part oi‘ tho l‘t‘t.‘ul‘(l, and. if lIii\h'I'iill
anti compotcnt, may he i‘t'~|it‘d upon hy tho uti\'L-rrw
party no evltlviicv in iil('t‘1lN".
iiyntt-r, m11n., v. -*§li(‘!(iit‘)', 2 Colo. Law Rt-p..

rvtn~w n non-mit. i.\t"|\liUii v. t‘rovn~il. l t‘nl.. iiiio
So if tin-rv he no O°\'i(|€‘lH‘l' on i~|)IIi0 point matrria!
to tho muw of tho |vlni|ititl'. ti ivl., DH‘, i:i.. if»: Si

01.. W7.) lint non-auit in impropt-r wiwn the evi
ciolu-v nmi

tiw

pn-sutnption

rvnsounhiy arising

ih-‘i.

tin-rm-frmu it-mi to provv titv facts alleged. diolio
-I. ll‘ Eﬂdvnce Tends to Prove (‘nun
ii’
there is i?\'lt|t‘il('(' \'~'ill4'|l Il'lI(lli to l'8l&\hlinll tho
pluintlii"'s emu-to of action or the (lt'ﬁ'I\(|l\I\i'!~ wow,
it is error for tho vourt to witinirnw tlw vow from
the jury. or to direct it \-t~r\iivt-iwmmu~ it is not
for the rourt to judge of tiw 1-mtiir-ii~IW)' of thr
cvltionve.
Lebanon

\'. (‘ordw-. it‘ni.. H7», or win~rv tin-rv isnny nviticuoe

temiitn: to pruvv thv pinintiii"s muw. 1i3id.. ‘"2
3| “L, ll-.i it tho t'\'i(‘l'llt‘(' would not mpporta
\'H'\lit'i. or it tho vnurt Wtlttltl not llhitlt‘ it \'0l‘diCt

for pinintiti' an rontrnry to the evidence. non-suit
siionitl lw t\ll0\\'u'L
.\i.itv('r \. iimwn. l (‘ni.. ‘.‘.‘l.

Mining ('0. Y. i'ou. itepuhiivnn
l:ii‘~'iiilIi;,'t'I' V. .\ivlntin-. El |'ri., Lil.

Mining ('o., 8 i‘olo. Low lb-p.. Ni; ii
(,‘olo., 371.
I

5.

\Vh0n

Aﬂirmatlve nmttvr

in

an nnxwvr

i'2. Fonrtn should of their own motion dismias
n on-‘o ivm-tmi upon n ¢~on:-l<i(~|-ution which oontrw
\'t-m~s puhliv poin-_\ , win-tlwr the parties to the suit

Which m4t:1hii<iied ti prima fart» right in tlulvtni
ant in :ulmitt~-ti by the reply, and pinintill' [oils
to introclm-0 proof 1-outrowrtlnz am-h nmttvr,
non-suit is propvr.
Wurts v. .\luih-n, i Colo. Law ih-p.. Ti .

tnkv tiiv lIhjI‘('Hl)ll or not.
\'nh-ntino V. Hit-wart, if: t'nl.. 3\‘7.
‘J.

in Willi-\l(‘l‘l'|ll_l! tho (‘l"'I'l'(‘tll('lH oftht‘ rulini

of tiw t‘uiil'i in-low in iirannng “ nmwum “W
6. Summons Not Sued Out in Time. if sum
mons is not sued out within om‘ month otter iiiv
filing of the (-omplaint, as provitiml for in tiw
(‘ode (of l&\'3, Sm-. Iii). the Quit nmy lw di.~ti1ls.-~<l.
Coomhs v. -\'trvttuii, i(‘oio. Low iii-p., i".

.\n|~r"nu- (‘mart will von~hh-ran l"'"""'" °“'r'v “H
\\°liii‘h tho \‘\'llll'll(‘\' tmulmi t0 i'"“'‘' “ml “hm.
wo- mm mini to bo l"““"‘n w "mm" ‘hp ‘nmmm
tn l‘t't‘U\ or.
‘\‘c" S. M. (1),.

'7. Plaintiff's Right to Non-suit or l)imnI~.~al.
Plaintiff has not the nhi~'oiut0 right to iiikv a non
suit after tho (-.-use ims i)t'£‘li iinnliy Hlliiilliiil‘il nnd
the jury rotirod. (Brown v. iluntvr. l~‘ t‘ni., 76.)
But he has nt any time ht-i'orv the jury rclirm,
there being no ('ount0r-claim. (linncovk Ditch (‘o.
v. liudford, iii t‘ai.. 637.) So plaintiif may dh-miiss
as to a doi'eml:mt. pendlmz a motion to trmisft-r to
tho Fotioral llourt. (R1-ml v. t‘nlti(-rwooti. LL! t‘.|l..
itlii.) if piuintitl uppvnrs hy uttornt~_\', and ntt-.~r
\vm'ds Rtlpulntcs in \\'riiin'._r that the ittiluli In
(ilNllll8S(.'(1, the attorney of rerord should hp mn
sultvd l)t'f0i‘(! the order is mzulv. (;.’!i Cnl., HT.) if
one of several tivfmitiants in ojoetnn~nt answer and
the others make tiefamlt. plaintiff may (limilss as
to(lei‘vn(lnnt nns\\'(~ring and take _iudgrm~nt ug:1inst
the others.
liirnick v. Deringor. 32 Cai., 428.
8. in an action on a joint and St"\'(‘l‘ill bond
plnintiti nmy dismiss as to part of
defendants
and take Judgment, against othvrs.
(Pt-opie v.
Evans, 29 Cal., ~i2‘J.) When counter-claim IIBS-|)(?(‘li
filed, and the parties filed a stipulation as to co
ID
promise and dismissal, the
clerk should not dis
miss the case, hut. let the court act.

1-1. A hart? movimt for a hon-stilt 1-honhi .~tat~*
m hm mmhm lm,(.;,“.|!,- nw t1I‘t)UIIiIN upon “‘liit‘h

ho rt-lies so that tho nttvntlon oi lllt't‘0\ll'1liiid ill"
ol>l>o~ltv vounm-l ma)‘ ‘W i“"'Uc“mﬂ'V (nrwwdrw

tho .~tl!ilme~u-ti (it-fvviﬁ 1" UN‘ l"l"mu'r'” 0350' (Pm.
lviv \.

iinuvnrtl, ‘.17 ('ni.. iTi|.

it is not error 1"

tI\'t'I'I'lill‘ motion wlmn grolllid not stntul.
l\'ii~-r v. Kimhoi, ill M.. '."i’7.
15,

A t1.ilnr1- of the plaintiti~ to mnkv "1" M”

t-asp uml error in the court in I'l'fllBl"g 1" mmuﬂ.
the j\tl‘_\' us in t1\.‘l(‘ of non~t#nit, cm W “"""‘1 M
the to~timon.\‘ of the l1"‘rL‘Iit9t‘.

m-ri;.8('ui..'.!»i).

t\\'inxm8 "- Hardvﬂi

in which emu-1119 °"‘“' “‘“"mm-'

itimzizolti v. ilnvvn. l (‘nl.. lit‘;

I0. \\'hen plnintit‘l'.~1. liuvim! vxceptt-(i to ihr
ruling of tho Pourt 1-xi-llitiing certain t'\'id('ll(‘;t‘
Ulkv.
with lenv<in t-onseqnom-e
to movv toof not
suoh
it aside,
ruling.ihﬂ‘
a nonem
do n"
‘‘'‘‘‘‘'c ""F of thoir rights as to the exception ink‘?

(-)hJt‘t'tio|is to the introduction of evidmicc will d:
coniined in tho appc-lluto court to tht‘ i-'i““1"
UIROII iiolow_
,
. “M
' kin.
l\'ntomn Wntvr and .\iinin£ (‘L
"

People v. Loewy, '29 irl., 261.
li (_‘ul., Fri-i.
9. Afteran action hasheen triedm cl - h
the plaintiﬂ‘ has no right to di
1 bu mmbd.
sn1iss
it, nor h as ti W
court, without the consent of the
parties.

11. \\'hon the plnintitI'i"'°""‘ “ “‘"‘mcL:;;::
tinli_\' tliifvront from that dvvlmcd 0”‘ ‘M
not

is entitled

to it non-suil 0"

‘'10 grmm d

of

Heinlln v. Castro, 22 (‘al.. 100.
variant-0.
10. \Vhere the plaintiff fails to appear and
prosecute, and defendant moves for ti non-suit
the court. has no alternative but to grant it
“
Peralt-3, v. Maria, 3 (‘al., 185.
-

Johnson v. .\loss. 43 "31" "'1'."
18. In on action for dtill1t'i;ZOB
genre a non-suit on the ground of mum baton‘

"“‘~’Ui!0nc(- should only he granted when. gill:
11. General Rules Applicable to Non-suit.
Where several defendn
nts are sued as m>-defend
:1n.t.~'4 on a joint contrac
t-, and plaintiff miduces no
r-\-nlence to establish J
olnt liability. it is error to

"10 Dlnintitl" the heneﬂt of oil mnimvvﬂcd ‘L in
"ORB, it is apparent to the t-onrt that 11 WE”
his favor must llt','L\(igg‘]'|l.\‘ he set tutide.
W

Scheirhold v. N. B. K M. (ro..400‘1~_ '.
la. The court may permit the piaintlll to
introduce thrthcr evidence alter the motion for
non-suit is made; and unless the court in doing so
abuses its discretion its action will not be dis
turla-d.
Abbe)‘ ll. :\.qs. v. Willard, l~‘('al.. tilt.

court in tteccz-u-tary, unlet-at aettlon 75 of the Code

(Sec. ‘Fri, t‘ode of '53), may be construed as requiring
sttch leave. The otllcc of a delault is to limit the
tlme during \\’lll(‘ll the defendant. may tile his uh‘

swer. The failure of plaintiti" to take default is a
favor to the defendant.
Nlcbcr v. Friuk, it‘olo. Law Rep., ~i3l'i.
7. Reviewed on Appeal.
§ judgment by
default before the expiration of the full time will

SECTION 149.

be rt-\'lt-\\'¢-ti on appeal.

[ Parker's t‘al. l’rac. Act. See. l-‘Mi

llurt v. Scranton, l (‘al., ‘.216.
l.

Judgment

by Default-(‘lerk “ay Bhter.
H.

Contented

Elections.

in

proceedings to

l'nder the (‘ode the clerl-ts of the hhatrlct (‘ouﬂs
('0Illeal the election of a county otlicer, judgment
are authorized to t'lIl.PI' upjutigment.s in vacation.

The theory upon Which judgnnmta are so t'Illt't'L'tl
is that thejudgment is the sentence \\'lllt'll the law
itself pronounces as a sequence of utatutory con
dlllon.

Pbelan, imphl., v. (lam-bin. 5 t"olo.. ll.
Barndoliar v. Patton, 111., 47.

2. Cannot Exceed Prayer of Complaint.

l'n

der the (‘ode there is nodlt‘-ttlncthm between a,iudg
ment nil dim‘! and by default. in eitia-r case the

Judgment cannot t'X(‘t‘P(1 the pra;-‘er of the cunt
plaint. in an action ﬂu;lltlHt a ltttsl-aml and wife
onaprontissory note ('Xt'('lllt't| by the latter, the
husband being merely a nominzd party. and no

prayer forjudzment against him. it is error to ren
derjudtzment turaint-it him either nil dim‘! or by de
fault. (Wilbur v. .\la_vnard,:tt'olo. Law ltep., l-“Ci;
tl('ol0.. Ml.) Ansm-r not \'t'|'l"(‘l| lllil)‘ be stricken

out andjudgment (‘lll|'l't'tl as by default.
111.: See also Smith v. llan~n.~e, 6i'olo.. 297.

2!. Default—“'hen May be I-Zntc-red.‘ The de
fendant, in case of .~a~rvli-l~ by p|tlrli(':tll0Il, has i‘o!'t_\'

cannot be taken by default.
,
Keller v. Chapman, iii ('al., 85.
ii. “'herc 4'0 Cause of Action Stated. Where
a complaint falls to state facts sutliclcut to com
slllillc a ('au!~'c of action, Judgment thereon by
default will he revert-it-d. (llallaek v. Jundin.3t
(‘al., it‘-it). Hut it‘nomc counts bad and some good,
judtztnenl by dt-fault may be entered on the latter.
Ham v. t‘lty of San Francisco, ll L‘ai., 250.
in.

Which f0t't}' tltt_\'- to 

ii.

11.

Against a Corporation.

A default may

be taken as well against a municipal or other cor

poration, as an individual. The rules of pleading
are ucneral,and are designed to embrace all per
sons, natural or artiﬁcial, capable of suing or being
sued.
llunt \'. t‘it_v of Han Ft'a|tclsc0, 11 Cal., 23).
llaron v. l-‘rink, Jill :‘(l., NH.
(‘lose \'. Hwain, it i(I., iii“.
12. Upon Unllquldated Demand. .\ llnal _iud;:
nu-nt by default can properly be rendered on an

-*‘iklle:-i V,Bi1k0i‘,ZH'(|lU.IAl\\'l{t'|t,.1."ll;lH'Ult).,

unllquidatcd demand, where the defendant has

295.
t'onl_v \'. .\lorri~. -i 111.. i.)'_’; 0; t‘oio._,'.1l‘.’.

been notlllcd in the summons oi‘ the amount t'or
Which the plaintltf will take jud;:ment.
llartman v. \\'llllttltlS, 4 Cal., 251.

Brown \'. Tll\‘kt‘l'. i t'uln. Law lit-p.. 23%.
Default is a Privilege. 'l‘he takin,'1_{ of a dc

ftilill lit the privilege of 1'-lttltillll‘, and if he ('llHH§4'
to waive it previom-. to trial it is not a matter of
which the party in default can complain. its ob
Jwl helm: to limit the time in which the deh-mlant
ma-.\' answer, \\'lilt'll could in Ill)('ll\'t'|‘.\ll‘Il(l lw_\-ond
the trial and jud~_'ment. default can as \\'('ll be reci
ted and entered at thetltm~ofti1c l't'lUllllt)l1 of the

ill.

l'nn3rliled .\nnwer May he Stricken Out.

in all Ht.~'P:-4 not within the exception of the statute,
an amwer without a veritication to a complaint
duly vcritied, may he stricken out on motion, and
application for jud-,:ment as by default may be
made at the same time.
Drum v. \\'hltuey, it (‘al., 442.
I.atimcr v. ltyan. 2" id., 6')‘.

Vl'ilbur v. .\ia_vnard, 3 Pole. Law Rep., 433; ii/'

"mil Jlldzna-nt as llt‘rUl't‘.
.\lanvilh- v. l'arks, l Polo. Law lit-p., iii.

14.
5.

Where only

the tit-tntn'rer i.~ stn-talnt~d, it is error to give Juda
mcnt in favor of the defendants who do not
appear.
I"Xll'\\'t'H v, Jackson, 2h‘ (‘al., 105.

dtt_\'.~t after the service is t't)Ill]Ilt‘lt' in which to an
swer. lixample: Fir.-'t publication Nov. iii; la~t
llllltll(‘1tllt')ll, INN‘. I; sert'lm- cuiltplt-it‘ lh-1'. l-I. t\flt"t‘

Pr i~' error.

After Ilemurrer Sustained.

one of scwral defcndant.-~ appears and dcmurs, and

('0l0., 483.
Upon Amended Complaint.

J udgment

A Default Adntlta all issuable facts in tin

"°mlJlulnt. The ttllﬂtlllloli that plaintiffs wt-re in
Pmﬁeﬁsion of a mining: claim

when

tit-i‘i'-ndanis

“'m“gfUll}' entered thereon and ousted them, helm:
an issuable fact, is admitted by allowing default.
in such case defendants will have no .'-tandint! in

""3 S"l>““l11e Court.
Weese \'. Barker, 4 Colo. Law it-\p.. -‘Wt.

6. Answer may be Filed at any Time Before
Defanlt Taken.

it is no error to permit the iilimr

Dian :\uR\\'er at any tltne ht'l'nl'v (it-t'auit ha~= hcvil
entered. in Ht1vllt’th4t'H it is doubtful it leave Hill!"

by default upon an amended complaint in eject
mcut, setting up titic acquired alter the com
mencement of the suit, is valid.
Smith v. Bcllei, l.’»('al., 23.

I5.

Querc as to Power of Clerk in Certa-in

Cases. In suit to I'(‘t'O\'(.‘l' amount due on a promis
.-orv note, and to establish a lien for the amount
on certain real estate, the clerk entered judg_'ment
bv default for the amount of the note. Plaintiff
l1a\'im:cxltat1stcd his remedies on this Judgment

bv execution and supplementary proceedings,

90‘?

S|~:t.'rro.\' l-iii.

obtained a decree for the equitable relief sought in
the complaint, towit: fora lien upon and sale of
the real estate: Held, that this decree was eorum
nun judice, and void-assuming the judgment by

default. to be valid. Such judgment if valid ter
minated the eontmversy, and whatever related to
the merits of the case was merged in the Judgment.
(Kittridge v. Stevens, lti t‘al., lhil).

But vrhether

the clerk in such case could enter Judgment is
doubted.
Id.
I6.

Notice of Motion. Not Snell Appearance

- as Authorizes Clerk to Enter Default. A notice
that defendant will move to dissolve an attach
ment is not such an appearance in an action as
will authorize the clerk to enter judgment by

consideration, it cannot then strike outthe answer
and enter his default and renderjudgtnent thereon.
Abbott v. Douglas, ‘M L‘al., ‘B-"1.
24. “fhnt a‘ Default (‘area or Admits A
defective allegation of fact may be cured by cle
fauit or verdict, but not so the entire absence of
any allegation whatsoever. dientsch v. Porter, i0
t‘al., -'n">'r; ill) |'d., Mi; ‘Jl id., I37). A default only
ndlnitathe facts alleged in the complaint. disr
lnn v. Hrnith,tit‘al., I73; .\ie(.iregor v.r-iimw, ii t'tL.iT_i.
When a man is sued by fictitious name.and return
on the summons shows service on defendant by
his proper name, an "John Doe, ohm \\'estfnii," a
default being entered, judgment may be rendered
against defendant by his true name of Wcstfsii,
without proof that Doe and Westfail are the same.

(t‘urtls v. Hemiek, ll t‘al., li7|. Where the com
default.
(tiidden v. Packard, '25 t‘ai., tit".

plaint avers the title as administrator, default

17. For Damages in Fdeetrnent. Judtztuent
by default awarding damages in ejeetment will not.
be reversed because it does not appear that the
court examined witnesses on the question of
damages.
Dimick v. Campbell, 31 t_'al., 29*‘.

admits it. (Id). (‘ornplainta containing sevmli
delimit
<‘°\lni8. may
somebegood
I‘t'lltlt"ﬂ't]
and some
on thebad.
goodjuci|.'ua'-nt
counts. in

vain 2'1"). Default amounts to a confession of all
the material facts in the complaint.

The want of an allegation of actual ouster in It
complaint in ejeetrm-nt is a defect which cannot

18. When Answer not Filed wmaa Tltne
Allowed. If defendant demands bill of particu
lars and obtains an order for leave to answer
within ten days after the bill is served, the clerk
may enter default and judgment if the answer be
not so filed.
'
Providence 'i‘ool Co. v. Prader, 32 (‘ai., ti24.
19. Joint and Several Liability. \\'here the
action is against defendants severally liable de
fault may be entered against the defendants
served, without regard to the other defendants.
(Kelly v. Van Austin, 17 t.‘al., -lift).
ilnt not in
case t-heiiabiiltyis joint. (1d.) Judgment cannot
be entered against persons not named in the com

be cured by default.
_
Watson v. Zimmerman, 6 t‘ai.. 47; ‘'11-. hi
But see Paine v. Trcadweii, iii Cai.,‘.‘.-l-‘i.
25.

“'aiver of Default.

.-\c1‘.QPmm‘ob'v plus:

titf's attorney of service of a demurrer flieilmie
defendant after default entered is a wuivcfo
default.
_
llestn-s v. tfiernents, 2i (‘al., 431

20. Clerk Acts Mlnisteriall!'- The cm!“ 1"‘
entering judgment after default, acts lllinl‘il('fiil:i§:}
and cannot. enter Judgment Kmnung ‘my 7*;

beyond that(Gr-ay
complaint.
warranted
V. Pﬂlnlerv
by the
2* ‘m"
statenilvntﬂ
“M 'd'’‘ ,1“.
t':I., -iii-3; l7 ((1., 564; 3" id., 193-) When the
t
declares what the judgment shall be, a Judltﬂrize

plaint, though summoned.
Lamping Co. v. Hyatt, 27 L‘ai., 10:5.

on default is the operation of the law 8Ii_d‘"0‘ﬂ:\
20. Without Proof, ‘Wren. \\'herc the com
plaint is veriﬁed and defendant fails to answer
plaintiff is entitled to judgment on the complaint
without proof of the facts alleged therein.
Toulumne Redemption Co. v. Patterson. lb‘

Cal., 415.

act of the clerk.

tllardim! V- C0Wmm' 25 lalreefil.

Clerk need not recite his exptlimon or me p

ing facts.

mg

(Hesse v. t‘iark, 2* CM" 33') In Pnterthe

Judgment by default without order of court.‘M

clerk derives all his power from the ltlwv and!
only act when all the facts exist which tiff ml“

Lick -V. Stockdaie, id., 219.
by the statute.
[See exSt;§é)tti)o:is_lt§n)tl]er subdivisions 2 and 3 of this

21. Order of Cour-t—\Vhen Requisite.
Upon
facts found, whether by report of referee or special
verdict of a jury, the direct action of the court
must be invoked before judgment can be entered.
(Peabody v. Phelps ii Cal ""-ii *3
'
murrer has been ﬂied.
,
II . U’ “ he“ a db

Providence Tool Co. v. Prader, 3'2 081" 6”‘
2'7. Answer Before Default. An answer ﬁt‘:

wltbout leave of the court. after the timenu
""15“"’l‘iI\iZ has expired, but before default‘ m
been entered, is not a nuiiii_v, but, at moir
irregularity.
Bowers v. Dickerson, H t_‘ai.. 41”

28- Judgment by Default, When B6"'""'
Oliphant v. Whiting, Iii i<I., 23.

There "my be error in a Judgment b
22-

‘Vhcre a Frlvolous

no leave is asked

D emurmr ls med and

to file an answer it is not error

well as in a jud;:ment upon issue joined‘
and in the former as well as in the in
C‘at., M) Jud'_'m(-nt will be reversed when tend
before expiration of time to answer (1
Upon summons radically defective (2 "1"
upon summons not legally Served (5

519), or where complaint shows 110 0"”
ii t_'ai., 210; ii t‘al., $3.

SECTION 154.
[Parker's Cal. Prac. Act, See. I55.)
1. By Referee-“’hen. The court may, upon
application of either party, direct a reference when
the trial of an issue of fact requires the examina
tion ofa long account on either side. The referee
may be directed to hearand decide the whole issue,
or report upon any specific question of fact in
volved.
Huston V. \\'adsworth, 5 (‘oi0., 213; l Colo.

9. Equitable Issues Tried by the Court. In a
purely chanccry case presenting equitable issues
only, and seeking equitable relief alone, the case

must be tried to the court unless both parties con
sent to a_iury—the court possessing therighttosub
mit issues of fact to ajury or referee.
Seiber v. Frink, 4 Colo. Law Rep., 436.

10. Trial of by Jury-Consent.

Parties have

the undoubted right to submit, by agreement, any
issues of fact, equitable or legal, to a Jury for deter

mination, and having done so, they will not after

Law itep., 3.

wards be heard to complain.

2. This is no invasion oi the right of trial by
Jury. Art. \'Il., amendments to t‘onstitut.lon of
the United States, relates to trials in the Federal

Courts only.
Id.

tlrcen v. Tam-y, 4 i..'olo. Law ltep., -321.
ll.

'

may be Taken

by Referee.

right, under this section, in an equity case, upon
its own motion, to direct the taking and reporting
of evidence by a referee.
Helber v. Frinek, ~i Colo. Law itep., 436.

3. Materialty'of,Issue,When Waived. \Vhere
the issue tendered by the answer is of a doubtful

character, but is joined by the plaintitf, the latter
waives the right to raise t.he question of the mate
rialty of the ls.~;ue—(-specially after verdict, on
motion for a new trial.

[Section 1-33 of l‘arker‘s (‘alifornia Practice Act is as
follows: " An issue of fact shall be tried by
a jury, unless ajury trial is waived or a ret
cnce be ordered as provided in this Act.

American Wine Co. v. lirasher iiro:-1., 3 Colo.

\Vhere there are issues of both law and fact

Law Rep.. iii.

on the same con|plalni_,' the issues of_ law
shall tlrst be disposeti oi —Seetl0n -i2 oi that
Act authorizing demurrer and answer at

4. ‘Waiver of Jury. Trial by jury in a civil
case may be waived by failing to appear. (Code

'77, Sec. 184.)

'l‘esthuony

Neither the chapter on rct'erenms nor any other

provision of the Code deprives the court of the

the same time.—i~.‘o.J

In civil proem.-dln\_-s a party may
12.

Trial Deiined.

A trial is the examination

Waive a right which exists solely for his own ben

before a competent tribunal, according to the law
eﬁt, whether ti1e same be given by statutory or
constitutional provision.

oi the land, of the matters at issue, in a cause, tor
the purpose of determining such issue. (Mulford
v. i~‘.studillo, 32 Cal., liil). Until a decision of the
court has been entered upon the minutes, or
reduced to writing by the judge and signed by
him, and tiled with the clerk, a case has not been
tried.
'
Hastings v. Hastings, 31 id., 95.

Leahey v. iiunlap, 4 Colo. Law Iicp., 50; 6
Colo., 532.

5- Agreement Cannot Confer Jurisdiction.
Parties toa litigation cannot, by mzreement, con
ier Jurisdiction to try a cause upon one not a
Judicial otiicer authorized by law to hold a court;
and when this appears by the record to have been
the ease, the cause must be sent back for trial.
This, without comm-l-nding the moral conduct Oi

13. Equity Cases.
'i‘rlal by jury does not
necessarily attach to equity cases.
(Smith v.
Rowe, -i (‘ai., 7; 5:11., iii2; id., 2ii)).
Unless an issue
of fact be framed for the jury under the direction

"10 party who, in violation of his agreement, takes
ad""-matte of the result.

of the court. (Koppik.us v. State Capitol Commis
Haverly invincible Mining Co. v. Howcutt,
4 Colo. Law Rep., 62; 6 (‘olo., 57 .

sloners, 16 Ual., 2th‘).

discretion, do.

6- ‘Vhere a Case is Tried by the Court and no
exception is taken and allowed to the Judgment,
the Supreme (‘onrt will not consider the evidence
for the purpose of determining its su'iliciency to
support thejudgment.
LBW v. lirinker, 6 Col0., 555; 4 C010. Law
Rep., 94.
7- The Conduct ofa Trial. which includes the
Order ofintroducing evidence, rests largely in the
discretion of the court,and it is only whcrethe dis
cretionary power is tzr()ssl_v abused that it becomes
‘8_ﬁl1bject of review. (Nutter v. U'l)0nncii, 6 Colo.,

253: 3 Colo. Law Rep., 233.) That leading questions
were Permitted is not ground of reversal.

Lawson v. Van Auken, 6 (,‘olo., 5'3; 2 C010.
Law Rep., iiiii.

Where

the answer contains both legal and equitable
defenses, the court may ilrst try the equitable
defense, and refuse the plaintiﬂ‘ a jury trial, and,
if the facts warrant it,'grant the equitable relief

prayed for.
ilodley v. Ferguson, 30 Cal., 511.

431.

Weber v. Marshall, 19 id., -447). In ebancery cases
the court may disregard the verdict of a jury.
(ijoode v. Smith, 18 (.‘al., Si). itelator not entitled
tojury to try issues upon an application for man
dmnus to compel judge to sign bill of exceptions.
People v. Judge 10th Dist., 9 Cal., 21.

14. Legal and Equitable Defenses.
.-_- _

Lawson v. Glass, 6 ($010., l-‘ii; 2 Colo. L. lb
tm_3- After a Cause has Gone to a Jury a plain
cannot lnterpose and recover upon a new cause
Ofaetion by means of an instruction.

Which the court may, in its

(Curtis v. Sutter, 15 Cal., 263;

15.

Proper Questions for the Jury. The loca

tion of land where the boundaries are uncertain.
(1 t_‘al., 3‘.N). The possession and identity of land.
(i i¢I., 69). in many cases what is actual and what
constructive possession. (6 £11., 65). Dedication of
premises as homestead. (-i id., 26). Dedication of
a street is a conclusion of fact to be drawn by the
jury from all the circumstances of the case. (14 id.,
645). The question of abandonment of a mining

claim. (ll id., 3'71). The I't'l\ﬁt)ilttbl('Ilt‘h% of the one
of water. (I5 td.. H3). Wit--tin-r plnintltf poet:-1|

the motion for n t'UIl\lIlilP\Ii(‘4'. lie in not hound to
admit the truth ot uuvh stntenn-n t, nor to make

notice of claim to water and intention to conntruct

any m.i|nii.-niou ht-forv the eourt pnz-tries on the tnnte

tltune or ditch, begun t5tlt'\‘t\)‘t-t, nnd PX'tJﬂt‘I‘tliI'(l
work, etc. (15 td.. ‘Bil.
Ul\lllHI{(‘!s, in action ol

rlnity of the e\-itlvnt-e, dlilg-~nm-,etc.
.\ih-n v. \’ur|x-titer, I t.olo. Low R4-p..iJl.

trespass. (1 id.. lll. .\ltlii(‘(‘. in uvtion for malicious

l‘_;,,(_u"“ L-,_ M U“. nmmrma l.,.m.m.,: Ac‘ h,m,.,m_
cut with the section in the tolonitlototit-.
W H H mm "W mm dump M mo Mm “

Prosecution. (R Cnl.,2l7i. Wlwtln-r u strurtun- in

“ Pubuc nuisance‘ U M" M‘-" wh‘'u'‘'r “ “muum
existed or not. tl £11.. -iii).

:i1,'t't-llnutint-ti in the fornn-r.l

The t|ii0;'HliUli of notice

4.

Discretionary. The grunting or rvfusingn
n-win in the sound dbcretion oftlw

of the dissolution of partnership.
Zl ld., 151 ; 4 id., 2tltl).

16- Question!‘ of Law for the (‘ouYL

\\'lwn-

there is no disputetu,totln-facts,nt1tl thelnw upon
not a question for the jury.

(6 t‘ni., l2.£.)

~“""t!!‘"\t‘ \ - l ' rkllm l"

those facts declares a transaction fI"llll(|liit‘llL, it in

5.

KW“ whml ‘hr mm“ _.,h"w mm ‘he Mm,"

What

M U“, court M40“. m,p,.Um,|u.d m.m.|'\- m an arm.

facts and clrcuntsttmeeaconstitutet~vitlenceofmreiessnessis q,question of law for the court to tlPit'b
mine. (9 C‘ul., 253.) But what particular wt-ight
these facts should have is a matter for the _iur_v.

‘mu. ,,x‘.,.,.‘,,(, or H, (u,,“.r,.Hm
no, N. ,.‘_\.h,.‘,.m‘ u“],.N,, ‘h0r,.
rm. Iw“. um‘ “ml nu. “|,p“,.,m,,n
m“,‘u\.“M)r the “M.,,“ “.“m.,m.a. " ,,m\h“mdn\lts

(id). \Vhether the judgment is entered in ncwmlunce with the mandate of the snprcuu: court, is n

mm M, "mMm.d_
mm, "wk ‘-_ (-v (-0_ ,-_ (1mpumn'|t UR i.. itii.

question of low.

p,.,,l,|,. v_ ttmmt, '_'.tt‘|\l., l-'13.

Clark, 1%
t‘ai..
33.trv his cascheforc
1" Lease
A artv. cannot
oon
and
"
p y
g
'
!€cc‘1:;:fa\:n
ti
l
'ltl‘:3:t u?cJ(;'Ts:3(:;1‘;’8nII::!n‘:ri(‘:l
b -i
ft» h ‘l

“' H '5 nu‘ “'1 Mm“ M mmrﬂkm w n.m.&- it'0
continnnnw on account of the \'ol\mt1\l')' ﬂbwni
of dctendnnt on important httsln:-am, it t‘t0l::dl>'-‘3nn';

t

'
S m 1 tn
1 \,. lrannnn,l
3
3 Lot
. . , ll)-.
18. Facts Occurring in Presence of the Court.

- id not )0 P05 P”
ing that
tht. imslnum
mm
“ rmumu‘
Hm t()\1‘ ,rmnM l,,.,-..“.nu. of thr
dL_n'm“m (W ‘lkimum V. Pm.mu' 3-_)CaL. 101), S0

A court does not require the verdict of njnry us to
facts occurring in the presence of the court llht'1f.

M to u,m_m.‘, M Mtm.m,y_
“Mum V. (;,-0011, til Cui.. 113

Pcople v. Judge it) Dist., ii t‘nl.. 2!.
'

7.
.
19. No Jury in Supreme
(,ourt.

U

[ht_ legisla- '

ture
has
not
provided
the Sll}1l‘t'[
with
n
_it1l‘)'
I
in
any
case,
nor authorized
it, it)I'lttlSt'
n e court
.
an
issue

.

anu°"ncod vmm). I ‘he ﬁnding.

of
fact tocourt
he made
up in this
t'()lll'i of
and
refer:-ml
to
another
for trial.
All lHStlt'.~l
fact
are to be
tried in an inferior court of this State.

W power gnu

7. A court ham the t1lB\'l‘t' 0113
hmﬂng
hand Om (.\,.d0ncc ‘md argument' and

Mme‘
'

(E1 purl»

w

.. (ta‘ " 18').V
Hmimum V‘ uasungm "I.

g_

Amdavlu, |-.,r mum Show e\'id0lN‘9 w “V

Al/i_\,'. General, l 0111., iii‘). In -mItntlm!m.r brought in
supreme court, any issue of fact nmy he referred to

mm.-‘-m\_ (iinwiey \'.t~iterllm.',2 t‘al..47“)' A Par;
is bound m knnw Um mnterinlty of the iestim0l\.'

a. district court, to he tried and determined, and

except in M of gurpﬂgp, at the trial

certiﬂed to supreme court.
Lnlax dry (,0. \ . Bl‘()t.'k\¥ A) , 30 bah, Mn.

9‘

-—

on the ground of nhscnt witness ;3““ “M8

t

SECTION 158.
1.

Continuance Discretionary.

B0,-|-y v_ Motzier, 7 Cain 418
Not Cnm“““‘.e' Amdavit for oontmulss‘

no 3

The grunting

'

Pierre \'. l’t\_\'l1(" H M" ‘W’

or refusing a continuance is it matter within the '

People v. Haunt, ‘.23 id.. 156

sound discretion of the trial court.
,,

nnot he Olht'l’\\'iM‘ l"'°"

"9 ‘ ‘,,e‘,“,‘,,,,. ,_ Q,,,,,..,.. H Cal., 89.
Pope v. Dalton, 3| id-, 21*‘

Ilirim n V. l\ncl‘1tneb’ 0 Colo" 017'

10.

M
8 within the discretion of the court to
rieiay proceedings in ltt'.ilt1St.', when without fnttli
of the party an attorney unexpectedly witluirttws
horn the ease to the injury of his client.

But the

The ntﬁdtWiL in [;i‘:::;):

law or otherwise

tliscretion
exercised or in rel'u2~‘im: to act is
not groundetther
for error.
Leahy v. Dttnlttp, ti t,‘olo., -3'1‘.-1; 4 Colo. Law

Not for Delay.

uni“.[0]-eg9lng"u;tt8l'8,8ll0illd stow lilo“; OH
M diligence used to obtain the tilt» nun
HM
“"‘r|vQS whmhcr by oxlmustini; ‘"9 Pm:
0
'
iwoph‘ "' ThOmPSOU.'
‘ Cal
o n .‘W-"
l

y1'48|'l:lL'-I-ii

1101)., 59.

1t1(:)}t.ionAi:::n‘h:::on of Amdav“ for.
.

\\'hcre :1

1 1- Du" lung‘-‘"‘-"" Amdaﬂ”

absence ~Oti\¢:L t. f;)rn Qontlnuancg on twcoum M m..

should show due diligence in end?‘ we ﬁnd“ - .

Sumnn mm‘ “|_‘;\_tt“"S-“t mPl)orted by an ttﬂidnvit
Such ':v_mmSs
iftlclls it is expected to ])t‘t)\'t‘~ by
Party to admit thfl-:i,lt11'c pﬁvﬁege of me mhcrse

faith to procure the attendance
and in preparing for trial.
Ppﬁph‘ v' lmker' ‘MM

1’

Statements tto allow tlL\ewirL1;W&Q Wonk‘ mak" Hm“ I

Kllhlond v. Scdg"i°k' 17 M” V

deDositiotth in \\'l\'u-h ease l(:‘::“ to be read as his I
D"JDOr to overrule |

m("'*“’" ‘3 Ho‘br°°k'2‘d"'; _
People v. \\'ntinml. 2‘“3\L'q
.

I

Sscrioss 158-160.
2.

Admission

to

P re v c ut

'

205

Contlnunncc-.

When the adverse party, in order to‘avoid a con

4. Parties to a suit in chancery are not entitled
to a trial by jury.

tinuance. admits that the Witness would testify to

the fact set up in the attidavit, the uftldavit becomes
evidence, but is not conclusive.
Blankman v. Vallejo, l-3 t‘al., tii5.
I
Boggs v. Merccd .\linim; t'o., H UL, 338.
13. Surprise an a Ground for Continuance.
if defendants were surprised by an amendment
and found it necessary to assumea different line
of defense in consequence, they would have been
entitled toacontiuuance to prepare tor their do

tense.
Polk v. Uoﬂln, ll t'ai..
H. .-\ refusal to grant a continuance on ac
count ol' the absence of witnesses or counsel, under

Wear v. Mayoer, l Colo. Law Rep., Ilﬂl.
Walker v. Scdgwick,5 Cal., 192.

Questioned in Duff v. Fisher, 15 id., 376.
5. it would seem a party cannot try his case
before the court without objection, and after losing
it, complain that the case was not tried by ajury.
Smith v. Brannin, lzl t‘al., 107.

6.

Failure to appear at the trial operates as a

consent to a trial of the issue by the court, (it! (‘al.,
lit‘); hit‘ai., 178), but does not authorize a trial to

be by a Jury of less than the number prescribed by
law.
tlilispie v. Benson, i8 Cal., 409.

circumstances showing that the party or his coun
sci was surprim-d as to the time or place of holding

SECTION 160.

the court, is error.
Ross v. .-‘instill, 2 t'al., lﬁl.

[Parker's Cal. Prac. Act, See. 159.]

I5. .\ party taken by surprise by an extension
of time to take testimony before a referee, and by
the testimony thereby introduced, should apply

[N0'l't-:.-—~\'t-ction 160, as it stands in the (‘Ode at
present, was adopted by act approved Feb

for a continuance for that reason, in order to have

amendment to Hot‘. 1?)" of the (ode of l\T7,
which was identical with Sec. 159 of Par
ker's Palitornia Practice r\t'l.]

the benefit of the point in the appellate court.
People v. Helden, 28 0:11., Hi.
16. That material evidence was discovered too
late to produce it at the trial, while not ground for

new trial, would be a good ground on which to
base a motion for continuance.
Berry v. Metzier, 7 Cal., ll“.
.-\ mistaken advice of counsel to his client,

I7.

not to Pl't'llIll'tJ for trial, is no ground for continu
ance. l.\iusgrove v. Perkins, 9 Cal., ‘.Zii.) Nor an
agreement of counsel for the continuance, not

reduced to writing.
Peralta v. Maria, 3 ('al., H7.
18.

A party unprepared for trial at the calling

of the case, by failing to move for a continuance,
waives his want of preparation, and cannot move
for new trial on this ground. (Turner v. Morrison,
ll (‘al., 21.)

Courts are liberal in the matter of con

tinuance. and are scarcely ever appealed to in
vain.
[(1.

ruary l-3, is-s“l (Hess. Laws iFl\?l, p. ill) as an

1. Drawing the Jury-—Court May I-Ixcuse
Jurors. A party on trial is entitled to a lawful

jury, but not as a matter of absolute right to have
the first Juror who is called and possesses the
statutory qualifications, sit in his case. The court
may, of its own motion, for any good reason,

excuse a qualified Juror even in a criminal case.
People v. A riceo, 32 Cal., 40.

2. Qualifications of Jurors. All male inhabit
ants of the State of the age of twenty-one years,
who are citizens of the United States, or have

declared their intention to become such citizens,
and who have not been convicted of felony, shall
be competent to serve as grand and pctit Jurors in
all courts and Judicial proceedings in this State.
Gen. Statutes, Sec. 1891, p. 608.
3. Previously Expressed Opinion. l.'ndcr the
statute a Juror is not disqualified by reason of pre

viously expressed opinion, if the court shall be
satisﬁed upon examination that he will render an

~

SECTION 159.

[i‘arker'.-i Cal. Prac. .\ct. See. 179.]
1- ‘Vaiver of Jury. Trial by a jury in a civil
case may be waived by falling‘ to appcar—a party
having the privilege to waive a right which exists
solely for his own benefit, whether given by stall

IOPY Oi‘ constitutional provision.
Lcahey v. Dunlap, 4 (Join. Law Rep, 59; ll

(.‘olo., -332.
2. The right. of trial by jury may be waived in
the mode prescribed by law.

impartial verdict.
Jones v. People, 6 (‘ol0., 452; 4 Colo. Law
Rep., -i.
4. Inability to Speak or Understand English.
inability on the part of the persons called to serve
as_iurors to speak or understand the English lan
guage. does not necessarily disqualify them from
serving as jurors under the statute of Colorado.
Town of Trinidad v. Simpson, 5 (‘ol0., 65; 1
C010. Law Rep, 97.

tRu.-.-sell v. Elliott, 2

‘—'al'» 245-) But not by implication.
Id.

Smith v. Pollock, ((1., 92.
Exline v. Smith, 5 t'd., 112.

5. Liberal Construction. In this State there
is no constitutional impediment in the way ofa
liberal construction of a. Code remedy. '1‘hcprovi
sion of the t‘onstitutlon of the United States (Art.

\'ll., .»\mc-mlmentsi was not intended as a restric
3‘

A Part)’. by ﬁling an undertaking to obtain

an injunction, waives the right to insist on a jury

tion of state courts.

trial, and consents that the damages ma)’ be ascer‘

case, reier a cause for trial.

tIlined as prescribed by the statute.
Russell v. Elliott, 2 Cal., 2-i-3.

The court may in a proper

H u.‘-:ton v. \\'adsworth, 5 (foi0., 213;
Law

ic p. , 3.

l Colo.

consldertttions, does not render him incompetent
B.

Must be Elector.

A Juror must he an elector
to sit in the sulna-queut case.
Algier v. Steamer Maria, ll Cal., 167.

of the county in which he is returned.

Sampson v. Hehall'er, 3 (‘al., lift’.
7.

Residence is a Question of Intention.

A

mere iuhnhitaucy against an intention to acquire
domlcil, would not make a resident within the
meaning of the law, so as to constitute an eh-etor.

5. Parties May interrogate Juror. in im
pam-llu-.: a jury each party has a right to
interrogate a juror, not only to show that there

oxists proper ground for challenge for cause,hut
to elicit fuels to enable him to decide whether he

(People v. l‘t-rulta, 4 t‘al., l75).

Nor does absence
will illitkv a peremptory challenge.

disqualify.
People v. t-‘tonecifer, ti t'al., H0.
8. Party Accepting Juror I-‘lutopped. A party
who accepts a juror knowing his disqualiﬁcation
is cstopped from afterwards availing himself of the

\\'atson v. \\'hltuey, 28 (‘al., ii75.
6. I)lseretion of Trial Court.
When the
court below exercises its discretion in cxcusing a
juror, the Htiprt-rue Court will interfere with great

reluctance. After a juror has heen examined and

objection.
Id.

accepted, and subsequently, irom facts drawn out,
he states that he had set as a juror in a former

9. If the sheritl‘ be a party the court may order
a special jury to be summoned by the coroner.
Pacheco v. Hensacker, ll t'al., i2).

trial, lnvolvim: the same ql.lt,'.‘ilit)ilt'i, and had made
up his mind, it is not error for the court to excuse
him.

10. Objection to Panel. An objection in not
well taken to the panel of a trial Jury on the ground
that such Jury was summoned hy order of the
court after the commencement of the term.
People v. Rodriguez, 10 t‘al., 59; i t‘d., 8'5.

11. l'nless an irregularity complained oi in

Grady v. Early, 18 ('al., ltli.
7. A Hero llnpreasioli or suspicion derived
from having read or heard a statement of the facts.

does not disqualify ujuror. lie must have reached
a conclusion like that upon which he would be
wllling to act in ordinary math.-rs.

the formation of a jury goes to the merits of the
trlal, or leads to the inference of improper influ
ence upon their conduct, their verdict should not.

People v. Reynolds, ltit‘al., i2~.

ejeettnent a Juror who has formed an 0P"“°"

be disturbed.

adverse to the title under Which the defendant

N.

llllscellaneoua

Matters.

-

in an tieli0n Of

Thrall v. Smiley, 9 (‘al., 5%.
claims, is incompetent.
White v. Moses, ll (‘al.. 6t\
_—

9.
SECTION I63.

A verdict will not he set aside on the Found

that one of the jurors “knew and was aware OW"
circumstances connected with the affair," 00 Ohieb

[Parker's Cal. Prae. Act, See. 162.]

tion having heen raised to him before the Willa

1. Grounds for Challenge of Jurors. inabil
ity upon the part of persons called to serve as
jurors. to speak the Epelish language, and to
understand it when spoken, does not necessarily
disquaiit'y them under the statutes of Colorado.
Town of Trinidad v. Simpson, 5 (?olo., 65: i
(_‘olo. Law lit‘-p.. 97.

and it not appearing that he had before the l
formed or expressed an opinion, or was in 011.‘ “Y

0
‘Va

Conscientious Scruples. \\'hen conscien
tious seruples will prevent a Juror from rendering
a verdict’accordim_r to law and evidence, he is
incompetent. When a juror states that he has
partially formed an opinion and does not know
but “ what he has some bias," and upon further
examination answers that "he knows no reason
why he could not render a fair and impartial ver
eyideuce, without preju
H
,.
uhat he has heard," he
is competent. The question whether a juror has
such an opinion as that it would require evidence
to remove it is no certain nor proper test of a
juror‘s qualitictﬂion.
Jones v. People, 4 Colo. Law Rep., i - ti Colo
452.
'
i q
13. A General Challenge of a juror for cause
w thout specifying the particular ground. is insuf:
lictent. There must he a designation of some one
of the causes enumerated in the statute

hiased in favor of the plaintlﬂ'.
Lawrence v. Collier, l L‘al., 37.

to. The law contemplates that ever)’ Jill")r “ha

sits in a (‘attrle shall have a mind free from !1“i‘“'j“'
dice or bias of any kind touching the couir0\'m.f;
and if a juror is prejudiced in any manner. he 1

not a proper person to sit in the jury box
People v. Reyes, 5 Cal., 347.

ll. Prejudice is a state of mind \\‘l1i(‘ll~ in

12.

11!.
ut questions
It is error in the court to rule 0
_

in “.il1l‘("lI' 88 i0 wlietller or not he belonit-. it)anii
Secret political society, and as such l1tt.~=l11i\t\1llmG
oath not to ulve a fair trial to any class of clb lint;

Wllu are parties to the action, A juror “ 0“
taken such oaths is grossly untit to sit as ti Jun Id.
_____._

SECTION 168.
1- Conduct of the 'l‘rial—-L8rgl‘1." ~mdes the
a1')'- The conduct of the trial. Whit-‘ll inc
order of introducing evidence. rest»
dlswotion of the court. and it is o

Paige v. U‘Neal, 12 L‘al., Ni.
4. Trial of Similar Cause.
H I
That a juror has
tried a case involving the a Jility ofdefendant for
a similar can se of action, depending on the same

the

eye of the law, has no degrees.

,

yaw”

discretionary power has been grosr-1.‘ “bu
H beeotnes subject to review.
Nutter v. O'Donnell. 6 L,0l0..

Law Re-p.. Iii.

253: 3C°‘°'

St~:cTto.\'
2. That leading questions were permitted to be
asked is not ground for reversal.
Lawson v. tjlass, 6 (‘olo., l-‘H;

1.’ tfoio.

La w

Rep., I31.
3. Fact Treated as an Issue, though not Plead
ed.

Where the record discloses thata fact, though

not presented by the pleadings, is treated as an
issue, and evident-c introduced touching it, with
out objec-t.ion, and it is submitted to the Jury, the
Supreme (..‘ourt will treat the.objct-tlon to the plead
ings as waived, and will examine the defense as
though it had been specially pleaded.
Berdeil v. Blssa-ll,ii t'olo., itl'.i;

'.’t_'oio. Law

lit-.p., 437.
4.

Foundation Must be Laid for Contradic

tion.

It is not proper to permit plalntitl’ on rebut

tal to prove that deft-ntlant's witnesses have made
previous statements at variance with their testi
mony, without ﬁrst laying proper foundation by
calling their attention, fixing time, place, etc.

.\'ttttt.-t" v. U'Donnell, ti L‘ol0., 253; 3 Colo.
Law Rep.,

165.

207

ll. Error in Instruction Whlclt Does no_
Harm. Though it is error to instruct thejury that
a statement is admitted by the pleadings, when
such statement is denied by the answer, yet, when
said fact. under the evidence, stands as one of the

undisputed facts of the case fully and clearly estab
lished by the evidence—there being no coniiict of
testimony on the point—ihe defendants were not

prejudiced by the error, and it will not be ground
for reversal.
Dyer v. .\icl’hce, ‘.2 Colo. Law ltep., till; 0'
t‘olo., l7-l.

12.

Not Proper After Verdict Returned. .-\n

oral instruction, after verdict is ret urncd into court,
but before it is announct-(l, is out of time and im

proper.

It is error to give oral instructions upon

the law of the case; they are required to be in
writing.
.\iontciius v. .~\tht-rton, 2 tfolo. Law ltcp.,
Ml ; ti t'olo., 52.

i3.

When Material Allegations Undenit-d.

When material allegations of the complaint are
5. Introduction of Evidence.
A party is
cstopped from taking advantage of an error in the

order of introducing evidence, for which he, him
self, is responsible.
Richardson v. Bricker,4 Colo. Law Rt-p.. -‘lb-5
[Section 347 oi .\le_ver's Kent.m-k_v (‘ode is substan
tially the same as Section lib‘. Colorado Code
of l\‘*Cl.]
6. Burden of Proof. The onus probandt "08
with the propoundt-rs of a will. (i B. Mon., 339.)
The answer bt-ing confession and avoidance, the
burden is on the defendant.
Vance v. Vance, 2 3iet., 5-‘ll.
7. When the burden is on the defendant he
has the right to the conclusion of the argument

"More lhf‘ Jury. (Tipton v. Tripiett, 1 Met., 571i).
[And, under (‘olorado practice, to open the argu

ment.—l-In.]
8. Instructions. In ('oni=trt1lng a charge to a
.ll"')', each instruction should be considered in
connection with the entire charge. and if, consid
ering the charge and instructions as a whole, the

not denied, it is proper t-o instruct the jury that
“every material allegation of the complaint not

denied by the answer may be taken as true, and
need not be proved by the plalntitl‘. " Wail & Witter v. Livezey, 3 Colo. Law Rep.,
-Hi ; ti (.‘olo., 465.
14.

Passenger and Carrier.

In a stilt by a

passenger against. a carrier, a ])r1'm(l_!'tlct'c case is
tnade by proof that the relation of passenger and
carrier existed, and that an accident occurred
resulting in the injuries, and was occasioned by
failure oi some portion of the machiner_v, applian
ces or means provided tor the transfer of the pas
senger. This proof being made, a presumption of
negii_gcncc on the part of the carrier arises, and
the plaintifl'is not bound to go further until the
presumption is rcbuttcd.
it devolves upon the

carrier tQ rebut this presumption by evidence that
be exercised the greatest degree of diligence prac

ticable under the circumstances; and it is proper
to so instruct thejury.
1('.

S“Promo Court is satistled the jury were not im
15.

properl)’ advised as to any material point in the
ease, the judgment will not be reversed on the
ground of an erroneous charge.

Wltett Pctfemptory Instruction

Proper.

The court is not bound to go through the form
of submitting a case to a jury when satisﬁed in
advance that in case the jury ﬁnd one way the

Mctjieiiand v. Burns, 5 t...'oio., 390; l Colo.

verdict will be set aside as not supported by the
Law Rep., 312.
evidence.

In such case peremptory instruction is

Fritz v. Finnerty, 6 (.‘oio., B6; 2 ('olo. Law

Rep., 376; 2 t_.'oio., 565; -l t't.l., 572.

proper.
"
Adams v, Spangler, 3 C010. Law Itep., mi.

9- Exceptions taken to instructions en ma.s.w
will not be noticed on appeal; nor will it avail to
comPlain of an instruction not excepted to below.
\Vooten v. Helge], -3 (_‘oio., 42-i; l t_‘olo. Law
Rec-.431.

16. Without Basis of Fact, Prejudicial. An
instruction is prejudicial when the evidence does

not present a proper basis for it.
London Con. M. M. and

Co. v. Findlay, 4

C010. Law Rep., 11; 6 Coio., 571.

10- Must Apply to Facts Proven. Instructions
are never to be given except upon some state of

facts disclosed by the evidence. After the case
has gone to thejury the plalntitl‘ cannot intcrpose
and recover on a new cause of action by means of
an instruction.
Lawson v. Van Aul-ten, 2 Cole. Law Rep-.
313; 6 ('0lo., -52.

17. In an Action of Replevin by mortgagee it
is proper to instruct the Jury that if the defendants

or either of them purchased the property with
notice that it was mortgaged, and purchased with
intent to defraud the mortgagee, such purchase
was fraudulent and void as against the mortgagee.
Havens v. Smith, 4 Colo.,

are bound to receive as true." is improper and

A new trial will not be tzrunled for an error in in
structions which was snperindueed or contributed

l‘l‘|'U|H‘1)llﬂ,

Tipton v. Triplett, l .\lei., 57".

to by the conduct of the party seeking to take

lint we \\'nll it Witter v. Llvezey,3 Colo.

advantage of it when it does not eoneinslvel_v
appear that such error resulted pre_iudieiuti,v to

l.uw lit-p.. iii.
‘:4.

the party so at fault.

And so. an instruction that every material

nib-',zntion in plniniiiI"s petition not denied by the
answer, mu:-t,1or the purposes of this action, be

Tabor v. Bush. 4 Colo. Law R4-p., ‘JI9.
11).

not denied by plaiutiifs answer thereto, the jury

l8. Party Inducing Brronr.-one Instruction.

As to Option Contra‘-ts—\\'hen it Ques

tion of Fact for the Jury. \\’ here the proof is not

taken as true.

Aiard v. Smith. 2 .\iet., .387; iii Cal., W; iii
conclusive as to whether. in the purelnm- or sale oi
urtieles for future deiiver_v there was, boun jidr, an
intention to deliver the property nmninaily pur
chased or sold, or whether the tramuu-tiomt were
intended to be simply speculations in prices, and
settled upon the basis oi the tiitlerenee betwuen
the price at the time of the purchase and time for
delive-r_v, it is not error to submit the matter to the
jury as a question of fact to be determined upon
the evidence, coupled with dlreetion that if they
iind the latter state of ease to be true the elninl
founded thereon must be disallowed, as the result
of a gambling transaction.
Id.
‘20.

Record Must Contain All

25.

((1.. -'ri‘M
The t-onrt mn_v instruct the jury as to what

facts the)‘ must. for the purposes of the action.
rezurtl as true. bet-um~e alleged and not contro
verted.
ilnrtle_v v. iiartiey, 3 Met.. 5'»
26,

The t'util'l should decide questions of 1"

by itlslrttetintis. and submit only e0ulr0\'£‘fll‘d
fuels in the jtit'}‘.

.\i:\lturs v. Shieitis, 2 .\iet., 5'>'i; 3'-"'31" '-'13

21. As to Credibility of tvimwm. 1‘ M0‘
error for the court to refuse to instruct the jury
tbnt “tib~,\' tnust |n‘liP\°(‘ all that \\‘1\-‘ Film “the
tietemiunts in the e(m\'ers:tli(m pr0\'(“| by me

the lm~trne

tions to Authorize Review. \\'hen the transcript

bluintitl‘."

does not contain all the instructions t.;l\'c'll at the
trial below, the supreme t‘ourt will not consider an
error assigned for refusal to give certain instruc
tions, as it cannot be determined whether the

ments of the defendants

\\'hether the Jut'.\' ""“““'d ‘hp ﬂaw
or not, was in me"

disen-tion.

H1nithv..\7or. Bank, ‘3 §l“i-- 573'
28. As to Character. An instruction Which
t-untlne.-. the jury, in eonsblerin~_' evidence relating

refused instructions contain un_v correct propose I
tion of law applicable to the case, which \\'iLH not

given to the Jury.

to the elmra--ter of an ilnpeaehed witneﬁﬂ. l" Kuch
statements reapeeting his general moral t'i1araClH'
as have been made by those “among Wlliml he

Tucker v. Parks, 4 t‘olO. Law Rep.. 308.
21. Instructions Conatrued as a “'hole. if
conﬂicting and irreconcilable propositiom'~: of law
are contained in the charge, and it appears that the
Jurv may have been lllhlwl therebv a new trial

tlwt-ll.~: and to whom he is known," is nlisleadlng:
iHl"l(lt-Hmlt v. iiayne. ‘.1 .\iet.. 3l'.Ir. The _|\1l'.V ""13

‘
- ’ e0nsi(lerashould
be granted; but if.‘ upon a careful

..
H“. rowmmun or me mwmchml
“- “ ness.

tlon of the entire charge, thou'_rh lherw be soon‘
conflict between portions thereof, if it appear that
the complaining party could not have been preju
diced by it, the Supreme Court will not disturb the
verdict on account of imperfections therein.

ltyputll('('nle(i llpnn the bellefof meiurr “""“ '1"

.
Wlmmwnw tosmnnny or am_ wmwsb. “ho
k news

29. ['1'
In an Action for Sinmien 11" instmcuon.
slanderous words set forth in the petition 01' 3"-V
I

part of them" were spoken, but fails l0 inform the
iur_\' what words M-t out ill lllt‘ Damon ‘WW E-hm.

Overland Mall and Express ('0. v. i‘nrroil.
demos and actionable. is rnb-;leadit1i!‘-'3'>‘F’('‘“'m"‘V "

4 Colo. Law Rep., -.i iii. "

the petition contain e.\tpre.~;slOns cllﬂricd m ha‘-P

“fritten Instruct-ions--“'aived Unless
Exception Taken. The failure of the court to
reduce instructions to writing when required bv
either party, is error suiﬁcleut to reverse the judg
ment. (Ferguson v. Fox's admr., Kv.l
exception be taken at the
B “ l mm! ‘is
proper time, the error is
waived.

been spoken, whieh are not slanderous
Letton v. Young. '-3 MN" 5""
30.

Bio

False Statmnont of ‘WituM‘i-Go” to

cretubnlty.

I‘ is Q.|-for tn i11Q(I'iltl’i the

t

inf)’ lbﬂd

“ ifthey believe any witness has sW0l'n falsely “Dd
knowingly as to any material tact. they are hon? r
to disregard his testimony altogether." \\'hene:fti

Id.

a person is held competent, and allowed to test1 .“v
\\ ooten v.f»‘elgel, 3 t‘olo , Mi; 1 Colo

Law

the jury are the exclusive Judges or his crodjbu 1;

and may give such weight to his evidence
the_v may, under all the (.'li'CtiID.§U\IlCc3v mm‘ “
deserves.
Id.

1 Starkie, 454; 1 Greenleab 3“‘"'
meadings.

Animmu

till to the matters

b ' them

7

as true under the

of

31. Exception “not be l’reseI'\'4‘d- Errors
the court in giving or refusim: lI15"'u{'ﬂ0ng' Hallie;

excepted to at the ume. MP M‘ 0"" "Mm for
for a new trial below, but are also llllamnmg
reversal on appeal.

Letton v. Youus. 3 M‘-“" 55”‘

SECTIONS
32. Abstract Instruction.
An instruction
unsupported by evidence is abstract and erroneous.
Revill v. i’cttlt..31iiet., 311; 13 Cal., 690; it id.,
3&3.
33. Where the evidence sustaining plaintlti"s
claim was uncontradicted,

instruct the jury to

it

was

not

it iS—1

209

It..

Held, that this is not an error sutiiclcnt to warrant

a new trial. The possession of such oiiicer left the
verdict as much in the possession of the court
itself as if it had been directly delivered to the
clerk.

error to

Paige v. (,i‘.\lcal, 12 Cai., -I83.

find for plaintiii‘, if they
2.

Nor will it make any difference when the

believed the testimony.
names of the jurors were not. called and they wen

Spalding v. Bull, l Duvail,3li: l7 t‘al., 13!.
34. In Trespm to Lllld. In a suit for damages
for an entry on a mining claim, and for perpetual
injunction, etc.: Held, that it was error for the
court below tocharge the jury that if they believed
no injury or damage was-done by defendant to

not asked whether they had agreed upon their ver
dict, when the parties were present and took no
exception at the time; and when it is not pretended

that the verdict entered differs from the one scaled
up, or that the result is in any respect aiTectetl by

the omission.

piaintifib they should find for defendants; that
such charge was calculated to mislead inasmuch as
the law presumes damages from a trespass, and

under the charge the jury might have decided the
case upon this want of proof of plaintiii"s damages,
instead of absence of proof of their title.
Atwood v. I-‘ricott. i7 L‘ai., i t.
35. Error in Instruction Ground for Rever
sal, L'nle.-ts llarmles.~». if erroneous instructions

Id.

3. The opportunities for tampering with jurors
after separation are so numerous, and in import
ant cases the temptation is so great, and the ability
oi detection so slight. as to make it a matter of
grave doubt whether sound policy does not require
an adherence to the verdict as sealed, even as
against a subsequent dissent of one or more of the
jurors.

were given to the jury the judgment will be re
versed, unless it appear from the record that appel

Id.


lant was not prejut'li|-ed thereby.

SECTION 177.

Richardson v. Me-.\'uity, 2i L‘ai.. IR‘).
[Parker's t‘al. Prae. Act, Sec. 171.]

SECTION 171 .
[N01t.—Section liii, Parkcr‘s t‘alifornia Practice
éct, is the same as Si-etion l'ii, t'olorado
Lode, except that the closing words: “ As
the parties may agree," are not contained

1. The Verdict, Declared. There is no right
to poll a jury in acivii case after the verdict has
been recorded; nor before, unless thercarc circum
stances of‘ suspicion attending the delivery oi the

verdict. But in all cases it rests with the discretion
of the court. The jury, acting as a body, speak

in the former.]
1- Proceedings in Case a Juror Becomes
Sick. The withdrawal of a luror and the continu

through their foreman, and his assent is conclu
sive upon all, nniessa disagreement to the record

he expressed at the time.

ance of the case thereby is no ground for reversing
Bium v. Pate, 2|) L'al., 09.

a judgment subsequently obtained.
Benedict v. tfozzens, i t‘al., I31.

SECTION 172.

SECTION I78.

H’arker's Cal. i’rac. Act, Section 16$]

|i’ttrker's (ial. Prac. .-\ct, Sec. 172.]

1. Jury may in-turn i'or Instructions. After
the jury have once retired it is error to allow them
to come into court and receive instructions in the
al>;~:e1ie(- of the parties or the r counsel. Such in
structions will be deenn-d important, if the con
i""')' is not shown, from the very fact that thcjury
have asked for them.
Rcdmon v. Yontz, 5 ('ai., l-i-vi.

SECTION

176.

[Parker's Cal. Prac. Act, Section 170.]
1. Sealed Verdict. \\'hcre a jury are dirc<.'lt.‘(i
to bring in a sealed verdict. and after agreeing upon

8 Verdict, seal it up and give it to the oﬂicer in
charge of thcm—the clerk being absent—and re
quest him togive it to the clerk, which is done;

and afterthe meeting of the court the following
morning, the verdict is opened in the presence of

the Jury and read by the clerk without exception:

1.

Correction of Verdict.

It is competent for

the court to instruct the jury to amend their ver
dict as to form, not affecting the substance, and in
such manner as to be unexccptionabie in law.
Truebod y v. Jacobson, 2 (!al., 2%.
2.

The court may amend the verdict oi‘ a jury

when it is defective in something merely formal,
and which has no connection with the merits of
the cause, where the amendment in no respect

changes the rights of the parties.
Perkins v. Vllson, 3 (‘ai., 139.
3. The verdict may conform to the issues.

if

the court, instead of‘ having the verdict corrected
by the-jury, attcmptto correct it by judgment, and
go beyond the verdict, it is error.
Ross v. Austell, 2 Cai., 192.
4. A general objection to the form of the verdict,
without any specification oi‘ the particulars in

which it is alleged to be defective, will not be
considered.
_
Mahoney v. Van Winkle, 21 Cal., 052.

Sm-'rto.\'s

178--130.
-_ __...._$

5. The credibility of witm_-s.-es and weight of
5. If a verdict be fatally informal, but before
the jury are dlsclmrgcd the party against whom
it was given agrr-mi to such an interpretation
thereof as would sustain a judgment, such agree

testimony being matters for the jury, the vi-rdict.
will not be disturbed where there is no error in
the instructions.
Smith v. Havens, ti t‘olo., '.'.il'.'.

ment should he held to cure the defects in the
The best evidence of which the nature of

verdict.

tfampbcll v. Jones, 38 L‘ai., -507.

the case is susceptible must be produced. When
incompetent testimony is permitted to go to the
Jury, which may have influenced the tiuding,thc
vi-rdict will be set aside.
Pram v. Andrews, ti t‘olo., 863; 3 Col. law

SECTION 179.
[Parker's (‘:\l. Prac. Act, See. i73.]
l.

Verdict to be ’corth.-tl.

‘The court shall

direct the verdict of a jury to he recorded as ren
dercd by it. That should be ircati-ti as the verdict
which the jury actually in-imzs.
.\lood_v v. .\iclionaid, 4 Cal., 297.

itcp., 351).
if there is evidence tending to establish

7.

the plaintiff's cause of action, or thc defendant‘:
case, it is erroneous for the cult" to withdraw the

case from the jury or din-ct a verdict, iwcai1ﬂi' ii
is not for the court to jmigc of the suiilcicm-_v of
the evidence.

2. Where an informal verdict is received and
recorded by consent. of plaintlil, and jtitlinm-nt. in
form is afterwards entered thereon, on appeal the
informality will be disregarded.
Treadweii v. Wells, -i i_‘al., ‘I63.
8.

if the soundness or fairness of the verdict

has bccti impaired or in any way vitiatcd by the
use of llt|tl0t'8 by the jury, such verdict siwllld be
set aside.

3. Before a verdict is recorded it should be
" declared by the foreman, or, if sealed, read‘ by the
clerk, so that the parties may be distinctly in
formed oflts purport. Assent ton vcrdict.cxprt-sscd
by the foreman, is conclusive on the jury, unless
dissent be expressed at the time. in civil actions
there is no right to demand the polling of the jury.
it is within the discretion of the court.
Blum v. Pate, 2|) L‘al., 69.

lint this fact should be made apparent,

even in a criminal case.

Jans v. People, ti t_Iolo., 432; 4 C010. Law
itcp., i.

rnia Practice .-tct it

N ( umiltllt-‘:41t(lcaK‘::l‘t‘l:'§e:'3gt€Ol8t), Colorado i'odt Oi

i\\'i.]
9. General Verdict. A general verdict will
conclude all parties who do not answer separﬂtﬂli
or demand a separate verdict.
\\'inans v. ('hristy, 4 i‘ai.. 70.

Ellis v. Jeans, 7 id., 409.
.\1t-tiarvy v. Little, 1-’) td., iii.

SECTION I80.

to.

A verdict against defendants answering

and
all the
a defaulting
defendants,
defendant
where a is
septlmw
conclusive
""~'rdm

1. The Verdiet.—Generaiiy. The verdict of a
jury as to issues of fact framed by the court in a
suit in equity has not the dignity of a like verdict
in an action at law. it is advisory only. It is the
duty of the court in such case to sift the entire
evidence and to found such decree thereon as may

IL“

not been demanded.
Anderson v. Parker, 0 l‘ai., 197; 7 M" W‘
find a verdlfi

11. " We, the jury in this case,
in favor ofthe plaintiff against tl(;c
the
ssession of the premises (K
comglztint herein, and the sum of one liuutiilllzi

be warranted by all the facts elicit-ed.
McGann v. O’Nell, 5 L‘oio.,
2. Where the plaintiff shows upon the trial no
cause of action, or makes out no case whatever,
and motion for non-suit is mterposed, it is not only
the right but may be the duty of the court to direct

and sixty-five dollars damages!" H<'ld»“’m_‘m_‘_\

a verdict for the defendant.

ticular fact or single issue.

stantlaiiy a general verdict, covering all the if H;
and that it. does not limit the tinding to all} i

This practice is com

Hutton v. ilecd, 25 t.‘ai.,
Sec Le:-:-se v. Clark, '35 t‘al., '3'’.

mon both to the Code and common law.
Murphey v. Cobb, 5 Coio., 2-“.

there cited.

3. Where the testimony is conflicting and the
verdict is not manifestly against the weight of the
evidence, the verdict will not be disturbed.

.\lcI.aughlin V. Kelly, 21 t'd., ‘ill
12. The court. having instructed the ,llli'}wt:1:‘:

Schleier v. Lnedeke, 2 tljoio. Law Rep. 433'
6 Colo., 242.

mining ground they must iind B \"3rdmru1:_" ;

if they found that plaintiffs were entitled ‘Hm
damages tlhon

4. Itls a general rule that a verdict or judg
Igietnt will not be reviewed on the ground that it is
0‘ supported by the evidence when the bill or
exceptions does not contain all the evidence EK

the

8(l'illlS.'§l()n5 1" ‘he 3verdict

Hold, that bec.-iusc the _iul'.\' ‘"‘°‘“*'m in n
i'or Si, instead of $1.000 danmges “ “titlonii0
therefore, to be concluded. in direct uppoafind the

:—wémre the bill shows what evidence is
e an that it could not ill -t
\
raised by the assignment of er:-:)r(‘L the qucbuon

I

Nutter v. O'Donnell 6 Q1
"- ' '~
Law Rep.,2-53.
’
0 on, 203' 3 L010.

their general verdict, that they Md _"")‘,dm1ued

um in the plaintiff. The damage! “*‘"“‘ "
by the pleadings were not in issue. mid ‘

in that respect was lmmBlBl'm1_,
.\It-Laughlin v. Kcllta"- 2-’ CM" ‘“'
13. A Special Verdict settles the facts. The
court by its judgment pronounces the law upon
the facts found. An error of the court in this
respect may be reviewed without any motion for
new trial. lint the right to correct the verdict
does not depend upon the Judgment, and steps
necessary to that end must. be taken in statutory

211

i
the jury room. (Wilson v. Berryman, 5 Cal., 44).
But atlidavits of counsel or others on information
and belief respecting misconduct of the jury are
not adtnissable. (H .\bb., l-'12). 'i‘he appellate court
must always infer in favor of the verdict, unless
error is clearly manifest.
Allen v. l’helps, 4 (‘ul., 239.

time.

Alien v. iiill, ill (‘al., H7; 8111., iilti; i-‘I id.,
330.
H, A special verdict must find the facts

20. Grounds on Which "erdict Will be Set
Aside.

See post, sect ion lilil.

expressly and specially. not generally or implicdly.
(Breeze v. Doyle, 19 (.‘al., l0i). Where the question

submitted was as to whether the piaintitf had

SECTION l8I.

notice of a prior verbal sale, a special verdict “if
possession was notice, he had," is insuiliclcnt,

[Parker's (fal. Prat-. Act, See. 175.]

i)(‘Cilli5(' equivocal.

(\\-'o0dson v. .\ict‘unc, l7 |’¢l.,

am. So, a verdict that "the work and labor done
by plaintitf in the construction of the dam was

done at the instance and request of K. A’ (‘o.. who
were the agents of the corporation defendant :“
Held, insufllclent to support a judgment for plain
tlffbecause it does not show in and of itself a legal

conclusion of llabliity—not tindim: whether K. dz
Co. acted as agents or otherwise.
Gurileid v. K. T. .\i., \Vater (‘o., i7 11].. Rio.
15, Where special issues are submitted to a
Jury, they should include all the questions of fact
raised by the pleadings and necessary to deter
mine the case, and should be separately and
distinctly stated. so that each question should

1. When a General or Special Verdict May
be Rendered. The court may direct a special
verdict to be rendered in the action.
Burrett v. Gibson, 3 Cai.,396.

2.

Conﬂicting Yer-dict.

\\'hen the Jury are

directed by the court to ﬁnd a general verdict, and
also to make a special finding of facts upon ques
tions submitted to them, and a general verdict is
returned in favor of one party, while the ﬁnding

upon the special issue is in favor of the other
party, the court should rcnder_iudgment according
to the special findings if they embrace all the
issues raised by the pleading. (21) Cal., 387). If,
however, there is any one issue in the pleadings
not covered by the special ﬁndings the judgment
should be rendered on the general verdict.

relate to oni_v one fact.

.\icl)crmott. v. i-iigby, 23 Cal., 489.
Phomix Water ('0. v. Fletclu.-r, 23 Cal., #2.
3.
16. Eﬂect of Verdict on Defects in Pleading.
A defective allegation of fact may be cured by
default or verdict, but not so the entire absence of
any allegation whatever.

Heutsch v. Porter, 10 (‘al., 5'6; 9 id., 268.
Mills v. Barney, 22 id., 240.
Jones v. Block, 30 £11,, 227.

that they cannot agree upon the special issues, but

can agree upon a general verdict, and. by consent
oi counsel on both sides, the special issues are
withdrawn and a general verdict received, no error

is committed.

of the court to determine as t.o what particular
facts the jury shall find specially, and neither
party has the righ t to dictate the terms of any par

17. Jurors Cannot Impeach their Own Ver
dict. It isa settled rule founded on considerations
or Public policy that the testimony of a juror
to defeat his own

Mitchell v. Hackett, 25 Cal., 5&5.

4. Question for the'Court. It is the province

Wilkins v. Stidger, 2.2 |'¢I., 2535.

cannot he received

\Vhere special

issues are submitted to a Jury and they announce
People v. Rains, 23 t'al., 13*.
Happe v. Stout, 2 id., 10'].
Garcia v. .\'atru.--tiqui, -i (-‘al.. ‘lit.

Special Issues Wlthtlrawn.

ticular question to he submitted to the jury.
American Co. v. Bradford, '27 Cal., 364.
See further, ante, Section hit).

verdict.

(People v. Baker. I (Iai.. ~i|)'l; tfastro v. Gill,-5 id..
40; “ id-, 102; 5 1'rI., -ii;

2") i(l., 475); unless it hea

chance verdict within the meaning of the second
subdivision of section iii-3.
Turner v. Tuolumne \V. t‘o., 25 (.'al., 397.

Boyce v. Cal. Stage C'o., i(l., mo.
18-

The aflidavits ofjnrymcn who rendered a

"erdici. that they misunderstood its effect, cannot
be received to impeach or defeat it.

Holman, 50 Cal., 43*).

(Polhcmus v.

Nor to explain the basis

upon which the verdict was founded, as whether

0!‘ not interest was allowed.
Tabor v. Bush, 4 Colo. Law ltep.. 209.
Thompson and Bierriam on Juries. Section
-H0.

19- Testimony as to Wiiat Took Place in
Jar? Room. It seems that the testimony of the
sheriff is competent to disclose what transpires in

SECTION 182.
[Parker's Cal. Prac. Act, See. 176.]
1.

Verdict in Actions for Money or Estab

lishinga Counter-Claim. The theory of the law is
not that the party recover the particular note or
chose in action, as is commonly imagined, but
that he recovers damages for the non-performance
of the contract, and in case of failure to pay
money due, the true damage is the amount of
money owing and the interest which may be

agreed upon.
Guy v. Franklin, 5 Cal., 417.
2. Action upon an appeal bond in which de
fendants claim thc right to set off the balance of
a decree in a foreclosure suit which they have pur
chased and hold against James R. Dull‘, James T.
Ryan and eleven other defendants in that suit,
upon the ground that Unit‘ and Ryan are the parties
beneficially interested in the claim in suit in this
action, and that they and ihc other eleven defend
ants in the decree sought to he sci oil are iumlvent:
Held. that the i§4.'l-Olr cannot be allowed as Well
because of the provisions of Section I? of the l'mc
tice Act, (Section til, Colo. iiodm, Which require a
counter-claim to be between parties to the record
between whom a several judgment might he had
in this action.as of the provinioiis of .\'e(-tioli it'll
(Colo. Code, Section N3) and Section two 'ulo. i'ode,
Section 203), which would requrc a J\Uli!,lllI‘ll\ tor
the excess to he i.{i\‘(?l1ltL{ttlﬂ!li the plaintiii‘.ulthoul:h
asagainst him it is not claimed that defendants

have any ‘demand.

7. in an action to recover the possession of per
sonal property. with datnages for the detention.the
jmhzum-nt may he for more than the vaiueasniieged

in the cotupluilit, if within ihc ml dammuu of the
writ.

The value of the property is only thepredt

c0Ic of n-covcr_v.

t'm:hill v. lloriug, if» t'ai., 218.
8. Win-n property has a tixed value, the meas
ure of tlani.-tge is that value, with legal interest
from the time oftheeonversion. (Tucker v. Parks.
it'olo. Law liep_, till; 2 i‘oi0., l7U; id., 574). When

the value is iiuctnnting the plalntitl‘ may recorer
the lilgiiest value at the time of its conversion or
at any time afterward.
lioucias v. i‘rat‘t, ii t'ai., 513.
llorm-y v. .\iunlo\'c, ll id., 533.

l)u_i!' V. liohhs, 10 (‘al., 616.
Nee rmle, notes to Sections 6;!-ii'i. "(hunter
SECTION 184.

Claim."

{ l’arker'i> t‘ai. Prue. .\ct.,Scciion i7:-L]
_

1. -Iudgment on \’c-rdict. lfthejury fail to find
the fuel oi‘ a lien, the court cannot render almig

SE.CTiON 183.
ii’arlu-1":-Mini. l'ruc. Act, Sec. l77; .\icycr‘s Ky. (‘()(‘Q'
Section 3450.]

Incni t‘t\~u‘iiila\|l.\‘ tli!Tt‘i't°l’li from the vcriliﬂ, and

the iudzment so far will he reversed.
1. Verdict in Actions for Speciﬁc I’:-r.-mtml
Property. To authorize a jury to assess (‘l:ililii:_'l~s
for property illegally taken and detained times)
there must be some evidence of the value, or soiiic
description, to enable the jury to determine their
value from their own knowledge.
Phnris v. Carver, l3 B. Mom, 1238.
2. Unless the jury assess the value the verdict
is fatally defect-ivc.
Youm,r v. Parson.-1, 2 l\Iet.. -liiil.
[Non-:.-—:1‘l1e words in parenthesis in thin section
oi the ijolorado (,'ode, viz: “hut failure to
rind all oi the facts mentioned in thie sec
tion shall not invalidate the verdict." are
not in the section of the Kentucky t.‘ode.—
151).]
3. In an action of replevin when the defendant
has required a return of the property and given an
undertaking for such purpo.-:e a. judgment for the

piaintlil‘in order to hold the 5lll‘0liu5 on the under
taking, must he in the alternative, as required by
Section ii)-l, etc.
Section 86, Lfolo. Code.
Niekcrson v. Uhatterton, 7 (Jal., 56*‘.
4. This section applies only when the i.-antes
have been sulnnitted to and passed on by the iury
and not to a case ofjudgment oi non-suit. (Ginlcn'
v. Atwood, 12 id., 75). Or when action is dismissed
by plalntitl".
Mills v. Gleason, 21 id., ‘Iii.
4. An oiilcer attaching goods under civil pro
cess is entitled to notice of the claim of a third
§)t'.tl‘t§' tti) the goods, and a demand for them, or he
;nI:1O(l1l(:Lt(1;Il;1§0lIl]1.dl1I1ltlgUS to such party for seizure

6.

Donneil v. Uorham, 6 L‘al., -l-i.
Killie v. Scannel, 12 iI.i., 7.3.
Innn action of repleviu by W., it appeared

::;(:ti;:¥e:‘I‘13';‘li]-i:a.§ the property bel(_iit_gcd to him and
. 1
* urv
the defendants, and

A .

Walker v. linum-iIi_io, l t‘ai., 186.

Kiihnrn v. ltitehie, 2 id., lié.
2. Where there is no question as to the proper
Judgment to he entered on a verdiet,thc,it1dgI11t'l1t
should he entered nt once, without waiting I0"
motion in!‘ a new trial.

liuiehinmn v. llours, ill (‘nl., 50.
3- The court may, in lt‘l"ll‘hllil)i3 orin vacation.
order jtnigment on a verdict rendered and reC0l'di?d~

if the motion forncw trial were taken underad\'is1’

ment, the judgment pursuant to vcrdlctht-inglb‘~’
act oi law upon record facts, and f0ilott'sasamIll'
ter of course, it‘ the court do not intervene.
Id.
4. Counsel
in the trial of a cause cannot object
that the court did not render judgment on W
special verdict, where they have stipulated lb“
such additional facts may he found by l11'3l“d5"'
as would, in his Jtnhzment, he suiilcient ti)?"lliem

all the questions raised by the pleadings
Marlus v. Bicknell, l0C1ll., 2%

SECTiON 185.
[l’urkcr's Cal. l‘rac. Act, 50¢ 151]
i. Trial by B6[8NU5_G°ner‘ll" An Org:
of court is ncccs.~lt'lr)' to constitute a reiefen‘-‘gun W

the Code.
on-sh-p0811110‘
v- 53" 30
Fm“°"’°°'
4 Plead
"“)il1$B
order
of reference
beyond the
oi‘ the parties.
ilranger v. Chevaiin.
2. A rerereneeorarbltrutiotliin
order oi‘ eourt or agreement ﬂl
entered on the minutes, is a voluntary withdl:":y'

oi‘ the case from the jurisdiction of the 90“ gm

)
mld verdict for

return of the property to the tlei'e:1u'l'gm.em fora
that there was no error in the j\ulg111(e‘utuh~ Held’
Waideman v. Broder, 10 Cal" 3-7;)I '

which it loses all control over the 6858' and M ex.

authority to enter Judgment "POD ‘ﬁe ﬂndnm
cept by consent.

Heslep v. i-$un Francisco. tun" 2'
213

i
3. Reference by Consent. The consent toan
order of reference must be in writing, or entered
in the minutes u-imith v. Pollock, 2 i.‘al,, 92), and
both parties must consent.
'

i

3. in an action to dissolve partnership and set»
tle partm-rship accounts, the court may refer for

trial all issues of fact relating to the condition of
partnership accounts, but not of any other issues
in the case.

Benham v. llowe, £d., ‘Iii.
4. Where the entry in the minutes recites that
“the parties came by their attorneys, and detend
ant, by his attorney, moved the court that the
cause he referred ": Ht-Id, that such reference was

[(1.

4. Where the taking of an account is required
it is in the discretion of the court to take the ac
count or send to a referee to state it.

made on the appellant's motion, and in one of the
modes prescribed by law—by oral consent in open
court entered on the minutes.

Bates v. Vishcr, 2 L‘al., .'l-35.

5. .\ stipulation to refer the wﬂole matter, is a
waiver of any objection that the motion for new
trial and to set aside the award was not made
within the stattttc time.
lieslcp v. Han Francisco, -i (.'al., 2.

6. The issue in divorce cases cannot, even by

Hidden v. Jordan, 25*‘ (..'ai., 301.

6. The court may ordcra reference to ascertain
the damage sustained by reason of an injunction
issued without cause.
Russell v. Elliott, 2 (‘al., 245.
6. A reference with direction to take proof
concerning the confession of a judgment by de

fendant, thejudgment roll in the (‘ii8c, and wheth
er the same was filed in the clerk's otiice, and to
report the testimony with a tindingofthe facts and

consent, be referred.
If the referee makes any
statement or ﬁnding of facts the court is compelled

question as to what amount, if any, is still unpaid

todisregard it, and base the decree only upon the

on the judgment.

a jtulgment, docs not submit to the referee the

legal testimony taken.
Solomon V. lilctiuire, 29 ('_'-al., 227.
Baker v. linker, l0 L‘al., 5'27.

. 7- The court has no power, without consent of

the ilﬂrilﬁﬂ. to order a reference for trial of any

7. lfthe order of rch.-rcncc falls to direct a re
turn of the evidence into court, the party objecting

to the report must see that such testimony as he
relies on is properly ccrtilh.-d.

other issues of fact than that involved in the ex
amination of an account. in an equity case.

Goodrich v. .\iarysvilie, 5 Cal., £30.

Williams V. Benton, 24 (.‘al., 4'25.
8- The statute concerning references is in aid
of the common law remedy by arbitration, and
does not alter its principles.
Tyson v. Wells, 2 Cal., l2.
9. The rule that a decree or judgment will not

8. It is erroneous to appoint a referee in an
action for partition with directions to try the
issues, unless all the parties consent.
Hastings v. (_.‘un ningham, 35 (.‘al., 619.
9.

A court has no power to send an ordinary

ofthe evidcnce,does not obtain when the testimony

suit at law to a referee for trial, against the objec
tion oi either party, and this Whether the suit

was taken bcforea rci'erec. in such case theﬂuprr-me
Court will examine the entire record, with a view
to ajust determination.

And a statute authorizing a reference in such case
would be unconstitutional.

be disturbed unless manifestly against the weight

requires the examination of a long account or not.

(lrim v. Norris, 19 (_‘al., 140.

Miller v. Taylor, 6 (‘oio., ii; ‘.3 Colo. Law
Rep., Ji‘."ii.
10. l-Jvidcncc taken before a referee is not of
record unless preserved by bill of exceptions.
Blatchlcy v. Uolcs, 6 L'oio., 82; 2 Cole. Law

But see Huston v. Wadsworth, 1 C010. Law
Rep., 3, in which the Supreme Court of
this State refer to this case and take a
diifercnt view, holding that there is no
such constitutional inhibition in Colo
rado.

R(.‘P., '2:--").

10. \\'hen the court has decided the principles
upon which the account should be taken and set

SECTION 186.
[Parker's Cal. Prac. Act, Sec. ML]
1' By Order of Court. Reference may be made

tled, upon an order of reference, it is not compe
tent for the referee to review the action of the
court, but it is his duty to take the account in
pursuance of the principles thus settled.

by the court without the consent of the parties
lmgiinti Where the issue of fact requires the exam

Smith v. \\-'aiker,-‘is Cal., 385.

ination of a iom: account on either side. In such
case 3 .ii"'.\' "
(Huston v. Wads
W°!"1h.l(.‘oio. Law Rep., 3; 5 (.‘o|0., 213). And in
SECTION 190.
1. Power, Acts, Findings and Report of
Referee. Itci'c1'ccs have no power to allow the

Smith v. Rowe, 4 Cal., 7.
See Still v. Saunders, 5 Cal., M5: and Burn‘
ham v. Rowe. 2 Cal., 261.
R .2. Defense, payment by 8 Promwsory nm0'

parties to alter the pleadings alter a cause has been
submitted to them. (De La Riva v. Berreyesa, 2
(.‘al., 1%). But may exercise all the powers ofa

thtepiication that plaintiff was induced to receive
note by false representation:-5: lkld, HIM the
¢“$@ was not one referable without the written 00"‘
sent oi‘ both parties.
Seaman v. Mariani, 1 Cal.. 336

judge in relation to the trial of the cause referred.

i

(Plant v. Fleming, ‘Iii Cal., 92.)

In divorce cases he

is simply a master to take testimony under the

I
1

statute.
Baker v. Baker, 10 Cal., -327.

Stipulation to refer is exhausted upon re

it is the duty of the referee to act upon the

port of referee and Judgment thereon. in cases
Qt». ilons submitted to him, and to report whatever
he is ntiticd to report by the order under which

new trial is granted, the case can not be referred

he ace.

without a new stipulation.
limrerkoscn v. Kelley, 43t‘al.. I77.
I52. Objections to Report. Errors in the re

Hu ‘'1 v. Walker, its id., Its‘-3.
3. Hearing. Trials before a referee are con
duct.cd in the same manner as before courts. and

port of a referee must be taken advantage of by
written objections to entering judgment on it, or
by motion for a new trial ti’orter v. Darling, ‘.’Cal..

exccptions_ must be taken to the rulings of the
referee .n the prmzress of the trial, in the same
manner as beioreaeourt, and such exception must
be embodied in the report of the referee or made
part thereof by his proper certificate.
Phelps v. Peabotli" 7 t‘al., 50.
Branger v. ('.‘hevalier, ti t‘ai., :53.
4. Findings. The finding of a referee is con
clusive as to the facts on conflicting evidence.
(Knowles v. Joost. 13 Cal., ti‘!-I; Mall‘.-r v. lioggs, ‘.15
td., I79; Peck v. Vanderbenz. 3" £11., ll). Will not be
reviewed in absence of motion for new trial.
Donahue v. tlromariie, ‘ll t’d., NH.

7L’i. and must be definite and certain.
Brooks v. Josephs, 3'2 t."al., 530.
13. Confirming the Report The decision of
a referee upon a question of fact will be regarded
on appeal as conclusive as the verdict ofa jury.
Gunter v. i-ianchez, l i‘al., ti.

14-

\\’nlt0n v. .\linturn, id.. M2.
Referee has no right to bring in and file In

additional or amended report.
lli'il\dii.‘)’ v. Reed, 2 t‘al., 3'22.
15. The Supreme (‘ourt will not rc\'it‘W "16
findings ofa referee to ascertain whether.contrat'."

to the evidence, except 0" Illil"-‘iiI from an order
5.

When the order of reference requires the

referee to try the issues, and report his finding
thereon, he may make a general finding upon the
facts put in issue, stating the facts accordimz to

denying new trial.
Peck v. Vandenberg, 30 Ual., ll.

16. Setting Aside R4.-port.

Failure to PM

their legal effect. A finding that an alletzetl judg

cute a motion to set aside report of referee, and for

ment more than five years old is good and valid
will not support a Judgment reported by him
awarding execution on the _iud;:ment.
Solomon v. .\icGuire, ‘ll (.‘al., 227.

new trial, is an abandonment of the motion; Mid
an order denying the motion for such fallurr to
appear is not subject to review on appeal.
.\iahoney v. \Vilson, l5 L'ai., i2.

6. Report of Referee. The report of a referee
upon the facts of a case will be considered the
same as the verdict of a Jury (Walton v. .\iinturn,

17. if referee to take an account tnakc till 9'2:
at the thrcshhold, which unseftles the account. an

1 Cal., 382), and will not be reviewed unless niotion

court may set aside the report and again ref‘-r ‘

Frank v. Doane. id.. 302.

for new trial, etc., as in case of verdict (Ritchie v.
case.
Bradshaw,-3 t,‘al., 22>‘); and the testimony brou~.:ht
up (Goodrich v. Niarysvllle, 5 Cal., iii") unless there
is an error or mistake of law apparent on its face.
Id.
7. The report of a referee like the finding of a
court should state the facts found and the conclu
sion of law thereupon. (Lambert v. Smith, 3 Cal.,

40%.) It is error to find generally a sum of money
for plaintiff‘ without finding the facts out of which
this conclusion arose.

Id.
8. The provision as to the time within which
the report must. be filed is merely directory. .\
failure to file within the time will not invalidate
the report or the judgment rendered thereon.
Keller v. Sutrick, ‘Z2 t,‘al., 471.
.9. The report of a referee has the same legal

etiect as the award of an arbitrator. iileadlyh v.
Reed, 2 t3al., 322; 4 id., 122).

The statute concerning

.
iiidden v. Jordan. 3'.’ i‘al-. 397? 3"'d":m‘
18. The court has power to set aside the reporri

ofa referee, and grant a new trial on the grout)
that the evidence before the referee did notiustify
the decision.
Cnilllt‘ V. Brizolara, l9 Cal., M7.

19. If there be no exception taken to the ruiiililg
of the referee, and the rule of law by Whm‘
arrived at his conclusions be not
court. cannot disturb the report,
'
granting a new trial in such case will he re\ creed.
Tyson v. \\'ells, 2 (‘al., 122.
Grayson v. tiuild, 41'd., l"'...2.

Butte County v. .\ior'.mI1. 1914"“-'9'

20. The report ma)’ be 50‘ “side “H
q at to
granted for any reason that Wmlld be “mt 01 er,
vacate an award of arbitrators, “Dd for no-miilccd
for fraud or iH'"5§ error of WW‘ (Hcadm_ M l int:

referees is in aid of the common law remedy by

2 (MiH 332 ,

arbitration and does not change its principles.
Tyson v. Wells, 2 id., 122.
10. \Vhen the referee reports his decision upon
the whole case, his report stands as the decision of
the court. (Thompson v. Patterson
i 5i i7ai.. 542),
\Vhen he reports the facts onlv,

tify the setting aside of it \’0I‘di'3" or 9 Jun.

special verdict (Harris v.

his report is a
F. i.~$. R. R. ii Cal 393)

unless the question referred be a collateral tntitter
not made an issue by the pleadings, in which case
the report is only advisory to the court
Id.
.

i)!‘ for the same reasons that fill

.\icl{en1-y v. Moore. 5 t.3nl., 90
21. It would be a gross abuse Oi’ in
court to set aside a report of 8 I'¢f°l'ee'

all its parts, without any other ﬂPl""en
than the mere volition 01' the Judge‘
Id.
22. A finding of fact by the rcferctriWm n ot be
set aside where the evidence is conflict n8

23. if referee reports the facts upon all the
issues, but draws an erroneous conclusion of law
from the facts found, and also reports Judgtneni,
the court, ')t.'f0l’t‘ Judgment is entered, may set
aside tlu: conclusions of law, and direct the proper

5. in the l-'nlted States Court, motion for tv .
trial in a case tried before the district Judge
ill
be heard by the circuit judge only on reql st of
the former, and not as a matter of righ .o the
unsuccessful party.

judgment to he entered.
Calderwood v. l‘e_vscr, 81 t'al.. -‘id-'3.

Adams v. Hpangler, 3 i‘olo. Law ‘ -p., 551.
6

24. The time within which notice of motion to
set aside report must be filed, etc., depends on the
character of the reference, whether special, to
report the facts; or general, to l't‘POl'l upon the

New trial will not be granted to a party who

falls to attend the trial. If parties or their counsel
neglect to attend the courts and look after their
cases, the Supreme Court is powerless to relieve
them of the consequences of their negligence.

whole issue. In the former case the report has the
effect of a special verdict; in the latter it stands as
the decision of the court, and
accordingly.

must be treated

Peabody v. Phelps, 9 Cal., 213.
25. A Mandamus lies to compel a Judge of a
district court to enter judgment on the report of a
referee.

Russell v. Elliott, 2 ("al., '.!i5.

Cliﬂord v. Mason, 4 t‘oio. Law Rep., 25.
'7. Afildavlt ofjuror will not be considered--nor
new trial granted for newly discovered evidence,
which is merely cumulative.

Dyson v. State, 4 Colo. Law Rep., ‘.lUt~'.
8. New trial should not be granted on the
ground of newly discovered evidence, unless such
evidence bears directly upon the matters in issut‘,
and its effect, if it had been heard, ought necessa

rily to have resulted in a different verdict.

SECTION 193.
[ Meyer's Ky. Code, Section Still; Parker‘s (.‘ai. Prac.
_’Aci, Section 193.]

9.
I.

Evi

dence. though discovered after the trial, which
bears upon collateral matters men.-ly, will not
authorize a new trial.
Tabor v. Bush, 4 (foio. Law ltcp., 2'09.

A party cannot well claim to be surprised

New Trials—Generally-—-Colorado Rulings

The section of the Code (Section 183, (‘0d¢‘- or '53’
Section 2ll,Code of '77) which requires a m0U0"
for new trial, and the decision thereon, to be nmdc
and had at the same term the findings are Imuh--.
or verdict rendered, is directory nl£'l‘€'|.\'- 50 r"'' “"
the action of the court is required to be P0l'l°l‘ml‘d
within a specified time.
Gomer v. ('hafl'ee, 2 Colo. Law Rep., ittll; 5

that. his adversary testified to a state of facts
within the knowledge of both, though their ver
sions of the details differ.

Id.
10. A new trial will not be granted for an error
in instructions which was superinduc-ed, or con
tributed to, by the conduct of the party seeking to

take advantage of it, when it does not appear con
clusively that such error resulted prejudicially to

C0lo., 383.

the party so at fault.
2.

Where trial was to the court and findings
Id.

announced, and counsel gave notice of a motion
for a new trial, and subsequently at the same term

11.

Upon

ground of public policy no sworn

ﬂied his motion, but the same was not disposed of

statement of a Juror will be received to impeach

till the subsequent term:

a verdict, to explain it, or show on what ground
it was rendered,.or to show a mistake in it.
Id.

II:-Id, that the procc.cd

ing! of the first term subsequent. to the findings,
Operated to reserve the case, and to continue the

Jurisdiction beyond that term, for the purposc~oi'

Thompson dz Merriam on Juries, Section 440.

dlﬂpoﬁlllir of the motion‘ and settling the bill of
l2.

Irregularity-—Misconduct. For thejurors

exceptions.

Id.
3- New trial will not be granted on the ground
Of newly discovered evidence which is merely

to make a verdict. by putting down the respective
amounts each thought defendant ought to pay (in
actions sounding in damages) and dividing the
aggregate by twelve, and basing their verdict on

cumulative, or the production of which is uncer

the result, in the absence of fraud, is not miscon

tain.

duct. tl liibb., Ils‘tl; Hardin, :3\‘ti.) Such verdict is
not arrived at by a resort to chance, within the
meaning of the Code.
(Boyce v. California (‘o., 25
('al., -itjt); People v. Hughes, 29 id., 2-37—overruling
Wilson v. Berryman, 5 (?al., -l-l), though such ver
dicts are vicious and should be set aside if the
facts were proved by competent testimony. (Tur

Piela v. People,-'l(,‘olo. Law R0p., Ill.-l; 6 Colo.,
348.

4. Where incompetent testimony is pcrtnltlvd
to E0 to the jury, which might have influenced
their finding, the verdict will be set/aside. it is
1ml"‘0l><3‘I' to allow testimony of the usage of banks
‘*8 £0 numbering and marking papers sent for col
lection, when it is within the power of "10 P311)’ to
mtrodnce evidence as to the exact facts in the case
under consideration. The best evidence must be
produced.
Crane v. Andrews, 3 (Join. Law R‘PP~ 350; 6
(‘ol0., 353.

ner v. Touiumne, 25 Cal., ~iUtl.) It is improper to
instruct the Jury that they have a right to so
arrive at their verdict.
Allan v. Smith, 1 .\iet., ‘.297.

13. The verdict cannot be impeached by the
affidavit. of jurors except
chance.

when arrived

at by

20. Newly Discovered Evidence. (in motion
Hughes v. People, ‘ll t‘.al., 237; 2-’) £11., ill).
it.

it is such misconduct as will authorize a

new trial for one juryman to state to the othci’
jurors his knowledge of the subject matter to be
decided; but this cannot be established by the
aiildavit otjurors. (3 Monroe, -H5; and cases cited.)

That the Jury, after retiring. calls a witness to
their room and re-exatnim-.~‘ as to his testimony, is
misconduct.
lluttrs-ll v. .\i. & i.. ll. R. Co., is ll. 1llon.,

for new trial on the ground of newly discovered
evidence, the same should be fully set iorih.
ii’!-rry v. Pochran, i i‘ai.. lhlll. Audit must appear
to be new, material and not cumulative; that due

dllhrcncc could not have procured it at the trial.
that it was discovered after the trial. and will tend
to prove facts which were not directly in issue at
the trial, or were not then known or inve.-itigated
l )0 .
M' mt‘ lBll.:l'l:'t"ll.
v. llodgen,3 t.‘al.. 55; ((1., H3; id..

Ziil.
.liKi; '7 id., 42.
15. Accident and Surprise. To entitle a liti
gant toa new trial on the ground of accident or
surprise, he must show he had no knowlc-dl.'c of
the fact before the trial, nor could have learned it

Meyer v. hiowrcy, ﬁll id., SH.
21. .\'i-wly discovered evidence which is only
cumulative furnisltcs no ground for new trial.
(Jones \'. Jones, Ii‘ t'ul.. sq; 2litl..4lY"; 7M‘d~'ﬂ3'

by the use of reasonable dilhzenr-c. That counsel

ill ut.. ‘BI; 47 id., ltd).
l'nicss it clearly appears
that its production would have changed the re

was not aware of the fact cannot avail.
(Alex
ander v. Lewis, l Mei... 4117). The surprise must
be such that ordinary prudence could not have

sult.

gtlarded against it, and must have resulted inju
riously.

(Patterson v. Ely, iii Cal., 28).

vlts must set forth the facts.

The uilldw

22. There is a largo discretion accorded iv
courts in the disposition of motions for new trill.

(Rogers v. lluie, l

Cal., 429). Party surprised on the trial must apply

ltlntlc on the ground ot‘nc\vly discovered evidence.

for relief at the earliest practicable moment, and
in such method as will produce the least vcxation,
expense or delay. (Delmas v. Martin, 39 t‘al.. (:33;
47:11., 418). Surprise from an amendment to the
complaint during the progress oi‘ the trial, in the
presence ot defendant's attorneys, will not warrant

a new trial.
(Jai., 637).

and it devolves on the appellant to show that this

discretion was not properly exercised. (Tl0ble|'e‘d~
('olc, iii i‘ai.. ‘.’Jl).

23. Excessive Damages.
Where there is B
motion for new trial based on the ground of (Bid
cesslve damages, and error in lnstruc-t.i0ns.at;‘.
the plaintitf seeks to defeat the motion by rcmbe
llllil part of the datnages, such amount must t
remitted as will show clearly that the defends:

(.\iendelsohn v. Anaheim L. t‘o., in

witness will be no ground for new trial on applica
He should submit toa non-suit

and not take the chances of a verdict.

These motions are regard

with suspicion and disfavor.
Arnold v. Hkaggs, ‘cl’; £11., ll‘-ii.

Mere surprise at evidence by defendant's

tion ot‘ piaintitf.

il.l-vitsky v. J0lit1t~0li, Ii’; (‘al., iii. And not

then if counter utlldavits show bad faith.
.\icrk v. tlcizhaueser, 50 (‘al.. (B1.

(Live Yan

kee ()0. v. Oregon Co., 7 Cal., 40). Surprise at the
ruling of the court no ground for new trial. (Ful
ler v. Htttcltirazs, 10 Cal., 5%)
Nor surprise at the
l(lSl.lllI()ll_\' of a witness, the party not having been
tnis-ietl by previous statement. (6 ttal., 2%). Nor
that the witness made a mistake in his testimony,
unless there be a t:lt::l.l‘ showing thereof, and of its

cannot be prejudiced by a refusal to grant the new

trial, and that the damages retained are clcm;,r
sustained by the proof, and a prop?" basis 0
recovery.
‘
Masterson v. Hagan, l? B. )ion.. . *1
24. It is the province of the _il1l')' to ﬁx ‘-nl_:l(‘.1:{

injurious etfect and inability to correct on trial.

Propcrty, and the court should not lnWfm- the

(Howe v. Bt'iggs, 17 Cal., Its‘-'3).
Nor the mistake
of counsel as to the competency of a witness.
Packer v. Hcaton, 9 id., 56 .

less the verdict is tlll0l!C'lll0l' unwarranted ll.‘
testimony.
McLean v. lisham, I7 B. ‘-W11’!-v 157'
25. New trial should hot be granted buﬂufe

16. A party unprepared for t.riai should move
for continuance. Failing to do this, he waives his
want of preparation and cannot on this ground
move for new trial aftcrjw.lgment has gone against
him.
I

of excessive damages, especltblly
slander and the like, unless the dflllmga
been superindueed by

Turner v. hiorrison, it (_‘al., 21.
17. Testimony of tlefendttltt in support of an
avermcut in his answer cannot constitute such
surprise to plaintllI’as to warrant a new trial.

_W

met as to strike the mind at ﬁrst blu-~‘-l1 3“ M: (-l
passion OI‘ l"“-i"‘““"_'iPd

Littcli, ll-\'; 2 .\larsh.. 3&5). llerc tl1H‘0lm r‘’"‘'''
to disturb a verdict in slander for $1-“‘-_"L
Lotion v. Young, 2 .\ict.. 53"' ‘

'

Sec Wheaton v. N. ii. .\i. & l.""-- 5*’

(‘ai.. 7*”

Armstrong v. Davis, 41 (Jal., -illl.

Aldrich v. Palmer, ‘-_'l id._. 513
Tabor v. Bush. -i Colo. Law Rt"-p., 209.
Boycc v. ('ul. Stage (‘On 25 Cal" 400'

19. The appellate cour
t will not.reverse an
order of the court below denying new trial applied
tor on the ground of surprise unless there‘ has been
an abuse oi.‘ discretion by the court below
‘
Nooney v. Mahoney, 30 Cal.,

hen

26. The court will set aside the Vcrdlcf gm
the tli1lllIiL!(‘$ are unjustitlabie (MCDaDM "
2 Cai., .'i;’.ti), or the verdict is grossly inconsiille ntln ‘
its relation to the facts (Potter "- Sam‘ 01 i¢ '

18. Where one party to an action is visited by
the act of the other, just ice demands that a new
trial should be had.
Plnkharn v. .\~icFarland, -'>(‘:tl.,13T.

or in excess of the sum laid.
I

27. .-\ new trial may be awarded the Pltlrd are
mhllllg the verdict if the damlliles “WM P
less than he was entitled to.
I
Mariana V. 1lougherl.\" 4“ Cal" 2"’
lnsuﬂiciency of Evidence.

The general

34.

rule is that the appellate court will not disturb a
judgment or verdict, or ﬁnding, or order denying

When instructions, though im.-orrectln law,

are in favor of the appellant, he cannot complain
of the error. (Green v. Dapman, 5 (7ai., 342;. Or if
the instructions do not militate against him.
. People v. Moore, ii i'd., iii.

a new trial, or granting a new trial. where there is
a substantial contilct in the testimony, and no
rule of law appears to have in-ell violated. The

85. \\'hcn lnsirllctions upon a material point
in issue are contradictory and inconsistent, it is‘
impossible to know by which instruction the jury

Supreme Court has often decided that it would not
interfere with the verdict of a Jury on the ground
that such verdict is against the weight of evidence.

were intiuenccd, and a new trial will be granted.
.\icL7rar_\' v. i~lvcrding, 44 (‘al., 2-46.

except in extraordinary cases. it is almost impos
sible for an appellate court to satist'_v itself in a
decision upon such matters, as so much depends

36. A verdict in disobedience of the instruc
tionsot the court, although the instruction itself
was not correct in point of law, is a verdict "against
law" under this section.
limcrson v. Santa (‘lara (_‘o., -it) (‘al., -3iii.

upon the manner, bearing and character of the

witnesses and the peculiar circumstances which
the transcript falls to preserve, which give value
and weight to the testimony.

37.

instructions must all be taken

together,

Kimball v. tit-rhcart, i2 Cai., ‘ 4 ; iii i¢l., -I-ill;
and it, when thus viewed, the case appears to
have been fairly pltsented to the jury, the verdict

H M., iii‘; ii(!., 138; ll id., IT7; iii £11., Iilll;

12 m., 240; 14., 402; ((1., -i3‘.Z;'l-‘i m., M: 15
will not be disturbed.
Deviemelle v. Henriquez, l (_‘ai., 35?; id., 475.

I'd., SM.
Lewis v. t‘ovcland, 21 id., 17$.
Tebbs v. Weatlu-rwax. ‘Ii |'d., 5*.
Preston v. Keys, t'1l.. 193.
Lubcck v. littllock, ‘.2-I id., SYN.

McCleiiand v. Burns,l Colo. Law Rep., 312; 5
(‘0lo., 390.

Fritz v. Finnerty, 2 Colo. Law Rep.,3'76; 6
(‘oio., 136.

SECTION 195.
[Parker's t.‘al. Prac. .\ct, Sec. 195.]
1. Motion For New Trial—Notice. When the
statute speaks of notice of motion, it means writ
ten notice, or notice in open court, and entered in
the Journal. (Burland v. Thornton, 12 Cal., -H-S.)

If the tlndlng of a fact on a material point

is contrary to a stipulation of the parties made in
the course ofthe trial as a substitute for evidence,
a new trial will be granted on the ground that the
finding is contrary to the fact stipulated, and there
fore unsupported by the evidence.

Notice is waived by the tiling of a counter-state
ment. (Williams v. Gre;_:bry,9("ai., 76.) If notice
be not given within the time_prescrlbed by statute,
the motion ior new trial is waived.
Bear River, etc., ()0. v. Boles, 21 Cal., 354.

ilarpenter v. Small, 35 ('al., 346.

2. Three Distinct Stops. There are three dis
tinct steps recognized by this section in a proceed
ing to obtain a new trial, for the taking of each of

30. The appellate court will not review the facts
of a case unless a new trial was asked in the
court below.

which, except the last, a particular period of time
Brown v. Graves, ‘.Zt‘al., li\'.
Smith v. Phelps, |'I1., ill).

is allowed: First, Notice of intention; Second,
\Vritten statement of grounds; Third, The tiling
of atiidavits, if based on atiidavit. An order ex

Griswold v. Sharp. id.. l7.
Rhine v. liogardus, 13 £11., 73.
Hlhn v. Peck, 30 ML, '.Ni.

~:¥l- A

new trial wilifbe granted where the

tending the time for taking either of the steps
should express with precision the object to be
__

nmungﬂ of the court are not warranted by the evi
dence. (Bolton v. Stewart, '29 (.‘al., t-ii-‘n. Ur where
there is no evidence on an essential point to sustain
the verdict. (( 'ummins v. St-1 lit, 11) id., 83). Ur where

ters oniy which arose in the progress of the trial
_-_.-

and constitute the basis of the motion, and which

the verdict is clearly against the evidence.

mu v. Smith, as m., 106.


Bagley v. Eaton, 8 id., l-"i9.
32. Error in Law. For error of law excepted
to, fill appeal lies without a motion for new trial.

the party desires to have reviewed.
Harper v. Minor, ‘.27 Cai., 10%|.
4. When Judgment Rendered. Judgment is
rendered

Rice v. Casbirie, i3 (.‘al., 53.

attained.
Jenkins v. Frick, 27 t‘al., 337.
3. The Oﬂice of a Statement on a motion for
a new trial is to bring into the record those mat

when

announced and entered in the

minutes.
U ‘
(fasement v. Rlnggold, 25 (.al., 337; 30 id.,

123; 31 id., 217; 32 id., 159.
33. When improper evidence is submitted t0
thejury, under Objection, new trial Will be granted,

unless the court can see that such evidence could
not possibly have had an ct‘l‘e<-t upon me Jury Pm udiciai to appellant.
Innis v. Steamer “Senator," l t.‘al.. 459; id-,
92; id., 93.

SECTION 198, ET SEQ.
1.

Essentials of Judgment.

\Vhile a strict

compliance with forms is not essential in the
entry ofjudgments, yet to constitute a ﬁnal Judg

mcnt the record must not only indicate that an

0.

When the judgment is not mpicd into the

adjudication took place, but the entry must inan

transcript the supreme court cannot considcrsu

hcen intended as the entry of a judgment.
Aivord v. Mcﬁuuchey, l Colo. Law

objection to the form thereof.
Rt-p.,

til; 5 Colo., ‘iii.
2.

The iinding of a court is not a judgment,

Tucker v. Parks, I Polo. Law Rep., Iii“.
I0. Jmlgtncut Entered in Vacation. The
|\i‘0I‘iottn\'iiit.( of judgment is a judicial act; the

'and a st.-ttctncnt in it bill of exceptions that a

entry thcreoi of record is a ministerial duty. The

judgment was rendered will not supply the place

judgment is complete when properly declared,
though the tnecimnical act of recording the same

of tin-judgment itseli.

has not born performed.
3.

Id.
FinalJudgment—-\\'hat Constitutes.

in Jury trials the‘ Code

(Section ‘Jill directs the clerk todischarge this duty
lftlte

in n specitled time; but if he falls to discharge this

order entered in a cause does not put an end to the
action, but leaves something further to be done
before the rights of the parties are determined, it
is interlocutory and not tlnai. To be ilnal it must

end the particular suit in which it is entered. A
Judgment “that the defendant go hence, and that
he recover his costs," etc., is tinnld But ajudmnent
for costs alone, is not tlnnl. Until a tlnnl judgment
is rendered, the court retains jurisdiction of the

duty, the judgment itself having been pronounced
on the verdict is none the less valid and may still

be recorded. The t'ode does not require the entry
to be made in term-time, and in no event does the

provision limiting the time apply to trial-1 iﬂihe
court. A judgment pronounced in term-time may
be recorded in vacation.
Slebcr v. Frink, 4 Colo. Law Rep“ W

case.
Dusing v. Nelson, 4 i‘olo. Law llcp., W.
4. Irregular Judgment “Till be Reviewed.
The judgment, though rendered nt chatnhcrs, and
in a different county, having been entered upon
the records of the District Court in the proper
county, it is no ground for dliilllli-iiilll!.: the writ of
error that the _luth,'e had no a uthority to enter
such judzgmcnt. Error will lie to review, \vh:\tc\'cr
assumes to itself the force of a. judgment.
Beau, Clk., v. People c1: rcI., '2 (‘olo. Law

Rep., 37?; 6 (.‘olo., 98.

SECTION 204.
i .\ic.\'cr'-~ Ky. t‘odc, Bee, -ilri; l’urker'st'fal. Pm.
.\(‘t, Set‘. 2!); N. Y. t_'ode, Sec. 277.]

1. Judgment In Beplevln. ;\ction of rcpi<'\'iI1
in astute court, in which property is taken from
the p<'i~'.~u-s.-don of the F. H. .\lnrshsl, held byhim
under process of the federal court, plea to the _iuriIt
diction sustained: Ileld, that it is proper to ren
der a judigtncnt for the return of the property '~°

5. Against Defendant Not Before the Court
Void. Judgment against a defendant not before
the court is not only erroneous, but void. PH acced
ings under may be enjoined.
San Juan, etc., t7-o. v. Finch, 3 (Join. Law
Rep., ll; 6 (Jolo., 214.

.\lurshui.
Parks v. Wilcox, i ("olo. Law Rcp., til.

2. \Vhen goods have a fixed or ascertulﬂi-‘d
they
value,cannot
the measure
be I’t'IlII'DPd
ot damage
in kind,
in reph.-vin.
is their inYllliihh
with legal interest from the time of seizure till it):

6. After Term Court Has no Power Over.
After the term has closed the court has no power,
without the _c1ousent of parties, to vacate n Judg
ment. Judgment for defendant, for want of repli
cation, is final.
Newman v. Newton, 3 Colo. Law ltep., 193.
7. Nil Dicit and Default. Under the (‘ode no
distinction exists between a judgment nil dim‘! and
judgment by default.
In neither case can the
judgment exceed the statements and prayer of the
complaint.
Wilbur v. Maynard, 3 Colo. Law Rep., 433;
6 Colo., -183.
8. In an Action 0t‘ Repievlu in a state court
in which property is taken from the possession
> of the U. S. Marshal, held by him under process
from the federal court, when a plea to the jurisdic
tion is sustained, it is proper to render a Judgment
for a return of the property to the Marshal.
Parks v. Wilcox, 4 Colo. Law Rep., 49.
9. Personal Judgment may be rendered upon
service of summons by publication, if there be a
levy of attachment upon property. Such jud ment
after service
rendered
is complete
before theisexpiration
prematureof fortis' dM 8

Brown v. Tucker, 4 C0io., 268.

time of judgment.

Special damﬁgcn cannot

recovered unlcsss illlt‘t_'_t'(L

Brown v. Tut.-ker, i Coio.‘Law R;-p., fill»,
“mountsccuon.
which
3. In an action of rcplcvin thc
plaintiff is entitled to recover under this
‘ ls

in case a return of the l""Jl"-""-V mnnml hotmmhc
the value of thc Proln.-ri_\', to be ascertained M ‘M
place wher-1 it was detained at the C()llll‘l'i(‘llL‘£‘!nl0 to
of the action. The defendants are nﬂl 0"inlet1 out
claim compensation for money or 5‘“"""°0s W1- ncc
or expended
of
a request on
upon
his
pluintlil"s
part. No
W‘"l"""-V
requestin will
"““",’“"
ht; Pro.

sumed when the propeI'l}’ is mkﬂ‘ undorlmm P
cess. (Ilisler v.(‘nrr. 34 i'*"~ 64"‘
=lcgal
when the property has been deliveft?d is an
interest on the value during the tlet-enl|<?f1
Nickerson v. t_'hatterton, 7 CaL, 505
Douglns v. Craft, 9 id. -'>ifl
n sim." her“
4. Plaintitl‘ being in possession Of
to dofendﬂnh
which he had never posted. bﬂucd H
entitled to a

in an action for its ree0\'cI'y 1"’ ‘ms if not, iﬂfm
judgment for the horse. if to he had? \
A jud!‘
value. (Barron v. Lundes, l Duv., 9‘-9.'~
ment not in the alternative is valid until revcrfvfd
or amended.

3nllarali v. (Irser. 4 BOW‘-' ‘"
5. Where the relief demanded was Judgment
for a return of the property or its value, and no
answer: Held, that plalntitl might elect whieh
judgment he would take, but that he could not
takejudgment in the alternative.

Commercial Bank v. White, 3 How., '.!?'.'; l

5. The time during which a judgment remains
a lien begins to run as soon as the judgment is

doeketed, unless suspended by order of the court
pending motion for new trial or by appeal.

The

time of such suspension must be excluded from
the computation.

Baroiihct v. Hathaway, 31 Cal., 395.

(‘ode RL'|)., (B.

See Aldrich v. Thul, 3 (‘ode R.0])., ill.

See also England v. Lewis, 2') id., 350; 6 id.,
130; l6 td., 404; and 2% 111., 5'1).

-—

SECTION 206.
[Parker's (‘al. Prae. Act, See. ‘.'UL’.]

SECTION 208.

1. Judgment After Death of Party. The con
tinuance to use the name of a deceased plaintiff
instead of that of his executor, in a Judgment ren

1. Form and Effect of Docket. The docket
ing of a judgment imports construction notice of

[i‘arker’s Cal. Prac. Act, See. 215.]

dered after the substitution, is an error oi form

the lieu of the judgment on the real estate of the

only, and does not atfect the validity
Judgment.
Gregory v. Haynes, 21 Cal., 443.‘

judgment debtor to strangers to the judgment.

of the

Page v. Rogers, 31 t_.‘al., 293.

2. The death of an appellant ai'ter argument of
his case on appeal, constitutes no ground for delay,
ing a decision, or departing from the ordinary

SECTION 210.

course of procedure. except as to the entry of the

[Parker's (lal. Prac. Act, See. 207.]

judgment which

may be rendered.

The entry

should be as ofa day anterior to his death.
Black v. Shaw, ‘.30 Cal., 68.
3. The rule is ditferent it the death occurs pre
vious to the argument. in that event further pro
ceedings can only be had upon leave given after
suggestion of his death is made.

Id.

l. Transcript Filed in Other County-Lien
Thereby. The tiling ofa transcript ofa Judgment
docket of a District (‘ourt with the recorder of any
other county, makes it a lien upon the real estate
-in that county, but does not make it ajudgment oi‘
the District Courtoi‘ that county. The county clerk
as such, and not the clerk of the District Court, to
issue execution.
People v. Doe, 31 Cal., 21).
See also Dormer v. Palmer, '23 Cal., 40.

SECTION 207.
[Parker's (Jal. Prac. Act, Sec. 214.]

1. Judgment Docket — Lien. The judgment
SECTION 211.
debtor cannot set up errors in doc-keting thcjudg
ment as destroying its lien, when the property has

[Parker's Cal. Prue. Act, See. 205.]

been sold on an execution under the Judgment; if
the property is his the levy operates as a lien; it‘
not, he has no right to complain.
Low V. Adams, 6 Cal., 277.
2- The iien can not be extended beyond the

1. Satisfaction of Judgment. A levy under
execution upon suﬂicient property is asatisfaction
of the judgment-. (People v. Chisholm, 8 Cal., 80;
see also 23 id., 94). Not so a tender or oﬂ“er to com

time limited in the statute.

ton v. t_‘hase, M id., 666). Sheriff's return on execu
tion: “Satisﬁed by promissory notes received for
amount due,” etc., not evidence of satisfaction.
Plaintiff in execution may accept promissory
notes in satlsiactlon thereof, but the fact must be
proven by testimony other than the sheritl"s cer
tiﬁcate. (Mitchell v. iIocket.t,‘25id..5i2). As to lieu

Isaac \'. Swift, 10 (‘al., 71.
3-

An appeal from a judgment suspr-ntls the

lien, which is merely an incident.

And the statu

l0I')' limitation of the lien commences only from

the date of the rvmitlilur from the appellate
°°“"- (Dewey V. Latson, 6 Cal., 130). If under

ply with the command of a Judgment. (Bedding

of attorney, see 2 Cal., 507; 1 id., 331.

taking On appeal be insuilicient to stay proceed
ings. the statute of limitation as to lien is not

Swanston v. Morning Star, 2 Colo. Law
Rep., 563.

811-Spended.
Gay v. Du Uprey. 15 Cal., it)-I.
-—

4. The lieu of a judgment is purely statutory.
and only attaches to the property named in the
Statute, viz.: “The real property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt from execution." This does not
include a homestead. 1,.-\ckley v. Chamberlain, 16
Cal., 161; id., 213). Applies only to property in
Which defendant has a vested legal interest.

SECTION 219, ET SEQ.
[Parker‘s Cal. Prue. Act, See. 374.]
1.

Judgment by Confession. A judgment may

be entered by confession for the amount specified
in an award in the same way as fora sum men

(P00
tioned in a bond, note or other instrument.

Ple v. Irwin, ii ((1., 41%).

As to foreclosure andllldte
Gunter Y. Sanchez, 1 Cal., 48.

ment over, see Chapin v. Broder, 16 id., Ht.
8 r:(:T1ox.~.t

219-236.
SE

TlON 229.

2. When ajudgmcnt was entered by ennfes-‘lull
in open court upon allegation of indebtedness and
appearance of the parties, whatever crrohs inter.
vencd, they cannot, at the instance of one not a
party to the judgment1 be invoked to set mthic or

t‘odc proﬂniunn relating toproeeedinga supplemen

show thejudgmcnt a nullity.
(‘loud v. El liorado (‘o.. l2 t‘ul.. ii“.

tary to execut ion do not authorize the court to matte
an order for the application of property otthc Judg

[ Parker's Cal. Prac. Act,
I.

241.]

I-Jxaminatlon of Judgment Debtor.

The

ment debtor in the hands of a third party, to thc
3. Where a judgment by confession is attacked
autlntactlon of the judgment

upon the mere atti

by a creditor for fraud, It general avernwnt that

davlt ot plalntitf, without ﬁrst examining the
the intent was to hinder, delay and dett-and, in
insutllcient. The complaint must aver the facts.
Meeker v. Harris. 12 Cal., 21*‘.
4. It‘ the statement upon which a voluntary
confession of judgment is made does not correctly

party alleged to have the property in pomesﬂon.
as to the truth of the allegation. The ailldavlt

serves merel y as the hasin ota proceeding to acquire
jurisdiction ofa party

record.
describe the debt, the judgment is void an to the

who in a ntmmzcr to the

_ I
iiathuumy v. lirudy, ‘.ttH'ai., mih.

(‘t'€dll.ul'ﬁ of the judgment debtor.
\\'llcoxin \'. Burton, 27 Cal., 213; iii UL. 576.
5. A Judgment confessed for the purpose of
hindering and delaying creditors is void. itynn
v. Daly,6(?ai.,‘B8; i3 id.. 76.) Void prinmfm-|'r'.

6id.,il9; it-'l|’tl.,-771i.
B. .’\_luniorjudgntent creditor must resort to a
court of ehancery if he wishes to question the bum:
ﬁdes of a confession of_iudgment.
Arrington v. Sherry, 5 t‘al., 5i-i.

SECTION 231.
[ i’arker's t"ai. Prue. .\ct. S00. ‘.'-lii.]
1. in prot-euilmza supph-|nentnr_\' to execution
the court hm-i power, when all parties are ht-forc ll.
in ap'point a receiver, and onlcra note in the hands

of a third part)’ to be delivered up to such receiver
for collection. by unit or nlltvI'Wll-ie.
Hathaway v. linuiy. all t‘ai.. -‘M.

[Parkcr‘s t‘-al. Prac. Act, See. 23%.]
1. Supplementary Proceedings. These pro
ceedings are substitute for creditor's bill. Since
the adoption of the (‘ode, remedies therein pro
vided 1'or subjecting the property and ehoscs in
action of a judgment debtor must be presumed,
whenever adequate for that purpose.
Hexter V. (_‘.iill‘orti, 5 i“oio., lib; 1 Colo. Law
ltep., 60; 7 Cal., 187.
2. The statute of a State which gives a remedy
for reaching the effects of a judgment debtor by
proceedings suppletnentary t.o execution, does not
in any way atfect the equity jurisdiction of the
Federal Courts.

Fruger v. (‘olo. 1). 6:.

L'o., 1 Colo. Law

Rcp.,22l.

Actions for the Foreclosu re of .\l0I'\£!K"

A deed uh.‘-zolute upon its face. 1"" lntended U “
mort+:am-, is not fraudulent as to creditors.
Ross v. i)ouggan,5 t‘0io., K3.

2. A person having two funds out of which")
satisfy a demand, shall not in equity, by his em‘

tion, disappoint a party who has onl)‘ 0"” mud‘
But the prior incumbrancer is entitled to notice OI
the Junior claim and of the intention of the l“"““'
creditor to compel the former to make his election
in compliance with this principle.
Id.
3- Where
the second fund consisted of chattel!
remaining in the hands of the debtor: Held. "ml
the senior creditor would not be accountableai for
a perfect so-t-tt1'it_\‘.
III.

4. To cimri-.:e a senior creditor,ufter ﬂ0U°9'h°

n1ust be shown to have been a wilful Parly ‘Ome
dissipation or loss of the fund.

SECTION 227.

5. AId.mortgage is but an incident of the dcblhlé
[Parkcr’s Cal. Prac. Act, See. Zlit]
1. A Commitment for contempt for refusing:
to obey an order of court, should set forth that it
is in the power of the party to complv.

secures, and the assignment of the debt ca1'l'i(¥5 l M
ntortgagc with it. After assignment the t>("i"-‘insP
the lm_|rigt\'.£t\t- t't'nSe.~t, and any Bilﬂllpled M N
by him, being in fraud ofthe rights “rllls “gig” ’

Ex. parte Cohen. 6 (,'al., 318; id... 316.
is void.

Fnssett v. Muiock. lCol0. [AW Rep" i3i:5

SECTION 228.

6. \\’here an estate sold sub_h-ct to B

[Parker‘s Cal. Prac. Act, Sec. -H0.]

is sold by the mortgagor in parcels a _

1. Debtor of Debtor.
within this section there i

llI Duh-r
'
\ to brink
r a pan).
nust be a _iudgmcnt, and
nst property, and the pcr~
must be indebt _d t
instant to him against whom the executfon

times, the mortgage Will be saiiailed—-ﬁﬁtt ‘::‘he
that portion of the estate still in the hand! ed m
In()t‘lf_!l\l1|l', and then out of the I""‘°“l5 “mu ‘fun
the inverse order of their alienation--and lb” M
aDplies equally where the tnorttlailor ""8 ‘1

mortgages of ditferent dates on the same M

Brown v. Ayres, 33 Cal., 525.
Id.
7. The purchaser of mortgaged premises has
constructive notice of the incumbrance, and takes
I'll)" ormrc.

221

Abbott's Forms, 198-21!); it ('al., iltiﬁ; 33 id , -NI. itc
lating to the substance of the decree, l i'ai., :51; (i

Id.

8, .\s between grantee and mortgagor the resi
due in the lutnds of the mortgagor shall be applied
to the payment of the mortgage debt; as between

grantee and mortgagee, the latter, being a creditor
with two funds, is required to proceed primarily

against the fund on which the grantee has no
claim.
Id.

0, The rule that where the equitable and legal
estates unite in the same person, the equitable is
merged in the legal estate, is not inﬂexible. t'ourts
of equity are accustomed to trust the estates as
merged or separate, as substantial Justice may
require.
III.

10. Where a deed of realty, though absolute on
its face, is in fact but asecurity for a loan, it isa
lllt)t't,'.{tt_t.'0, and the property is subject to the exe
cutlon of a subsequent judgment creditor of the

Personal judgment

l-i Cal.. I56; 2;’; id., 348; 16 £41., 403. Costs, counsel
fees,-'>tlal., iiti; id., 492; 5') id., 379. Default,“ (2ai.,
H. Decree, effect of, it-i Cal., 465; 21 id., 108. Death
of mortgagor after decree, it ('al., (Hi); 9 id., 426.
Erroneous, defective or void decree, how relief
from granted. 16 (.‘ai., 46 l; id., 559; t'd., -l7-\'; l5 i'd.,

461; 33 ML, is“; 16 id., 566; 21 id., 87. Execution
instead of decree, when, 25 t"'al., 357; 2'.’ ((1., “ti.
Equity of redemption, 6 L‘al., til»; it i'd., 307; H id.,
363; 16 id., 6-240; 6 £11., 173; 34 id., trlh‘; lo‘ t'd., itil; 2'.‘ t'¢l.,

(,)l‘i.lt'l' of sale 0!’ copy

of decree must issue, RH ('ai., !it;7.

Second order

may issue, 17 Cal., 6'13. What she-rill’ must sell. id.
Sale in parcels, ll L‘al., H. \\'hut. property passes
by Bule, it) (‘al., 238. \\'rlt of assistance, ll L't1i.,l‘.'ﬂ;
5 ill., 2-i-l; it £11., 0'77; 16 irI., l-‘iii: 2] i(l., -57; 23 ill., 4H;
31 ut.. 2'1); 27 id., ‘..."l7.

.-\dverse titles cannot be liti

gated, but must be saved by the decree, ls‘ (‘ni., -M3;
27 i(I., -i'..'l); ‘.31 id., -‘$89; iii icI., titlii.

Title, dee-rec col

laterally attacked, 9 (.'ul.. ~i2tl; t'd., 321; £11., 429; 21
i.,'l‘tt[it0t‘.

|'tI., 51.

Frcdricks v. (f0rcoran, 2 (-'oio. Law Rep., 563.
11. Transfer of title by delivery and transfer of
warehouse receipt is in the nature of a pledge

Power of sale in mortgage, 2:.’ Cal., 116; 21

id., 8113. Ctzreaf cmptor. doctrine of, 16 Cal., 561.
\’endor’s lien, 2 Cal., 138; 3:! HL, 55; 8111., 3%; 12 |'d.,
-‘itll; L5 id., 186: 32 id., .38; 10 id., 396; 23 £11., titi.

(len

braced in the statute relating to the acknowledg

crtlll_\', Ii (!al., H0; ili., ﬁts‘; £11., 232; 2.’! id., -172; 2'7 id.,
-I-‘ll; 3') id., 621; 50 £11., iii); 51 id., 242; Fri t'(l., I27; 53

ment and record of mortgages.

id., 9!); 5i id., 62).

rather than a IIlOl't.||{1l_i.'t‘, and

therefore

not rm

Spangler v. ilutteriieid, 4 Colo. Law Rep., 17.

12. A mortzaeor, lmving delivered possession

[in t'alit'ornla the Practice Act provides there
shall be but one action for recovery of debt
by mortgage, and it was therefore held that

ofthc mortgaged property to the mortgagee, may
not thereafter obtain possession of such property

suit having been brou Yht in Ohio on the

without consent of the mortgagee, and sell and
deliver it to a third party. In such case the mort

013).

lI10l'liitl-‘gt’ another coul

in Ca i ornia.

Kagee has remedy in replevln.

not be maintained

(Ould v. Stoddard, 54 (‘al.,

The Colorado Code does not contain

this provision.—En.l

llttvcns v. Smith, i (‘olo. Law llep.,-‘B; 6
t'olo., ‘J17.
.\'0Ts..—Hections 264-7-H, Parker's (‘al. Prac. Act,
are substantially the same as Sections 21-i-5-ti,
(oiomdo (‘ode of lttﬂ except that the former
(Sec. Zitl) begins as follows: “There shall be
but one action for the recovery of any debt
or the enforcement of any right secured by

moftg , 0 upon real estate or personal )rop
erl)’. W ich action shall he in accon ance
with the provisions of this chapter," which
are not in the (‘olorado Code.
13. The provisions of the thirty-second section
Of the Practice Act (Colo. Code, Sec. 43), do not
apply 10 actions for the foreclosure of inortgngt-s

SECTIONS 237-256.
1. Eminent Domain-— CondeInnation-—-I)am
ages. Win-re there isa failure by the commission
ers to comply with the requirements of the act to
provide. for the exercise of the right of cmimmt
domain, the court or judge may set aside the
report, or re-submit, and direct a futher hearing.

P. &- A. V. R. R. Co. v. Rudd, 5 (}ol0.,2Ttl; 1
(,.‘olo. Law ltep., 66.
2. A report which failed to show that the ques
tion ofbenciits was considered by the commission
should have been set aside or re-submitted. The

on real estate.
statute must be strictly eoustrued.

Bowen v. May, 12 i 'nl..: _
14. A foreclosure suit results only in the legal
ascertainment of t he amount due,and decree direct

1ngthe sale of the premises for its satisfaction, the
surplus, ifany, going to subsequent incumbrancers,
or to the owner of the prctniscs, and execution fol
lowing for any deficiency.

Id.
3. There is no distinction between rights
acquired to land by a corporation, and title held
by letters patent to a citizen. Over both the sov
.
vower
ereign
IL.
H. &to
M.condemn
R. R. exists.
Co. v. t‘. 6: W. I. R. R.

-_3id., lti. Statute of limitations, ut.; 21 id.’ 41“: 2"

Co., lL'olo. Law Rep., 190.
4. The provision in the eminent domain law
which allows the party to enter into possession of
the land pending an appeal from the assessment of
danmges (see Sec. :25", Code), upon terms prescribed,
is not in contravention of the fundamental law or

‘f’-' 1"? it!-Ail; 41% m.. as. Referee and receiver‘, 5

bill of rights

Mc.\lillan v. Richards, 9 ('al., 363.

15- A8 to parties, see 21 t.‘al., 595; 23 id., 10“
Action against executor, 21 HL, 2i; ill-. 7 I ‘-H M-’
35”’: Pa.\'ablc when default in first installment,

‘do 416; ti t'd., 99. \\'hat the decree shall contain.’

Sl£(‘Ti(l.\'S ‘Z19--23 ‘.

2. When ajudgrnent was entered by confession
in open court upon allegation of indebtedness and E
appearance of the parties, whatever crroﬁs inter
vened, they cannot, at the instance of one not a
party to the judgment, be invoked to set aside or

SE T|Q~ 229'
L i‘nrker's Cal. Prae. Act, See. ‘.ii.]
I. I-Zxnminmion ot‘ Judgment Debtor. The
Pode provisions relatingtnproceedingssuppi--n1en

show the Judgment a nullity.
l tary to execution do not authorize the eourt to nutkc
(‘loud v. El Iiorado (‘o., i2 t"ni., I81.
. nnorder for the application of property otthejudg
3 “rho,-,. ujmlgmpm by eonression la Mm‘-kod
ment dehtor in the hands of it third party. iothe

by a. creditor for fraud a general averment that
v
the int.ent
was' to hinder,
delay and den-and, is
int§ilﬂi0it;'itl. The eompinint must aver the mm.
\teekcrv Han-13 wcal

"\""i|1“‘u°" of "W Jl"|K1"(‘m "P011 "10 ""'"‘ am‘
di“’“ 0| P|l\l"mT- “‘"h°\" “'81 oxamlnmg ‘he
emu‘ ulirsed HI liﬂw the P"°P¢'")' "\_ P_(>*"g:i°fi.

213

as to the truth of the allegation.

tatement upon which a voluntarv
.

'iiu n

nut

servo‘ "wmlyM'hMuw‘"Mapmwodingwmlmm
jurisdiction oi‘ a party who in t\ stranger to the

confession of judgment is made does not correctly

describe the debt, the Judgment is void as to the 1 W00

MO

Haumwuy ,,._ “rmu-' -3; CM" _',-up

creditors of the judgment debtor.
ll/ilcoxin v. Burton, 27 t‘ai.. 233; l8 111., 576.
SECTION 23 i.
[i‘nrker's (‘nl. Prue. .\et. H06. 243.]

5. .‘\.judg1nent confessed for the purpose of
hindering and delaying creditors is void. ityan I
v. Duly’ 6 Cal., Ll-‘hi; i3 t'(I., 76.) void prtmn /uctc.
I
61'd., iiii; 18111., 576.
.

I

6.

L In Proceedings supplcmeuuuy m (._“.(-“Lion
the court hns power, when all parties are betoreii.

A junior judgment creditor must resort to a

to appoint a receiver, and ordern note in the hands

court of chnncery it‘ he wishes to question the boun '

of 3 third party (4) he delivered up to such receiver

ﬂdm 01' 8 <‘0M0SBl0l1 0Ul1t1Kmt‘"i-

for collection. by suit or otherwise.
Hnttmway v, ltmd_v, ‘ii 4-236.
t'ai..

Arrington v. Sherry, 5 t_‘:ti., 514.

SECTION 226.

SECTIONS 23

L Supplementary pr°c°e‘u“g“'

1.

Those Pro‘

ceedings are substitute. t'or creditor's bill. Since
the adoption of the Code, remedies therein pro
vided for subjecting the property and choses in
action of a. Judgment dehtor must he presumed,
whenever adequate for that purpose.
Hextcr v. Clill‘ord, 5 t‘oio., ltici; i (.‘oio. Law
Rcp., 60; 7 0:11., l-*7.

I
I

Actions for the Foreclosure of MOM ttf -

morttzatze, is not fraudulent as to creditors.
ilnss v. liougganﬁr C010" 83
2. A person having two funds out of which i0

satisfy a demand, shall not in equity. by his “'0:
tion, disappoint a party who has oni)' one run 1
But the prior ineumhrancer is entitled to notice 0

the junior claim and of the intention of the .l""'°"
creditor to compel the former to make his election

2. The statute of a State which gives a remedy
for renchltn: the effects of a. Judgment dr-htor by
proceedings suppielnentary to execution, does not

in compliance with this principle.
Id.
r ham“
3. Where the second fund consisted 0 t‘

in any way ttilbct the equity jurisdiction of the

i 'l
remaining in the hands of the debtor.. Ht‘{dvu:;:r

Federal Uourts.

the senior creditor would not be aeconntab ca - -

FY1189!‘ v- (TOIO. D. &
Rep., 221.

L‘o., i Colo. Law

SECTION 227'

a perfect security.
1"-

.
[P“‘k°"sC“‘-P1‘ﬂ¢-A<rt.Sc<'-Zi9-l
A Commitment for contempt for i'L‘i'tlt-liili-I

toiohey an order of court, should set forth that it

s n thewpower ot‘_ the party to wmply.
1t.1'-parte L'ol1en,t_;(_'u\_‘31_\\; id" 316_

N be

‘
5. A moriitutze
itilitil an incident of the dob‘ ii
4. To chtlﬂte it senior eredit0r,ufiﬂ 1"" ;o'me
must he shown to iu|.\'e been 8 wilful “my
A tlli'\.8l})illIl(t;ll
or low oi' tliP. fUH (1

- t of the debt ctirrieﬁi he
(;:’,?_[::,1l:::(;,m§8:z:‘?:£a28igument the power of
it-‘ F "W N-‘uéps

‘ rehrin _ll"‘i.,.|-l,._ ' I
)_\

1:, )(.illt, ill

and ‘my "Hempted

r .

fflt‘1li!£

‘H110 ﬁghts of llisassignm

ram r

is vol .Fassett V. Miilnek, 1 L'ui0. [AW Rope bW’ .7
t“0l0., 4%.

[Parker'sSECTION
Cal. Pr-ac. 228.-\et, See. 440.}

we

is 6,
sold\\'l1en'nti
by the mort-zagor
estate sold sui_)_lect
in l-‘“"“"-“
to BM ‘
-

1, 1)e1m,,. of Demon
In order to hrinrrnpartv
. .
. must he a judgment,
w
.
:I:l,;1‘l{lelcl;:itliS seation
there
and
‘

_

on

ereon ngainst property, and the perebted at the
_.
Brown v. Ayrcs, 33011., 521 cuti on mm‘

son making the payment must be ind

I

I
.
1_.ﬂr.~i Oil‘ 0
times, the
mortgage will ht, Btiiliﬂe‘
th rt
‘
'
i
-H m mo hmms OHM
= portionand
of then
tho "-‘""“'
8“we Para“ nuene-d'rt1ii:
tnorttzniur,
out (if

the inverse order oi‘ their {tilt-"'"m°n'-and mm
‘
Q
applies equally where the mm“
7 h::t:‘:81!

instant to him agnin.<t whom the (EKG

I11ortgagesoi'dittbrent dates on the some
111.

7. Tlii? purchaser of niort:._:ui_'cd premises has
cons-tructive notice of the incumbrance, and ‘1\ki'.'\'

lating to the Nlli)8i.I\l1t'v of the decree, i t'tll., 51; ii

(‘Hill Uilflrt’.

id., i7-I; ii id., 57l; ll |'d., ii; is id.,-i60; 3-5id., lite‘;

Id.
8,

Abbott's Forms, I08-'_'uH; ll i'al., till“; 33 id , -Ni.

iii id., -‘>39; Lil id., ‘id; id., Patti.

.\s between grantee and mortgagor the resi

due in the hands of the mortgagor shall be applied
to the payment of the mortgage debt; as between

grantee and mortgagee, the latter, being a creditor
with two funds, is required to proceed primarily

against the fund on which the grantee has no
claim.
Id.

ite

Personal judgment

H L‘al., Hi; :33 id, Ills‘; iii id., 403.
fosts, counsel
fees,-3 Cai., 13"»; ((1.. W2; 55 icl., 379. Default, ll t'al.,
ll. Decree, effect of, iii Cal., W5; 21 id., 103. Death
of mortgagor after decree, H (‘al., (H0; 9 i'd.. 436.
Rrroneous, defective or void decree, how relief

from granted, l6 (.‘al., 46 I; ((1., 559; 01., 478; I5 id.,
46%; 33 m., 1:40; i6 id., 566; 21 td., H7. Execution
instead of decree, when, ‘.55 C‘al., 3-57; 2.! id.. ilti.

estates unite in the same person, the equitable is
merged in the legal estate, is not inﬂexible. t‘ourts

l-Zquity of redemption,ti (.‘al., 609; ii td.,$ili7; ii id.,
363; iii id., $0; 6 i¢l., I73; 3~i id., 048; 16 |'1I., ital : 2'.’ i:I.,
£50; 2-1 M., 606: 33 id., 25>’)-255. Order of sale or copy

of equity are accustomed to trust the estates as
merged or separate, as substantial Justice may
require.

may issue, 17 Cai., 623. What sheriil' must sell, id.
Sale in parcels, ll t'al., l-i. What property passes

9,

The rule that where the equitable and lt‘tZ[ll

must issue, 30 (,‘al., 367.

Second order

by sale, ill (‘ul., ‘.115’. Writ of a:-'.'-zistunce, ll L'al., liiii;
:'n'ri., 2-ii; ll id.. 677; lb’ id., 156; 21 id., -H7; 23 t'(I., -lb’;

Id.
10.

of decree

Where a deed of realty, though absolute on

its face, is in fact buts security for a loan, it is a
mort.ga_i:c, and the property is subject to the exe
cution of a subsequent judgment creditor of the
grantor.
Fredricks v. tforcoran, 2 Colo. Law Rep., 563.

11. Transfer of title by delivery and transfer of
warehouse receipt is in the nature of a pledge
rather than a mortgage, and therefore not em

3] £11.. ‘Hi; 27 i¢l., :97. Adverse titles cannot be liti
gated, but must be saved by the decree, lb’ (‘al., -iii»;
27:71.,-l'..‘t_i; 2i t'(l., 5-Sit; iii id., 609. Title, deeree col

laterally attacked, ii (‘al., 426: id., 3'21; id" 43"; 21
1'd., 51. Power of sale in mortgage, 2:! t‘al., lid; 21
id., -'i‘..’ti.
(hreat emplur, doctrine of, 16 L.‘al., -"nil.
Vendor's lien, 2 Cal., 138; 32 id., 55; i$i'd., 398; 12 i'(l.,
301; 15 i'(l., 186: 32 id., 5%; 10 id., 396; 2i id., ti3'i. (len
crally. ‘Ii t 'al., lid; id., '.ZiIr~'; t'd., 2‘ -; 2i id., 472; 27 id.,

braced in the statute relating to the acknowledg
ment and record of mortgages.

-i-‘ii; 3|» £11., 021; 50 id.. (Wt; -31 id’. 2-12; 51 id-. 11-'1': 53

Spangler v. Buttcrtleid, i Colo. Law Rep., i7.

[in California the Practice Act provides there

A mortgagor, having delivered possession

by mortgage, and it was therefore told that
suit having been brourht in Ohio on the

m.,99; 51 m., can.
shall be but one action for recover

12.

ofthe mortgaged property to the mortgagee, may

of debt

mort a c another coul not be maintained
in Ciﬁl ornia. (()uld v. Stoddard, 54 (‘al.,
613). Tin~ Col0rn.do Code does not contain

not thereafter obtain possession of such property

Without consent of the mortgagee, and sell and
deliver it to a third party. In such case the mort
Kagee has remedy in replevin.
-

this provision.—En.l

Havens v. Smith, l t‘oio. Law Rep., 33; 6

SECTIONS 237-256.

Colo., £17.

N0T&—8ections 26i-7-R, Parker's (‘al. Prac. Act,
are substantially the same as Sections 23-I6-ti,
Polo:-ado (‘ode of ltt~¢l except that the former
(bee. 2i6) befzins as follows: "There shall be
but one act on for the recovery of any debt
or the enforcement of any right secured by
mortgaie upon real estate or personal . rop
erty, w ich action shall he in accon ance

with the provisions of this chapter," Which
are not in the Colorado Code.
13.

The provisions Of the thirty-second section

of the Practice Act (Colo. ('ode, Set‘. 43), do not
apply to actions for the foreclosure of inort.g:u,'es

1.

ages.

Eminent Domain — Condemnation—Dam

\Vhcre thcrc isa failure by the commission

ers to comply with the requirements of the act to
provide for the exercise of t.he right of (-mincmt
domain, the court or judge may set aside the
report, or re-submit, and direct a futhcr hearing.
1’. & .-\. V. R. R. Co. v. Budd, 5 ()()l0.,‘.Z7iH 1
(7010. Law Itep.,

2. A report which failed to show that the ques
tion ofbeneilts was considered by the commission
should have been set aside or 1'0-submitted. The

On real estate.
statute must be strictly construed.

Bowen v. .\iay, 12 Cai., 348.
14. A i'ore(.'l0sure suit results Only in the legal
ascertainment of the amount due, and decree direct
ing the sale of the premises for its satisfaction, Ill?

surplus, if any,going to stili.scfi\l(’"t m('“mbmnccm'
or to the owner of the premises, and execution fol’

Id.
3.

There

is

no

distinction

between

rights

acquired to land by a corporation, and titloheld
by letters patent to a citizen.

Over both the sov

ereign power to condemn exists.
L. S. at M. S. R. R. Co. v. ('. & W. I. it. B.

lowing for any deficiency.

(,.'o., l Colo. Law Rcp., 190.

McMillan v. Richards, 9 (‘I11-» 365

-_Ju1., iii. Statute of limitations, m.; 21 UL, M: '16

4. The provision in the eminent domain law
which allows the party to enter into possession of
the land pending an appeal from the assessmcntoi‘
(iatinitgcs (see Sec. 2')“, Code), upon terms prescribed,
is not in contravention of the fundamental law or

'_d" 1“; "do 361; 4-'3 id.. l\‘§.

bill of rights.

l5- As to parties, S00 21 uu., ass; :2 111.. 1M.
‘\_cu‘m against executor. 21 17.1., 2|; irl., 76; ‘ll I'll-,
:9”: Pilyalilc when default in ﬁrst installment,
itc-i'crcc and receiver, 5

“In "6; 6 id., 99. What the decree shall coul-‘lino

Id.
11

Si-:e'rto.\'s 25t3—‘25ii.

222

O
--‘

IS. .-\sses-meiiis upon abuitint: property tode
fray costs of sidewalk, is a form of taxation, and
such taxation, hein-.5 unequal, can not be enforced,

I3. Right not i4uh_]ect to statute. Enlarging
a ditch without the consent of the owner is as

much a taking or damaging of private property

either under the taxing power or right of eminent

within the meaning of the i.‘on.-alttuion. as the
appropriation ofthe right of way in the first

domain.
Palmer v. itny, 2
L‘olo., Mi.

instance; and a atatutc denying compensation in
ouch case cannot be upheld.

(‘oio. Law R6p., 3&3; ti

Trlppe v. Uveracltcr, 4 Cole. Law Rep, 405.
6. Under >'l-etion l5, Article il., of the Constitu
tion oftfolorado, the owners of lots abutting on it
street are entitled to compensation for any dam
age resulting to their property by the use of the
street for railroad purposes, whether the fee oi the

I4. Special Proceeding. The right to appro
priate private property upon making compensa

tion oannot be enforced by civil action under the
Code. Resort inttst be had to the special proceed
lugs provided by statufe for condemnation.

street he in the city or lot owners.
.\Iolandin v. U. P. itallway ('0., 3 Colo. Law

itep., lei.
“olandin v. ll. & i‘. it. it. Co., 1 Colo. Law

tn-p., iH9.

'

City of lienver v. Bayer. t'd.. Il‘.‘.9.
7. in such case the Incasure of damage is the
actual diminution of value in consequence of such
use of the street—not the reduction of rental value,
etc.-and any special benefits to the property
should be taken into the account.

'

City of Denver v. Bayer. 4 Colo. Law Rep.,

3'.5i.
8. injuries which result from a proper improve
ment of the st.reet by the city are damnum ohaque
injuria.
Id.
Albertson v. South Pueblo, id., :ii2.
9. No company locating a railroad in amoun
tain gorge on the public domain shall prevent
another company from the use and occtipam-y of
the same canon, pass or detlle, in common i_if nec
essary) with the road tlrst ioeated, or the crossing
at grade, etc.
D. & it. 6. lt'y ()0. v. D., S. 1’ & l‘. R. it. Co.,
-l Colo. Law Rep., (33.
10. Undo:-the constitutional laws of Colorado.
one railroad may cross another at grade, whenever
it is necessary, at any suitable place, so as not to
obstruct the original track. The power to acquire
rit_tht- of way is an attribute of sovereignty, in the
granting of Which to corporations the State does
not divest itself of all authority, but retains saili

cient control to prevent injurious results to its own
citizens, whether natural persons or other corpora
tlons.
1). & N. t). R‘y (Jo. v. D. & R. G. it. it. (.‘o., ‘.2
Colo. Law Rep., 127.
11.. In condemnation proceedings, the order
overruling motion to vacate report of cotnmi.=sion
ers, after the same has been conﬁrm
ed, is ﬁnal,
and appeal will then lie.
D. & N. O. R. R. Co. v. Jackson, 3 (‘oi0. Law
Rcp., 2-30', 6 Coio., 2H0.
12. Jurisdiction of County Court. \V
hen in a
proceeding in the County Court for the co ndcmna
tion of real estate, the complaint alleging that the
amount in controversy does not exceed $2 000 it
appears by the verdict of a jurv
’
'
that the damages
amount toa greater sum, the latter must control
as to the amount in controversy, and being in
excess of the jurisdiction of ti '- '
of me action is proper.
n. court, as dimnissal

SECTION 257.
I.

Action: to Quiet ‘Title--Generally. Equity

does not usually interfere to settle boundaries, but
when oiilcera of diﬂ'erent counties claim jurisdic
tion over the same territory they may boeompelled
by a tax-payer to lnterplead, in order that the
question of jurisdiction may be settled. 8"“ mi‘
party in error enjoined.
t‘oms. Grand (‘onnty v. Coma. lnriniet
('ounty. 2 Polo. Law lie-p., 67.

8. The mere fact ofa controversy about it boun
dary, between individuals, will not ﬂli'ilii"\h around
for the exercise of the jurisdiction ofa court Oi
equity.

There must be somepeculiarequityM1p@r'

induced, or in such case the party will he let! mine
law for redress.

Scott v. .\ii-ans. 3 (‘oio. Law itcp.. I73
3. Section LL’)-I, i’urker's i‘ni. Prat‘. :\(‘h 1!‘ ‘be
same as Section 237, (_‘oiorado Code of lﬁﬁi, and for
construction thereof (see lliddle v. Meroed Mining

(‘0., it t'ai.. :79; Curtis v. smu-r, 15 id" 59: P111)’
v. Higgins, id., 12%.) includes mining clainm. (MW

ced M. Co. v. Frunent, 7 111.. 319.) i’laintiii"R W
sion material. (Farris v. Irving, 2% i.‘1\l.. 645; 2-5 id"

4:5; as 14., 100; is 14., M7: -zs id.. mu I‘=lrt1‘-* dt“
fondant -any party w ho claims an estate (.>r_inten“§i

adversely to pinlntitll <7 cm.,3m; l-')id.,‘.3'ri";1"‘i-I

us»; 21 an, M2.) Evidence. t-.:s t'al., M; 1") '11- W
3'-H’!-. 669).

Defenses, legal and cquilBblt‘

1» Cal., 24s; u1.,een.
.._,

SECTION 258-

and as to another part plead that plaintiff W88?

in liossession at the time of the mrI1ll1\"i"‘mumi '1
the action, it is not error to renderjudgmeiil "i~'“ M
them for costs.
Brooks v. Caiderwood. 3* Cal" am‘

SECTION 259.

[Cal. Prac. Act, See. 2-at]
l. Plaintiff's Rights to lien"! T“-m":.:,::.
Pending the Litigation, \\'hnt he ma)‘ me”
not possession, but danmges.

U

D., \V. 8: P. R’y Co. v.
Church, 4 (.‘oio. Law
Rep., -109.
iI‘arker's i‘ai. Prue. Act, See. L’-“J
1. Costs. In an action to quiet mlev w hi?l‘€'
defendants disclaim as to part Ofibe premm:

Moore \'. Tiee, ‘.22 t‘ai., 513
(1‘0t‘ \'. Moore, 14 i'tI.. iT'.!.
Moss v. Shear. 31; Cal., ii>'7.
SECTION 260.

3.

1. Rents, Proiits and Improvements. Section
‘.57, l‘arkcr‘s t.‘ai. Prac. Act, is as follows:

“When

damages are claimed for withholding the property
recovered. upon which permanent improvements
have been lmttlc by a defendant, or those under
whom he claims. holding under color of title
adversely to the claims of plaintitl, in good faith,
the value of such improvements shall be allowed
as a set-oil‘ against. such damages." This section
construed in H t‘al., MN; 6 id.. 319; is £11., 694; -‘ll td.,
487; 2|'lI., lib; is‘ £11., I65; 35 t'4l., 366;

ltib‘; 'J‘\'t'tl.,l-H‘-"i; 2i|'d., hill.
and profits.

tine In

Possession

of Lots

at

Date

of

Patent for Town Site. One in possession of lots
which form a part of an original town site. at the
date of the grant, being the rightful occupant and
bona ﬁdc owner of the improvements thereon, is
entitled as such, as a beneficiary under the act of

(‘ongrcss of May 2*, i864, and under the statutes of
the Territory of Colorado in 1%, such possessory
right had the status of real estate and as such
descended to the heir, and not to the adminis

trator.
Filmore v. ltcithman, 2 t"olo. Law l'tcp., rim;
ti Colo., ILIH.

L!) id., 330; Iii ﬂl..

Limitation as to l‘t'Ill.S

4. Patent having issued for such town site.a
conveyance by the probate judge to another than

'11! l'd., 3!); 31 id.. -1-“.

the heir, is unauthorized, and in violation of the
trusts imposed by the act of (‘ongress. \\'hilc the
legal title will

SECTION 263.

pass

by

such

conveyance

the

l. Mortgage not a Conveyance for the Pur
poses of this (‘lusptcn h't‘t'liOll Jain of l‘arkcr‘s
tfalifornia Practice Act is as follows: "A mortgage

grantee will hold in trust for the heirs. and any
subsequent purchaser will hold upon the same
trusts, and must account to the heirs for rents and
proiits, less any reasonable sum paid for improve

of real property shall not be (lt_'(‘lIl(‘d a conveyance,

incnts, insurance, taxes, etc.

whatever its terms, so as to cnnhle the owner of
the mortgage to recover possession of the real prop
erty, without a foreclosure and sale.“ This takes
fromthc instrument ltscommon law (‘hlU'Ilt'lt'I'l-lI‘l(l

Id.
'
5. lntere-t on Rents is in the nature of com
pound int"rcst,an(l will be imposed only when
possession is mulo jltlc.

restricts it to the purposes of security, etc. (.\ic.\lii
lan v. Richards, ii i'nl., -'l|‘>3); takes from the mort

111.

6.
gagee all right of possession, either before or after
condition is brokcn,and makes the mortgage a mere

Reply Necessary, Wilt-n.

in ejectment for

a mining claim, where the defendant sets up title
in himself. the plaintiff must reply.

lien. ii-‘ogarty v. Sawyer, i7 (‘al., 581'). But this
Newman v. Newton, 3 (‘olo. Law Rt-p., 193.

does not prevent the owner trom making an inde

pendent contract for possession. The words “what
ever its terms" in this section were intended to

7.

In Ejectment the Legal Title Must Pre

vail. The patent oi the United States passes title.

control the terms of grant, bargain, sale, generally

\Vhoever holds it must recover against those who

employed in inortgagcs, and do not relate to stipu
lations for possession or sale.

have only unrealized hopes to obtain it, or claims

~ Id.
See further 21' t‘al., ‘.’;33;

2| id., H7;

2lid.. 1";

21 LL, 6119; -31 111., 47.

which it is the exclusive province of courts of
equity to enforce. llowcver great such equities
may be, they constitute no defense in an action at
law based upon the paient—provide(l the land de

partment had Jurisdiction to issue the patent. An
unauthorized patent would be void.

State v. St. L. S. & R. Co., 3 ('olo. Law Rep.,
‘I21.

SECTION 264.
lParlter‘s Cal. Prac. Act, 500- 351-]
1- Injunction to Prevent Injury. This remedy
is 01113’ preventive, and not exclusive of any other

remedy.
\

Sand v. Pfelffcr, iii t'al., 25*.

8. Placer Patent.
In an action of c_iect.in(-nt
founded on a patent for a pincer mine, it is not
suﬁich-ntanswer to allege. that the defendant en
tered upon the premises for the purpose of devel
opinga lode or vein of mineral in rock in place,
which lode or vein was known to the patentcc to
exist at the time the application for the placer
patent was made, and was not included in his

application.

‘

Iron-Silver Mining Co. v. Sullivan, 3 C010.

SECTIONS 267—279.
|-

Actions for Possession of Real Property.

In ek‘ctment, where the defendant claimed title
to the whole premises, it is immaterial that he “'88

in Possession of only a part.
t.'. t‘. R. R. Co. v. Smith, 5 Colo" 16"
2. Dlsselzin. however it may have been form
erly, is not necessary tothe maintenance of the

action substituted by the Code for cjct-tmcnt.
Brown v. State. 1 tfolo. Law Rep.. 394; 5
C0lo., 496.

Law Rep., 51-3.
0. lint see Sullivan v. Iron-Silver Mining Co.,
4 t'd., in which the Supreme Court of the United
States reverses this case, and holds that under the
(‘olorado Code, as at common law, facts may be
pleaded according to their legal effect without set
ting out the particulars that lead to it; and neces

sarv circumstances implied by law need not be
expressed in the plea: Hence, in an action by a
patentee ofa placer claim to recover possession of
avein or lode within its boundaries an answer

2.
alleging that the vein or lode was known to the
putentee to exist at the time of applying for the
patent, and was not included in his nppih-ntion,
well pleads the theta which, under Section '.l't‘Ct, U.

S. Revised Statutes, preclude him from hnving
any right oi’ possession of the vein or lode.
Sulli\'.'tn v. iron-Silver Mining (‘o.. -I t‘0i0.
Low Rep., lltil.

As to partition |:~-nemlly. i-3 t’ul., fill; 16 id..

Sit; 26 ut.. til‘; 2 id.. ‘bit; '12‘ id., -‘iii: 2| id.. 2.21; |'(l..'-M:
'27 id., 41!); ill id.. til“: ‘B |'d., Sill; id id., 312’; ut.. '.-E ;
3|]
Proceedinlzs

10. Vendee, in Default of payment M 110!‘
terms oi‘ contract. is not t'ltilile(l to possession oi
real estate. Vendor may hold in such case without
suit, although deed was made prior to default.

376; M td., 111); El 611., '.'i; M., Ziti‘.!; -l-'1 t'd., llii; ut., 373.
iii
New
-21.. trial,
tiff; $3
43|'d.,
id..ti‘.-3:
65:toi5121.,
id.,Riil.
ll‘). .-\ppeul,Ii5 id..

Worrell v. Smith, 8 Colo. Law ltep., -i; B
(.‘.olo., 141.

11. l"rosumpt.ionn In I-‘nvor of Patent. Upon
the issuance oi‘ n patent for mineral lands the
presumption obtains that nil the requirements
preliminary thereto hnve been complied with.
This pre.sumpt.ion is not open to rebuttal in an
action at law. nnd the potent itself is unassailnble
except by a direct proceeding in equity for its out‘

I. A greed (.‘-mw.

Where a case is heard upon

3“ a¢T“('il !~'iMt‘ l')i' fuels, no exception to the judg

ment is necessary.
_ '
Umrtte v. ‘Putts, l (‘olo. Law Rep., 1:»:-1
L‘uit)., I62.

reetion or amendment.
Piori v. Wells, 6 Colo., 406; 3 (.‘olo. Law ill-p..

2. The court has no jurisdiction to hear and
decide an agreed case, under the t'ode, unless there

Ii-‘Ci.
be an nttidnvit tiled stating that "the controversy

i‘3. If Department had Jurisdiction. This
doctrine is limited to cases Where the land depart

is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to deter
mine the rights of the parties."

ment of the government had jurisdiction. When
apntent is absolutely void on its face it may be

Jones v. i-iotimnn. H B. .\ion..ii"1ti.
“t-lluls v. t.‘hnine, 'J)i‘1ti..i»1"J.

impeu.ched coll:tteru.ll_v in a court. of law.

3.

Id.

Where parties to n

l\ill't‘t‘ii case, the consideration of the court is N

13. Though the plaintiti‘ is unable to prove a
valid location of a mining claim. in accordance
with the mining laws in force, yet if he show
actual possession under color oi‘ title he may
recover in ejectment. Possession is prime for-iv
evidence of title.
Lebanon .\i. Co. of N. Y. v. Con. Rep. .\iin
ing Co., 6 (Jolo., 3'71; 3 t‘oio. Law ltep.,
-i0‘.!.
i4. Relocation. 'l‘he relomtion of an abund
oned mining claim is made substantially in t.he
some n}annerasnn original location. When the
lomtor has fully complied with the law he is en- '
titled to the exclusive possession and enjoyment oi‘
the claim until his right is i'ori'eited or abandoned.
(Armstrong v. Lower, ti (,?olo., 393; £41., -'>\‘i ; 3 Colo. Law
Rep., 377.) Section ‘Iii (Code of lﬂi, See. 271'») does
not prevent the admission of prooi' showing failure
to perform nets essential to :1 valid location.

strlcted to the facts submitted in the case. M

Vrandall v. Amador County, ‘J1 1.111., .
SECTION 306.
[ i(_t'. Cmie, See. 771; Cal. Pt'lM!- Act, See‘ 39']
1- Otlbr to Compromise.
\\'hen‘ I W"!
makes an otter of a certain sum to settle gs
unliquidnta-d elnim, and attaches to his oiieirm)d
condition thnt the sum. it‘ taken, must be rem hlr
in full, or in snti.-ti'nction oi‘ the elnim, if tli‘t‘:‘))\"i;P

party receives the money he takes it subl°*ird and
condition, and it will operate use full M00
m.
satisi'ncilon. The court will nokdisturb eoulpw
- e
-n s v.
when
fairly
ma 0.wzz 2C°i°'1'““
me 8m‘1;:.-1:-:t(»1tl
iiissell,
0 Colo.,
ltep.. -i37.

Id.

partol
2. Ifa ademand,
defendant
andoﬂ'er
plnintlff
in his
refuse
ltiiiilﬂ
tt.is¢_(l'l;W:
_

defendant should not be charsﬂl Wm] c0st.b.s\

secnons 2ao—3o2.

quently

1. Partition. The holder of a mere possessory
interest in land and not having title thereto, can
not maintain it bill for partition in the Circuit
Courts oi‘ the United States. Such a hill must he
ﬂied by one having title to 0. portion of the preml
ises sought to be partitioned. If a. statute of the
State of Colorado authorizes such bill it ‘must be
ﬁled in the State courts.

8(‘t'I‘UlDg, unless pluintiti"-5 I‘£‘c‘)“r-

Bull v. iiurrugon. 17 B. Mon” 3-53.
3.

m] an
An attorney-at-low, under his :;?:1c3l1lh0f'

thorit._v us such, independent ol't1l1§’5Pl:M no power

it)‘ conferred upon him by his clienh me clam
to compromise the suit or surrcnd-Grub V Dixon

his client, and distniss the. suit.

2 .\iet., W).

Strettell v. Buliou, 2 Colo. Law

(~51D _ h8;.e com

in such case client um.‘

Rep.. 122.
Chapter XXVL, Par ker's (J: l.
‘ _\Qt ﬂip
_,Lolorndo
its main
()0 5)l‘O\’lSi()iL1S
e of 1583, and
,

uni

been construed as follows:

Act, is similar
hnpter XXi\'.,
the former has

"

eced what defendnnt otfered i0 pay

promise set aside.
Id.

4. Judgment upon M./1"’-"‘”'

Hersiitield v. Franklin. 6 CI"-» W‘

Clerk can only enter Judgment under this

that the parties had notice of the time and place
of Illt‘t'[ll\K.

all handed to clerk at the same time, Judgment
thereon void.
Crane v. Hirshfelder, l7 (_.'al.,

-

no objection to the award that it does not state

section after case is made by tiling complaint and
in a case pending. i‘omplain t, offer and acceptance

225
Q-_

I

.\'e\vtou V. “fest, 8 .'liet., 2i.
8.

Umpire.

That the umpire was chosen by

the arbitrators before they proceeded to act under
reference, forms noobjectiou to the award.
III.

SECTIONS 307-314.

Dudley v. Thomas, 23 i_'al., 36:3.

1. Award of Arhitrators—-Irregularities in.
The well settled rule of law relating to all irregu
larities in the proceedings of arbitrators, which
are not jurisdictional. is, that an objection to be

availing must be seasonably made. if a party,
4 knowing of an irregularity, in order to avail him
selfofall chances of an award in his favor, n-mains

silent, and permits the investigation to proceed.
and money to be expended, etc., he will not after

9. Specific Performance of award will be de
creed.

Whitney v. Stone, 22 Cal.,
I0. Appeal. Stipulation to abide the result
without appeal, and power of attorney to confess
judgment on the award, will not bar an appeal.
(_.\iuldrow v. Norris, 2 t‘al., Ti). Stipulation that

the award be entered as the judgment of a court
having no jurisdiction of the subject matter, and

wards be heard

to question the validity of an

unfavorable award. on the ground of such irregu

entered accordingly, void in mm.
\\'lliiams v. Walton, ii (‘al., 142.

lariiy.
Glass-i'endery Con. M. Co. v. Meyer Mining

(.‘o., i Colo. Law RL'|)., 819.
2, Same—What Irregularities are Jurisdic
tional. Under the statute the failure of one of a
board ot arbitrators to attend a meeting, when no
ﬁnal action was taken, is a mere irregularity. and
not jurisdictional. I’rum'd:-(I, he was present when

final action was taken, and no prejudice to the
unsuccessful party resulted from such absence from

the meeting.
Id.
3. Common Law Awards.

The stnttiies do

not prohibit a submission under agreement of
parties without the intervention of a court.

(')verly‘s Exrs. v. nvt-rly‘s Devisees, i Mt-t.,

ll. Jurisdiction of Person.
Agreement to
arbitrate a controversy, unless entered as an order
of court, does not give the courtjurisdiction of the
parties. (Ryan v. Uougherty, 30 (.‘al., 2iS). Award
must be made within the time prescribed.
111.
12. Powers of Arbitrators. Must make their
award within the time prescribed in the submis

sion. if limited. (Ryan v. Dougherty, 30 Cal., 21$).
May appoint umpire before or after investigation
commenced. (Dudley v. Thomas, ‘Z3 Cal.,365). May
award costs.
(Id.)
After award delivered the
arbitrators cannot alter the same, except to correct
mistakes, without consent. (Id.). Have no com

mon law powers when appointed in the mode
provided by statute.

il7; fl Mom. 236; 4 t'al., ''.’il-'); 1:! t'(I.,7i; 21

\\'iliiams v. Walton, 9 Cal., H5.

id._, 317.

13. Enforcing Awards. The ordinary mode of
4.

Jurisdictional Matters.

To authorize the

arbitration, under the Code, concerning a contro
versy when no action is pending, there must bean
agreement tiled, and notice of record, or an entry

On the record stating the matter submitted. (tfode,
Section i.‘i9). A judmnent upon the award without
these prerequisites
Carson, i .\iet., -i-‘Hi.

enforcing award is by action. A consent to submit
a matter to arbitration does not imply consent that
Judgment may be entered thereon. (Gunter v.
Hanr-iiez, 1 Cal., -15). Cannot be impeached because

contrary to law and evidence.
(‘assley v. Lindsay, ll Cal., 390; 31 id., 125‘; 2'5

is unauthorized.
dfarson v.
The statute must be pursued.

5a,, :lit3.
14.

Awards May be

,_
"seated.

Unless arbi

Heslip v. San Francisco, -1 (“al., l; i-i irI., Sill".

trators pass on all the matters submitted.
5. Formal and Technical Objections Disre
ﬂrded.

Certificate of oiilcer

returned with the

award that the arbitrators “made oath accord
mg to law that they would faithfully dlh‘t‘ll8l'L'0
the duty devolved upon them as arbitrators and
"mi)ll't'." HeId,suiiiclent. Mere formal objections
toawards should be disregarded. The settlement
Oi controversies by arbitration is favored by law

drow v. Norris, 12 L‘al., 381).

(Mul

If altered without

consent. (Porter v. Scott, 7 Cal.,312). For apparent
mistake.
‘
Muldrow v. Norris, 2 i_7al., 7 ; t'd., 599.

SECTIONS 316-321.

1. Actions for the Usurpat-ion of an Oﬂlce
and should be encouraged by sust.aining award.-i,
or Franchise. Under (‘hapter XXV. of the (‘ode
notwithstandingr they may be liable to technical
(ChaptcrXXVIII., Code or l-W3), a proceeding in
and formal objections which do not affect the
’ stituted for the purpose of remedying the usurpa
substantial rights of the parties.
tion or misuse ofa corporate franchise, or a public
Snyder v. House, I .\ict., til-‘i; H t‘al., 390.
6. Objections to entering Judgment on
award must be made in the court below.

the ‘

Carson v. Carson, 1 .\It.‘l., i-‘ll.

7- Appearance. The parties to an arbitration
being present and heard before the arbitrators, it is

otllce is by civil complaint and summons. The
criminal form of the old action is superseded by

civil action-the statute authorizing proceeding by
rpm u‘m'ranlo being repealed by the Code.
447, Code of 1877).
(7. 6': G. R. R. Co. v. People ca: rel., 0 C0i0., -39.
2. 'l‘hc .~‘~upreme ('ourt of(‘olorado has original
jurisdiction, conferred

by

the (‘om-stitution. to

issue writs of quo u~orrvmlo, and hear and deter
mine the same;

Which

is not affected

by

4.

When the charter and ordinances confer

upon the city council the right to suspend an
ofiieer for malfeasance or other cause. proceeding
to that end may not be prevented by writ ui pro

the

repeal of the qua il'(i7‘I‘tHi!0 statute and the enact

hibition, and disobedience of an order in such

ment of the Code provision.

case is no contempt.

People er rel. v. Boughton, i i‘oio. law
Rep., 362; 5tfolo., -H7.

I". "
'
i ' - f I‘arker's Cal. i‘rur.
[N‘cuUn\"¢-‘tMii‘r:- :l'.‘ll’t“:i(\’i‘l‘ij: ill ’;:il)8U\tit‘l' as Sections
ti» -£'i'.!, i'oiorndo i'ode of l\\'.‘l.-~i§tJ.]

3. The ofllce of police judge can only be estab
lished and equipped for service by the legislature
of the State. Such oilicer is not the creation of the

5. As to when certiorari will lie, see i OIL, lit’;
5";
111.. M7:
15 id.,
.3 011.,
iii; 176;
Zi id.,
7 id..
49?;
Hit;
‘It it
td.,
id.,-i7iI;
Hi; iii li’n'd.,2B;
i'd., 7-\‘. \\hcn

municipal authority; and a person nssurnim: as
police judge to exercise judh-ial functions under
no other license than that conferred by municipal
authority is guilty of usurpation, and may he

reached by quo warranlo issued by the Supreme

the writ will not lie, ii i'ai., 3Htv; 7 L'al..2H; i3 011.,
i7;i; ‘bi 421.. lift: 4 o'd., isi. iiistrict t‘ourtsmay grant,

7 URL’ 113; 5 id.. -RH; i0irI.,1Hii; '£hd., lib‘. \\ hat may
be rt-\'ic\vetl, l-I t‘al., 179; 611., -‘ill; i-5 Id., 3"’; 18 ii,
iii; ‘)2 id., 46'»; is id.. 671; 29 id., tilt; id., lib‘. lit-tum.

Court.

People v. t‘urley, i Colo. Law Rep.,‘lii; 5
t‘oio., 412.
4. It is a general rule that when the statute
provldesa remedy to test the rhzht to exercise a
franchise or oflice, it is exclusive of all other
remedies.
A. T. & H. F. R. R. (‘0. V. People 01' re!.. 5
i,‘ol0., til).

etc., ii‘! t)ai., :'m‘.’; id., iii.

SECTIONS 333-346
i. The Writ of .\landauuus. The propertunc
tion of the writ of mandamus is merely to set in

motion. it Will, therefore, in a proper case. be
allowed to cofiiiiitttid action. but never to control

5. An action for usurpation of an ofiicc or
franchise is a civil action under the (‘ode of this
State, and must be governed by the rules appli
cable thereto; must be instituted b_v filing a com
plaint and isstiim: a summons, and proceeded with
the same way as any other action.
Id.

discretion, unless in case of abuse.

7. The provisions of Sections 310 to 316, Parker's
(‘ai. Prac. Act, are similar in substance to Chapter
XX\-’III., Colorado Code. For construction by the
Supreme Court of that State, see: Generally. 1
Cal., 87; 3 id., 175; 121., 177; 7 111., ~11-iii; l-i a'd., iii; '..'ii £11..
-50; 13 id., H5; 10 t'd., 376; 32 id., 7-3; -i5 121., 73; 37 id.,
354; 16 id., 358; 24 id., 457; 27 td., 470; 34 zd.. i‘>Ib3.

and in a different county?
Bean, (‘hi-rk, v. People er rcI..

8. In regard txniperson holding two or more
otlices at the same time, see People v. Provines,
34 Cal., 52", where all the authorities are (liscttsi-ted,
and many overruled.

l'nion t‘olony v. Elliott, 5 Colo., 371; 1 Cole.
Law lie . ‘£64.

2.

Mandamus ‘r)n'ay be reviewed.

iirror will

lie to review whatever an-.--titties to itself lllt‘fUl'('e

of a Judgment.
(‘eedings
can be heard
Querc:
and\\'h'ether
tit-tertnined
mmuiumm
at chant t

3.

2 Colo. L“

t‘ol0..
The lie
wriit.. 37;’;
will iinot
lie 93.
to compel Rludgeﬂuz

grant an appeal and fix bond, after the aitiei1\’I"_“i'!;_
of the court for the term. where the statute cw
Pres.-ii_\' designates the ‘‘court'' as the authoriﬁ
,

i

al.
v. Moore, 3 t‘oio. Law Rep" 43’? '3

t‘oio,,

-5 The return to an alternative writ of nu rudd
mu‘
mu-1 must either deny the facts stated, ore H
other facts suﬁicient in law to defeat ill" "’l"_‘:uc
claim. Under the Code ‘Dr 1""‘3' 8901:“) an
c
of tact may, in the discretion of the court 01'1" 5 '

1. Oertiorari and Prohibition. \\'rit oi pro
hibition is never employed to control the eondue.t
of a more oﬂicer of a court, as a commissioner, but
the court may, whenever justice requires it, assume
control of proceedings before its commissioner.
United States v. Berry, 1 Colo. Law liep., 166.
2. Certiorari will not be allowed a party w
by his own negligence, failed to avail himself of
the proper remedy in apt time.
Tilton v. Larimer t‘ounty A. & .\i.
.-\ss'n.,
3 Colo. Law Rep., 2I'I'L-2; 8 (.‘ol0., 2%-‘i.

be ordered to be tried by 0 J\"'-"-

,

. '

People err rel. v. Com'rs of ("and “-Oumm
@010" mg; 2 (Min. Law itcp,, tin. mnhv
5. The general rule, subject to tnodiiicﬂ; 1-"M-P
statute. is that the powers of canvasserr~
zfmbor

are purely ministerial, involving 8"“?!-‘ flﬂumg
of counting the votes returned. "nil d"um,Oh,S.
who has received the iiitihest nmnbor 0-‘ t'illl'lll

they have no judicial power to re,ict'i- \'°l'-;"l‘u“_'cd

The regularity of their proceeding may bi‘ “Q
into on nmndrtntlm.

3. \‘Vrit, of prohibition will issue when a his
trict Lourt or judge is a-ssutnim: a jurisdiction,
without legal right thereto, and there is no ad
equate remedy by appeal, writ of error, cm-tiorm~i
or other proceeding.
People can rcl., v. District Co
urt of Lake

County, 3 (Ioio. Law itep.,
489; 6 (‘oi0.,
~33--l.

Id.

nvokgd i'tJi'

6. When the writ. of rn(|m10m""l5i
by me
the protection of a ptlI'l‘i.\’ Pﬂvmc rlgmibewn-~

individual M-_<rie\'t-ti. the pmoeedini-'8 malt“?! 1,,
ducted in the name

of the acmm P“

interest.

Stoddard v. Benton.
Law itep., -ll.

ti t.'oio.. 33; 4 C010

‘in iiccember ‘.5, l-\‘\'2, the city council

of

I)eti\'eI' passed an appropriation ordinance for the
next tiscaiyear.

16. Answer, 30 Cal., -‘i’.-P5; ii 1'd., iii; 54., 571; ‘Z7 id.,
$33; ti 1’1l., Iiiﬁ; 37 1'd., 351; 4-’: 1'd., 395.

iﬂ-l1r1111r,\' iii, l-‘Ki, the iegii-'iat11re
I7.

itepiieation, 2 t 'al., iii-3.

18.

issues and trial, i7 Cal., 476; H fd.,~i2\i; 30

amended the charter. and provided that “ the total
amount ofclty wan-ants shall never exceed in any
year tl1e total net income of tlic 1-lty
'
'
after

121., :15; :11 11.,:1~:1; 37 1a.,'522; as 121., 111; 121., 5113; 11

deducting the a1nount required to meet and dis

1'd., 60; 45 1d.. -‘M3.

charge pre-existing obligations of the city, exclud
lug bonded indebtedness."
in answer to a writ of
mmidomiu to compel the issue of a warrant. the
auditor alleged that on April H, i.-.'t3,tl1e1111m1111t
of pre-exlstinz indebtedness exceeded the total net
income. ofthe city for the fiscal year i-'-‘iii. ity the
amended charter it was provided that " nothing in
this act shall in any measure atll-ct or impair any
proceeding had and done under tl1e acts to which

this is an a1nendn11-nt, or any rights or privileges
acquired under said acts:" II;-Id, that the appro
priation ordinance of ileceinher, H1~".’, was covered
by the saving clause, a11d that it was not only law

19.

.indg1nent. 27 Cal., 15"»; 1 id., it-iﬁ; 2‘i1'd., 21:21

1'1i..titiP(; is 121.. 36; 6221., -It“.
20.

Appeal, 2(‘al., N1; Ii21'd., i3l

SECTIONS 347-360.
[(Tai. Prac. Act, Secs. kit)-193.]
l. (‘ontempts and Their Panishment—Statute
Does .\'ot Limit. Such a statutory enumeration of
cal1scs as is found iii the t‘0de, when applied to
the ever varying facts and eircumstanccs out of

which questions of contempt arise cannot be taken

ful but the duty of tl1e auditor to issue the
warrant demanded.

as an arbitrary measure, and limit the inherent

lieatty v. People ex rel, ti C0l0., 133%; 3 Colo.

proper dignity of authority which is essential to
the cfl'e1-live administration of the laws.

Law i'tep., -itll.
Parker's t'.‘al. Prac. Act, Her-tions -itiﬁ to 479 inclusive,
are in substance the same ast'hapterXXX.,
Poiorado (‘ode of l.\\'-‘i. it is there held:

power of a court for its own protection and for the

iiughes v. The People, 1 Colo. Law Rep.,~ill;
5 t 'olo., -i-‘iii.

2. Selt'-Preserration. The right of self-pres»

8. As to rules of civil practice apphcable to
pleadings and proceedings in 1111111(l4.1111t1-¢.
People v. Supervisors of San i-‘rancisco, ‘-'7
Cal., 633. _

ervation is an inherent right in the courts. It is
not derived from the legislature, and cannot be

9. Supreme (‘ourt has orhzinal and appellate
inrisdiction in, 23 Cal., 2); l1'rf.. -ti; ii 111.. ‘Jill; 2*‘
td., ii-‘iii; 31$ 1'd., LN‘).

of Justice, independent of statutory provisions.

l0. District (‘onrts have jurisdiction, regard
iessofamount,1iIlt_?al., 244; ii‘ 121., I32; l:'11d.,i1i; -L3

id..tiTil; 2i1'd., 6'11.
11.

Nature and effect of the writ, 3 ('al., ifff; ti

1'd-.2-'>1:11121.,42;-z~1 121., I66; 111121., 511;11121.,6~1:11
i'd., l73.
12.

To whom will is.~u1c—gover11or, lti (‘ai., ll;

3l1'd.,5titi. 'i‘o courts, judiges and other ()"‘(.'l'l"-5,7
Cal., I30; 3-") id., ‘.313; l'i1'1f., 2.2"»; -‘i~.i1"I.. hill; i61d.,-"1'.2Il;

121,521; 9121.,21.
13. \Vhen t.he writ will lie. 3 (‘al., lti‘7; 10121.,
2H; 1 121,, 177; 7 14,, 271;; -_:s 121., (H; 1 id., H3; 43 1'd.,

833: 111221.,5-1; 121.. 211; 2-1 121., 711; :11» 121., 323; 111-. “'1:
31121.,215; 2121.,-:15; ;21.,1115; 7 121., 1:11; 11 121.,-7111: Iii
111.. 131.1; 121.,11; 21 121,119; 12* 121., 11$; -1 111.,:1s~1; Ill 121-.

615: :1:1a.,;m; 121., 1:11; 111 1a., 211; 2* 121., 4:11; is 121.,
49; 121., 571; 7 121., 1.:-17; -.11 121., mm; 21 1211., 1111s; 211111.,
318; R11 121., me; 511 14.. 5111; -17 121., -1191; 51 121.,
14.

When the writ will not lie, 3 Cal., 167; .‘i!11'd..

189: 45 1d.,24:;; 4 121.,177; -:1 121,, :11; 2111., 5111; :1 121,7:
35 id, 213; 57 121.51.); :19 121., ass; -111 121., 271*: H ht, 6*‘:
44121.,17:1; 11
210; 121., 1112; 14.,1;10; 17 121., 517; 1
*1-2 152: 11121., 18; 24 121.. 711; 31121., 161.1; 1'd.,fi‘i!t; 1'11-.11":
1? id-.3113; :11
3117; 121., 427; 15 121.. 1111; 211 121.72:

made to depend on the legislative will.

The power

to punish for contempt is an incident to all courts
Id.
3. Failure to comply or respond to a citation
lawfully lasued by a court is a contempt.
Id.
4. Wide Discretion. Courts possess a wide
latitude for the exercise of discretion in such cases,
and the Judge is himself best qualified to deter
mine whether the refusal to comply with the order
of the court was intended as a contempt, or was
l11 fact a contempt of Judicial authority.
[(1.
5. A Pleading which directly charged thejudge
ofa 1-ourt wherein the cause was pending with coi
luding with the adverse party for the purpose of
“gaining an unjust and undue advantage," implies

Judicial corruption and unjust oppression upon
the part of the Judge, and comes within the defini
tion of disrespectful, contumacious, insolent and

contemptuous lamzuage and conduct toward the
court or J11dge thereof respecting his otliclal con
duct, and warranted the Judge in taking cogni
zance of it summarily as though the words, instead
of being7 written and read in court, had been

spoken in _/'.ncie curia’.
I11.
6. The (‘ode contemplates that a petition for
change of venue shall set forth the facts relied on

W-,-591: 10 121., 376; 121.,:m; 1; 121.. -1111; 121., 91; ‘I-’ id-.

with sufiicicnt detail to inform the judge of the

143;
31; 3121., 1111; 11 121.371 ; :1-1 121., 5911 ; 411121..-'11‘-’;
5°id-.509; 5'1
21:1; -7121., N.

nature and foundation of the apprehensions of
the petition. But they are not to be set out beyond
what is necessary; and it is never proper to set.
out facts which in themselves, or in the manner of

15.

Application for and proceedintgs thereon,

27(.Yai..tﬁ5; 29 £11., 211); .1,-,,'(1_' 1;; 39121., 1:19; -i1i1'd.,:'1;B:

3“ id-. -1115; 211-121.,1111 ; 4 121., :::-1; :17 121., :51: B id-. 4471
ailtd-.fh‘-5:51121.,:1';1; is 121., rm; 121.. $11; an
1.~7: 1
id-, l¥1_; 9121., ass; 17 121., 215.
I

stating them, are calculated to scandalize the court.
or Judge, or bring them into public contempt.
I11.

7. Proceedings in. No formal trial is had in
cases of contempt. Where the matter conntlt utlnz
of Alimony.

in suit for

divorce, the court has power to allow 81iii'iOll)’ilﬂi
drnlr Mr, and counsel fees and other expcnm; and

the alleged contempt is brought to the ktttiwlcdge

such ailowanee may be enforced by lrnprimnment
of the court by atlidnvit the person tnay on cita
tion be allowed to respond, or may be iHil‘I‘I'Ui,_'IIlP(I,

for contempt, in case of retusal to comply.

Br purlr Pcrlclns, l1il‘ai., til).
but the proceeding is in all cases sumnmry and

1a. A! to of» Regularity of the proceedings
without the intervention ol :1 Jury.

and [H'0pl'ici)' ill the order, the l-iuprunc Court is

Id.
8. Intention. Contempt is not purged by an
avowal that none wan intended, it not iwiuu a
question of intention. Tlioutzh when intended, it

not an ll|)|N'Hiill‘ court, but a court of orlglnaland
apu-iai Jurisdiction to diacharuc the applicant, if
no legal cauae for dc-tentlon exists.
Id.

is un a-_'gravatlng feature.
Id.

9. Void ()rder—-Not Contempt to

l)i.\i0be_v.

When the court has no jurisdiction over the sub
jcct matter, dismal-llienl.-e of its order, which is void
absolutely, cannot be punished as a contempt.
People ex rel. v. District Court of Lake (‘o.,
3 (‘olo. Law Rep., iﬂi; ii t‘oio., fill.

19. |"ItiI'|l‘l (‘ourt-t hnvejuriadictiontopuniah
for contmnpt pcrmnn who enter upon a trnctof
land after having been dlspos:»csscd thereof bya
Jud-ftneni and procl~ss of the court.

H i’P()|vlc \'. li\\‘itit'lii', ‘.‘ii (‘Iii , (B2.
'20. The iii.-urict Uourt alone hasjurlsdlction I0
try and punish for contempt, for a violation of an
injunction iasm-ii out of mid court.

‘

i’eop_le v. (‘ouuty Judge of Placer iountiﬂ
10. Scandalous Matter in n Pleading. The
introduction of scandalous matter in a pleading is
in violation and contempt of those well settled
rules of propriety and decorum Which con.-uitutc
the chief liistitigiiisliimg characteristics of the
administration of justice through the eourts, and

Li "til , lo].

21. Judgment “nut h'hovr theI Fact-q. An order
of court ad_iuduing a party guilty of contempt
should always show upon its face the tact.-=up0n
which the mtcreinc oi’ the power is based and ibe
adiudication is made.

cannot be allowed as among the privileges of an
attorney.
People v. Teller, -1 tfolo. Law Rep., Hi).

11. Power of Court to Punhh. The power oi‘
courts to punish i'or contempt is not confined to
the matters enumerated in Section 32] of the i‘ivll
(Jodc. Courts possess the inherent power to punish
for contempt all acts calculated to impede, embar
rass or obstruct the administration of _lu.~uiee,
which power is independent oi'statutory pro\'i:~'ion,
and cannot be made to depend upon the legislative
will.
Id.

i‘ ~

I \ v. Turner, i (‘al., 132. _

!\'t(":"?i|'D() 1:: park Field, M.. in.
22.

“fitness (Zommit-ted For. A lrﬂri-i'(‘Um"m'

ted for rei‘usin',.' to answer questions pr\>P“u"d“d m
him as n wit none, under an order that he stand mm’
mlttui until the qtteSii0Iil! are till-'i“'t‘i'(fdv “"1 be
(1i8(‘.iiilI'l.!i'li on hubr'(ui mrpm when it appeanI till“
the suit has been abated; there being n" loam’
parties or subject matter before the court, tlierrl:
no longer a case in which the 'l\“'-""‘"“'1 can
__
as ked. E1: parlv Rowe, 7 (‘al., ho.
it seems that the refractory witness migbi
23.

.
contcmph Bud

still be reached by attachment for
12. Protection of Suitoru. The protection of
the rights of litigants is of much higher and graver
moment, and a much more imperative duty than
punishment for an oliense against the court, or
personal atiront to the judge.
'
Id.
13. Practice in Case of. When the respondent
is iully apprised by the citation i~:crved upon him,
of the matters concerning which he is required to
answer, it is not necessary to propound interroga
tories to him; but the matter may be dii-=pos.-:e(l of
upon his response to the citation.
Id.
14. En-oneous Order. Ifa court, having juris
diction, issue an erroneous order, a disobedience of
1tis a. contempt.
31: parts Cohen, l,‘al., -till.
15, Facts Must Appear.
When a District
Court imposes fine and imprisonment for contempt
wlthout setting forth the facts upon which the order
is based, it may be reviewed on cerliorari.
I
People v. Turner, i Cai., 152; id., hi7.

judgment thereon.
24.

statement

'
that R. Wi<i.il. eonnmitcd for

contempt in refusing to answer certain q\lt‘*“_l“1){'1“"f
propoundcd to him by the izrand ii"? is not “ M
cient.
well asThe
the questions
matter under
askedlri\'estli;"ll""should be 1"-M"I"
O,“an
that the witness was sworn, that h‘‘ Nmspd ‘fl
um-=wer. that the theta were ii‘l(’l‘0\1P°n prPJn:E
to the court by the grand Jury. and mo w“__m:r'

being required by the court, still reft1sc\li0l\"°‘“ '
Id.

25. Inferior Court May 1”‘ c°m_ ' hurt
Punish For. In :1 propel‘ (‘"-5‘-‘ "19 Suinunlo " .
will compel the court below to issue an
form’

to punish n eontc|npt—:w Wiicnv m"ug" in rwﬂte
(‘Oiil4.‘il1I)l, in substance the matter is a P
ﬁg lH " Mcrced Mining (10. v. Fremont, -4 tal..
- ii.1

SECTION

36‘

lcm. Prue. ;\t'l, Rec “ii
16. Reviewed on Habeas Corpus. it is the
right and duty of the Supreme (‘.-ourt, o
A
n hz1bcr.la

300»

i. Administration of Ont“ or Am"n"li W”
The certiﬁcate of a notary that an an-Mm! tm is

corpus, to review the decisions of inferior courts
sworn to or atiirmed and subscribed i>°""“ 1
in cases of contempt-, as well as other cases
regular, althou 'h his seal is not =\in3‘~“‘-1'
E1: parle Rowe, 7 Ual.. 181.

Mills v. iunlup. 3 CM-. 37~

3. An order to take testimony by deposition
should specity the notice to be given the adverse
party. A deposition taken upon an order without

lcm. Prac. Act, 800. 424. 1
i. of .-tttldavlts. Where an atildavit o{ajuror
is sworn to be correct by another person, it may be
taken as the latter‘s original atiidavlt.
Wilson v. lierryman, 5 t'al.. ii.
2. t_,‘ourts take judicial notice of the otiicial
character of justices of the

22!»

such speciﬁcation, where the opposite party had
not reasonable

notice, ought not to be read in

evidence.
l-Zliis v. Jaszynsky, 5 ('‘al., 444.
-I. .\'otlcc oi‘ the time ahd place llil.\'lTTi-_,' been

peace of their own
given, it is matter oi‘ small importance who took

State.

And an atiidavlt in which the otiicial char
the deposition, particularly in view oi the incon

acter of the justice before whom it was taken does
venience and delay which would result from a

not appear, is good.
dliierent rule.
Ede v. Johnson, 15 L‘al., 53,
\Villlams v. (_.'hadbourne, o‘ (_.‘ai., -.'f>i).
5.

A slight errorln the title of a cause, where

there is no other suit pending between the parties,
SECTION 367.
will not invalidate the notice.

[Cal. Prac. Act, See. 428.}

.\iills v. Dunlap, 3 Cal., 9i.

i. Deposition--“'hen and In “Fhat (Jason
Taken. Taking testimony by (l(']'i()H|ll(lll is in dero
gation of the common law, and must not only he

done by the proper otilcer, but every requirement
of the law must be compiled with.
.\ic(.‘ann v. Beach, 2 Cal., 25.

2. To entitle a deposition to admission, it must
appear therefrom that all the requisitions of the
statute have been strictly complied with.

6. The decision of such motion rests in the
sound discretion of the court, who must decide
upon the suiliciency or lnsuiiiclency oi‘ the grounds
upon which the motion rests.
Ill.

7. Proof of notice to take deposition where the
written notice was detective, held good, when made
by

and

conforming substantially to the

Id.

Dye v. Baily, ‘.3 t'al., iii“.
3.

parol,

statute.

The testimony of a party to an action may

be taken by deposition, it‘ he resides out of the
county in which his testimony is to be used, al
though he resides within less than thirty miles oi‘
the place of trial.

Skidmore v. Taylor, 39 Cal., till).

8. An appearance at the time and place, and
cross-examination of the witness, waives any ob
jection that the motion was too short.
Jones v. Love, U l'al., 68.
0. To make the testimony of a witness admissi
ble, he must be competent at the time of taking

his deposition.

it is the elfcct of the interest of

the witness at the time his testimony is taken that.

disqtmlitles him.

SECTION 368.
[Cal. Prac. Act, Hec. 439.]
1. Notice. The provision of the (‘ode i_.~‘icc. 368)
which authorizes the court or iudce to prescribe a
shorter time than'tivc days in which a deposition
may be taken does not. require that the order shall
be made upon notice. Scctionsiiiisand 890 of the

l\'.imbic v. Uearhart, 12 Cai., 27.

i-‘0<1e(c0<1t=.m 1s77,s@t-S. ass, 390), if applicable to a

[Cu]. Prac. Act, See. -130.]

matter of this sort, are merely directory, and re

SECTION 369.

1.

Manner of Taking Deposit-ion.

\Vhere a

quire rcasonabic notice, under the circumstances, : deposition is taken u: porlc, though after notice,
the language used by the witness will be suspi
ciously regarded_. and only a very literal interpreta

not necessarily to exceed twenty-four hours.

Tabor v. Bush, 4 Colo. Law Rep-. 209
2.

It being objected by plaintiif to a deposition:

Fifﬁt, That the copy of the order of the judge fix
ing the time for taking it did not mention the
notice to be given; Set‘ond, 'i‘hat no correct coP)'
of said order was served; Third, That no sulllcient

tion given to it.
Spring v. Hill, 6 Cal., l7.
2.

Ubjcctions to depositions can be made at

any time before they are read in evidence.

liye v. Bailey, 2 Cai., sea.
notice was given—thc objection

was overruled,

"because the original order of the judge made on

aﬂldavit ilxed the time of notice at three days, and
because plaintlli"s counsel acknowledged service
in writing of a copy thereof more than three days

before the taking of the deposition."

3. Depositions are subject to all legal except-ions
at the trial, save only as to the form of the interrog
atory, where the parties attend the exammatlon.

Lawrence v. Fulton, ii) Cai,, (;,\';_

Held. t-hm
4. Where the parties stipulated that a deposi

there was no error; that the objection assigned was
matter i'or the court, and its discretion was i"'°P‘~’I'1-"
exercised; that reasonable notice should be given
01' the time and place of taking testimony; but

tion which had been taken in another action should
be used on the trial, “with the same force and effect,
subject to the same exceptions as it‘ taken in this
case :" 11¢;-Id, that the stipulation was a waiver of

What is reasonable notice depends upon the par

an v objection to the competency of the witness.
ticular circumstances.
Atwood v. Frlcot. l7 t'al.. 37.

the date when the deposition was subscribed and

‘.2. Querr : \\'hether a party can object, on
second trial, to the reading of a deposition which
he sum-red his ad versar_v to read on the tirst trial

sworn to, it is not necessary that the further certi

without objection.

5. if, at the end ofa deposition taken by a
commission out of the State, there is a _nu-at giving

Myers v. Casey, ll t‘al.. 5l'.l.
3. The olijt-ct ofthls lU'l".l()n is t.o enable either

ticate of compliance with this section should be
dated.

party to read a deposition, admissible in itself,
once taken, at any stage of the action or proceed
ing—'md not to render it adrnissible simply

lﬁlgin v. Hill, 21 Cal., 373i.
6. LLB stipulation that a deposition may be
taken is silent as to the day on which it may be
taken, the commission need not state the date on

because it was taken.

which it was taken.

-

Turner v. .\leIlhaney, 8 t‘al., om.

Id.

7. A certificate to a deposition must state that
the deposition was read to the witness before sign
ing; it must set forth an actual compliance with

nun. P1110. Act, Secs. m-m.l

all the requirements of the statute. Theadmlssion
oi‘ hearsay testimony to a fact admitted by both
parties is not error.

l.

Depositions Taken out of the State. if it

comlnission to take the deposition of a witness
out of the State is issued on the application oi one

Williams v. Chadbourne, 6 Cal., 5' .

party without the consent of the other, to a perwn
who is not a justice of the peace, or commissioner,
etc., and the party who does not consent alter the
appointment tiles cross-interrogatories, and stipu

8. A party who appears and cross-examines a
witness without objecting to his competency can
not afterwards interpose that objection.
Brooks v. t‘rosby. 22 Cal., 42.

lates as to the manner in which the deposition
9. An entire deposition cannot be excluded
on the ground that certain questions asked on the
examination were improper. The objection to
the deposition on this ground must he eontined to
the particular questions, otherwise any error in

shall he returned, he is estopped from saying W“
the commissioner was improperly appointed.
Crowther v. ltowlandson, ‘ll t‘al., 3&1.
I

2.

if parties stipulate that a connnissioaer may

“kc it deposition upon written interrogatories. and
permitting the questions will be waived.

the stipulation says nothing about the day the
Higgins v. Wortell, l8 Cal., 33".

3"""~‘ 1118!’ be taken, it is not necessary llmi ll"

10. If the certiﬁcate states that the deposition
was corrected by the notary under the direction of
the witness, it is a sutlicient compliance with the
statute requiring the deposit ion to be read over to
the witness before signing-hecatise it shows by
necessary implication that the deposition was
either read to or examined by the witness.
Id.

colnlnissioner state in his certiﬁcate the day iii?

11. If a part of a deposition .be liable to the

sion in the interval : Held, not sntlicient dillgL‘!1lB

exeeption oi‘ hearsay, this goes only to that part.
and the objection should be taken at the hearing.

Stttlle Was taken.
Elgin v. Hill, 27 (.‘al., 378.

3-

lliiigenee must be used in apP1)'\"‘=' ‘(Bria

eominission. (Pl:-rson v. Ilolbrook, ‘.2 Fill" °‘-'-"
Answer tiled May iii, application for continuance
June l-l, to take testimony in New York. no
attempt having been made to sue out commit?‘

to entitle the party to a eontinuanee.
Pierson v. Holhrook, ir.i.. 59-‘.

Myers v. Casey, ll Cai., 5i2.
12. Where a rule of the court requires three
days‘ notice of exceptions to deposition, unless the
exceptions appear on_ the face of the deposition,
the meaning is that the objection—not the objec
tionable matter—must appear on the face of the
deposition.
.

SECTION 381.
[L'ai. Prac. Act, See. tilt]
1. Inspection of Documents, writings. Im

the 00"" m

Id.
13. It is no ground to exclude a deposition that
the notice was to take it before the eonntvjudgc
but was taken before the county clerk.
_
’
Williams v. Chadbourne, 6 Cai., 559.

or-ds, etc.
This section authorizes
make an order directing a part)‘ to Produce book!‘
and papers in court.

Burnstead v. Empire ‘Mining (0-~
‘
°Lal"
.' 1
Sec. ‘.51-">'.i, Gen. Laws '77.

2- 35' the statute, books of original en"? 3"‘
admissible as evidence. But where the entliiiziz

SECTlON 370.

were made ‘D’ 11 person not present at the triathe
must appear, in order to admit them, Hm‘ I

[Cal. Prac. Act, See. 431.]

l>i“-'1‘-B0n who made the entries is dead or without

1. Deposition May be Read
The reading of evidence taken 2; ACll(:3;t)Slll
Stage.

me SW10; that he was disinterested: and "-151
u‘‘‘.‘' were made in the usual course 01' hi"‘m'T;

although done after the jury have retir1 i
On.
much a part of the trial as any other
ck ' is as
People v. Kohler, 5 C‘al., 72.

.

Also, the handwriting must be proven.0llli'!"‘ -

H is error to admit the books.
Fi\l'TlIlgt0n

4
3
.1
v_ Tuckgr-' 1 (Tilt).
Lil“' Rip

SECTION 382.
[Cal. Prac. Act, See. -l l7.]
1. Lost “r’ritings—Rc-cords. “'hen it question
arises as to the existence of a statute, of its precise
terms, or of its constitutional enactment, the court

may resort to the legislative Journals as evidence.
'I‘he printed stattttes are only prima fuck evidence.
In re itoberts, i Colo. Law Rep.. H2; -3 L‘olo.,
3:5.
2. When a written instrument has been de
stroyed without fraud, it is error to refuse proof oi
its contents.

10.

231

it is suiiicientprintafucie to show that the

grantee, or his representative, did not have the
grant. and that it was not in the place where last
seen. ti‘icrcc v. \\'ailace, l8 Cai., l6-3). Not sutli
cleut, win-n.
Lawrence v. Fulton, 19 id.,6-‘E8; tlid., 460; £11.,

ilh; 1'.’ £11., lot.
ii. Second Sub-division--Held by Adverse
Party. l’nt'oi evidence of the contents ofa written
contract between the alleged husband and wife to
live together without marriage is inadmissible,

except after due notice to produce the contract,

and i‘L*i'UJ:tﬂi to do so. (Pooie v. Gerrard, 9 Cal., 593.)
6 L'oio.,tltl5.
3. " Have hunted my otiice over. and made dili

So of any written contract.

tirimcs v. Fail, 15 id., iii.
gent search," without tindlng a letter, by the party
offering the testimony, is not sufficient ground

upon which to admit proof of the contents of such
letter. -‘lceondary evidence of the con tents should
not be admitted unless the preliminary proof of
loss shows a burnt ﬂde and unsuccessful search in
the place where the lost instrument was deposited,

and last seen, or where it was most likely to be
found.
\\'eiis v. .\tlilillt~i, -i(‘olo. Law Rep.,:l‘.5; iii ‘al.,

460; 12 111., it‘)-l.
4. First Sub-division-—Lost or Destroyed. In
a suit by the assignce of a book account, the assig

12.

\Vhcre it is itupos.-dbie to produce the paper

between the time of giving the notice and the trial,
that fact should be made to appear.
Burke v. Table Mountain t‘o., 12 (.‘al., 403.

13. The suiiicicncy of the notice to produce a
paper is a question of discretion for the court.
Id.
14. Third .‘inb-divi.-don—Iu Custody of Oﬂicen
(Jcrtliied copies of grants by the surveyor-general
of the United States are inadmissible, unless the
absence of the original is accounted for.

Hensley v. Tarpey, 7 Cal., 2“.
nor is a competent witness to prove the loss of the
book of original

entries, as preliminary to the

ltltroduction of secondary evidence of’ its contents.
i.‘auiib-id v. Saunders, l7 t‘al., Mil.
5.

It is not a matter of course to allow second

“'5' Bﬂtlcnce of the contents of arr i|t.~'trunient in
suit upon proof of its dt-.-traction. If the destruc

15. Certified copy of a decree of discharge in
insolvency (or bankruptcy) is admissible.
Gladstone v. Davidson, IS (‘ai., -ii.

16. A certiﬁcate of the surveyor-general that
the paper “is a true and accurate copy of a docu

tion was the result of accident, or without the
agency or consent of the owner, such evidence is

ment" on file in his office, is sufiicient against the
objection that the copy is not duly authenticated,
and is admissible, if the original would be compe

generally admitted.
lint if the destruction was
voiuntarilyand deliberately made by the owner,

tent evidence.

.\-'atoma Water & Mining ("o. v. Clarkin, I-i
or with his assent, the ndtnis.-iibiiity of the evi
t_‘ai., Fri~l.

dence will depend upon the cause or motion of the
party in effecting or consentin-.: to its destruction.

The facts and circumstances of the destruction
must be shown. to enable the court tojudge of the
Propriety of admitting or refusing secondary evi
dence.

Bagiey v. Admr. of .\Ic.\Iichael, 9 Cai.. 430.
6- As to paroi evidence to prove contents of
instrument dest roycd by tire.
(loilier v. t_lorbett, i-1 tJal., DR
0

7- A copy of a notice posted on a mining Hail"
to show its extent is not admissible in evidence, if

the notice itself be attainable—bcing Secondary

1 7. Fourth Sub-divislon—“'hcn Statute Makes
Copy Evidence. A recorder, in t-crtifying copies of
deeds, need not transcribe the notariai seal to the
acknowledgment, the certiﬁcate of acknowledg
ment showing that the notary did afiix his seal.

Jones v. Martin, 16 t ‘al., ill’).
18. A power of attorney not aifecting real estate
is not required by law to be recorded, and the fact
that such instrument was acknowledged and re
corded does not authorize it to be read in evidence
without proof of its execution.
Stevens v. Irwin, 12 (‘al., W6.

evidenceand admissible only underthe rules relat

ing thereto.

Lombardo v. Ferguson, 15 Cal.’ 372
8.

Proof that such notice has been torn. "mi

10. \\'hen an original instrument proved to be
lost has been recorded, it. is error to admit parol
evidence of its contents, unless the failure to pro
duce thc record is accounted tor.

that the remaining portion is (as witness thinksi

illegible and defaced, is enough to authorize the
introduction of a copy.
9-

Dunning v. Rankin, 19 Cal., 640.
Where record book containing :1 judgment

has been destroyed by tire, secondary evidence 1111!!
be admitted to establish the fact of the existence
Of such judgment and its contents.
Ames v. Ray, l2 Cal., ii.

Brotherton v. Mart, 6 t‘al., 48%.
20. To make a copy of an unrecorded deed evi
dence, the loss ofthe original must be shown. The
testimony of the subscribing witness, if such there

he, should be had, at least to the fact of the execu
tion of the paper. unless they are shown
without thejurisdiction oi‘ the court.

Smith v. Branuan, 13 Cai., 107.

to _be

jurisdiction are generally received as prinm fan‘:
of both the character of the otllcers giving them
and the genulnenms of their signatures.

21. Copies of deeds duly tiled for record in the
proper otllee, or recorded, are admissible in evi

dence in all courts, and in all actions and proceed
Mott v. Smith, 16 Cul., 5%.
Al, N exmmu Mwched w a phmdmg’ M 1.,

ings, with like etfect as the originals, upon proof
of loss of the originals, or that they are not in the
power of the persons offering the copies.
‘.\lc.\llnn v. U't.‘onor, ‘Z7 t,‘ai., 2'5“; ill., 50; ill

Cal" 2,1’.

id., 6&8.

-_

SECTION 388.
l Cal.SECTION
Prac. .\ct.,383.
Sec. tit}
["*“- Pm('~- Ac" Sec‘ “L1
be 1.Explained.
AlterationsA inparty
\Vrliten
offering
Instrument
a promissory
Must -t llnpr‘-"‘-‘mm
1' g*“‘|'_‘‘‘“'
or thelmpr°'““-i
Mn‘ "m5 [or
N r"::;‘chu°:0'n
‘
note in evidence is not obliged, before the same is

i"W*"' on‘-"-

admitted, to account for an erasure appearing

upon the face of it, unless the erasure has b(‘L'll_

2.

I is

A scroll, with “L. 8." written within t,

made, or appears to have been made, after the exesuilleh-nt.
cation of the instrument, and is on a part of the :
ilastlm_'s v. Vaughn, -‘i (.‘al-.3l5
note which is material to the point in dispute.

|

(‘ore-oran v. lioll, 32 (‘al., $2.
2. When a printed form of promissory note '
is used, and an erasure is made only as to the
printed matter, the presumption is that it was I

SECTION 389.
[t.‘al. Prue. Act, Sec. 621.]

made prior to the execution of the note,and to suit

1. Mining Claims—Customn as to. Before
any law was enacted by the Territorial assem

the terms agreed on by the parties.
Id.

bly. regulating the manner of locating and 6°19‘

3. Wherea deed is produced in evidence by a

veylng mining claims upon 1110 imbuc d°_“mn
that matter was regulated solely by rules or by
laws made by the inhabitants of the district ill.
to his interest, and to the prejudice of the other
which the claim was situated, or in the absence 0'
party, it is incumbent on him to establish by satis- I

party claiming under it, and it appears upon its .

face to have been altered in a particular material

such rules or by-laws by the local usa:;85 and Gus’
factory evidence that the alteration was made by
the grantor or by his authority, or the deed will be
deemed, for the purposes of the action, to read as it

I

did before
the alteration
was26
made.
Gallaud
v. Jackman,
Cal., 79.

' m‘_- '5' "HI":t l M‘ pm“'0".

totns of the district.
_,._,rU

(Sullhan
,
\.
. l*Iou8("1;ruole5:
. 2 P “1

Judicia‘ nmice cmmot be taken of suit

I

' .

are2.to be
Mining
construed
laws, by
when
the introduc\d
court and "1
""he I
.

SECHONS
384-385.
[Cal
Prac -\ct ~5¢-Qt;
4.;9__*,-,-,
.
. i
’ ‘
d.
J. J

i. Judicial Record. There is no attempt in
this section to dispense with the rule that the best
evidence
must
be resorted to which the nature of
the case will
admit.

Macy v_ Goodwin. 6 Cal" 579.
2.

To entitle a book to the character of an

of
such lawsa forfeiture had accrued. isuii uestlon
I
law, and cannot therefore be proper“ all
the jury.

1

I

Fairbank v. \\’oodl1ouse,t>blIl-. “*
T0195
3. hliners have power t0 Prescﬂm\ the
ftltiesw
\ govcrnlm: the acquisition and tll\'t&‘iI1ii:u‘:’Jec
.
i tms class or c‘Mn“"m1d mun. onemw

oitlcial register it is not necessary that it be rc- I to the hm.“ or me Mme.

quired by an express statute to be kept, 1101- mm
the nature of the olllce should render the book I

English v. Johnson, l7 (‘al.. W7
4. Wherea party's rhrhts toa mining claltn
mM‘
of

m(uSPeﬂsal)ie. It is sutlleient that it is directed by

fixed by the rules of property, which ar\‘_iiuI"_erwd

the proper oﬂleer to be kept.

the general law of the land, thP)’ cmmot hm \

.'

_

3: The record ofa Judgment of another State, if
certified in conformity with the ac.t of ( 'ongress or
with the provisions ot the Code, is ad rnisslble in
evidence.
Parks v. Williams, 7 (,'al., ‘Bil’; ls‘ ut., 3'72.

,

1'00

Warlng v. Crow, 11 Cal.. 395.
5.
'

The quantity of ground a miner 61

by location or prior appropriation

M of

poses may be limited by the mining l'ti\-Mme
district (Prosser v. Parks, in i_‘.al., 47); ‘mt n
acquirement by purchase.

secnou 386.

m.
6.

-an

[Cal. Prae. Act, Secs. <i3l—i-'»‘2.]
1. Judicial Record of Forel
gu Countries. In
the United States, certificates of the proof and
acknowledgment 0 f deeds executed in aforelga '

uitnnts, et.c..

See further as t.o district rulcih C

115?
1s(:ai.,-:70; mm.,-rm; 1-.'i,_1..t213; l7‘‘'-'.37;-. 14 UL.
35?”

‘.15 £11.. ‘.53-i; id., -TIT; L") |'1i., lit‘); 31 id-, 3753 ‘IL,

t'd.,6'26; -xx 121.. 243; its 511.. I.i'.i‘-‘; 1" M-' 53*‘ 36 ‘dltiﬂ.’
Nevada, itii; id.. '-‘I-"'1; id" 317: "1" 42“ I bum.

SECTION 397.
l . Motion. An application for an order is a
motion.
Jenkins v. Frlck, ‘Z7 t‘al., tiiiil.
2. Against a motion there seems to be no
statute of limitations, and it may be made within
a reasonable time.
Reynolds v. Harris, H (lal., 6il\'.

8. Where the party in his notice of motion
asks for speeitlc relief, or such ot.her or further

order as may be Just, the court may afford any
relief compatible with the facts of the case pre

1. Service of Notice.

\\'hen a party changes

his attorney, and there is no regular substitution
of counsel, notice may be served on the attorney
of record.
Grant v. White, 6 L3al., 55.
2. Acknowledgment of service of notice, duly
dated, is not a waiver of an objection that the
notice was served too late.
Towdy v. Ellis, 2 Cai., 650.
3. Statement on back of notice, by moving
counsel, that notice was served at a given time, is

not evidence of servi - . Service not waived with

sented.
People v. Turner, l (.‘al., 152.

out appearance to moﬁon.
ijaiderwood v. Brooks, 25 Cal., 152.

4. Affidavit of service on attorney, if it does
SECTION 398.

not show personal service, must show compliance
with the statute.
'
lioll v. Smith, 32 (‘ai., -75.

[L‘al. Prue. Act, Secs. 516-17.]
5.

So a party relying upon service by mail must

1. Place—.\’ot.icm Motion to strike a demurrer
from the files must be made on twenty-four hours‘
notice.

liki.-wise show a strict compliance with the statute.

People v. \Veber, 3 Colo. Law Rep., 62.

6. in case of notice served by mail, the distance
is a question of fact to be determined by proof.

People v. Alameda T. (‘o., 30 Cal., 182.

2. When the statute spcaksot notice ofa motion

Neely v. Nagiee, 23 L‘al., 152.

it means written notice, or notice in open court,
of which a minute was made by the clerk.

Borland v. Thornton, l2 t.‘ai., -i-lo.
3. if a Judge who tried a cause goes without
the district before the time for motion for new

trial has expired, the moving party uses due dill
gencc if he brings the motion to a hearing when
the judge returns.

SECTION 405.
[Ca]. Prue. Act, See. 523.]
1. Appearance. Where the record shows, in
general terms, the appearance of the parties, the
appearance will be contined to those parties served
with process.

Warden v. .\lendocino ('o., 32 (‘al.,il-'1').
Chester v. Miller, 13 Cal., 558.

4- The court has the power, in the exercise of a
proper discretion, to extend the time fixed by law

for tiling papers, etc., in a cause.
\\'0od v. Forbes, 5 i‘al., 62.
5- If there is any ambiguity in the terms of a
notice, rendering its rm-aning doubtfbl, it must be
most strongly construed against the part_v giving it.
Carpentier v. Thlrston, 30 (.‘al.. l2l.

6- If notice of application for an injunction be
given a shorter time than required by statute, the
defendant may treat the injunction as obtained
without notice.

2. Special appearance to quash summons, or
move to dismiss, is not waiver of summons.
Doidesheimer v. Brown, 8 Cal., 339.
3.

Nor does he waive his rights in the premises,

by answering, after motion to dismiss has been
denied.
Id.
4. Summons is waived by voluntarily appear
ing and pleading in the cause.
Smith v. Curtis, 7 Cal., 584.

5. Defendant is only bound. by an appearance
made by answer, demurrer or written notice that

22Cal., 479.
he appears.

‘

Steinback v. Leese, 27 L‘ai., 297.
6. Appearing in a _iustice’s court is a waiver of
SECTION 399.
[Cal. Prac. Act, See. 517.]

1- Time of Notice. Thcprovislons of the Code
must be liberally construed with a view K0 P")
mote their object and assist parties in obtaining

Justice. Section 390 (Code of l&\"i. See. 399). “'h1ch
provides for twenty-four hours‘ notice of motion,
requires reasonable notice, not necessarily to ex
Oeecl twenty-four hours, under the circumstances

Of each particular case.
Tabor v. Bush, Ii Colo. Law Iiep.. 209.
See ante, Sec. Kits‘.

See also, ante, Sec. iii‘.

right to be brought in by summons.
Cronise v. Uarghlll, 4 (.‘al., l20.
"‘I -

An appearance may be by attorney or in

person, but not both. (tjommissioners v. Younger,
29 Cai., H7.) The authority of an attorney who
enters appearance will be presumed, where noth
ing to the contrary appears.
I-lays v. Shattuck, 21 Cal., 51.
Wilson v. Cleveland, 30 id., 192; 17 021., -131;
31 221., ll.
8.

Notice

to an attorney-at-law in a case is

notice to his client.

‘

Bierce v. Red Cliff Hotel Co., 31 (Jal., 160.

8. An .\uign|ncnt oi‘ Errors in as indispcns
able in the Suprelue t‘ourt as it complaint in the

SECTION 409.
i.

Computation of Time.

Before the t‘ode,

court below, and the nssignnmnt must be tiled

the rule as to publication of summons was to
exclude the day of publication and include the

with the record. Failure to tile is cause for dis
inissiuig the appeal. iliaas v. tfotns. Pueblo (‘oun
ty. l t‘oio. Luw iivp., lift; 5 Colo., 125). Each crrur

tlrst day of the term.
Htebbins v. Anthony, --'1 Colo ,8t\'.

must be sepamtely alleged and particularly stated.

l‘. i‘. it. it. ('0. v. Hinit.h,5L‘olo., in).

~. When the statute requires an act to be done

0’

a certain number of days prior to a day named, or
within a detinlte period utter a day or event speci

tied. or where time is to be computed either prior
or subsequent to it day named, the usual rule is to
exclude one day of the designated period and in

it. \\'heu no Error in the Decision Below.
The Supretne t'ourt will not reverse when no
errors are found in the decisions of the court

iM‘loW.

When a party declines to amend his

pica-iini.'s in the court in-low-opportunity being

ntforded-he takes the ease up at his own peril.
clude the other.
Id.

Colo. Springs t'o. v. liopkins,6 L‘oio.,$%; i
O

SECTIONS 411-430.
1.

Appeals and Writs of Error—.\lntters of

Practice in Appellate Court. in taking an ap
peal from an order denying a motion for it new
trial, under :~iection 3:9-i oi‘ the Code of ‘T7, notice of
appeal must be given within sixty days after the

making of the order.

t'oio. Law itcp.,2il.
I0. .“l\(‘('l|ll“l‘lIlll Matters oi Practice.
While the Supreinc i'onrt will not l'l_‘\'it'WtiJlldg'
ment upon the timtiniouy, will-re an eruption to
the Judgment was not l't_'."'-t'I'\'i:ti at ii trial to the
court, it will consider errors. as-signed, based on

exceptions duly reserved durlm: the progrv-¥~' Of
the trial.
Same v. Sanm, 5 t‘oio., SIS; 1 t‘oio. Iii"

(Brown v. Willoughby, 5

iiep., ii.
it.

Coio., 1). An appeal ﬁom a Judgment of a District
Court upon an appeal t‘rom County Court, is barred
after ninety days.

Hewit v. Colorado Springs (‘o., 5 (.‘olo., i-41.
[Nors.-Section tins of the tfodc was repealed by

below.
linrudoilnr v. Patton, 5 Uoio., Q.
12. The Supreme t'ourt cannot consider mat
ters of evidence upon stipulation mcrelynmd not

not approved February 2ith, ls'ﬂl.—+iession
Laws lHi7il, p. 21).]

2. Motion to Dimniss.

lwtlcieiicies in the reeord cannot be sup

plied in the riupreine Court by rrpor-tciitiitiavits.
Where an mnendtnent is desired to the shentis
return, application must be nuule in the court

in appeal cases, when

properly brought up by the record.
lions v. llnggan, 5 Coio., 8-5.
13. When the trial is to the court, the tinding

special pleading is not allowed, it- is proper for the
respondent to apply to dismiss the appeal, ifnot
brought within the time limited by the Slﬂiiliv, or
if the right to appeal is barred in any other

will not be disturbed unless manifestly alums‘

manner.

the weight oi’ the evidence.

Wiiloughby v. George, -3 ('olo., HI).
3. Plea in Bar. Where the right to appeal is
barred by time, the right to plead the bar is a
vested right, and beyond the peril of subsequent.

14. Lt‘it\'(: will be granted in flii‘1h€i’&D°(":{
Justice, in a proper ease, to tile ﬂupplemm

legislation, and a writ of error cannot be prose

i'I'('()I'(l. even aﬂer submission.
Htebbins v. Anthony, 5 Colo., 3i2

Dickson v. .\ioli’att, 5 t'olo., iii.

cuted under a subsequent act.

during the vacation, under an order of c-:mrt.ii1\
defendant tiled a motion to dismiss for non-\"_'l_11'
pliance with the order, no delay in the sulriniisﬁliltl:
oi’ the cause having occurred, the motion to distill»

Bond v. First National Bank, id., til.
See post, note lb.
4. A Joint Appeal by all the defendants al
lowed, upon condition of joint bond, must be
prosecuted by all.
Fuller v. Swan River Placer (,‘o., -'1 t.‘olo., 123.
An order vacating n
5. Not Final Order.
_iudgment, however erroneous, is in no sense tinal
and appeal thereirom will not lie.
’
Higgins v. Brown, -3 l.‘olo., I-it-5.

will be denied.
Home v. Dutf, 5 L‘olo., 3“.
W
16. Leave having been granted wm°‘5“pp
mental record, and it appearing that the WP ‘ to
supplemental record was of matters suiisviluﬂlmM

and independent of the decree in the Oﬂgom
reoord, the supplemental record “'18-'\‘8U'l\'ken

6. Objections to Pleading not made in the

Becker, lmpl., v. Henderson. -7 C0lo., 345
11. The plaintiff in error ma)‘ dmmi“ his writ
Bt_.‘('kt'_'!' v. Henderson, 5 C010"

Fassett
v.433.
Mulock, 5 Colo , 46¢‘l,' 1 L‘ 0 l o. Law
'
Rep-’
'7. ."a.cai:ing Former Judglnent.
R r
If there was
error in vacating
ormer jud,~_'1nent, it occurred
in a former trial the record of which is not beiore
the court. It‘ the error was allow
ed it would go to
a judgment other than tint
practice cannot be allowed. am)ml(d from‘ wh lch
Brown v. The State, 1 Colo. Law

Rep" 33H ;

‘

of the court's own motion.

court below will not be noticed on appeal.

5 ('0lo_, 493.

_

1:5. \\'here the pinintitf failed to seal!" """d’

1a. ‘

18.

Agreed Case.

take _iurisdietion of an agreed CW!
having sulnnitted themselves to til
I

its. but “form
it will not only determine their rillI n ﬂppmpmw
its adjudication by the entry 01' 3
Judgment.
People v. Brighton, 5 (‘.oio.. 487; 1 C010. 11'
Rep., 362.

Writ of Error.

A writ

of error, in this

3]. Errors assigned based on exceptions duly
reserved at the trial will be considered, though

State, is the commencement of a new suit.
Webster \'. Gail‘, ti Colo., 475.

20. A writ of error lies only to such judgments

the judgment may not, for want of exception, be
rcvlcwetl on the evidence. _

and decrees as are tlnal.
.-\lvord' v. .\ie(3auglw_v, 5 (‘olo., '2“;

Colorado Springs t‘o. v. Hopkins, 5 Colo.,
216; l Colo. Law Rep., ll.

l (folo.

Law lit-p.\&i.

32.

21. The oitlce of a writ of error being fully ex
plained in the common law, and (‘ongress having

authorized this court to issue it, the Jurisdiction to

liurnc v. Duff, 5 Colo., fl-H.

hearand determine cases brought into this court

by means of this writ was complete, without fur
theractlon by the legislature.
Htebblns v. .-\nthony, 5 Colo., 253;

l i'olo.

Law Rep., M.
22. Writ of error must. be prosecuted within

Aypeal will not be dismissed for failure to

ﬂleasslgmnr-nt of errors within time allowed by
onh-r of court, no delay being occasioned by such
iailure.

33.

Errors occurring in a Judgment other than

that appealed from cannot be enquired into on
appeal.
lirown v. Htatc, 5 (‘olo., 496; l (‘olo. Law
ltep., -‘iiii.

34. The admission or rejection of merely im
five years from the date of the rendition of the
decree in the court below.

material evidenec may not be assigned for error.
Htanberry v. Kerr, ti (_.'olo., 28; 1 ('olo. Law

Clayton v. ('hule_v, 5 (.‘olo., I37.

Re-p., W.

have no greater rights than the ancestor whom

35. Error cannot be assigned on the refusal of
the court to give an instruction. when there was

they represent, and where he, if living, would not
be entitled to a writ of error, the representatives

no evidence upon which to base it.
Piela v. People, ti ('olo., -‘H3; lColo. Law

23. Heirs-at-law prosecuting in that character

Rep.,3-18.

are equally without remedy.
Id.

24. A plaintitf in error may dismiss his writ.
Becker v. Henderson, 5 i.'olo., -‘H6.

25. Writ of error will lie to review proceedings
on mandamus issued by a district judge. (Bean v.
People. 6 Colo., W: 2 tfolo. Law ii.ep., 372;; or what
ever assumes to itself the iorce of a judgment.

Id.
26.

While a writ oferror will lie only to a ﬂnal

judgment it nevertheless brings up the whole
record for review, and if there im found substantial
errors, apparent upon the face of it, operating to

the injury of the plaintilf in error, this court. has
me Power to correct them by modifying or revers
ing the Judgtnent.
Wehle v. Kerbs, 6 Colo., lii7; ii Colo. Law
Rep., -1*.

30. Upon an assignment of error based upon
the alleged insuﬂiciency of the facts to support the
Judgment there can be no review, unless the bill of
exceptions contains all the evidence upon which
the question depended in the court below.
ilarkinson v. Dry Placer A. (‘o.,6Colo.,2ili;
3 Colo. Law Rep., lt~‘ii.

37.

Errors will be considered based upon ex

ceptions to the rulings of the court, reserved dur
ing the progress of the trial.
Breen v. Richardson, 6 Colo., 606; 1 Colo.
Law Rep., 571.

38. Jurisdiction. To authorize an appeal the
judgment must amount to twenty dollars, exclu
sive of costs, or relate to a franchise or free-hold.
(Shackelford v. King, 6 Colo., 37; -'3 Colo. Law Rep.,

56; Thorne v. Urnaucr. ii (_‘olo.,3ii; 2 ‘oio. Law Rcp.,
217). Joinder in error will not remove the objec
tion.

charge an attachment, before or after Judgtnent,

Id.
39. An appeal must he prayed within three
days after the time of renderingthejudgmcnt. The

will be reviewed on.

pendency of a motion for new trial does not relieve

27. Error in discharging or refusing 10 I“-“'

Id.
28- in writ of error to review decree of divorce,
ﬂﬂer one of the party has died, the heirs at law are
necessary parties.

Israel v. Arthur, 6 ()‘olo., $5; 2 Colo. Law
Rep.,3l9.
29. Error—Asslgnment of_ Anassignmentof
errors is indispensable and must. be filed with the
record or the appeal may be dismissed.

Haas v. L‘om'srs. Pueblo i_‘o., l (‘olo. Law
Rep., IO3; 5 Colo., I23.

from this statutory requirement.
Dasing v. Nelson, 6 Colo., 39; 2 Colo. Law
Rep., 217.
40. A'”party in whose favor ajudgment was
rendered cannot appeal to the Supreme Court.
Joinder in error does not remove the objection, as
consent cannot confer jurisdiction.

llall v. Pay Rock L‘. M. (‘o., 6 Colo., 81; 2
(‘oio. Law Rep., 334.
41.

An appeal Her; only from ﬁnal Judgment

or decree.
Higgins v. Brown, 6 Colo., 145; 2 Colo. Law

Rep., 375.

30. Each error must be separately alleged and
particularly stated. (C. C. R. R. Co. v. Smith. 5
C01“-, 160; Hanna v. Barker, 6 Colo., 303; 3 C01"
L““' Rep.. -‘Will. Questions not raised by 5.l)0Cmc

42. In condemnation proceedings, when com
missioners have filed their report, and the court
has denied motion to vacate or set it aside, there is
such ﬁnal detertnination as'wili authorize writ ot

aaslgnment of error will not be reviewed.

error or appeal.

Kiskadden v. .-klieu, -i (_‘oio. Law iiep.. illi

I). J: N. 0. R. R. ()0. v. Jackson, 6 Colo., 340;
3 Colo. Law Rep., 260.

54. A iltlnant to whom time is allowed to pre
43. Appeal n-om County to District (‘mm is
perfected by execution of the appeal bond, and
cannot be dirrrnissed because the papers were not
tiled in the District i'ourt within a time spwltied
by rule of the court. (‘onrt cannot by rule contra
vene a statutory enactment.

pure and tender bill of exceptions must exercise

diligence, both in preparing and tendering it.
Id.

55. The bill of exmptionn not purporting to
contain all the testimony, the Hupreme Court can
not inqulre whether the \'crdic't was supported by

(‘otes v. .\iacit,3t‘olo. Law Rep.. 416; 6 (‘ol0.,

the evidence.

401.
44.

The “ court," and not the "judge," is re

quired to fix appeal bond.
Gruner v. Moore, 3 Colo. Law itep.. i3-U; 6
('()lo.. 5'1".
Jurisdiction oft‘ounty Pourt, being limited

45.

by statute, must atiirrnatively appear by the com
plaint.

uiordon v. Darnell, l Colo. law

Rop., an; -'1('olo.,!ltr.’. Harkinson v. hrs i’lsu:r.\.
t"o., 0 t'olo., 20-0; 3 Coin. Law Bcp., lﬂl. Law V.
iirinl-tcr. 6('oio., -133; 4 t‘olo. Law iii-p.,iN.i Unless

the l't‘(‘0I'll shows what testimony was 0i'l1iilt‘d,tilit.i
thc 1-\'llit-nee omitted could not have ntfected the
question prt-scntui.
N utter \'. ti‘ Donnell, ti t‘olo., ‘Iii; 3 Colo. LBW
i{cp.. ‘Sit.
'
50.

Learned v. Tritch, 6 (‘o]o., H2; 3 t.'oio. Law

The t‘lvil (‘ode abolishes all distinction be

tween actions at law and proceedings in equili
48.

Rcp., Mi; 5 t'oio., 574.
The provisions ot the

Revised

Statutes

establishing the mode of procedure in taking and
prosecuting appeals ﬁorn justices‘ courts, remain
in force; but under the Act of March H, i-\TT, such
appeals lie to the County instead of the District
Court.

Wilkes v. Campbell, 5 L‘0l0., I26.
41. Where a mot.ion was made and sustained
t.o vacate a judgment rendered ata preceding term

Testimony taken before a referee isamatterdelwn

the record. and can only be preserved bi‘ bi“ °r
exceptions.
Cotes, 2 (‘oio. Law lit-p._. ‘It’-: 6

iilatchley y.
‘ul()_, Fl.
57. in t case
of trial to the court cxccptionio
the judgment is necessary to authorize the 1:1;
Drvtltt‘ t'ourt to review the judgment upont
evidence.
iireen v. Richardson, -‘i t'0io. Law Rep. -571;

of the court: Hclri, that, however erroneous the
order vacating the judgment, it was not an order
from which an appeal would lie, being in no sense
a final judgment.
Higgins v. Brown, 5 (7oio.. M5; 2 t‘olo. Law
Rep., 375.
48. Where a cause is being tried before a court
having jurisdiction of the subject matter, and
competent to administer either legal or equitable
rciief,an objection to the jurisdiction of the court
below may not be raised for the tirst time in the
Supreme Court, on appeal or writ oi‘ error.
Frue \'. Houghton, 6 t7olo., 31$; 3 Colo. Law
1tep., ttixi.
49. The court having jurisdiction of the subject
matter, appearance, generally, is a waiver of objec
tion to jurisdiction of the person.
Denver, S. P. & P. R. R. Co. v. Roberts, 3
Colo. Law Rep., 248; 6 Coio., -‘LB.

6 (‘olo., titlﬁ.
i tfolo. L-'W
Law v. iirinker, ti t‘olo., -">33;
iicp., 91.

58. The t-iupreme (‘ourt will not (‘ODRi(iPIt’TTlZ
assigned as to the admission of evidence unthj
the same is objected to and exception taken int L
('0llI't below.

Law itcp.. -Will

Piela v. People, 1 (‘olo.
(T(|l0., RH.

ituplc v. Weary. i (‘olo. Law Repair!“
59- When an instruction is based on evidetzsl

not preserved in the bill of exceptions, ibis “gum
cannot assume there was testimony in “"5 M
the instruction; and when it appear! W: “lug
instruction was prejudicial to tiicpﬂriy 3553

error therein, the _llHiiIi1l0lil will be re\'<'l':=t‘d- " 6
London Con. M. .\i. k 8. Co. v. i'inlilt\,.
Colo., 571 ; i t'oio. Law Rcp.. ll
60. Pleading. The right to plead
the statute of iitnitations cannot ht‘

50. Exceptions. Where a cause is heard upon
an agreed state of facts, no exceptions to the judg
ment are necessary.
George v. Tufts, 5 Coio., 162; l Colo. Law
Rep., 157.

subsequent legislation.

\\' illonghby v. Gedrge, 5 Colo.»'50

Bond v. First National Bank, id-i “~’~

51. While the Supreme Court will not review

61 . Objections to pleading not made in the court

a judgment upon the testimony, when an excep
tion to the judgment has not been reserved, it

below will not be noticed on app¢ﬂl_ W Lu“
Fassctt v. Mulock, 5 (‘ol0., 466: HO -

will consider errors assigned, based upon excep
tions duly reserved during the prowess of the trial.
Colo. Springs (Jo. v. Hopkins, 5 i‘olo., 216; 1
Colo. Law itep., ii.
52. Exceptions taken to inst.ruc.tions en massc
will not be noticed in the Supreme Court; nor will
an instruction not excepted to in the court below.
Wooten V. Seigel, 5 (‘ol0., ~i;':4; l Colo. Law
Rep., 441.
53. A bill of excegtions can only be authen
ticated by aﬂidavit in cases in which the jud"c
neglects or refuses" to allow and sign it
D'

Rep., 423.
62. \\'hcn a party declines

amend his pleadings, upon their bcin

63. The granting leave to tilt! B11
plaint is a matter within the disco’
court and may not be assigned for crr0l_'- J
i
I

.\ieyer v. Binkleman i (‘ “O L

50010., ms.

'

Q . aw mp" “H!

‘ M_

"W 0Pl"0rlunlt_\' 0iTt'*!'(*(1 in the cour

I
I

Brown \'. Sachtrich,
Law Rt.-p., til.

Hi-e notes to secs. 51-81. 0'11";

64. Default.
When full opportunity to act
aside default for irregularity is given, it must be
presumed the court below otfcrcd ample protection
to the rights of defendant under the law.

heard the same, this motion was granted, and the
action distnlsscd at piuintiti‘s costs," is not a judg
ment.
in such case, there being no judgment to
atllrm or rcvenlc, writ. of error will not lie.

Stevens v. Solid Muidoon Printing Co., 4
('olo. Law ltcp., 38-1.

Filmore v. Russell, 6 t'0io., i7i; 2 Colo. Law

itep.,i-5|.
65. Judgment Not Supported by Evidence
will be reversed.

75. Death of Party After decree of divorce
does not prevent writ of error to review the same.

isrucl v. Arthur, -i (‘olo. Law ltcp.', $7.

1)., S. l'. J: I‘. it. it. ('0. v. Reed, 6 (‘oio., 3-‘D.

London t'on. M. .\i. & 8. Co. v. Findlay, id.,
.37l ; i (join. Law Rep., ii.

'70. Costs --Apportlonment—Review. There
were several attachment suits for sums varying

objections are raised which no to the issues raised

from 811!) to ovcr8~i,000. The attached property was
placed in the hands of a receiver and considerable

by the parties are to be made before the issues are

costs incurred in consequence.

settled and Joined.
Learned v. Tritch, ti (‘oi0., 579; 3 (‘ol0. Law
Rep., 393.

missed at costs of plaintiffs. The clerk divided
the costs of receiver equally between plaintitl}.
Motion was made to retax the costs and apportion
the costs of the receiver in proportion to the
amounts sued for by the respective plaintiﬂls, which

66.

Objections.

As a general rule whatever

7. Re-hearings.

Rc-hearinizs are allowed as

arule only upon the presentation of new matter

The suits were dis

motion was overruled. From the judgment over
ruling the motion to rctax, writ of error was sued
out by one piaintiif a:zainst defendants.
Ilcld,
that as the defendants below have no interest in
the jutiglncnt and are not in any way ai‘i‘cctcd by
it, and as the co-piaintiil".-', who would have la-cn

or point essential and pertinent to the decision,
and which was not pn-i~cIttcd and considered in
the hearing and decision of the ca.-c upon its
determination.
Parks v. Wilcox, ti i.'olo., (500; i Colo. Law

Rcp., -33.

affected by the allowance of the motion, are not
G8.

Rémittiiur. issued irrcizulariy, will be re
before the court, no itd_]ildict1ii01l di.-'turbing the

called.
action below can be had.

People v. Hpraguc. i ('oio. Law ltcp., 30'.
69.

£i'!'ect of Appeal.

action, but

An appeal is not a new

77.

the contmuation of the same suit,
The weight of evidence does not wholly consist in
its volume nor in the number of individuals

being only a transfer from one court to another for
tlnai hearing orjudgmcnt.
Colorado Springs to v. Cowcll, 6 Colo., 73;

sworn. This is a most bcnetlccnt evidential rule
which gives Jurors a large discretion injudging of

2 Polo. Law ltcp., M5.
70.

Retrospective.

the credibility of \\'ittic.\st'-s, and makes it pecu
liarly their province to discriminate between those.,.
who testify in-fore them, and imposes upon them
the duty of sifting the evi(icncc—a(-cepting the

The statute. (Laws ls“T9.

5"‘-'-3% P.‘l‘.’.‘J—-Sec. 4:7, (‘Ode of lt~‘~\‘b in so far as it
aliowsa writ of crror to a judgment in respect to

which an appeal was barred prior to its pas.=m.'c. is

true and rejecting the false. ‘
Hrccn v. Taney, 4 Colo. Law Rep., 521.

retrospective in its operation, and not only within
the constitutional prohibition, but within the pro
hibition of fundamental prin('ipit‘8 i,'0\'P!'!1iI1iZ

78. Same-Same-Review of. Supreme (‘ourt
will only interfere with the finding oi a jury on
the evidence, when, upon the whole record, it ap
pears that the Jury acted so unreasonably in weigh
ing testimony, as to suggest a strong presump
tion that thcir minds were swayed by passion or
prejudice, or that they were governed by some

retrospective law.-=.
\\'ilioug.hby v. George, 5 ('olo.. -*0.

71- Saving Claa-tc. St-c t'olorado Springs C0.
V. Coweil, 6 t‘,'olo., 73; 2 Colo. Law Rt‘[i., IH5.
72.

Review

Referee.

on

Evidence

Taken

13 efore

motive other than that of awarding impartial
justice to the contending parties.

In cases tried by the District (‘ourt upon

proofs taken

t'hapman v. Pocock, i Colo. Law Rep., 496.
Weight of Evidence-Province 0! Jury.

and reported by the

master or a

rtifcree, the Supreme t‘ourt will slit and weigh the
evidence, with a view to a Just determination, un
lntiueneed by the proposition that the court below

Id.

had Superior facilities tojudgc of the credibility of
witnesses.

CHAPTER XL.

Sieber v. Frink, 4 i,‘oio. Law licp., 436.
73. Order Vacating Judgnient. No appeal
lies from an order vacatlm: a _iu1l:.:mcnt. A subse
._quent revocation of that order does not have the
effect to revive or re-lnstate the Judgment.

tiwen v. Going, 4 Colo. Law Rep.. 3*?
---

74' Form of Judgment.

While no special

form is De‘-"-‘$88!’? in the entry of a judgment, yet
the r*"(‘"i‘(i must show that an adjudication took

--.

Section 431. Rules.
\Vhile the courts have
powcr to make rules regulating the conduct of
business therein in certain cases, they may not
contravene the provisions of a statute. A rule of
a District Court providing that unless the party
appealing from a County (‘onrt ﬁle the record
within fifteen days the appeal may be tiisinisscti,
will not warrant dismissal without notice—the

amendment to the Code requiring notice.
(‘ates v. Mack, ii Colo. Law Rcp., 416: 6Colo.,

I-“lat-‘t'. and the entry must have been intended as
‘"0 entry of a judgment.

“ The court having

-iﬂi.

Costs on I-‘iiing Remlttitur. Wal.

Sec. 432. Hearings at Chambers.
Querr .
\\'ln-tlu-r momlnnum proceedings can be heard and

Prue. Act, See. tltti.)

determined at chambers, out of the county, under

down the clerk oi the District Court may issue

the (‘ode '3

execution for costs.
Mayor of “arysvilie v. Buchanan, 3(‘al..

\\’hen n rt-mlititur is'scni

Bean v. People ex rel., 2 Colo. Law Rcp.,
2l2: '8) hi , 51.
372; ii t‘olo., ii‘.
2.

Sec. -I-H. Undertaking. (Cal. Prue. Act, See.
630). The aﬂidavit is sutlh-lent when, it fairly con
strued, it comply with the statute.
Taaiie v. Rosenthal, 7 (‘al., 5“.

Where a judgment is against two, and only

one appeals, and the appeal is dinuisued with
dunuuzt-.~, the damages with the costs do not be
come part of the original judgment, and the re

demptioner is not hound to pay them when he
l'(‘dt‘t'lI\I from a sale under the judgment.

2. Wlwre a mere detective undertaking has
been bontljillc given, and the party will tile a good
one before the vase is submitted, the court should

“n

d

‘\m‘.\‘i‘('.\iillnn V. \'il-telnet. H t‘ul., ‘.'-il.
D

8. The vlvrk of the court below, lire-quired by

permit him to do so.
C‘-oulter v. Stark, 7 (‘al., 2“; #1., iii"; H id., Ki.
3. Taking all our statutes together the obvious
design Was to put an undertaking on the same
footing as a bond.
(‘.t\nileld V. Bates, 13 ('ni., 606.
Sec. 446. Copies of L‘. 8. Records. (('ai. Prue.
Act, See. t‘>'>'>l. A sworn copy or exempliiioation of
instrtilmnits in the nrcliivcs oi‘ the government is
evhience, and the originals ought not to he
removed from the government oﬂices.

Gregory v. .\Ic-Pherson, 13 Cnl.. 574.
See Donner v.

The

clerk below can issue execution for the damsgel

i§'almcr, 31

Cal., 500, and

cases cited.

"." Sec. 44.7; Decisions to be Written. (Cal.Pru0.
Act, See. 8-37.) The decision of the court is its_iudg
ment; the opinion is the reasons given for that
judgment. The former, being entered on the r_evorti
immedlatel_v, can only be changed upon a petition
for reliearingormodiﬂeation. Thelattcristhc prop
erty of tl1ejt1d;;e.~:, suhjt-<-I to their revision, conco
tlon or nmdiilcation, until it is tramcri bed upon
the record, when it cea.~:<_-s to be subject. of change-i
except through regular proceedings before the court
by petition.
Houston \'. Wll_iiams, 13 (_‘ul., 2. .

the [H't'\'i\lHlitZ party, may inane execution for the
costs invinded in the memorandum, and costsof

the clerk of the .~iupreme t'ourt as certified by mm
on the rcmlttitur.
I-.‘r purlc iiurrell, 2t t‘ai., 1&3“.

Sec. 436. lbiaquaiiilcution of Judge. it isthi!
imperative duty of a Judge, disqualified by the
terms ui'llu- statute from presiding at the trial oia
cause, of his own motion or on suggestion to ceb

iii)’ the case to some other court, without rcqtliring
judgment
petition for
rendered
vhanize of
by venue
one sounder
disqualiﬁed
the statute’.
18 ‘£32

H'(‘onneii v. Uarnett, i Colo. Law Rep. 3l|~
Sec. - 72.

Liberal Construction.

luthisShli£v

there is no constitutional impediment in the W8)
ora liberal construction oi’ the Code remedy
li nston v. \\’adsworth, 3 Colo., 213: W010
Law Re ., 8.

2. The [)l‘()\'i8l(:)llB oi‘ the (‘ode must he llberall:
construed with a view to promote their obicﬂﬂn
nssist parties in obtaining justice.
quiring twenty-i’our hours‘ notice, held ioreq
reasonable notice under the circumstances.

Tabor v. Bush, 4 (‘oio. Law Rep" 919.
i
3. l‘ourts should not declare a statute ﬂrﬂgggii
when they can tind any reasonable W8) 0

ing it. The object of Section lb of the Code (55;

110, Code of 1577;. is that creditors pursuingwer
1-taulc debtor by attachment should, wl1rn;el-D

2. The legislature cannot. require the Suprcnic
Court to give the reasons of its decisions in writing.
The constitutional duty of the court is dlscllarged
by the rendition of the decision.

pmcticable under limitations as to time. i)1‘°':l‘ ‘ya.
the property attached.

Time, under tn? 0dition

tem as well as the IllL‘“', “'85 mi‘ "55"nual mu_ “P0.
and limitation. The words of this $eCii0"- izw

Id.
turned to the same term of the court to which “ii
Sec. 448.

66%.)

Substitution.

(C-al. Prac. Act, Sec.

Where a. tenant ﬁnds that there are dii‘i‘ercnt

claimants to the property, he should tile :1 bill of
interpleader, making all the adverse claimants
parties thereto, and offer to pay the rents into court
to abide the ultimate decision of the case.

are returnable," ﬁhould he held to H108" “Dd aif}-‘I15
to such writs as may propcfl.V be or are m WI
turned to, at or during the same term.
| n
Lewis v. Parker, 4 Colo. Law li8Ph.'§' '
Sec. 4'73. Saving Clause. Reel.‘-010"‘

to. v. Coweil,15Coio., 73; 2 Colo. Law Rel’-' ZH3.
McDevitt v. Sullivan, 8 Cal., 592.
