SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That all suits, both at law
and in equity, heretofore instituted in any of the county or cir
cuit courts of East or West Florida, or carried to any of the said
courts by appeal, which are undetermined, and not already re
moved, may be removed to the respective superior or county
courts of East and West Florida, either by the party or parties,
plaintiff or defendant; that such removal shall be effected by a
transfer, by the clerk of the said county or circuit court in which
the suit was instituted, or to which it was carried by appeal, of
all the pleadings, papers, and documents relating thereto, to the
clerk of the superior or county courts of the district in which
the said cause or suit, or other proceedings, was instituted; and
it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court to which transfer
may be made, at the time of the reception of the pleadings, pa
pers, and documents in such causes, to give to the clerk making
the transfer a receipt for, and specifying, the said pleadings,
papers, and documents : Provided, that the party applying for
the transfer, whether plaintiff or defendant, shall pay to the clerk
of the court from which the papers are about to be removed, all
clerks' and sheriffs' fees which may have accrued in said court.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That each of the said supe
rior or county courts shall respectively have power, and are
hereby required to proceed in every such cause or proceeding
so removed in the same manner, and to render the same judg
ment or decree therein, as it might or would do, if the said cause,
or other proceeding, had originated in the said superior or county
court : Provided, notice of such removal be proved, to the satis
faction of the said superior or county court, to have been served
upon the opposite party or parties, or his, her, or their attorney
or agents in the cause, or when the said opposite party or parties
reside within the jurisdiction of the court to which the cause
shall have been removed, to have been published in the news
paper published within the said jurisdiction for four successive
weeks; or where the said opposite party or parties reside out of
the jurisdiction of the said court, to have been published in such
newspaper once a week, for eight successive weeks.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That in every suit heretofore
instituted in any of the said county or circuit courts, in which
judgment has been rendered in open court, and the said judgment
remains unsatisfied in whole or in part, the party or parties,
in whose favour judgment has been rendered, may cause the
pleadings, and other papers in such suits, together with a tran
script of the judgment of the court, under the hand of the clerk
of the court in which the same was rendered, or under the hand
of any other person having lawful charge of the records of such
court, to be transferred to the clerk of the superior or county
court of the district or county within which such judgment was
rendered ; whereupon, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the
said superior court, upon being thereto required by the party or
parties, in whose favour such judgment was rendered, or by his,
her, or their attorney or agent, to issue such writ of execution as
might be issued, if the judgment had been rendered or confessed
in the said superior or county court, for the amount of such
judgment, and the costs awarded and rendered as aforesaid, to
gether with the costs legally accrued subsequently to the rendi
tion of the said judgment, or for whatever part thereof may
remain unsatisfied ; and the ministerial officer of the said supe
rior or county courts shall carry into effect such writ, as in other
cases of execution.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That whenever an execution
shall issue under the next preceding section of this act, for a
greater sum than is legally due, or otherwise irregularly, the party
or parties aggrieved, or any of them, may apply to the judges of
the superior court, in term time or vacation, for an order to stay
further proceedings under the execution, which the said judge is
hereby authorized to grant upon such application being made to
him under oath, setting forth in what the illegality or irregularity
consists, and he shall forthwith cause a copy of such application
to be served upon the opposite party or parties, or his, her, or
their attorney, and shall appoint a day to hear the parties concerned,
and to decide upon said application according to the
right of ihe case, causing the execution when it shall have issued
for more than shall be legally due to be vacated, and a new exe
cution to be issued for the amount, determined by the said judge
to be due, to be proceeded on according to law.
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That the sheriff of the aforesaid
county and circuit courts shall, within thirty days from the
passage of this act, deposite with the clerk of the aforesaid superior
or county courts, all process, writs, and executions of every
kind issued from any of the said county or circuit courts, which
may at any time heretofore have come to, and which now re-
main in their hands, together with a return of their actings and
doings upon such process, writs, and executions.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That all writs and process
which may have been heretofore issued under and by authority
of the laws of this Territory, and all proceedings heretofore
instituted in any of the courts of this Territory, shall be and
continue valid and of full effect—any law or laws of the present
session of the .Legislative Council, to the contrary notwith
standing.
SEC. 1 . Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That the superior and
county courts shall be courts of record, and have full power and
authority to hear and determine all causes, both civil and
criminal, of which they shall severally have jurisdiction, according
to the laws of the United States and of this Territory, to
administer oaths, make rules, pass orders and decrees, and give
such judgments as may be necessary to support their authority,
to punish for contempts by fine or imprisonment, and not other
wise ; the fine in any case not to exceed one hundred dollars, or
the imprisonment thirty days ; and shall exercise all the neces
sary powers appertaining to their jurisdictions, respectively, ac
cording to law.

SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That a refusal to obey any
legal order, mandate, or decree, made or given by any judge of
the superior or county court, either in term time or in vacation,
relative to any of the business of said court, after due notice
thereof, shall be considered a contempt, and punished accord
ingly : Provided, that any thing said, or written, or published,
in vacation, to, or of any judge, or of any decision made by a
judge, shall not, in any case, be construed to be a contempt.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That when any judge shall
not attend on tne first day of any term, the court shall stand,
adjourned until twelve o'clock on the second day ; and, if said
judge shall not then attend, it shall be the duty of the clerk, at
that time, to continue all causes, and adjourn the court to such
time as the judge may appoint, or to the next regular term, by
law established.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That when any person wishes
to commence an action in any of said courts, he shall have the
right to sue out his process, either against the person or the
estate of the defendant, according to the rules prescribed by
law ; and, when the same is intended to be sued out against the
person of the defendant, it shall be the duty of the plaintiff, or
his attorney, to deliver to the clerk of the court, in which the
suit is to be commenced, a praecipe or memorandum, stating the
names of the parties, the nature of the action, and the amount of
the debt or damages for which he sues ; which praecipe shall be
signed by the plaintiff, or his attorney ; and it shall be the duty
of the clerk, upon the receipt of such praecipe or memorandum,
to make out therefrom a writ of capias, or a summons ad respon^endum,
which shall be called the original, and which shall be
served by the marshal, sheriff, or other officer, as the case may
be, at least ten days before the first day of the term to which
the same is made returnable.

SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, (That it shall be the duty of
the clerk to deliver to the marshal, sheriff, or other officer with
the original writ or summons, a copy for each defendant therein
named ;) and the service of the same shall be effected by reading
the writ or summons to the defendant, or delivering him a copy
thereof, or leaving such copy at his usual place of abode, with
some person of the family above the age of fifteen years, and
informing such person of the contents thereof; and no person
shall be required to give bail for his or her appearance, to any
original writ or summons emanating from a court of law.
SEC. 6. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of
the clerks of said courts to transcribe into iheir memorandum
books, any praecipe filed with them previous to their issuing the
original writ or summons, and to make in said books a similar
memorandum of every cause commenced by attachment, as
aforesaid ; which praecipe or memorandum shall bear date on
the day when the said praecipe is received by the clerk, or when
the affidavit is filed with him, to obtain a process against the
estate of the defendant ; and the said dates shall, for all legal
purposes, be considered the true time at which said suits were
actually brought.
(SEC. 7. Be it further enacted, That all process shall run
in the name (and by the authority) of the Territory of Florida,
and shall bear teste in the name of the presiding judge of the
court, and be signed by the clerk, and bear date when issued ;
and when not otherwise provided for by law, all process shall
be returnable to the next ensuing term of the court from which
it issued.)
SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, That whenever a plaintiff or
complainant, who is a non-resident, shall commence a suit in
any of the courts of this Territory, it shall be the duty of himself,
or his agent or attorney, previous to suing out the original
process, to file with the clerk of the court in which said suit is
to be brought, bond, with approved security, in the sum of one
hundred dollars, conditioned for the payment of all costs and
charges which may be adjudged against him in said suit; and,
upon a failure to file such bond and security as aforesaid, the
attorney bringing or prosecuting said suit shall be liable for said
costs and charges ; and if adjudged against said plaintiff, an exe
cution may issue against said attorney for the same.
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That when any original pro-
cess is placed in the hands of the marshal, sheriff, or other officer,
for service, and he shall, from any cause, fail to execute the
same at least ten days before the ensuing term of the court to
which the same is returnable, it shall be his duty to return the
same " not executed," with the reasons for such failure ; and if
such reasons be insufficient, such officer shall be liable to a fine
not exceeding fifty dollars, at the discretion of the court, and shall
also be liable to the, party injured for all costs and damages
thereby incurred and sustained; and if any original process
shall be sued out within ten days of the then ensuing term of
the court, the same shall be made returnable to the term next
ensuing after the expiration of the said ten days, and not otherwise.
SEC. 10. Be it further enacted, That no suit shall be brought
to any of the superior courts of this Territory against any person
residing therein, unless the same be instituted in the judicial dis
trict and county in which the defendant resides : Provided, there
be a superior court established by law in the county in which
the defendant resides ; except in cases brought against two or
more defendants residing in different judicial districts, then, and
in that case, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff or complainant to
commence his action in either district ; and he may instruct the
clerk to issue an additional original and copies, to be directed
to the marshal of the district in which the other defendants re
side ; and it shall be the duty of the said marshal, upon the
receipt of said original and copies, (provided, his fees are previ
ously paid by the plaintiff,) to serve the same, and to return the
original, with the proper entries thereon, to the office whence
it issued.
SEC. 1 1 . Be it further enacted, That no suit shall be brought
to any of the county courts of this Territory against any person
residing therein, unless the same be instituted in the county in
which the defendant resides, except in cases brought against
two or more defendants residing in different counties, then, and
in that case, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff to commence his
action in either county ; and he may instruct the clerk to issue
an additional original and copies, to be directed to the sheriff of
the county in which the other defendants reside ; and it shall be
the duty of said sheriff, upon the receipt of said original and co
pies, (his fees being previously paid by the plaintiff,) to serve
the said copies, and to return the original, with the proper en
tries thereon, to the office whence it issued : Provided, that
nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent any com
plainant from commencing his suit in an adjoining county in the
same district, when there shall be no court of competent juris
diction organized in thexqunty in which the defendant resides.
SEC. 12. Be it further enacted, That when an original writ
or summons has been sued out against two or more defendants,
and returned by the marshal, sheriff, or other officer, served
upon one or more of the defendants, and that the other defend
ants do not reside in said district or county, as the case may be,
it shall be lawful for the plaintiff, at his option, to proceed to
judgment against those upon whom process has been served, or
to obtain from the court time to perfect service, and to order ad
ditional originals and copies, to be directed to the marshals or
sheriffs of the districts or counties in which the other defend
ants reside, to be served and returned as is directed in this act.
SEC. 13. Be it further enacted, That when any original
process is sued out against several persons composing a mer
cantile or other firm, the service of said process on any one
member of said firm shall be as valid as if served upon each in
dividual member thereof; and the plaintiff may, after service
upon any one member as aforesaid, proceed to judgment and
execution against them all.
SEC. 14. Be it further enacted, That when any process re-
turn able to a superior court, shall issue against the marshal ofa
said court, the same shall be directed to, and executed by, the
sheriff of the county in which the said court shall be held.
SEC. 15. Be it further enacted, That when any marshal or
sheriff of any district or county in this Territory shall die, his
executors, administrators, or other representatives, shall hand^
over to his successors in office, taking a receipt for the same, all
the papers in the possession of, and belonging to, such decedant,
as marshal or sheriff; and if, in any case, a successor should not
be qualified, in due time, to serve or execute the process of the
court, the deputy of such deceased marshal or sheriff, if there
should be one, or some other person, shall be employed by an
order from the judge of the superior or county court, to receive
from the representatives of the decedant, and execute all process
which remained in his possession at the time of his decease.
SEC. 16. Be it further enacted, That the marshals of each
district, and the sheriffs of each county, shall, at the expiration
of their respective terms of office, turn over to their successors,
by schedule, (taking their receipts for the same,) all such writs
and processes as shall remain in their hands unexecuted, and
their successors in office shall duly execute and return the same ;
and in case any marshal or sheriff shall neglect or refuse to turn
over such process in manner aforesaid, every such marshal or
sheriff so neglecting or refusing, and their securities, shall be
liable to make such satisfaction, by damage and costs, to the
party aggrieved, as he, she, or they, shall sustain by reason of
such neglect or refusal ; and every marshal or sheriff, at the ex
piration of his said appointment, shall also deliver up to his suc
cessor, the bodies of all persons which he holds in confinement
by legal process, with the precepts, warrants, or causes of such
confinement ; and the succeeding marshal or sheriff shall be
impowered, and is hereby required, to sell, and carry into effect
any levy made by his predecessor in office, in like manner as the
former marshal or sheriff could have done, had he continued
therein ; and shall make titles to the purchasers for all the pro
perty sold under execution, or other process, and not conveyed
by his predecessor.

SEC. 17. Be it further enacted, That if from any cause the
marshal or sheriff of a superior or county court shall fail to at-
i + r xi r • i • J ,7 i
tend any term o1 the same, either in person or by deputy, the
said court shall direct the coroner of the county to attend and
perform the duties of the marshal or sheriff of said court ; and
the said coroner shall be entitled to receive for his services five
dollars for each day he shall attend during the continuance of
the terra, to be paid by the marshal or sheriff failing to attend
as aforesaid, and which may be recovered in any court having
jurisdiction of the same ; and shall, moreover, also be entitled
to the fees allowed by law for any services performed by him,
while acting as aforesaid ; and the acts of the said coroner, done
as aforesaid, shall be as legal and valid, as if the same had been
performed by the said marshal or sheriff in person, or by deputy
duly appointed.
SEC. 18. Beit further enacted, That the marshals, sheriffs,
and other officers in this Territory, shall in all cases, note upon
process issuing frorn the offices of the clerks of the superior
and county courts, the time when the same came to hand, the
time when it was executed, and sign the same, and on failure
thereof, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding ten dollars.
Sect. ] 9. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of
^e said superior attd county courts at each term thereof, after
the other business of the term shall have been disposed of, to
call over all the causes returnable to that term and standing
upon the appearance docket, and to make such orders and en
tries therein as shall be found necessary in relation thereto.
SEC. 20. Be it further enacted, That in all actions brought
to any of the superior or county courts of this Territory, whe-
ther the same be commenced by original process against the
person, or against the estate of the defendant, it shall be the
duty of the plaintiff or his attorney, to file with the clerk his
declaration on or before the first day of the term to which his
action is made returnable; and it shall be the duty of the defendant
or his attorney, to plead, answer, or demur thereto, pre
vious to the calling of the appearance docket at the same term ;
if a demurrer be filed to said plaintiffs declaration, it shall be the
duty of the defendant or his attorney, to give notice thereof to
the plaintiff or his attorney, in time to take issue thereon before
the calling of the appearance docket; and the said demurrer shall
be argued when the cause is called up on the appearance docket
as aforesaid, and decided at the same term, unless the court
shall think proper to continue it until the ensuing term, and all
other issues shall be made up by the time the case is called in
its order for trial.
SEC. 21. Be it further enacted, That in all cases standing
upon the appearance docket at the calling of the same, to which
there is no plea, answer, or demurrer filed, the court shall, upon
motion of the plaintiff or his attorney, give a judgment by de
fault, and may immediately refer the same to a jury to assess
the damages ; but if the said action be found upon any liqui
dated demand not requiring the introduction of a witness or wit
nesses to establish the same, the court may direct the clerk to
assess the damages and to issue execution accordingly.
SEC. 22. Be it further enacted, That when the name of
any attorney of the court is placed upon the appearance docket b
as counsel for the defendant, it shall be considered so far equi
valent to filing the general issue, as to prevent a judgment by
default, though no plea or answer be in fact filed in said cause.
SEC. 23. Be it further enacted, That no plea in abatement
or other dilatory plea, or any plea denying the signature of a
defendant to any bond, note, or other instrument of writing, shall
be received by either of said courts, unless the same be put in
on oath, and filed before the cause is called upon the appearance
docket.
SEC. 24. Be it further enacted, That all promissory notes
and other instruments of writing not under seal, shall have the
same force and effect as bonds and instruments under seal ; and
it shall not be necessary for the plaintiff to prove the execution
of any bond, note, or other instrument of writing, purporting to
have been signed by the defendant, nor the consideration for
which the same was given unless the same shall be denied by
plea put in and filed as foresaid : Provided, that nothing in this
act shall prevent an executor or administrator from denying the
execution aforesaid, or from pleading a want or failure of con
sideration, if he shall give in writing reasonable notice of such
intention to the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney.
SEC. 25. Be it further enacted, That no declaration or other
pleading shall be abated or quashed for any defect in matter of
form, nor for any clerical mistake or omission not affecting the
real merits of the cause ; but the same, upon motion, may be
amended without delay or cost, if there be a good and sufficient
cause of action or of defence substantially set forth in the de
claration or other pleadings.
SEC. 26. Be it further enacted, That in all cases the defendant
or defendants may plead as many matters of law or fact,
as he, she, or they may deem necessary to his, her, or their defence
; and it shall be no objection to any plea that it is contra
dictory to any other plea filed by the same party in the same
cause.
SEC. 27. Be it further enacted, That no demurrer, either at
law or inequity, shall be considered as an admission of the
facts set forth in the pleadings demurred to, so as to bar the
person demurring from any substantial claim or defence which
he might have urged if said demurrer had not been filed.
SEC. 28. Be it further enacted, That no suit in any of said
courts shall abate by the death of either party, where the cause
of action would in any case survive to the executor or adminis
trator ; but the same shall proceed as if such party had not died,
under the following regulations and restrictions : when a plaintiff
shall die, the executor or administrator of such plaintiff shall
within three months after probate of the will, or taking out letters
of administration, give notice to the defendants by suing out
a scire facias, to be issued by the clerk and executed in the
manner hereinbefore pointed out for the service of process ; and
in cases where the defendant shall die, it shall be lawful for the
plaintiff to sue out a scire facias in manner aforesaid, immedi
ately after the expiration of six months, requiring such execu
tor or administrator to appear and answer to the said cause.
SEC. 29. Be it further enacted, That when any copartner of
a mercantile or other firm shall die during the pendency of any
suit, either in favour of, or against said firm, the same shall be
suggested of record, and the cause shall proceed in the name
of the survivor or survivors.
SEC. 30. Be it further enacted, That hereafter, all actions
for personal injuries shall die with the person, to wit : assault
and Datteries, slander, false imprisonment, and malicious prose
cutions ; all other actions shall and may be maintained in the
name of the representatives of the deceased.

SEC. 32. Be it further enacted, That infants may sue by
their next friends in all cases whatsoever, and idiots and lunatics,
by their guardians : Provided, that before any suit be
brought by the next friend, it shall be his or her duty to file
bond and security with the clerk, conditioned to appropriate the
amount which may be recovered in said suit, (after the expenses
of recovering the same are paid,) to the use and benefit of said
infant.
SEC. 33. Be it further enacted, That it shall not be necessary
for any person who sues upon any bond, note, covenant,
deed, bill of exchange, or other writing, whereby money is promised
or secured to be paid, to prove the execution of such bond,
note, covenant, deed, bill of exchange, or other writing, unless
the same shall be denied by the defendant under oath.
SEC. 34. Be it further enacted, That the assignment or endorsement
of any of the forementioned instruments of writing
shall vest the assignee or endorsee thereof with the same rights,
powers, and capacities as might have been possessed by the assigner
or endorser. And the assignee or endorsee may bring
suit in his own name, nor shall it be necessary for the assignee
or endorsee of any instrument assignable by law to set forth in
the declaration the consideration upon which such assignment
or endorsement was made, nor to prove such consideration, un
less the same shall be impeached by the defendant under oath.
SEC. 35. Be it further enacted, That all bonds, notes, bills
of excnange, covenants, and accounts, upon which suit may be
brought, or a copy thereof, shall be filed with the declaration.
SEC. 36. Be it further enacted, That a scrawl affixed as a
seal to any instrument shall be as effectual as a seal.
SEC. 37. Be it further enacted, That in all suits cogniza-
ble in the superior courts, when either of the parties shall fear
that he will not receive a fair trial in the court where it is de
pending, on account of the judge of the court where the suit is
depending being interested or prejudiced, or that the adverse
party has an undue influence over the minds of the inhabitants
of the county where the suit is depending, or that the petitioner
is so odious that he cannot expect a fair trial, the said party may
petition the judge 6f the superior court for a change of the venue
of such cause, distinctly setting forth the cause of such fear,
and supported by his affidavit or affirmation, previous notice of
such application, and of the time and place of hearing the same
being given to the adverse party or his attorney, on which petition
the judge may under his hand award a change of venue, and or-
der the clerk of the court where the suit is depending to send
forward the papers in the suit, by some fit person to the superior
court of the next convenient county or district, as the judge may
direct, and the clerk of such court shall receive them, and give
a receipt therefor, and docket the suit in order, and the court
shall have full authority and jurisdiction to award subpoenas for
witnesses, and to enforce their attendance ; to grant rules and
commissions for the taking of depositions ; to hear and deter
mine the said controversy, to award execution, and to do every
thing relating thereto, which the court from which the suit was
removed might have done: Provided, that no change of venue
shall take place, so as to have the cause sent to either of the coun
ties where the parties or either of them reside, nor shall there
be more than one removal of the same cause.
SEC. 38. Be it further enacted, That when the attendance
of any person shall be required as a witness in any of the courts
aforesaid, in any cause depending therein, it shall be the duty
of the clerk of the said courts respectively on application, to
issue writs of subpmna, directed to the persons whose attend
ance shall be required, when such persons reside within the
county in which such cause may be depending; which writ of
subpoena shall contain the names of the parties in the cause, and
state at whose instance it is issued, and shall be served on such
witness at least three days before the court to which it shall be
returnable ; which writ shall be served by the marshal, sheriff,
or other officer, as the case may be.
SEC. 39. Be it further enacted, That when it shall appear
in manner aforesaid, that a witness in any cause has been, duly
summoned, and such witness shall fail to appear, it shall be the
duty of the court, on motion, to order an attachment against
such defaulting witness, returnable at such time as the court
may direct ; and upon the return of such attachment, the said
court may fine such witness in any sum not exceeding one hun
dred dollars, unless he or she shall make a sufficient excuse for
such non-attendance, to be adjuged of by the court ; and the
said witness shall also be subject to the action of the person at
whose suit he or she shall have been summoned for any damage
which he, she, or they may have sustained by reason of such
non-attendance.
SEC. 40. Be it further enacted, That when a subpoena shall
be served on any witness in conformity to this act, it shall be
the duty of the person so summoned to attend from day to day,
until the cause in which such witness has been summoned is .
tried, or otherwise disposed of, unless he shall sooner be dis
charged from further attendance.
SEC. 41. Be it further enacted, That on the last day of the
attendance of any witness in -each term, it shall be lawful for
such witness to exhibit his account on oath, against the person
or persons at whose instance he or she may have been summoned,
and the clerk of the court shall examine and sign the
same, and administer the said oath, and such account so signed
shall have the force and effect of an execution, and may be
levied upon the goods and chattels of the party, in like manner
as in cases of other executions : Provided nevertheless, that
such witness shall have the right, at his option, to defer making
out his account, until the suit in which he shall be summoned, as
aforesaid, is determined, and have the same taxed in the bill of
costs ; and provided also, that where any witness shall charge
and levy more than is really due, such witness shall forfeit and pay
to the party injured, four times the amount so unjustly claimed.
SEC. 42. Repealed by act of Nov. 21, 1829, Sec. 9.
SEC. 43. Repealed by act of Nov. 21, 1829, Sec. 9.
SEC. 44. Be it further enacted, That no person or persons,
upon the first day of the week, called Sunday, shall serve or execute,
or cause to be served or executed, any writ, process, or
warrant, order, judgment or decree, except in criminal cases, or
for a breach of the p.eace ; but the service of every such pro
cess, order, warrant, judgment or decree, shall be void to all in
tents and purposes whatsoever ; and the person or persons so
serving or executing the same, shall be liable to the suit of the
party aggrieved, and to answer damages to him for so doing
thereof, as if he or they had done the same without any writ,
process, warrant, order, judgment or decree ; Provided, that if
information shall be made by the oaths of two respectable persons
to any justice of the' peace, or magistrate of any corporate
town, that they have good reason to believe that any person liable
to have any such process, warrant, judgment or decree served upon
him, intends to withdraw himself, and escape from this Territo
ry under cover of protection of the said first day of the week,
called Sunday, in that case it shall be lawful for any officer
duly authorized, being furnished with a certificate of such in
formation upon oath, as aforesaid, under the hand of the justice
of the peace, or magistrate, as aforesaid, to serve or execute
such process, warrant, order, judgment or decree on the said
first day of the week, called Sunday, which shall be as valid
and effectually done to all legal intents and purposes, as if
the same had been done on any other day of the week.
SEC. 45. Be it further enacted, That in all actions to which
the defendant or defendants may intend to plead a set-off, he, she,
or they shall at the time of filing the plea, file therewith a true
copy or copies of the subject matter of such set-off, and upon
the trial of the cause, in case the jury shall find a balance for
the defendant or defendants, such defendant or defendants may
claim a judgment for the same, and take out execution accord
ingly.
SEC. 46. Be it further enacted, That all debts or demands
mutually existing between the parties at the commencement of
the action, whether the same be liquidated or not, shall be pro
per subjects of set-off, and may be pleaded accordingly.
SEC. 47. Be it further enacted, That all cases brought
either to the superior or county courts of this Territory, shall
stand for trial at the term next succeeding the one to which they
are made returnable, provided the processes therein have been
duly executed, and not before, except in such cases as judg
ments by default are herein authorized to be taken.
SEC. 48. Be itfurther enacted, That at the trial of all causes
brought to the superior or county courts, either party shall have
the right to challenge peremptorily four jurors, and as many more
as he can show good cause for.
SEC. 49. Repealed by act of Feb. 17, 1833.
SEC. 50. Be it further enacted, That the court may, in its
discretion, give leave to a party to amend his declaration, or
other pleading, in a cause at any time before the case is submitted
to [a jury : Provided, that the party asking the privilege shall
be required to make his or her amendment instanter ; and pro-
vided also, that if the proposed amendment be in matter of sub
stance, and not of form, the other party shall have the right to
claim a continuance.
SEC. 51. Be it further enacted, That all judgments shall
have interests, from the rendition thereof until paid, at the rate
of eight per cent, per annum.
SEC. 52. Be it further enacted, That no motion for a new
trial, or in arrest of judgment, shall be made unless the party intending
to make the same shall file his reasons with the clerk in
writing, and cause his motion to be placed upon the motiondocket
within four days after the verdict shall have been ren
dered, and during the same term, nor shall a motion for a new
trial, or in arrest of judgment standing over from one term to
another, operate as supersedeas, unless so ordered by the court.
SEC. 53. Be it further enacted, That in no case shall a
capias ad satisfaciendum be issued by the clerk upon judgment
of the court, nor shall the body of any defendant be subject to
arrest or confinement for the payment of money, except it be for
fines imposed by lawful authority.
SEC. 64. Be it further enacted, That no judgment
after the verdict of a jury, or an award of arbitrators, shall be
stayed or reversed for any defect or default in the original writ,
or for a variance between the writ and declaration, or for any mis
pleading, insufficient pleading, or misjoining of the issue, or for
any faulty count in a declaration, where the same declaration con
tains one count or more which is or are good, or for any in
formality in entering up the judgment by the clerk ; and when a
judgment is arrested, the plaintiff shall not be compelled to
bring a new suit, provided the first writ or summons shall
be sufficient, but the court may order new pleadings to com
mence, where the error causing the arrest began, and the party
committing it shall be liable to the costs occasioned thereby.
SEC. 55. Be it further enacted, That all cases brought to a
superior court upon writs of error, or to a superior or county
court by certiorari, shall be tried upon the record sent up from
the court below : and in all such cases it shall be the duty of the
plaintiff in error or certiorari, te assign his errors, and file them
with the clerk of the court, on or before the first day of the term
to which the case is made returnable ; and every case brought
up as aforesaid, shall stand for trial at the term to which it is re
turned.
SEC. 56. Be it further enacted, That no appeal nor writ of
errror nor certiorari, shall operate as a supersedeas until the
costs of the first trial are paid, and the appellant, or plaintiff in
error or certiorari, shall have given bond and security for the
eventual costs and condemnation money, but in all cases where
the appellant shall succeed on the trial of his appeal, or the plain
tiff in error or certiorari shall succeed in his cause, he shall reco
ver back the costs paid as aforesaid, to be taxed in the bill with
the other costs of the case.
SEC. 57. Be it further enacted, That all moneys made upon
executions in this Territory, shall be paid to the attorney of
the party, in whose favour execution shall have issued. And
the receipt of said attorney shall fully and altogether release and
acquit the officer so paying over the money as aforesaid, from
all claims or demands whatsoever, which may be made upon him
in right or by virtue of an execution. And in any case when
the name of more than one attorney shall appeat upon the records
of the court, the money shall be paid to the attorney who origi
nally commenced the suit, or to him who made the original de
fence.
SEC. 58. Be it further enacted, That whenever security is
required by this act to be taken, and the person taking the same
is not acquainted with the situation of the security tendered, it
shall be his duty to require him or them to justify on oath, and
such justification shall exonerate the person taking the security
from all liability for any insufficiency in security.
SEC. 59. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty
of the clerks of the several courts of record in this Territory,
respectively to keep all papers filed in their respective offices,
with the utmost care and security, arranged in the appropriate
files, (endorsing upon each the time when the same was filed,)
and all the pleadings in each cause shall be attached together
with tape or riband, and kept distinct from the other papers in
the cause ; and papers of different kinds shall not be mixed and
folded up loosely together, but each description of papers shall
be kept on file with other papers of the same class, and no clerk
of any of the said court shall permit any attorney, or other per-
i £i i .. r .i- re r • i i i . i
son, to take papers once filed out ot the office of said clerk with
out the leave of the court.
SEC. 60. Be it further enacted, That the clerks of the
several courts of this Territory shall keep regular and fair mi-
nutes of all the proceedings of said courts, which shall be signed
by the judge before the adjournment of the term. The said
clerks shall also keep a common law appearance docket, upon
which shall be entered all the causes brought to each term, and
a common law trial docket, upon which shall be entered all the
causes standing over for trial at each term, together with the
names of the attorneys employed in each cause, and the entries
made by the court upon the appearance docket ; and a motion
docket, upon which shall be entered, by the attorney, all mo
tions which are intended to be submitted to the court, and
which dockets shall be called over at each term in their regular
order.
SEC. 61. Be it further enacted, That it shall also be the
duty of said clerks to keep a sheriff report docket, upon which
shall be entered all cases of illegality, and claims to property
returned to court by the marshal, sheriff, or other officer ; and an
execution docket, upon which shall be entered all executions is-
sued by said clerk, and the returns made thereon ; also appeal
and certiorari dockets, upon which shall be placed all appeals
and certioraris returnable to said courts respectively ; and an
equity docket, upon which shall be entered all causes brought
to said courts while sitting as courts of chancery ; and a subpoena
docket, and a docket for criminal cases ; all of which dockets
shall be regularly kept, and shall be in court during every term
thereof, while in session.
SEC. 62. Be it further enacted, That if any marshal, or
clerk of a superior, or sheriff, or clerk of a county court, or their
deputies, shall be guilty of extortion or other malpractice in the
execution of his office, upon complaint, made on oath to the at-
torney prosecuting for the Territory, it shall be the duty of such
attorney to exhibit to the grand jury a bill of indictment against
the person so offending, and if the said bill of indictment be
found true, and upon the traverse the person so indicted be found
guilty, it shall be the duty of the court to impose a fine upon
him in treble the amount of his extortion, and remove said sheriff,
or clerk, from office, and his commission shall from thenceforth
be null and void.
SEC. 63. Be it further enacted, That in all actions of
quare clausum fregit hereafter to be brought, where the de
fendant or defendants shall disclaim, in his or her plea, any title
or claim to the land in which the trespass is supposed to be done
by the declaration, and the trespass be by negligence, or involun
tary, the defendant or defendants shall be admitted to plead a
disclaimer, and that the trespass was by negligence or involun
tary, and a tender, or other offer of sufficient amends for such
trespass, before the action brought, whereupon, or upon some of
them, the plaintiff or plaintiffs shall be compelled to join issue,
and if the said issue be found for the defendant or defendants,
the plaintiff or plaintiffs shall be nonsuited, and no suit shall
ever be maintained for the same.
SEC. 64. Be it further enacted, That in all and every spe
cies of actions commenced in any of the courts of the Territory,
having jurisdiction thereof, if the defendant or defendants shall
remove out of the county where the action was commenced, and
the same shall be certified by the sheriff or other officer to whom
the process was directed, it shall be lawful to issue an alias writ
or summons, and every other legal process necessary to en
force the appearance of such defendant or defendants, directed
to the sheriff or other proper officer of any county in this Ter
ritory.
SEC. 65. Be it further enacted, That hereafter every
charge of incest, fornication, and adultery, made by any citizen
of this Territory against one of the female sex, shall be placed
upon the same footing as other charges of a criminal nature, for
which an action will lie according to the principles of the com
mon law ; and that all and every person or persons, for whom
an action would lie, for the speaking of scandalous words, may
have and maintain an action of slander for the speaking of words
containing a charge of the commission of the offences aforesaid,
or any of them, subject to the like principles, rules, and regu
lations, as are observed in other actions of slanderous words.
SEC. 66. Be it further enacted, That if in an action at law,
tne plaintiff omit to take judgment against a defendant or de-
fendants, for failing to plead, when by the foregoing provisions
he might so take judgment, the defendant or defendants may at
any time, before a writ of inquiry is awarded and final judgment
given, plead any pleas the filing of which is not by this act limit
ed to the first term, but where such plea or pleas are filed, the
plaintiff may waive his right of trial at that term, and have a
general continuance of the cause.
SEC. 67. Be it further enacted, That all powers of attor
ney, for confessing or suffering judgment to pass by default or
otherwise, and all general releases of error, made or to be made
by any person or persons whatsoever, within this Territory, be
fore action brought, shall be and are hereby declared to be ab
solutely null and void.
SEC. 68. Be it further enacted, That if any court refuse
to sign a bill of exceptions, when the same is tendered to them
for that purpose, it shall be lawful for three persons to sign the
same, in the presence of the said judge, and also that the same
was presented to the judge, and he refused to sign it, which bill
shall be as valid, and have the same force as though it were
signed by the judge of said court ; and the court shall permit
the same to be filed, and become a part of the record. And if
the judge refuses to let the same be filed as aforesaid, the court
of appeals may, when such case is brought before them, by writ
of error or appeal, upon affidavit of such refusal, admit such bill
of exceptions as a part of the record.
SEC. 69. Be it further enacted, That in all actions which
shall be brought upon any bond or bonds, for payment of mo-
ney, wherein the plaintiff shall recover, judgment shall be en
tered for the penalty of such bond, to be discharged by payment
of the principal and interest due thereon, and the other costs of
suit, and execulion shall issue thereon accordingly.
SEC. 70. Be it further enacted, That every person desirous
of suffering a nonsuit on trial, shall be barred therefrom, unless
he do so before the jury retire from the bar.
SEC. 71. Be it fuither enacted, That in all cases the party
recovering the judgment shall recover also all his legal costs
and charges, and shall have execution for the same, provided
this section shall not be construed to relate to executors or
administrators in cases wherein by law they are not liable to
costs of suit.
SEC. 72. Be it further enacted, That no person being convicted
of perjury, although he be pardoned or punished for the
same, shall be a witness in any suit, bill, action, or indictment,
in any of the courts of this Territory.
SEC. 26. 
Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Council of
the Territory of Florida, That when any person shall execute
any bond, note, draft, or bill of exchange, in this Territory, and
any two or more persons shall also execute the same jointly
with him, and merely as his or their sureties, or shall endorse
any note, draft, or bill of exchange, as sureties for the maker, or
drawer thereof, and for his accommodation, and without any con
sideration, said persons shall be bound each to the other, for a
proportionable contribution of the amount of said bond, note,
draft, or bill of exchange, and if any one or more of said persons
be compelled to pay any part of said bond, note, draft, or bill of
exchange, he or they shall have his or their remedy by suit
against his or their co-surety, or co-sureties for contribution, and
may sue separately or jointly to enforce the payment of the same,
and the defendants, if more than one, may be sued separately or
jointly, and where it may be necessary the person or persons
claiming such contribution may proceed by attachment as in
other cases. [Approved, February 14, 1835.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That in all actions or
suits which may be instituted against any corporation, instead
of the process heretofore used to compel the appearance of such
corporation, it shall be sufficient to issue a summons to the
marshal, or other proper officer, reciting the cause of action, and
summoning the said corporation to appear and answer the same
on the proper return day, which summons shall be returnable in
the manner and subject to the same rules and regulations as*
other original process.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That if a summons be issued
as aforesaid, against any banking, rail road, insurance, or incor
porated company, service on the president or other head, or, in
his absence, on the cashier or treasurer, or, in the absence of
both the president or chief officer and the cashier or treasurer,
then on any director of such company, such president or other
chief officer, cashier, treasurer, or director, being at the time
of service within the county in which he usually resides, shall
be deemed sufficient service of the said process, and if the
summons be issued against the corporation of any city, borough,
or town, service on the mayor or chief magistrate, or, in his ab
sence, on the recorder, or, in the absence of the mayor, chief
magistrate, and recorder, then on any alderman of the corpora
tion, such mayor, chief magistrate, recorder, alderman, or other
officer, being at the time of service within the limits of such
corporation, shall also be deemed sufficient ; and in like man
ner, the service of such summons on the president, or, in his ab
sence, on any visiter or trustee of any incorporated college or
academy, or on the chief officer of any corporation whatever;
or, for want of such chief officer, or any member of such corpo
ration, such president, visiter, trustee, chief officer, or other
member, being at the time of service within the county in which
he usually resides, shall be deemed sufficient service of such
summons; and on the return of such summons, in any of the
said cases, the same proceedings to a final judgment shall be
had against such corporation, as are had in other suits at
law after the return of a summons ad respondendem executed
on every summons served as aforesaid, the marshal or other
proper officer shall make return distinctly on whom the same
hath been executed ; otherwise such service shall not be deemed
valid.
SEC. 3. Be itfurther enacted^That suits in chancery against
corporations shall commence by subpoena, and the service of such
subpeena^of all interlocutory orders and decrees against such cor
porations, shall be made in the same manner, and under the
same restrictions as is herinbefore provided for the service of a
summons in a suit of law ; and the same proceedings to a final
decree shall be had against such corporations as are had in other
suits in chancery.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That if any judgment at
law, or decree in chancery, shall be rendered against any cor-
poration, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff in the suit to sue
out either a distrain, or fieri facias, or elegit, as he may think
proper; and the said writs of fieri facias and elegit may be
levied as well on the current money as on the goods and
chattels of said corporation.
SEC. 2. 
of the Territory of Florida, That so much of any act or
acts of incorporation of any town or city in this Territory, which
vests in the mayor or intendant thereof, the rights and duties of
a justice of the peace, or clothes such mayor or intendant by
virtue of his office with jurisdiction for the collection of debts,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That when both parties,
in an action at law, agree to a trial without jury, the judgment
shall be as effectual as upon verdict.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That when any female
plaintiff or defendant shall marry, pending a suit, her marriage
shall be suggested on the record, and her husband thereupon
made a party, and the case proceed according to law.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That executors and administrators
who shall produce probate of wills or letters of adminis-
tration, duly obtained in any of the States or Territories in the
United States, and properly authenticated, under the act of
Congress of the 26th of May, 1790, shall be authorized to main
tain actions in the several courts in this Territory, under the
same rules and regulations as other plaintiffs.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That if any plaintiff or
complainant after the institution of any suit, should remove
himself or his effects out of this Territory, it may be lawful for
the defendant, giving thirty days' previous notice to the op
posite party or his attorney, to move to dismiss the suit for want
of security for cost ; Provided, that the said plaintiff may en
ter into bond for the payment of costs, and the case proceed as
it had before been given.
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That the superior and coun
ty courts shall have power to establish copies of lost papers,
deeds, or other writings in the following manner : if any paper
be lost by an attorney or other officer of the court after the com
mencement of an action thereon, it shall be the duty of the said
attorney or other officer to file upon oath a substantial copy
thereof, and to state that the original was in his possession, and
has been lost or mislaid so that it was not in his knowledge,
control, power, or custody ; and if the said paper, deed, or other
writing be lost by any person before the commencement of
any suit thereon, it shall be lawful for the person from whose
possession the same was lost to give at least thirty days' notice
in writing, accompanied with a substantial copy thereof to the
person who made or executed said paper, or is otherwise liable
for the amount of the same, stating in said notice that the origi
nal is lost and that it is his or her intention to make application
to the next term of the superior or county court of the district
or county to establish a copy in lieu thereof; and if the said
person shall file a substantial copy of said paper on oath with
the clerk, (which oath shall also state that the original is lost or
mislaid, so that the same is not within his knowledge, custody,
or control,) and shall make it appear to the court that the said no
tice has been regularly served as is herein directed, it shall be the
duty of the said court, if there be no cause shown to the contra
ry, to order that said copy be established in lieu of the original
so lost or mislaid, and all copies of papers established as herein
prescribed shall be as valid and effectual for all legal purposes, as
the original could have been had the same not been lost.
SEC. 6. Be itfurther enacted, That each and every judg
ment shall be docketed by the clerk of the court, rendering
such judgment alphabetically in a book to be kept for that pur
pose.
SEC. 7. Beit further enacted, That all process shall run in
the name of the Territory of Florida, shall bear test in the name
of the clerk issuing it, be signed by said clerk, and bear date when
issued, and when not otherwise provided by law, shall be made
returnable to the next ensuing term of the court whence it was
issued. Summons ad respondendum shall be made returnable
to the court having jurisdiction over the county in which the de
fendant resides or the cause of action accrued, and the cause
shall not be tried in any other county, unless for good cause the
venue shall be changed, except in cases brought against two or
more defendants residing in different districts or counties, when
it shall be lawful for the plaintiff or complainant, or his agent or
attorney, to commence his action in either district or county in
which the other defendant resides, and it shall be the duty of
such officer, upon the receipt of such writ, (provided his fees are
previously tendered by the plaintiff,) to serve the same and to
return it to the office from which it issued.
SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, That in original process issued
against any corporation, service upon the agent of said
corporation shall be valid ; and tbe plaintiff, after such service,
may proceed to judgment and execution ; Provided, the cor
poration is not a body politic within this Territory.
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That so much of the act to
which this is an amendment as requires clerks of courts to furnish
copies of process issued, so much of the 17th section of
said act as relates to marshals, and the 31st, 42d, and 43d sec
tions of said act, and all parts thereof which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this act be, and the same are hereby re
pealed. [Approved, November 21, 8129.
SEC. 1. 
Be it enacted- by the Governor and Legislative Coun
cil of the Territory of Florida, That from and after the
passage of this act the 49th section of the act of November 21,
1828, entitled an act regulating judicial proceedings be, and the
same is hereby repealed. [Approved, February 16, 1833.
An Act to provide for issuing writs of Certiorari.
Be it enacted by] the Governor and Legislative Coun
cil of the Territory of Florida, That the clerks of the su-
_ _ _ *
perior courts in this Territory shall at all times have power,
upon the application of any party in the county court or before
a justice of the peace, who may be dissatisfied with any judg-of
ment in which he was a party, in either of said jurisdictions, to
issue writs of certiorari ; Provided, however, that said writs of
certiorari shall in no case operate as a supersedeas, unless the
party applying for the same shall file with the said clerks a bond
with good and sufficient security, conditioned for the payment to
the opposite party of the debt, and costs, and damages which
may have accrued or may accrue, in consequence of the obtain
ing of said writ of certiorari. [Approved, February 12, 1881.
SEC. 1. Be it tnacted by the Governor and Legislative Counc^
of the Territory of Florida, That if a party in either of the
superior courts of this Territory shall feel aggrieved by a final judgment,
sentence, or decree, made or pronounced by any oreither of
said courts, it shall and may be lawful for such party during the
session of the court at which such judgment, sentence, or decree
is rendered or pronounced, or within ten days thereafter, to ob
tain in court, if the appeal be made in term time, or in the clerk's
office if it be in vacation, his, her, or their appeal to the court
oI" appeals of this Territory, and an appeal obtained, shall in
all cases operate as a supersedeas.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That the party appealing, if
plaintiff, shall give bond with one or more securities in a sum
sufficient to cover all the costs which have accrued or may ac
crue ; and if defendant, a bond with one or more securities in a
sum sufficient to cover the amount for which judgment has been
given, decree rendered, or sentence pronounced, together with
costs, conditioned that the appellant shall pay the costs if plain
tiff, or if defendant the debt, damages, or condemnation, and
costs, in case the judgment, sentence or decree of the superior
court shall be confirmed by the said court of appeals.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That if the said appeal be
applied for in term time, the application shall be made in open
and it shall be so stated by the clerk of the said superior
court upon the record, and the appeal bond shall be approved of
by the judge ; but if the appeal be applied for in vacation, the
said appeal bond shall be approved of by the clerk, and at least
twenty-five days' notice of such appeal shall be given to the ap
pellee before the first day of the term of said court of appeals,
at which said appeal is to be tried.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of C
the party appellant to demand from the clerk a true copy of all c
proceedings in such cause in the said superior court, and to file f
said copy with the clerk of the court of appeals on or before the
first day of the next succeeding term thereof, unless the said
succeeding term shall commence within thirty days after the ob
taining of such appeal, and then the said appeal shall be entered
as soon after the first day of the next succeeding term thereafter
of said court] of appeals as will admit of twenty days' notice
thereof being given. If the party appellant fail to file the pro-
ceedings as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the said court, unless
good cause be shown, to dismiss said appeal on the adverse
party producing a certificate from the clerk of the court below
that an appeal has been obtained and a bond given as aforesaid ;
and upon the receipt of the order dismissing such appeal, cer
tified by the clerk of the said court of appeals, the clerk of the
court below shall proceed to issue execution, as well for the
costs and damages which may have been adjudged by said court
of appeals, as for the debt, or damages, or condemnation and
costs for which the judgment, sentence, or decree was originally
pronounced.
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty
of the judges of the said court, on an appeal, or writ of error,
to examine the record, to reverse or affirm the judgment, sen-
tence, or decree of the court below, to award a new trial in the
court below, or to give such judgment, sentence, or decree as
the court below ought to have given, or as to them may appear
according to law.
SEC. 6. Be it further enacted, That the said court of ap-
peals may order the record of the judgment, sentence, or decree
appealed from, with their decision and determination thereon, in
writing, duly certified, to be remitted to the said superior court,
and the said decision and determination shall be carried into exe
cution by the officers of the said superior court, or the said court
of appeals may award execution to carry into effect its decision
and determination.
SEC. 7. Be it further enacted, That all writs of error shall
be tested in the name of the presiding judge of the said
court of appeals, and shall issue on demand, as a matter of right,
from the office of the clerk of the said court of appeals, or
from the clerk of the court in which such judgment has been
rendered ; but no writ of error shall operate as a supersedeas
unless by the special order of the said court, or some judge there
of, made upon inspecting a copy of the record, and upon the plain
tiff in error, by himself or a responsible person in his behalf,
entering in the clerk's office of either the court of appeals or
the superior court, into a bond in double the sum recovered in
the court below, or double the amount of costs, if the plaintif
below be the plaintiff in error, with one or more sufficient secu
rities to be approved of by the judge or clerk of said court con
ditioned for the due prosecution of the suit in error ; and in case
of the affirmance of the judgment, to pay the defendant in error
the condemnation and costs. When such order is made and se
curity given as aforesaid, the clerk shall endorse on such writ of
error that it shall be a supersedeas, and the said writ and endorse
ment shall be obeyed as such, suspending all further proceed
ings in relation to said judgment, in and by the officers of the
said superior court.
SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, That the plaintiff in error
shall file in the said court of appeals, his assignment of errors,
within ihree days after the return of the writ. If this be omit
ted, except for good cause shown, the said writ of error shall on
motion of the defendant in error be non prossed, unless the said
court shall allow further time.
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That the clerk issuing the
said writ of error, shall issue to the defendant in error a scire
facias to hear errors, which shall be made returnable with the
said writ of error, and shall be served on the defendant in error,
or if said defendant be a non-resident, or be not in the Territory,
then upon his legally authorized agent or his attorney in the
court below, at least twenty-five days previous to the first day
of the term of the said court of appeals.
SEC. 10. Be it further enacted, That all writs of error on
judgments, in civil actions, shall be sued out and taken within
two years from the date of said judgments: Provided, that
where any infant, feme covert, or person non compos mentis,
shall be a party in any judgment in a civil action, two years
shall be allowed to such infant, feme covert, or person non com
pos mentis, after the respective disabilities are removed, in
which to sue out his, her, or their writ of error on any judg
ment as aforesaid.
SEC. 11. Be it further enacted, That the said court of ap
peals shall have power to issue writs of mandamus, quo war
ranto, prohibition, audita querrilla, habeas corpus, and proce
dendo, and shall possess and exercise a general superintending
control over the superior courts, and the official acts of the offi
cers of the superior courts ; and the sheriffs in the respective
counties in this Territory, in serving process and notices, shall
have the same authenticity in the court of appeals as in their
own courts respectively ; and process of execution from the
said court of appeals shall be directed to the marshal of the
Territory, and executed by the marshals of the district from
which the said case may have been brought, unless otherwise
ordered by the said court of appeals.
SEC. 12. Be it further enacted, That the said court of ap
peals shall have power, and it shall be its duty, to make all
necessary rules for the regulation of the superior courts, as well
as for the court of appeals.
SEC. 13. Be it further enacted, That whenever* it shall appear
to the said court of appeals, that an appeal has been taken
merely for delay, the said court may assess damages, not ex
ceeding ten per cent. for said frivolous appeal.
SEC. 14. Be it further enacted, That all laws heretofore
passed regulating the mode of suing out writs of error, and pro-
secuting appeals in the court of appeals of this Territory, be,
and the same are hereby repealed : Provided, nevertheless, that
all rights which have accrued, and all proceedings which have
been had under any former law, shall be and remain as if this
law had not been passed.
fore decided, in which the order of court has not been finally enforced,
the writ of error or certiorari may be taken within six
months after the passage of this act, the party serving out such
writ of error or prosecuting such appeal, giving bond and secu
rity to perform the judgment of the court to which the appeal
is taken, or in which the writ of error or certiorari is prosecuted.
SEC. 4. Be itfurther enacted, That in such cases as afore
said, in which such order shall be in future made, the said par
ties may proceed as aforesaid, to prosecute their said appeals,
writs of error or certiorari, upon giving bond as aforesaid, and
taking their appeal within ten days after the adjournment of the
court, and their writs of error and certiorari as in other cases s
provided for by law.
SEC. 1. 
Be it enacted, by the Governor and Legislative Council of
the Territory of Florida, That no appeal or writ of error shall
hereafter be granted to the original plaintiff in any suit, unless
said plaintiff shall first pay all costs which may have accrued in
and about said suit, up to the time when said appeal or writ of
error is prayed ; and also enter into bond with one or more
securities, in a sum sufficient to cover all the costs which may
accrue in the prosecution of said Appeal or writ of error, condi
tioned to pay the same, if the judgment, sentence, or decree of
the court shall be affirmed.

SEC. 1. Beit enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That in all prosecutions
of a criminal character, the defendant, or defendants, shall have
the benefit of an appeal, or writ of error, to the court of appeals
of this Territory, from all final judgment and sentences of the
courts of this Territory.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That in all cases, exxept
those where capital punishment is to be inflicted, the party pro-
sec,nitlg such appeal or writ of error shall, to make the same
operate as a supersedeas, give bond and security, to be approved
by the clerk of the court, conditioned to be forthcoming to
answer and abide the said judgment or sentence, if the same
shall be affirmed.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That in cases where capital
punishment is, by the judgment or sentence of the court, ordered
to be inflicted, no security, except the person of the defendant,
shall be taken, and in all such cases the writ of error or appeal
shall operate as a supersedeas.
SEC. 4.- Be it further enacted, That all appeals and writs of
error, under this act, shall be taken and prosecuted under thea
same restrictions, as to time, as is prescribed in civil cases.
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That in all cases whereby trie
sentence or judgment sought to be reversed, the infliction of corporal
punishment is ordered, the court of appeals shall direct the
time at which the sentence shall be enforced, in case the judg-°J
ment of the court below is affirmed.
SEC. 6. Be it further enacted, That if the plaintiff, in ap
peal or error, shall die pending the appeal or writ of error, the
same may be prosecuted by his or her personal representatives,
as in other cases.
SEC. 7. Be it further enacted, That notice of such appeals
and writs of error may be served upon the district attorney of
the district in which the same may be sued out, in the same
manner as the like notice is served upon parties to civil actions.-
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That a writ of ne exeat
shall not be granted, but upon a bill filed and affidavit made to
tne imfa of tne allegations, which being produced to the court
in term time, or to the judge in vacation, he may grant or refuse
such writ as to him shall seem just, and if granted, he shall en
dorse thereon in what penalty bond and security shall be re
quired of the defendant; and a writ of ne exeat may issue in any
casewherethe court of chancery shall have concurrent jurisdiction
with a court of common law, and he shall also endorse the name
of the securities, and in what sum bond shall be required of the
complainant, and no writ of ne exeat shall issue until such bond
shall be given by the complainant in the clerk's office from whence
the writ is to issue, and in case any person stayed by said writ
of ne exeat shall think himself or herself aggrieved, he or she
may bring suit on such bond, and shall recover the damages sustained
by such writ of ne exeat.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That if the defendant shall
go out of the Territory, and shall return before a personal
appearance shall be necessary by any decree of the court, or it
shall be necessary to perform any order of the court, such his
or her temporary departure shall not be considered a breach of
the condition of the bond.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That whenever the defendant
or defendants to the bill shall give security that he or they will
not depart the Territory, the security, personally or by attorney,
shall have power at any a time (before the bond shall be
forfeited) to take the body of his principal, and surrender him
in open court, or deliver him to the ministerial officer of the
court in which the suit is depending, who shall detain said
principal as in cases of the surrender of the principal by special
bail, and at the time of such delivery to thp aforesaid officer he
shall take his receipt for the body, and file it with the clerk of
the court, either of which, if done before the bond is forfeited,
shall discharge the security from his undertaking.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That no subpeena in chan-
eery shall issue until a bill of complaint shall have been filed in
the clerk's office, nor shall any writ of injunction or ne exeat be
* *
granted until a bill be filed praying for such writ, except in the
special cases, and for the special causes in which such writs are
authorized by the practice of the courts of the United States,
exercising equity jurisdiction, and no writ of injunction to stay
proceedings at law, shall issue, except on motion to the court or
judge, and reasonable notice of such motion previously served
on the opposite paity, or his attorney, and the defendant, after
injunction granted, may either before or after answer filed, on
due notice being previously given to the opposite party, or his
solicitor, move the court or the judge for the dissolution of any
injunction which may have been granted,
SEC. 5. Repealed by Act Feb. 31, 1831, Sec. 1.
SEC. 6. Be it further enacted, That in all cases in chancery
the testimony shall be taken in writing on interrogatories out of
court, except testimony to prove the execution of any instru
ment of writing, which testimony may be taken orally in court,
or by deposition out of court on interrogatories, that the testi
mony of witnesses who reside in this Territory shall be taken
as aforesaid, by deposition on interrogatories before any judge
or justice of the peace in this Territory, and in all cases the
party desiring to take testimony by interrogatories shall pursue
the same course as is pointed out for taking testimony by inter
rogatories in the courts of law of this Territory.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That the superior and county
courts of Florida, shall always be open for the issuing and re
turn of process, making, hearing, and deciding motions, present
ing, arguing, and deciding upon petitions, granting injunctions,
and passing interlocutory orders and decrees.
SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, That the form of a subpoena
to answer shall be as follows : Territory of Florida, to
Greeting : You are hereby commanded and strictly
enjoined, that laying all other business aside, and notwithstand
ing any excuse, you personally be and appear before the judge
of our court for the district or county of
(as the case may be,) on the day of
-wherever the court may then be, to answer to a bill of complaint
exhibited against you in our said court by
and to do further, and receive what our said court shall have
considered in that behalf; and this you are not to omit under a
penalty of five hundred dollars. Witness the Honourable
Judge of said court, the day of
in the year of
i A. B.
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That the names of the de
fendant or defendants, however numerous, may be inserted
in one subpoena, and that the service thereof may either be
by a delivery of a copy thereof to such defendant, showing the
original at the time of such delivery, or to the wife of such
defendant, or any white person above the age of fifteen years,
residing in his or her family at the time of such delivery, at
the dwelling-house or usual place of abode of such defendant,
and such service shall be made before or on the day to which
the process is made returnable, that the court from which the sub
poena has issued, the title of the cause, and the words " copy of
subpoena," together with the name of the plaintiff's solicitor,
shall be inserted on the back of the copy of the subpoena, which
may be so served, and when such service shall be made by the
ministerial officer of the court from which the subpoena issued,
it shall be his duty to note in writing on the original subpoena,
the time at which it came to his hands, and when served, the
manner of the service thereof, which note shall be subscribed
with his name and office ; when service of process is made by
any person other than the sworn officer of the court whence it
issued, affidavit of the time and manner of the service shall be
made and returned in the original subposna, and it shall be the
duty of the ministerial or executive officers of the several courts
of this Territory, to make return of all process placed in their
hands, and of the proceedings thereon, immediately after the
service or execution thoreof.
SEC. 10. Be it further enacted, That the first day of every
term, and the first Monday in every month shall be the days to
which process shall be made returnable, and when the process
is returnable out of term, and shall have been served, the defend
ant or defendants shall cause his, her, or their appearance to the
subpoena to be entered in the office of the clerk of the court
from which it is issued, on or before the first Monday in the
month next succeeding the month in which the process was re
turnable, and when the process is returnable to a term of the
court, and shall have been returned served, the defendant or de
fendants shall cause his, her, or their appearance to be entered
on or before the first Monday of the month next after that in
which the process was returnable : Provided, three weeks
shall have elapsed from the return day thereof, and if not, then
on the first Monday of the following month.
SEC. 11. Be it further enacted, That if process shall not be
returned, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court from which
it issued to issue similar process, if the same shall be required
by the party at whose instance it originally issued.
SEC. 12. Be it further enacted, That whenever it shall be
made to appear by affidavit to any of the judges of the aforesaid
courts process has been issued against any defendant, and has
been returned " not executed," and that the said defendant is
within the district of the Territory in which the court issuing the
process is held, but that the said defendant cannot be found, or
will not suffer service of process to be made on him or her, it
shall and may be lawful for the said judge, from whose court
the process issued, to grant an order, requiring the said defend
ant to appear and answer the complainant's bill within four
weeks ; which order shall be published once a week, during the
said four weeks, in some newspaper printed in the district in
which the court which grants the order is held ; or if there be no
newspaper published, then a copy of the said order shall be
posted up at the court-house of the district or county in which
it was granted, for the above space of four weeks ; and, at the
expiration of two months from the termination of the above four
weeks, if the defendant shall not have appeared and answered
the complainant's bill, the said complainant may enter, in the
common rule book at the clerk's office, an order, that the com
plainant's bill be taken pro confesso, having first obtained the
said order from the judge, upon proof of the publication or post
ing up, as aforesaid, of the order for appearance and answer.
SEC. 13. Be it further enacted, That whenever it shall be
made to appear by affidavit to the judge of the court in which
a bill shall have been filed, that any defendant therein resides
out of the distiict of the Territory in which the bill is filed, an
order requiring such defendant to appear and answer, otherwise
the complainant's bill shall be taken pro confesso, shall be pub
lished in any newspaper printed in the district of this Territory
in which the bill is filed, for the time herein prescribed; that is
to say, if the said defendant resides in this Territory, but not in
the district in which the bill is filed, for two months ; if in any
other part of the United States, for four months; if in any of the
West India Islands, for six months ; and if in Europe, for nine
months : which publication shall be made, when the defendant
resides in the United States, once a week; and when he or she
resides out of the United States, once a month during the periods
above prescribed ; if no newspaper be published in the district
in which the bill is filed, publication of the aforesaid order shall
be made in any other newspaper published in the state adjoining
the district in which the bill shall be filed; in which last case,
in addition to such publication, the said order to appear and an
swer shall be posted up at the court-house in which the superior
court for the said district holds its session ; and a copy of such
order having been published in the manner and for the time pre
scribed by law, and one month having expired of the time thereby
limited for appearance and answer by the defendant, upon proof
thereof by affidavit to the judge of the court in which the bill is
filed, an order, that the complainant's bill may be taken pro
confesso, shall be granted, and entered in the common rule book
kept by the clerk ; and the complainant may either have the
matter of the said bill decreed, or he may obtain a commission
or commissions for taking testimony, and have a decree upon his
bill as confessed, and the testimony adduced by him, in the same
manner as if the cause were at issue.
SEC. 14. Be it further enacted, That the return of process
executed shall be sufficient whereon to ground any subsequent
proceedings.
SEC. 15. Be it further enacted, That if a defendant shall
not file his or her answer within three months from the return of
the subpoena executed, the complainant may either proceed on
his bill as confessed, or have a commission or commissions to
take testimony, or he may move the court for an attachment,
which shall be granted, to bring the defendant in to answer the
charges and interrogatories contained in his bill at his election,
and may proceed in the two last cases as if the answer had been
filed, and the cause were at issue : Provided always, that the
court, in its discretion, for cause shown, may allow the answer
of the defendant to be filed, and grant a further day for the
hearing ; and when a party is in custody on such attachment,
he or she shall be detained in custody until he or she shall file
his or her answer, or be discharged by the court or the judge
thereof.
SEC. 16. Be it further enacted, That the defendant may, at
ar)y time Defore the bill is taken for confessed, or afterward, with
the leave of the court, demur or plead to the whole bill, or part
of it ; or he may demur to part, plead to part, and answer the
residue thereof, in such manner as is authorized by the practice
of the High Court of Chancery in England, and by the rules of
practice for Courts of Equity of the United States, under the au
thority of the act of Congress of May 8, 1792.
SEC. 17. Be it further enacted, That the complainants shall
put in the general replication, or file exceptions to the defend-
ant's answer, and give notice thereof to him or his solicitor, and
no special replication to an answer shall be filed but by leave of
the court or judge thereof for cause shown.
SEC. 18. Be it further enacted, That every defendant may
swear to his or her answer before any judge or justice of the
United States, or judge or justice of any court of any of the
United States, or Territories of the United States ; or of any
justice of the peace or notary public of any of the said States or
Territories, or of this Territory.
SEC. 19. Be it further enacted, That the complainant may
amend his bill at any time before answer, plea, or demurrer filed
of course, and without costs ; but if the defendant's appearance
be entered, and the defendant hath procured a copy of the bill,
the complainant shall furnish the defendant with a certified copy
of the amendment gratis, but no amendment in a matter of
substance shall be allowed as of course to any bill which has
been sworn to.
SEC. 20. Be it further enacted, That if a plea or demurrer
has been overruled, no other plea or demurrer shall thereafter be
received, but the defendant shall answer the plaintiffs bill ; and
if he fail to do so within one calendar month thereafter, the
same, or so much thereof as was covered by the plea or demur
rer, may be taken for confessed, and the matter thereof be de
creed accordingly.
SEC. 21. Be it further enacted, That the plaintiff may set
down a demurrer or plea to be argued, or he may take issue
upon the plea; if upon an issue the facts stated in the plea be
determined for the defendant, they shall avail him as far as in
law and equity they ought to avail him ; if a plaintiff shall not
reply to, or set for hearing any plea or demurrer, and give notice
thereof to the defendant, or his solicitor, one calendar month
before the second term of the court after filing the same, the bill
may be dismissed with costs ; and the defendant may, in all
cases, instead of filing a formal plea or demurrer, insist on anv
special matter in his answer, and have the same benefit thereof
as if he had pleaded the same matter or had demurred to the
bill.
SEC. 22. Be it further enacted, That if an answer shall be
considered insufficient, the complainant's solicitor may file ex-
ceptions thereto at any time within three weeks from the notice
of the filing thereof in the clerk's office, and enter a rule with
the clerk, that the defendant make a better answer within six
weeks, notice of which rule, and of the filing the exception, shall
be served upon the defendant or his solicitor; and if the defend
ant shall insist on the sufficiency of his answer, the complainant
may set down his exceptions for argument at the next term ; and
if they are sustained, no further or other answer shall be receiv-
ed but on payment of costs ; and if a second answer put in be
adjudged insufficient, the defendant shall pay double costs ;
and the defendant may also, in such case, be examined on inter
rogatories, and committed till he or she sufficiently answer
them ; or the plaintiff may move the court to take so much of
the bill as is not answered for confessed, and may file his repli
cation, obtain commissions for testimony, and proceed to hear
ing in the usual manner.
SEC. 23. Be it further enacted, That rules to plead, answer,
reply, or setting the cause for hearing and other proceedings not
particularly mentioned in this act; and all proceedings before
mentioned in it shall be entered in a rule book to be kept by the
clerks of the court for that purpose, and notice of the entry
thereof shall be served on the solicitors of the parties, if there be
any employed, and if not, upon the parties respectively.
SEC. 24. Be it further enacted, That after any bill, and be-
fore the defendant has answered, on oath made, that any of the
complainant's witnesses are aged, infirm, or are going out of the
jurisdiction of the court, or that any of them is a single witness
to a material fact, the clerk of the court in which the bill is filed
may issue a commission to any justice of the peace of the Ter
ritory, for taking the examination of such witness or witnesses
de bene esse, the party desiring such commission giving reason
able notice to the adverse party of the time and place of taking
such examination, if such adverse party or parties shall be known
to the complainant ; and the examination taken as aforesaid shall
be certified by the officer who shall have taken it, and be re
turned sealed up to the office of the clerk who issued the com
mission.
SEC. 25. Be it further enacted, That for the purpose of com-
pelling the attendance of witnesses who reside within the Ter
ritory, a subpoena shall issue under the seal of the court, with a
blank for the names of the witnesses, to be filled up by the party
procuring the same, as occasion may require, requiring the wit
nesses to attend before the justice or commissioners at such
time and place as the said justice or commissioners shall ap
point, for the purpose of giving evidence in the cause therein
described ; and a memorandum in writing, subscribed by the
said justice or commissioners, or one of them, designating the
time and place where the said commissioners or justice shall at
tend or meet for that purpose, being left with the witness at the
time the subpoena shall be served on him, shall be sufficient to
compel the attendance of such witness at the time and place de
signated, in like manner as if the said time and place had been
designated in the said subpoena, or to incur a contempt if he
does not attend accordingly.
SEC. 26. Be it further enacted, That commissioners may
issue, in term time or vacation, to take testimony of witnesses
residing out of the Territory, by any two or more persons named
in the commissions, by the order of the court or the judge thereof
in vacation: Provided, that not more than four persons shall be
named therein, two of whom may be named by the complainant,
and two by the defendant ; all the testimony taken under a com
mission to be executed out of the Territory, shall be taken on
interrogatories and cross interrogatories, filed in the clerk's office,
and a copy thereof served upon the solicitor of the opposite
party, if there be one employed ; if not, upon the party himself,
and the party upon whom, or upon whose solicitor, a copy of
the said interrogatories shall be served, shall have ten days from
such service in which to file cross interrogatories ; and if cross
interrogatories be not filed within ten days, the commission may
issue for taking the testimony upon the direct interrogatories;
the copy of the interrogatories shall be accompanied with notice
of the name, residence, and occupation, if it be known, of the
witness or witnesses to be examined, and also of the name, resi
dence, and occupation, if it be known, of the person or persons
who are to be proposed to the court or judge as commissioners
on the part of the party for whom the testimony is to be taken ;
and when the opposite party files his or her cross interroga
tories, they shall be accompanied with the names, residence, and
occupations of the persons to be proposed by him or her as
commissioners ; all testimony taken viva voce, in open court,
shall be taken down in writing at the time by the clerk.
[Section 27 amended-Act February 13, 1S31, section 2.]
SEC. 27. Be it further enacted, That no injunction shall
issue to stay proceedings at law after verdict or inquest of damages,
unless the party applying therefor shall have previously
paid all the costs of the suit at law, and shall have entered into a
bond with two or more sufficient securities in double the amount
of the verdict at law, payable to the plaintiff in the action at
law, and conditioned to pay the said plaintiff the amount of the
verdict, inquest, or judgment at law, together with ten per cent,
on the same if the said injunction shall be dissolved, or the bill
upon which it may be granted shall be dismissed and no injunc
tion to stay proceedings at law before verdict or inquest of
damages shall issue, unless the party applying shall have pre
viously paid all the costs in the suit at law, and shall have en
tered into a bond in doubleVthe amount or value of the property
with two good and sufficient securities to the plaintiff in the ac
tion at law, and conditioned to pay to the said plaintiff all damages,
losses, expenses, and charges which he really may have sustain
ed or have been put to by reason of the issuing of the said in
junction, if the injunction shall be dissolved or the bill on which
it was granted shall be dismissed.
SEC. 28. Beit further enacted, That every final decree
shall be made up and engrossed by the clerk of the court, and
be signed by the judge of the court in which it was pronounced
at any time upon request of the party plaintiff or his solicitor
after the expiration of thirty days from the time of pronouncing
the decree, unless it shall have been appealed from or a petition
for a rehearing shall have been presented within the said thirty
days, and no process shall be issued or other proceedings had
on any final decree or order until the same shall have been en
grossed and signed as aforesaid, and filed in the clerk's office ;
and every final decree or order of any of the courts of this Territory
in any suit or proceeding in equity which shall direct the
payment of money either absolutely or conditionally, shall have
the same binding eifect upon the property of the party against
whom such decree or order shall have been pronounced, from the
time of the filing thereof in the clerk's office, engrossed and
signed, as a judgment at law has by law.
SEC. 29. Be it further enacted, That a petition for a re-
hearing regularly presented within thirty days from the time of
pronouncing the decree, shall prevent the issuing of process un
til the prayer of the said petition shall be determined on, and.
such petition shall be determined on at the term of the court in
which the decree was pronounced, if it can be done, if not, with
in thirty days from the time at which the petition was present
ed ; every petition for a rehearing shall contain the special mat
ter or cause on which such a rehearing is applied for, and the
facts therein stated, if not appearing on the face of the proceed
ings, shall be verified by the oath of the party or some other
credible person ; after a rehearing shall have been granted, no
further or other proceedings shall be had or taken on the decree
pronounced on the original hearing of the cause.
SEC. 30. Be it further enacted, That from any and every
final decree pronounced in the county courts of this Territory,
an appeal may be taken as a matter of right and of course to the
superior court of the district in which it was pronounced, and
every appeal taken according to the provisions of this act from
any such decree, shall operate as a supersedeas and stay all
other proceedings upon the decree appealed from : That an ap
peal shall be taken by filing in the office of the clerk of the
court in which the decree was pronounced, a written memoran
dum that the cause was carried to the superior court by appeal,
by paying all the costs which have accrued in the county court,
and giving notice of the appeal to the opposite party or his so
licitor, all which to entitle the party to his appeal must be done
within thirty days from the day in which the decree in the county
court was pronounced ; no appeal shall be taken from a de-
cree of aI'y of tne said county courts which order and direct
tne payment of money, either absolutely or conditionally, unless
the party desiring to appeal from such decree shall within the
aforesaid thirty days enter into a bond with two good and suffi
cient securities in a sum double the amount of the money directe<*
or ordered to he paid by the decree, which bond shall be
payable to the opposite party, and shall be conditioned for the
payment to such opposite party of ihe sum or sums of money
decreed by the county court to be paid, together with ten per
cent. damages on the amount so decreed to be paid, and all the
costs of the appeal, in case the said appeal shall not be prose
cuted to effect or shall be dismissed, or the decree of the coun
ty court shall be confirmed by the superior court, and no appeal
shall be taken or entered otherwise than according to the afore
said provisions, shall stay the issuing of process or the taking
any other necessary proceedings upon any final decree of the
said county courts or any of them, or be valid to any other pur
pose whatsoever; it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court
from which the appeal shall be taken to endorse on the memo-
randum of the taking of the appeal, the time of the filing of
such memorandum, and to file the same with the other papers in
the cause, and also to enter upon his docket the time at which
said memorandum was filed.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That upon taking an appeal
as aforesaid it shall be the duty of the clerk of the county court
to deposit in the office of the clerk of the superior court all the
pleadings, papers, and documents in the cause, with all the docu
mentary evidence and other testimony adduced in the cause,
with a transcript of every interlocutory decree or order, and of
the final decree pronounced therein: and the clerk of the superior
court shall thereupon enter the said appeal on the calen-
dar of the said court for hearing at the ensuing term thereof,
SEC. 6. Be it further enacted, That the rules of practice
in the courts of equity of the United States as prescribed by the
supreme court thereof under the act of Congress of the 8th of
May, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, where pro
vision is not made by this act, shall be rules for the practice of
the courts of this Territory when exercising equity jurisdiction,
and when the rules of practice so directed by the supreme
court and the provisions of this act do not apply, the practice of
the courts shall be regulated by the practice of the high court
of Chancery in England.
SEC. 33. Be it further enac'ed, That the judges of the said
courts shall in all cases in which a commission for the taking of
testimony out of the Territory shall be applied for, have power,
on the application of the solicitor of the opposite party, to grant
a greater time than ten days in which to file cross interrogato
ries, on good and sufficient cause shown to the said judges on
oath by the said solicitor.
SEC. 34. Be it further enacted, That previous to the grant-
ing of any injunction to stay proceedings at common law before
verdict given or judgment rendered, the judges of the said
courts shall require the party applying for such injunction to
enter on record his confession of judgment at common law, and
his release of all errors at law in said judgment.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That the fifth section of
an act entitled " an act to regulate proceedings in Chancery,"
which was approved on the seventh day of November, A. D.
1828, shall be, and the same is hereby repealed.
SEC. 2. Be it Jurther enacted, That the provisions of the
twenty-seventli section of the before recited act, shall be ap
plied to and govern in cases where there has been neither ver
dict nor inquest of damages.
SEC. 1. 
Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Councn
(jj the Territory of Florida, That every final decree
sjjalj ^e ma(je and pronounced in open court, and the plaintiff or
defendant may appeal from the said decree at any time within
two years: Provided, however, that the same shall not operate
as a supersedeas unless the said appeal be taken within the
time fixed bylaw in other cases, or if not taken within that time,
upon an order of one of the judges of the court of appeals,
directing the said appeal to operate as a supersedeas, in which
event bond and security shall be given as provided for by law.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That if any suit which
hath been or shall be hereafter commenced for relief in equity
. , r , , r , , " J
m anY court, against any defendant or defendants who are re
siding out of this Territory, and others within the same, having
in their hands effects of, or being otherwise indebted to such
absent defendant or defendants, or against any such absent de
fendant or defendants having lands or tenements within the Ter
ritory, and the appearance of such absentees be not entered and
security given to the satisfaction of the court for performing the
decrees, upon affidavit that such defendant or defendants are out
of the Territory, or that upon inquiry at his, her, or their usual
place of abode, he, she, or they could not be found, so as to be
served with process, in all such cases such court may make any
order, and require surety, if it shall appear necessary, to re
strain the defendants in this Territory from paying or conveying
away, or secreting the debts by them owing to, or the effects in
their hands, of such absent defendant or defendants ; and for
that purpose may order such debts to be paid, and effects to be
delivered up to the said plaintiff or plaintiffs, upon their giving
sufficient security for the return thereof, to such person and in
such manner as the court shall direct.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That the court shall also ap-
point some day in the succeeding term for the absent defendant
or defendants to enter his, her, or their appearance to the suit,
and give security for performing the decree, a copy of which
order shall by direction of the court be forthwith published in
any newspaper within this Territory, the circulation of which
shall in the opinion thereof be best calculated to apprise the ab
sent defendant or defendants of the pending of such suit, and
continued for two months successively ; and another copy thereof
shall be posted at the front door of such court-house. If such
absent defendant shall not appear, and give such security, within
the time limited, or such further time as the court may allow,
for good cause shown, the court may proceed to take such proof
as the complainant shall offer; and if they shall thereupon be
satisfied of the justice of the demand, they may order the bill to
be taken as confessed, and make such order or decree thereon,
as shall appear just; and may enforce due performance and execution
thereof, by such ways and means as have been heretofore
used for enforcing other decrees, requiring the complainant or
complainants to give security, as the court shall approve, for
abiding such future orders as may be made for restoring the
estate or effects to the absent defendants, upon his, her, or their
appearance and answering the bill ; and if the complainant or
complainants shall refuse to give, or not be aole to procure such
security, the effects shall remain, under the direction of the court,
in the hands of a receiver, or otherwise, for so long a time, and
shall then be finally disposed of in such manner as to the court
shall seem just.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That if any person or per-
sons who shall be out of the Territory at the time a decree is
pronounced as aforesaid, shall within seven years from the pass-
ing such decree, return and appear openly : or in case of his
or her death, if his or her heir, executor or administrator shall,
within the said seven years, be and appear openly within this
Territory, the plaintiff or plaintiffs, their executors or adminis
trators, shall serve such person or persons, so returning and ap
pearing, with a copy of the decree, within a reasonable time af
ter such return or appearance shall be known to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs ; and thereupon such defendant or defendants, or their
representatives may, within twelve months after such service, or
those defendants not served with a copy, or their representatives,
may within seven years after the decree pronounced, appear in
court and petition to have the cause reheard ; and upon their
paying down, or giving security for the payment of such costs
as the court shall think reasonable, they shall be admitted to
answer the bill, and issue may be joined, and witnesses on both
sides examined, and such other proceedings, decree, and execu
tion had, as may be just and right in the cause ; but if the seve
ral defendants, or their representatives, upon whom the decree
shall be so served, shall not, within twelve months after sueh
service, and the other defendants, or the representatives, upon
whom no such service is made, shall not within seven years from
the time of the decree pronounced, appear and petition to have
the cause reheard as aforesaid, and pay, or secure to be paid,
such costs as the court shall think reasonable, all and every de
cree to be made in pursuance of this act against any defendant
or defendants so failing, shall stand absolutely confirmed against
him, her, or them ; and at the end of such term, the court may
make such further order for quieting the plaintiff or plaintiffs in
any such suits in their possession, and title to the estate and
effects so sequestered, or made liable, as to them shall seem rea
sonable.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That in all cases whatever,
where a suit is or shall be depending in any court, concerning
any matter or other thing whatever, against any absent defend
ant or defendants, the court may, on satisfactory proof to them
made, that such defendant or defendants is, or are out of thisTerritery,
or that upon inquiry at his, her, or their usual place
of abode, he, she, or they could not be found, make any similar
order to that which is directed to be made in the case of absent
debtors, adapting the same to the nature of the case ; a copy of
which order shall be published in like manner as is directed in
the case of absent debtors, and thereupon the proceedings in re
lation to such absent defendant shall be in all respects the same,*
both before and after the decree, as are above prescribed in re
lation to absent debtors, so far as such proceedings against ab
sent debtors shall be applicable to such absent defendants.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That the county courts of
the several counties in this Territory which have not hitherto
laid off their respective counties into justices' districts shall, at
the next term of their respective courts, lay off their respective
counties into districts not exceeding seven, and there shall re-
side in each district at least one justice of the peace and one
constable.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That if any judge or justice
of the peace constituting the several county courts within this
Territory, shall refuse or neglect to lay off the several counties
into magistrates' districts, and alter the same according to the
provisions of this act, it shall be the duty of any grand juror
within the county or district, to present to the superior court,
having jurisdiction of the same, every such judge or justice, and
if found guiltv of such refusal or neglect by such court, every
such judge or justice shall pay, at the discretion of the court, a
fine not exceeding fifty dollars, to be paid in the treasury of the
county of which he shall be judge or justice.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, Thai no alteration shall be
made in the said districts after they are are once laid off, unless
on application of at least ten citizens, residing within the limits
of the district that is prayed to be altered, which persons shall
set up a written notice in three of the most public places within
the district to be altered, particularly describing the line such
alteration will produce.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of
the clerks of the county courts in each and every county in this
**
Territory, to describe particularly on the records of their respective
courts immediately, the boundary lines of every district so
laid off by the aforesaid county courts, as well as all alterations
that may hereafter take place, and post a copy of the same at
the door of their respective court-houses within five days after
such division or alteration shall have been made.
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That the district lines and
boundaries which shall have been regularly laid out and defined,
or which may hereafter be laid out in any county in conformity
to the laws of this Territory, shall form and compose a justice's
district, in which there shall reside one, and not more than two
justices of the peace, except in the cities of Pensacola, Talla
hassee, and St. Augustine.
[Vide Act November 21, 1829, section 3.]
SEC. 6. Be it further enacted, That when any justice of the
peace shall hereafter be appointed, he shall, before he enters
upon the duties of his office, take and subscribe an oath or affir
mation before some other justice of the peace, or some judge of
a superior or County court, to support the constitution of the
United States, and to administer the laws to the best of his know
ledge, skill, and abilities, without favour, partiality, or prejudice ;
which oath shall be filed in the clerk's office of the county court
of the county for which he is appointed.
SEC. 7. Be it further enacted, That when any justice of the
peace shall be appointed by the governor, and there shall be no
judge or justice of the peace convenient before whom he can
take the oath or affirmation prescribed by law, it shall be lawful
for such justice of the peace to take the oath or affirmation be
fore any person named by the governor.
SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, That the said justices of
the peace shall hold a court once in every month in their respec
tive districts when business may require it, upon some particu
lar day in the month to be determined upon by the justice re
siding therein ; and when there are two or more justices in one
district, it shall be their duty to hold their courts at the same
time and place, as near the centre of the district as may be con
venient, and the said justices shall have power to adjourn their
courts from day to day, so long as the business of the courts
may require.
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That the said justices shall
be conservators of the peace throughout the counties for which
they may be appointed respectively, and may issue warrants
against persons violating the criminal laws of the Territory, and
commit the offenders to jail, or recognise them to appear before
the superior court of the county or district, at the next ensuing
term thereof, to answer to any indictment which may be pre
ferred against them, or discharge them from custody, according
to the circumstances of the case, and may require surety of the
peace when the same has been violated or threatened.
[Vide Act November 21, 1829, section 11.]
SEC. 1.0. Be it further enacted, That the said justices of
the peace shall also have, and exercise within the limits of their
respective districts, exclusive original jurisdiction in suits for
the collection of all debts, dues, and demands, where the amount
sued for does not exceed the sum of fifty dollars, whether the
same be liquidated or standing in open account, and final juris
diction in the collection of all sums not exceeding ten dollars ;
but no justice of the peace shall entertain jurisdiction in any ac
tion for slander or assault and battery, false imprisonment, or
for trespass on lands.
SEC. 11. Be it further enacted, That every suit brought to a
justice's court, shall be commenced by a summons issued by
said justice, in which the names of the parties, the nature and
amount of the debt, and the time and place at which the defend
ant is required to appear and answer the plaintiff's demand shall
be stated.
SEC. 12. Be it further enacted, That the service of every
summons issued by a justice of the peace shall be by delivering
a copy to the defendant, or leaving it at his most notorious place
of abode, at least ten days before the sitting of the court to which
the same is made returnable, and in no instance shall bail be
required of any defendant to a suit brought in a justice's court.
SEC. 13. Be it further enacted, That no person shall be
liable to be sued in a justice's court in any district other than
the one in which he resides, except in cases brought against
two or more persons residing in different districts, in which case
it shall be lawful for the plaintiff to commence his action in the
district in which either of the defendants reside, and direct copies
of the summons to be served upon the other defendants, re
quiring them to appear and answer to the action in the district in
which it is brought : Provided, that nothing herein contained
shall be construed to prevent any suit being brought to the jus
tice's court, in a district adjoining the one in which the defend
ant resides, when there is no justice of the peace residing in the
district in which the defendant resides.
SEC. 14. Be it further enacted, That whenever any person
wishes to commence a suit against a justice of the peace or at
constable, he shall be authorized to bring the same in any ad-
joining district to the one in which the said justice or constable
resides.
SEC. 15. Be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful for
the constable, when the justice of the peace in his district is
interested in the case, or related to either of the parties, or shall
refuse to act therein, to return the warrant and all other process
in any such case before some other justice in said district, or in
an adjoining district convenient to the defendant, and the jus
tice shall take cognizance thereof and proceed thereon as in
other cases to the same amount.
SEC. 16. Be it further enacted. That all bonds, notes, or
other instruments of writing within the jurisdiction of a justice
, , . , , o J J
of the peace, signed by two or more persons, may be sued upon
jointly or severally, whether the same be joint, or joint and se
veral, and a suit brought against one of said persons shall be no
bar to a subsequent action brought against either of the others,
unless the plaintiff has received full satisfaction for his debt or
demand in the first or some other action brought upon said in
strument.
SEC. 17. Repealed by Act Nov. 21, 1829, section 11.
SEC. 18. Repealed by Act Nov. 21, 1829, section 11.
SEC. 19. Repealed.
SEC. 20. Repealed.
SEC. 21. Repealed.
SEC. 22. Repealed.
SEC. 23. Repealed.
SEC. 24. Be it further enacted, That every justice of the
peace shall keep a docket book, in which he shall make fair and
accurate entries of all causes brought before him, with his judgmerit
thereon, and shall also keep a book in which a minute of
all executions shall be entered, in whose hands delivered, when
returnable, the amount of the judgment and costs, and a copy
of the return of the constable in separate columns, which docket
shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein contained.
SEC. 25. Be it further enacted, That the said justices respectively
shall have power to fine and imprison for contempts
offered to them while acting in their judicial capacity : Provided,
that the fine shall in no case exceed the sum of fire dollars, nor
the imprisonment four hours.
SEC. 26. Be it further enacted, That in all cases brought
to a justice's court the best evidence the nature of the case will
admit of shall be required, and in no instance shall either plain
tiff or defendant be permitted to prove his or her account by
his or her own oath, without first taking an oath in writing that
he or she has no other evidence whereby to establish the same
within his or her power to procure, and if any plaintiff or defendant
shall swear to his or her account agreeably to the pro-
. . ,. ^ , .. , , o j r
visions of this act, it shall be competent for the opposite party
to deny the same on oath, and the court or jury shall then de
cide according to the weight and credibility of the testimony,
SEC. 27. Be it further enacted, That in case of mutual
debts and sets-off, the justice may give a judgment in favour of
the defendant, provided it appears there is a balance due him or
her, and issue execution therefor as upon other judgments.
SEC. 28. Be it further enacted, That no written pleadings
shall be required in any cause depending before a justice of the
peace, but either party shall have the right to be heard by him
self, or his agent or his council, as he may think proper.
SEC. 29. Be it further enacted, That if the defendant in
any cause before a justice of the peace shall appear at the term
at which the process shall be returnable, the trial shall be set
for the next succeeding term, unless the parties shall consent to
an immediate trial, but if the defendant shall fail to enter his
appearance, judgment may be given against him by default ; but
for sufficient cause shown upon oath, the justice may continue
any cause at the instance of either party, not exceeding two
terms.
SEC. 30. Be it further enacted, That either party, plain
tiff or defendant, shall have the right to require a jury to decide
upon his or hercausei provided the amount in controversy shall
exceed the sum of five dollars ; and when a jury is required as
aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the justice of the peace to
direct the constable forthwith to summons six disinterested
persons, not of kin to either party, who shall be sworn to try
the cause depending between the parties at variance, and a true
verdict give according to the evidence ; and when the jury shall
have returned a verdict in the cause the justice shall enter up
judgment thereon agreeably to said verdict.
SEC. 31. Be it further enacted, That the said justices of
the peace shall respectively have the right to issue subpoenas
for witnesses and commissions to take testimony by interroga
tories, under the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are
prescribed in taking of testimony in cases depending in the su
perior or county courts ; Provided, that whenever subpoenas
witnesses shall be issued by justices of the peace, the same
shall be served by the constable ; and provided also, that the fine
against a witness for not attending under a subpoena issued
by a justice shall in no case exceed the sum of twenty dol
lars.
SEC. 32. Be it further enacted, That all witnesses duly
summoned and attending any justice's court, who reside out of
the district in which such court is held, shall be entitled to seven
ty-five cents each per day for their attendance, and all wit
nesses residing in the district and summoned as aforesaid, shall
be entitled to fifty cents each per day for their attendance ;
Provided, that there shall not be taxed in the bill of costs
the expense of more than two witnesses to prove the same
fact.
SEC. 33. Be it further enacted, That no person shall be
permitted, in any trial in said justice's court, to deny his bond,
note, or other instrument of writing for the payment of money,
unless the same be denied on oath in writing ; and the said court
shall, in all cases, grant a new trial upon good cause shown.

SEC. 34. Be it further enacted, That if either party shall be
dissatisfied with the judgment of the justice of the peace in any
cause tried before him, where the amount in controversy shall
exceed the sum of ten dollars, such party may, within three days
after the adjournment of the court at which the said judgment
was rendered, demand an appeal to the county court of the
county ; and it shall be the duty of said justices to grant
said appeal upon the applicant's paying the costs, and giving
bond and security for the eventual costs and condemnation
money ; and if the party applying shall succeed, upon the trial
of his appeal in the county court, he shall recover the costs paid
as aforesaid from the appellee in said cause, to be taxed in the
bill of costs in said county court.
SEC. 35. Be it further enacted, That when an appeal is
taken from a justice's court to the county court, it shall be the
duty of the justice of the peace, from whose judgment said ap-
peal was taken, to send up a true transcript of all the proceed
ings in the cause, certified under his hand and seal, to the clerk
of said county court, at least fifteen days before the ensuing
term thereof; and it shall be the duty of the clerk of the said
county court to docket the same in its regular order on the appeal
docket of said court, and to issue a citation to the appellee,
notifying him of said appeal, which citation shall be served by
the sheriff at least ten days before the first day of the term of
said court.
SEC. 36. Be it further enacted, That no execution shall
issue upon any judgment given by a justice of the peace, until
after the expiration of three days from the time of entering said
judgment, except it be upon oath of the plaintiff, that he or she
is likely to lose his or her demand by such delay ; and it shall
be the duty of the justice to issue executions in all cases after
the expiration of three days from the day of said judgment, un
less otherwise directed by the successful party, as the case may
be.
SEC. 37. Be it further enacted, That executions issued by
justices of tne peace shall be directed " to all and singular the
constables of the county," and shall have full force throughout
the same ; and if in any case it shall be necessary to send an
execution to some county other than the one in which it was is
sued, to be levied upon the property of the defendant, it shall
be the duty of the plaintiff, or his agent, to present the same to
a justice of the peace residing in the county to which the same
is carried, and the said justice shall endorse thereon an autho
rity to all and singular the constables of his county to levy the
same, which shall possess the same force as if it had originally
been issued by some justice of the peace of said county.
SEC. 38. Be it further enacted, That all judgments which
may De obtained in any justice's court, shall be of equal dignity
with judgments obtained in the superior or county courts, and
shall bind the property of the defendants from their dates respectively
: Provided nevertheless, that no constable shall be
authorized to levy on any slave or slaves, or real estate, unless
there is no other property to be found sufficient to satisfy the
debt ; then, and in that case, they are hereby authorized to levy
on the same wherever to be found, and deliver over the execu
tion or executions to the sheriff of the county, with a return of
the property levied on, who shall proceed to sell the same under
such formalities as are prescribed for the sale of such property
under execution from the superior or county courts.
SEC. 39. Be it further enacted, That in all cases in justices'
courts, commenced against joint obligors or promissors, if any
one or more of them shall make it appear, to the satisfaction of
the court, that he, she, or they signed said obligation as secu
rity or securities only, it shall be the duty of the justice to enter
up judgment against him, her, or them, as such, and award exe
cution in the same manner, which, when satisfied by said secu
rity, or out of their property, he, she, or they shall have the
control and benefit of said execution, for the purpose of remu
nerating him, her, or themselves, out of their principal, in the
same manner as if they had been security on an appeal : Pro
vided, judgment and execution shall be against the principal
also.
SEC. 40. Be it further enacted, That the magistrates, in
their respective districts, may appoint their own constables, who
shall, before he enters upon the duties of his office, take and
subscribe the following oath before a justice of the peace, or
judge of the county court : —"I do solemnly swear, that I will
faithfully perform all the duties required of me as constable for
the county of , without partiality or oppression,
tu the best of ray ability and understanding, so help m
God ;" and shall give bond and security, payable to the Go
vernor and his successors in office, in a sum not less than on
hundred, nor exceeding one thousand, dollars ; conditioned f
the faithful discharge of the duties of his office, which securit
shall be approved by any two justices of the peace for th
county, or the judge of the county court ; and the said bond an
oath shall be filed in the clerk's office of the county court of th
county for which said constable may be appointed.
SEC. 41. Be it further enacted, That the said constable
shall be permitted to serve processes, and transact business, i
any district in the county in which they respectively reside
but no constable shall be allowed greater fees for travelling tha
he would be entitled to, provided he resided in the district i
which the said business is done ; and in all cases the mileag
shall be calculated from the place of holding courts in the dis
trict.
SEC. 42. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty o
the constables in the several counties to serve all summons and
warrants, and levy all executions placed in their hands, agree
ably to the tenor thereof, and to make due returns of the same
to the court to which they may be made returnable ; and if any
constable shall fail to pay over money collected by him on any
execution or other process to the person entitled to receive the
same on demand, he shall be liable to a penalty of twenty-five
per cent. upon the amount so collected for such failure ; and i
shall be the duty of the justice of the peace who issued said exe
cution or other process at the ensuing term of his court, upon
application of the plaintiff, and upon his making it appear that
said constable has received the amount of said execution or
other process, or any part thereof, and has failed to pav over the
same on demand, to issue an execution against said constable,
and his securities, for the same, together with the penalty herein
prescribed; which execution shall be levied, and the money
raised, by some other constable of the county, out of the pro
perty of said defaulting constable and his securities.
SEC. 43. Be it further enacted, That all executions issued
by justices of the peace shall continue in full force for the term
of twelve months from their date respectively, unless' sooner
satisfied ; and when any constable shall return an execution after
the expiration of twelve months from its date unsatisfied, it shall
be the duty of the justice presiding in the district in which the
same is returned, to renew the same upon the application of the
plaintiff; but the constable shall, in all cases, collect the money
on executions as soon as it is practicable after they receive them,
unless differently instructed by the plaintiff; and any constable
failing to collect the amount of any execution placed in his
hands, (unless otherwise directed by the plaintiff,) may be pro-
ceeded against by motion before the court of the district from
whence said execution issued ; and if it appears, upon trial of
said motion, that due diligence had not been used by said con
stable in the collection of the money due on said execution, it
shall be the duty of said court to give a judgment against said
constable and his securities for the amount of said execution,
together with ten per cent. damages thereon, upon which judg
ment execution shall forthwith issue.
SEC. 44. Be it further enacted, That in all cases of affida-
of illegality to executions issued by justices of the peace,
and in all cases of claims to property arising under levies made
by virtue of any execution or process from a justice's court, the
same shall be returned to and determined upon at the justice's
court under the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are
prescribed for the trial of similar cases in the superior and
county courts.
Skct. 45. Be it further enacted, That in cases of emergency,
it shall be lawful for any justice of the peace to direct any warrants
and other processes to any person appointed by him to
serve such process, and the service by such person shall be as
valid as if made by a constable duly appointed and qualified.
SEC. 46. Be it further enacted, That no ca. sa. shall be
issued against any defendant by a justice of the peace, nor shall
any person be deprived of his liberty by any civil process ema
nating from a justice's court.
SEC. 47. Be it further enacted, That constables hereafter
to be appointed shall be entitled to hold their offices for the term
of two vears, unless sooner removed according to law : Pro
vided, however, that it shall be lawful at any time for two jus
tices, or the judge of the county court, to remove any constable
from office for good cause shown.
SEC. 48. Be it further enacted, That hereafter, whenever
any justice of the peace shall retire or be removed from office,
^ snalj ^e nis duty to turn over to n|s successor all tne dockets
and papers relating to his office, and it shall be the duty of the
succeeding justice to close the unfinished business commenced
by his predecessor ; and if any justice of the peace shall fail to
turn over his dockets and papers as aforesaid, he shall be liable
to an action at the instance of any person injured thereby ; and
if there'be no justice of the peace appointed for the district from
which the said justice retires or is removed from office, it shall
be his duty to turn them over to some justice of the peace in an
adjoining district, who shall act upon the same until there shall
be an appointment made for the district left vacant by such re
signation or removal ; and where any justice of the peace shall
die, it shall be the duty of his executor or administrator to turn
over all the papers and dockets of his office as aforesaid.
SEC. 49. Be it further enacted, That hereafter whenever
any constaDle resigns or is removed from office, it shall be his
duty to deposit all his papers and unfinished business in the
court to which the same is made returnable ; and if any consta
ble going out of office shall fail to deposit his papers and un
finished business as aforesaid, he and his securities shall be
liable to the action of any person injured by such failure ; and if
any constable shall die, it shall be the duty of his executor or
administrator to deposit his papers as aforesaid, and the justice
of the peace in whose court the said papers and unfinished busi
ness are deposited, shall cause the same to be acted upon and
closed by another constable of said county.
SEC. 50. Be it further enacted, That in all cases where a
judgment by confession shall be given before a justice of the
peace, the party confessing judgment shall be debarred the right
of appeal to, and a writ of error or certiorari shall not lie from
the county court in such case.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That from and after the
passage of this act there shall be appointed, by the Governor
and Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, in each and
every county in this Territory, a competent number of fit and
proper persons to act as justices of the peace, who shall hold
their offices for the term of two years from the date of their respective
commissions; and shall have and exercise, within
the limits of their respective districts, exclusive original jurisdiction
in suits for the collection of debts, dues, and demands,
where the amount sued for does not exceed the sum of fifty
dollars, under such rules, regulations, and restrictions as are or
may hereafter be prescribed by the Legislative Council of the
Territory of Florida.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That whenever any va-
cancy shall happen in any justice's district, by death, resignation,
removal, or otherwise, the same shall be filled by the Exe
cutive, upon a petition from the inhabitants of the district in
which any such vacancy may happen ; and the person or per
sons appointed to fill any such vacancy shall hold said of
fice only for the unexpired term of service of his predeces
sor.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That each and every
justice of the peace, who maybe appointed under the provisions
of this act, shall, before he enters upon the duties of his office,
take and subscribe an oath or affirmation before some other
justice of the peace, or some judge of the superior court, or
justice of the county court, " to support the constitution of the
United States, and to administer the laws to the best of his
knowledge, skill, and ability, without favour, partiality, or preju-
dice ;" and such other oath as may be required of all officers,
civil and military, by the laws of this Territory, which shall
be filed in the clerk's office of the county court of the county
for which he is appointed.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That no sale of any goods
or chattels, taken in execution by virtue of a writ from a jus
tice of the peace, shall be made by any constable, unless the
same shall have been previously advertised, at least fifteen
days, in three public places in the county, one of which places
shall be the door of the office of the justice granting the same ;
and all constables' sales hereafter shall be on the court day of
the justice who issued the execution, and between the hours of
ten o'clock in the forenoon and three in the afternoon : Pro
vided, that if there shall not be present a sufficient number of
persons, in the opinion of the constable, to produce a fair com
petition, on the day of sale as aforesaid, then, and in that case,
the constable may postpone the sale from day to day, not ex
ceeding three days, and if no sale be effected on the third
day, the sale shall be postponed until the regular sale day.
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That if upon any execution
the constable shall return " no property found," and the plaintiff
in execution shall go before the justice and make affidavit, that
to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, any person or
persons, to be by him or her in said affidavit named; is or are
justly indebted to, or hath or have any of the property of the
defendant in execution in his, her, or their possession or con
trol, then, and in that case, it shall and may be lawful for the
said justice of the peace to grant the garnishee process, as pro
vided for in the act to which this is an amendment, and have
the same proceedings thereupon, so far as the same can be applied,
against such garnishee or garnishees ; and if any garni-
shee shall acknowledge him or herself indebted to the said
defendant in execution, in any amount not then actually due, the
said justice of the peace, in that case, is hereby directed to
enter up judgment against such garnishee, for all or so much
of said debt as will be sufficient to satisfy said plaintiff's de
mand, together with all the costs : Provided, that such judg
ment, so entered up as aforesaid, shall be stayed until sixty
days after such claim or debt, so garnisheed, shall become due,
and then execution may issue thereupon, as upon other judg
ments.
SEC. 6. Be it further enacted, That the justices of the
peace shall have the power to establish lost papers, notes, bonds,
or ot.her instruments of writing, in the following manner : When
any officer, charged with the issuing or service of any sum
mons, writ, or other process, shall have lost any note, bond, or
other instrumentof writing, necessary to the collection of anydebt
or demand, when the same shall not exceed the sum of fifty dol
lars, he shall go before some justice of the peace, and make an af
fidavit, in which he shall state the amount of such lost note, bond,
or other instrument of writing, the value thereof, to whom paya
ble, and all other facts relating thereto, and the manner of losing
the same. And the said justice of the peace shall thereupon
issue a notice to the defendant or maker of such lost paper, re
quiring him to appear at the next court, to show cause, if any he
can, why said lost paper may not be established ; and the said
justice shall also cause a notice of such application to be posted
up at the door of his court-room on the day appointed for such
investigation ; and the said justice shall, on the day appointed
as aforesaid, proceed, if he is fully satisfied of the loss of such
paper, to make out a duplicate of the same, in the words of the
original, as nearly as the circumstances of the case and the evi
dence before him will justify, and cause the affidavit of the
applicant to be attached thereto; and notes, bonds, and other'
instruments of writing, thus established, shall be as valid
in law, to all intents and purposes, as the original could have
been.

SEC. 7. Be it further enacted, That any person may be sued
in the district or county where the debt sued for, or contract
sued on, was contracted or entered into, whether he be a resident
of the same or not.

SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, That in all cases where ap-
peals are taken from the judgments of a justice of the peace,
the testimony taken before said justice shall be reported to the
court above annexed to the record.
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That nothing in this act
contained shall be so construed as to vacate the offices oft
those justices who are now in commission in this Territory,
whose nominations have been confirmed by the Legislative
Council.
SEC. 10. Be it further enacted, That on all appeals from
a justice's court to the county or superior court, the same rules
and regulations shall govern (where the appeals are frivolous
and intended for delay only) as govern appeals from the courts
above.
Sec. 11. Be it further enacted, That so much of the tenth
and thirty-fourth sections of an act " concerning the appointment
and jurisdiction of justices of the peace," approved the
21st day of November, 1828, as conflicts with the provisions of
a law of Congress, which gives to the parties, in any court of
this Territory, the right of appeal or writ of error to the superior
courts of this Territory, be and the same are hereby repealed ;
and so much of the act to which this is an amendment, approved
the 21st day of November, 1828, as directs the manner of suing
out and prosecuting writs of attachment, and all other acts and
parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act, be and
the same are hereby repealed.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That if any person be
-dissatisfied with any judgment rendered by any justice of the
peace, he may apply to the clerk of the superior or county court
for a writ of certiorari, to be directed to the said justice, to cer
tify a full and complete record of the proceedings had before
him ; and the certiorari shall operate as a supersedeas, by the
party obtaining the same entering into bond and security, to be
approved of by the clerk of the superior or county courts, to se
cure the amount adjudged by the justice, in case the same shall
be affirmed ; and no judgment of any justice shall be reversed
on certiorari, when the subject matter shall appear to have been
within the jurisdiction of the justice, where there has been a re
gular summons and service thereon, where there shall have been
proper parties, and where proper entries shall have been made
on the justice's record, nor shall such judgment be reversed for
any other causes in law, or in fact, unless they appear on the
face of such record.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That when any party, who
may be dissatisfied with a judgment of a justice of the peace,
shall appeal from the same, it shall be the duty of the said
justice to file with the clerk of the superior or county court, on
or before the first day of the next succeeding term of said
court, a copy of the orders on his record, of the summons and
judgment, and also such original papers as may have been
used on the trial in his court, taking care to retain copies
of the same, and the said superior or county court shall try
the case anew, upon its merits, and without requiring written
pleadings.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That it shall not be lawful
for any justice of the peace to issue a summons against a person
residing out of his district, and if the same be done the suit
shall be dismissed at any stage of the proceedings : Provided,
however, that where there is more than one defendant to a suit,
or where a justice of the peace is a party, the suit may be
brought against the party residing in the district, and any pro
cess may be served on any other party in the county ; and that
justices may be sued in their adjoining districts, when there is
no other in their district : And provided also, that there be a
justice in the district in which the defendant resides : and pro
vided also, that where there is no justice residing in a district,
suit may be brought in the next adjoining district.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That the seventh and eighth
sections of an act concerning the appointment and jurisdiction of
justices of the peace, passed 19th November, 1829, and all laws
inconsistent with the provisions of this act, be and the same are
hereby repealed >

SEC. 1 . Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Counmil
of the Territory of Florida, That such number of justices
of the peace as the public good may require, may be appointed
by the governor and legislative council in each county and in
each justice's district in any county in this Territory ; and at any
time when the legislative council shall not be in session, the
governor of this Territory may appoint a justice or justices in
any county, or justice's district, whenever it shall appear to him
that the public good requires it, but in every such case the ap
pointment shall terminate at the end of the next session of the
legislative council thereafter, unless at such session the appoint
ment be approved and confirmed by the council according to
law.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That upon the trial of any
case in the superior or county court appealed from a justice, the
testimony of either party shall be admitted, if under like circum-
stances it might by law be admitted in a justice's court.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That every jury that ren-
der a verdict in a justice's court shall be entitled to receive the
fee of one dollar and fifty cents from the plaintiff, to be paid be
fore delivery of the verdict ; and to be taxed in the bill of costs
in said suit.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That in all cases in justices'
courts when execution has been issued and returned no
property found, the justice may, at his discretion, issue execution
against the plaintiff for costs due on said execution after
demand made.

SEC. 1 . Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That from and after the
passage of this act, it shall be lawful for the governor of this
Territory upon sufficient cause shown to him, or for any judge
of the superior court, on motion, ten days' previous notice having
been given, to remove any justice of the peace, auctioneer, or
other person holding office by appointment from the governor
and legislative council, and to appoint others in their places, and
said judge shall inform the governor thereof.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That if any judge of the
county court, or justice of the peace of this Territory, shall, on
indictment, be convicted of any offence against the penal laws
of this Territory, in addition to the sentence and penalties nowimposed
by law, said judge or justice shall be removed from
his said office on the conviction aforesaid : Provided, nothing
in this act shall be construed to release the removed officer and
his securities from any liability that may have been previously
incurred.

SEC. 1. Beit enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That all writs of formedon
in descender, remainder, or reverter, of any lands, tenements,
or hereditaments whatsoever, hereafter to be brought upon any
title or cause heretofore accrued, or which may hereafter fall or
accrue, shall be sued out within twenty years next after such
t^e or cause of action accrued, and not afterward ; and that no
person or persons who now hath, or have, or hereafter may have
any right or title of entry into any lands, tenements, or heredita
ments, shall make any entry but within twenty years next after
such right or title accrued, and such persons shall be barred,
from any entry afterward.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That if any person or per-
sons entitled to such writ or writs, or to such right or title of entfy
as aforesaid, shall be or were under the age of twenty-one
years, feme covert, non compos mentis, imprisoned or not within
this Territory, at the time of such right or title accrued, or com
ing to them, every such person, and his or her heirs, shall and
may, notwithstanding the said twenty-one years are or shall be
expired, bring and maintain his action, or make his entry, within
ten years next after such disabilities removed, or the death of
the person so disabled, and not afterward.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That in all -writs of right
and other actions possessory, any person may maintain a writ
r . . . r . J ' J, r . J
ot nght upon the possession or seizen o1 his ancestor or predecessor
within fifty years; or any other possessory action upon
the possession or seizen of his or her ancestor or predecessor,
within forty years next before the teste of writ ; but no person
shall maintain a real action upon his own possession or seizen,
but within thirty years next before the teste of the writ.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That all actions of trespass,
quare clausum fregit, and all actions of trespass, detinue, ac
tions surtrover, and replevin for taking away of goods and chat
tels ; all actions of account and upon the case, other than such
accounts as concern the trade of merchandize between merchant
and merchant, their factors or servants ; all actions of assumpsit
or debt grounded upon any leading or contract without specialty
; all actions of debt for arrearages of rent; all actions of
assault, menace, battery, wounding, and imprisonment, or any
of them, which shall be sued or brought, shall be commenced
and sued within the time and limitation hereafter expressed, and
not after, that is to say, the said actions upon the case other
than for slander, and the said actions for account, and the said ac
tions for trespass, debt, detinue, and replevin for goods and chat
tels, and the said actions of trespass quare clausum fregit, within
five years next after the cause of such action or suit, and not
after, and the said actions of trespass, assault, battery, wound
ing, imprisonment, or any of them, within three years next after
the cause of such actions or suits, and not after ; and the said
actions upon the case for words, within one year next after the
words spoken, and not after.
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That all actions or suits
founded upon any account for goods, wares, or merchandize sold
and delivered, or for any article charged in any book account,
shall be commenced and sued within two years next after the
arising of the cause of such action or suit, or the delivery of such
goods, wares, and merchandize, and not after, except that in the
case of the death of such creditors or debtors before the expira
tion of the said term of two years, the further time of two years
from the death of such creditor or debtor shall be allowed for
the commencement of such actions or suit.
SEC. 6. Beit fu,t her enacted, That to prevent impositions
or deception herein, the respective time or date of the delivery
of the several articles charged in any such account, or any re
ceipt taken for the delivery of them, shall be particularly speci
fied ; and if any merchant or trader shall wilfully post date any
article or articles in such account, or the receipt taken for the
delivery of them, he shall forfeit and pay tenfold the amount of
the article or articles so post dated, to be recovered with costs
by warrant, where the penalty does not exceed twenty dollars,
and by action of debt in any court of record, where the penalty
shall exceed that sum.
SEC. 1. Be it further enacted, That to prevent any doubt
in the construction hereof, it is hereby declared that the before-
mentioned limitation of two years shall take place and be com-
puted from the respective dates or times of delivery of the seve
ral articles entered or charged in any such account ; and that all
such articles as shall have been of more than two years' stand
ing, when the action or suit was commenced, shall be disallowed
and rejected, and verdict shall be given or judgment rendered
for no more than the amount of such articles as appear to have
been actually charged or delivered within two years next before
the commencement of the suit as aforesaid.
SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, Provided nevertheless, That
jf m any of ^e sai^ actions or suits, judgment be given for the
plaintiff, and the same be afterward reversed by error, or a verdiet
pass for the plaintiff, and upon matter alleged in arrest of
judgment, the judgment be given against the plaintiff, that he
take nothing by his plaint, writ, or bill, in all such cases the
party plaintiff, his heirs, executors, or administrators (as the
case shall require) may commence a new action or suit from
time to time within one year next after such judgment reversed,
or such judgment given against the plaintiff, and not after.
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That if any person or persons
that is or shall be entitled to any such actions of trespass, de-
tinue, actions surtrover, replevin, actions of account, actions of
debt, actions of trespass for assault, menace, battery, wound
ing, or imprisonment be, or shall be at the time of any such
cause of action given or accrued, fallen or come within the age
of twenty-one years, feme covert, non compos mentis, impri
soned, beyond the seas, or out of the country, that such person
or persons shall be at liberty to bring the same actions, so as
they take the same within such times as are before limited, after
their coming to, or being of full age, discovert, of sane memory,
at large, and returned from beyond the seas, or from without this
country, as by other persons having no such impediment should
be done.
SEC. 10. Be it further enacted, That all suits hereafter
brought in the name or names of any person or persons, residing
beyond tne seas or out of tnis country, for recovery of any debt
due for goods actually sold and delivered here, by his or their
factor or factors, shall be commenced and prosecuted within the
time appointed and limited by this act for bringing the like suits,
and not after, notwithstanding the saving herein before contained
to persons beyond the seas at the time of their causes of action
accrued : Provided nevertheless, that if any factor shall happen
to die before the expiration of the time in which suit should have
been brought, such principal shall be allowed two years from
the death of such factor to commence and prosecute his, her, or
their action for any debt due to him, her, or them on account of
any contract or dealing with such factor.
SEC. 11. Be it further enacted, That if any person or per-
sons, defendant or defendants, to any of the aforesaid actions,
shall abscond or conceal themselves, or by removal out of the
country, or the county where he or they do or shall reside, when
such cause of action accrued, or by other indirect ways and
means, defeat or obstruct any person or persons who have title
thereto, from bringing or maintaining all, or any of the aforesaid
actions within the respective times limited by this act, that then
and in such case, such defendant or defendants are not to be
admitted to plead this act in bar to any of the aforesaid actions,
anything in this act in anywise to the contrary notwithstand
ing.
SEC. 12. Be it further enacted, That if any suit be brought S
against any executor or administrator, or other person having e
charge of the estate of a testator or an intestate, for the reco-
very of debt due upon an open account, it shall be the duty of
the court before whom such suit shall be brought, to cause to
be expunged from such account every item thereof, which shall
appear to have been due five years before the death of the testa
tor or intestate ; saving to all persons, non compos mentis, femes S
covert, infants, imprisoned, or out of this Territory, who may be f
plaintiffs in such suits three years after their several disabilities
shall be removed ; and if any person shall wilfully postdate any
such account, he shall forfeit and pay tenfold the amount of the
articles so post dated, to be recovered in any court of record,
where the penalty incurred shall exceed twenty dollars, and by
warrant before a justice of the peace where the penalty incurred
shall not exceed that sum.
SEC. 13. Be it further enacted, That no action of debt shall
be brought against any executor or administrator, or other per-
son having charge of the estate of a testator or intestate,
upon a judgment obtained against his testator or intestate, nor
shall any scire facias be issued against any executor or administrator,
or other person having charge of the estate as aforesaid,
to revive such judgment after the expiration of five years from
the qualification of his executor or administrator, or of such
other person having charge of the estate, and all such judgments
after the expiration of five years upon which no proceeding
shall have been had, shall be deemed to have been paid and discharged,
saving- to all persons non compos mentis, femes covert,
infants, imprisoned, or out of this Territory, who may have been
entitled to the benefits of such judgments three years after
these several disabilities shall be removed.
[Approved, November 10, 1828.
SEC. 1. 
Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Coun
cil of the Territory of Florida, That in all suits now pending,
or that may be hereafter instituted in the courts of this
Territory upon any cause of action, originating in any foreign
state or place, any law or statute of limitation of such foreign
state or place may be pleaded ; Provided, however, that such
plea shall in no case be adjudged sufficient, unless it shall be
made to appear before the court wherein it is pleaded, that such
law or statute of limitations, had completely run upon and bar
red the action of such foreign state or place, before the de-
fendant had ceased to be a resident thereof, and had removed
therefrom.
SEC. 1. 
Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Council
of the Territory of Florida, That any person, an inhabitant
or resident of this 1'eritory, who shall be sued within the same,
upon any contract made, or liability accruing in any foreign
country, or beyond the limits of this Territory, upon which
contract or liability suit would be barred by the law of the place
where the contract was made, or the liability originated, then
in every such case the defendant may plead such law in effectual
bar of the suit thereon in this Territory.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That where any witness
resides out of the Territory, or out of any county in which his
testimony may be required in any cause, or is bound on a voyage
to sea, or )s aoout to go out of the Territory and remain
untu a^ter tne trial of such cause, or is very aged or infirm,
it shall be lawful for either party on giving reasonable notice to
the adverse party, or his, her, or their attorney, accompanied
with a copy of interrogatories intended to be exhibited to the
witness, to obtain a commission from the clerk of the court in
which the same may be required, directed to certain commis
sioners, not less than two, to examine all and every such wit
ness or witnesses on the interrogatories thereto annexed ; and
the said commission shall be attached to the interrogatories by
the clerk issuing the same, and shall be signed and bear teste
as other writs.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That the following shall
be the form of commissions to take testimony :
Territory of Florida, >
County. $ By his honour
Judge of the Court of
the (district or county, as the case may be), to
Esquires, greeting : Whereas there is a
certain controversy now depending in the
Court for said county, between
and and whereas are
material witnesses in said matter of controversy, and cannot
attend our said court in person, without manifest inconve
nience.
NOW, KNOW YE, That we, reposing special trust and
confidence in your, prudence and fidelity, have appointed you,
and you, or any two of you, are hereby authorized and required
to cause the said per
sonally to come before you, and after being duly sworn to ex
amine him, them, or either of them concerning the said matter
of controversy, agreeably to the interrogatories hereunto an
nexed ; and the answers to the same being plainly and dis
tinctly written, you are to send the same closed up under your
hands and seals to our said court, to be held on the
day of next, together with this writ.
Witness the Honourable
Judge of said court, this day of
A. D. and of the Independence of the
United States,
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That the clerks in issuing
commissions may leave the place for the names of the commissioners
blank, to be filled up by said commissioners ; but the
names of the witnesses to be examined must be distinctly specified
in the interrogatories and commission.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That packets containing
commissions, interrogatories, and answers may be returned to
the court by a party in the cause, or any other person, or by mail ;
and to entitle the party to open the packet, if returned by himself
or any other person, the person so returning it must make oath
in open court if returned in term time, or before the clerk if returned
in vacation, " that he received the said packet from one
of the commissioners, that it had been in possession ever since,
and has not been opened or altered ;" [and if returned by mail,
the postmaster, his deputy, or assistant at the office where the
said packet is deposited, to be sent by mail, must endorse there
on, " received from one of the commissioners, to be forwarded
by due course of mail ;" and the postmaster, his deputy, or as
sistant at the office to which said packet is conveyed, must en
dorse, " received by due course of mail :"] Any person taking
said packets, other than the clerk of the court, from the postoffice,
must, when' he delivers it in court or to the clerk, swear
" that he received it from the postmaster, his deputy, or assistant,
that it has been in his possession ever since, and has not been
opened or altered."
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That commissioners, when
they enclose the interrogatories, answers, and commission to be
returned to the court, shall write their names across the seals
of the envelope, and give the packet such direction as will en
able the court to know that it was intended for the court, and
applicable to some particular cause therein ; and the usual ab
breviations or initials of office, or the Christian names of the
commissioners, postmasters, magistrates, clerks, attorneys, and
witnesses shall be deemed sufficient ; when interrogatories and
answers nave Deen returned, they may be opened by order of
court, or consent of the parties, which consent shall be endorsed
on the envelope, and they shall remain with the clerk,
subject to the inspection of either partv.
SEC. 6. Be it further enacted, That if any party in any
suit at common law, or in chancery, shall make oath, that he
or she verily believes, that his or her claim or defence, (as the
case may be) or a material part thereof depends on a single
witness, the court, if in term time, or the clerk in vacation, may
award a- commission to take the deposition of such witness de
bene esse, although he or she be not about to depart the country,
nor under any disability, the party in such case giving reasona
ble notice of the time and place of taking such deposition to
the adverse party.
SEC. 7. Be it further enacted, That if any will shall be
produced to any court having jurisdiction in the case of such
wijj for probate, and any witness or witnesses attesting the
same shall reside out of this Territory, it shall be lawful for
such court to issue a commission or commissions annexed to
such will, and directed to any notary public, judge of a court of
law, mayor, or justice of the peace, or to such other person or
persons as by the laws of the .country where such witness or
witnesses may be found, are duly authorized to administer an
oath, impowering him or them to take and certify the attestation
of said witnesses : If the person to whom such commission
shall be directed shall duly certify, that the witness or witnesses
personally appeared and made oath or affirmation, as the case
may be, that the testator signed and published the writing an
nexed to such commission as his or her last will and testament,
and that he, she, or they subscribed their names thereto in his
or her presence, and at his or her request, such oath or affirma
tion shall have the same operation, and the will shall be re
corded in like manner, as if such oath or affirmation had been
made in the court whence the commission issued.
SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, That when any commission
shall be obtained to take the deposition of a witness in a suit
depending in any of the courts of this Territory, where the
plaintiff or defendant in such suit doth not reside within the
Territory, or hath not an attorney within the same to whom
notice of the time and place of taking such deposition can be
given, then the person obtaining such commission having pub
lished in some newspaper printed in this Territory, four weeks
successively, the time and place, when and where, the witness
is to be examined, and the name of the witness, together with
the names of the parties to the suit in which such witness is to
be examined, it shall and may be lawful for any plaintiff or de
fendant as aforesaid to proceed to take any deposition authorized
by the commission issuing from the court, agreeably to law,
where the suit depends as aforesaid ; and such deposition, when
taken, shall be allowed to be read as evidence in the same man
ner, and under the like restrictions, as if notice had been per
sonally served upon the opposite party.
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That if any person or persons
shall give a notice to take deposition or depositions, and
shall fail to take or cause the same to be taken, the party notified,
if attending agreeably to the notice, shall be entitled to receive
four cents for every mile that he shall necessarily travel in going
to, and returning from, the place assigned to take the deposition
or depositions, to be allowed by the court where the suit is de
pending, and for which execution may issue according to law :
Provided, that the provisions in this section shall not be ex
tended to any case where the failure to take the deposition or
depositions shall arise from the non-attendance of the witness or
witnesses, or any unavoidable cause ; and the oath of the party
shall be admissible to enable such party to obtain the benefit of
this proviso.
SEC. 1. 
Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Council of
the Territory of Florida, That so much of the fourth section
of an act concerning depositions, passed November 17, 1828,
as requires the postmaster, his deputy, or assistant, at the office
where any packet containing a commission, interrogations, and
answers, is deposited to be sent by mail, to endorse thereon,
" Received from one of the commissioners to be forwarded by due
course of mail," be, and the same is hereby repealed. *
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That it shall and may
be lawful for all persons desirous of ending any matter of difference,
controversy, or quarrel, in which any action at law or in
•„ ,. • i u •- •. t_ i
equity will he, or in which any action or suit has been com
menced and is pending, to agree that their said matter of dif
ference, controversy, or quarrel shall be adjusted and determined
by arbitration, and to appoint one or more arbitrators, with an
umpire, to adjust and determine the same : the matters in differ
ence between the parties shall thereupon be submitted to the
said arbitrator or arbitrators by bond, covenant, or other agree
ment, in writing, and the parties aforesaid may stipulate and
agree either in said bond, covenant, or agreement, or by a sepa-
rate agreement, that the said submission to arbitration shall be
made a rule of any court of record in this Territory.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That when any submission
is intended to be made a rule of court as aforesaid, an agree
ment to that effect, in writing, signed by the parties, shall be filed
in the office of the clerk of the court of which said submission
is to be made a rule, and the clerk shall thereupon enter said
rule.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That no award of any arbi
trator or arbitrators duly appointed, made pursuant to the said
submission, shall be set aside by the said court, except on the
ground of fraud, corruption, gross negligence, or misbehaviour
of one or more arbitrators or umpire, or of evident mistake, ac
knowledged by the arbitrators or umpire, who may have signed
the award.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That any party feeling
himself aggrieved by any award made a rule of court as aforesaid,
and conceiving that he has just ground to set aside said award,
may apply to the court for that purpose by motion at the ensu
ing term of said court, on giving the opposite party, or his attor
ney, ten days' previous notice of such intended application, and
of the grounds on which the motion will be made, to set aside
said award ; and if the award be made during the term of the
court, and there be sufficient time before the end of the term to
give the said notice of ten days, and the same be given, the mo
tion to set aside the award may be made during that term.
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That the court in which
any motion may be made to set aside any award made as afore
said, shall require affidavit of the facts constituting the ground
on which the motion is made, and shall also, if offered, receive
affidavits on the other side, but no parol testimony shall be ad
mitted on either side.
SEC. 6. Be it further enacted, That if no motion be made
to set aside any award made as aforesaid, it may be entered of
record at the ensuing term of said court, during the term there
of, and so much of the said award as decrees the payment of
money by either party, it shall have the force and effect of a
judgment duly docketed from the day of entering said award,
upon which execution may be issued, as in cases of judgment duly
entered ; and so far as the said award relates to the performance
of any other lawful act, the party failing to comply with said
award shall be considered in contempt, and by the order of the
court shall be committed to prison, there to remain without bail
or mainprize until he shall comply with the order of the court in
the premises.
SEC. 6. Be it furthef enacted, That the arbitrator or ar
bitrators, or umpire appointed as aforesaid, shall, before entering
upon the investigation of the matters submitted to them, be se
verally sworn or affirmed before some judge or justice of the
peace, faithfully and diligently to execute the trust committed
to them by the submission ; and the examination of all wit
nesses before the said arbitrator, arbitrators, or umpire shall be
under oath or affirmation, and if the parties themselves be ex
amined, such examination shall also be under oath or affirma
tion, and in the presence of each other ; and the said arbitrators,
or either of them shall be, and they are hereby authorized and
empowered to issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of wit
nesses, under the same regulations as the clerks of the several
courts of this Territory, which said subpoenas shall be served
by the sheriff or any constable of the county, and it shall be
obeyed by the witnesses in the same manner as subpoenas
issued from any court of record within this Territory.
SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, That controversies and suits
in which infants are interested, may in like manner, when made
a rule of court, be submitted to arbitration by consent of their
lawful guardian ; and executors and administrators may also
submit to arbitration any matter in dispute or controversy in re
lation to the goods, chattels, debts, and credits of their testator
or intestate.
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That nothing in this act con-
tained shall deprive any party to any submission, not made a^
rule of court as aforesaid, from seeking relief in the courts of
law or equity.
SEC. 10. Be it further enacted, That the arbitrators, for
their services, shall be entitled to receive one dollar and fifty
cents per day, if demanded, to be paid jointly by the contend
ing parties before entering the award ; the fees of the clerk for
entering the rule of court shall be jointly paid by the parties
previous to the entering thereof, unless otherwise directed by the
award.
SEC. 11. Be it further enacted, That witnesses obeying
the said subpoena of the arbitrators shall be allowed the same
compensation, and entitled to the same privileges as if summoned
by the clerk of any court of record.
SEC. 12. Be it further enacted, That in all cases in which
magistrates shall have jurisdiction, the parties may submit their
difference to arbitration, and the award shall have the force and
effect of a judgment of a justice of the peace.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That there shall be or-
ganized in each of the counties of this Territory a county court,
to be holden by one judge, who shall be appointed by the Go-
vernor and Legislative Council, and shall hold his office for the
term of four years ; the judges of the county courts respectively
shall possess and exercise all the powers, and perform all the
duties of justices of the peace within the limits of their several
counties, but they shall have no jurisdiction, as justices, for the
trial of civil cases ; every such judge, before he enters upon the
duties of his office, shall take an oath faithfully and impartially to
discharge the same, and to support the Constitution of the
United States.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That the county courts thus
established shall be courts of record, and shall, within their re
spective counties, have and exercise original jurisdiction over all
cases where the sum, debt, damages, or matters in demand or
controversy, shall be above fifty, and not above one thousand
dollars ; and also over all case3 where the sum or matter in de
mand, or the value of the thing in controversy, is not above fifty
dollars : Provided, in every such case, that jurisdiction over the
same has not been given to any other court or courts of this
Territory ; and also over all cases where the sum, debt, da
mages, matter in demand, or controversy, is above fifty dollars ;
where a judge of a superior court within his own judicial district
is a party, plaintiff, or defendant ; or where such judge. cannot
for any cause take cognisance of the suit, and appellate jurisdic
tion over the judgments of any justice of the peace ; the case on
every such appeal to be tried anew upon its merits, but without
requiring written pleadings ; but no appeal from any justice's
court shall be allowed, when the sum in demand or controversy
does not exceed ten dollars, except for matters of law apparent
of record ; and in every such case the tiial in the county court
shall be upon and by inspection of the record ; and writs of
error, certiorari, mandamus, and prohibition, shall issue from the
county to any justice's court, which shall be tested by the judge
awarding the same.
SEC. 3. Beit further enacted, That appeals from any county
court shall be taken to the superior court holden in and for the
same county i and writs of error, and certiorari, mandamus, pro-
hibition, and injunction, shall issue from the superior court to
the county courts, which shall be obeyed by said county courts
respectively.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That the said courts shall
have no criminal jurisdiction except in cases not capital, where
tne judo-e of ^e superior court of the district cannot, for any
J i • r i .i i -
cause, take cognisance ot the same, then, in every such case, it
shall be the duty of the prosecuting attorney to give notice
thereof to the judge of the county court of the county in which
such caste originated, whose duty it shall be thereupon to cause
a venire facias to be issued, returnable to the next term of the
said court, to be holden at least twenty days after such notice,
and a grand and petit jury to be summoned for that special pur
pose, in like manner as such juries are summoned in the supe
rior court ; and the decision of the said county court in every
such case shall be final : It is also provided, in case any suit
shall be instituted in any county court in which the judge of the
superior court of the district in which such county court is
holden shall be a party, plaintiff, or defendant, either party may
appeal from the judgment of such county court, or take the case
by writ of error directly to the court of appeals, in the same
manner, upon the same conditions, and subject to the same re
strictions and limitations as are provided in case of appeals
from, or writs of error to, the superior courts of this Territory :
It is also further -provided, in case any suit shall be instituted
in any county court in which the judge thereof is a party, or of
which, for any cause, such judge cannot take cognisance, then,
in every such case, the clerk of said court, on request of either
party, shall transfer the same, and all papers appertaining to it,
without delay, to the clerk's office of the superior court, holden
in and for the same county ; the party requesting such transfer
first paying the legal costs to which such clerk of the county
court may be entitled in said suit, or such suit may, at any time,
be taken from the county court into such superior court by writ
of certiorari, issued by the clerk of said superior court accord
ing to law.
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That the said county courts
shall hold two terms in each year, in each and every county, at
. . . , ' ' . r -> , J '
such times and places as now are, or hereafter may be established
by law ; that it shall be the duty of each and every jus-
tice of the peace within this Territory to attend the county
ei • i c ir- i j
courts ot his county, at the first term thereoi, in each and every
year, for the purpose of transacting county business ; any two of
whom, with the judge of said court, or if the said judge, from
any cause, should not attend said court, any three of whom shall
constitute the necessary quorum for the transaction of county
business ; and, in any county in this Territory, where the times
of holding the several terms of the county court thereof, as pro
vided for in this act, are not fixed and appointed by law, the said
county court, when in session for the transaction of county busi
ness, may fix and appoint them.
SEC. 6. Be it further enacted, That the said county courts
being in session for the transaction of county business, as di-
rected in the next preceding section of this act shall have power,
by any agent, by said courts appointed for that purpose, to sue
for and prohibit from trespass, any lands that may bejong to their
counties respectively, and may sell and dispose of the same, for
the use of their respective counties, in such manner as said
courts may deem best. The said courts thus in session shall
and may take cognisance of all matters relating to the opening
and keeping in repair of roads within their respective counties,
appointing overseers and surveyors of said roads, establishing
ferries, and erecting, and keeping in repair bridges and cause-
ways, and granting writs of ad quod damnum, for the erection
of mills and other water works, for establishing and regulating
patrols when necessary, and for the maintainance and support
of the poor and infirm of their respective counties, and shall have
power to levy and collect a poll and other tax for the said pur
poses : Provided, that whenever it shall be deemed necessary
by any county court, to levy any other than a poll tax, it shall
be the duty of such court to establish the average value of slaves
in the said county, and no greater tax shall be levied on other
property, than is or shall be proportioned to the tax levied by
the said court, upon slaves in the said county, Provided also,
that no county tax shall be levied by the county court of St.
John's county, for the purpose of erecting public buildings of
any kind. In opening and repairing roads, personal service
alone shall be required, or a commutation in lieu thereof, at the
election of the person whose services are required, not to exceed
one dollar per day.
SEC. 7. Be it further enacted, That the county taxes shall
be collected in the manner as Territorial taxes are collected, and
by the same persons, and it shall be the duty of the county
court of eacn countyi in session for the transaction of county
business, to order the tax collector thereof, to give bond to the
treasurer of said county, with good and sufficient security, in a
sum to be decided and approved by the judge of said county,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his
office, and the punctual payment of the amount of taxes by him
collected, at such stated times as may be fixed by said county
court : and the said county court thus in session, in each county
in this Territory, shall appoint a county treasurer, to hold, his
office for the term of two years, unless sooner removed by the
county judge, who, before entering upon the duties of his office,
shall execute a bond to be filed in the office of the county clerk,
with good and sufficient security, to be approved by said judge,
in the penal sum of at least two thousand dollars, or in such
larger sum as such court may direct, conditioned for the faith
ful performance of the duties of his office, and in case the office
of treasurer be, or shall become vacant in any county, a trea
surer may be appointed by the judge thereof, till the next session
thereafter ensuing of the county court, for the transaction of
county business.
(Chancery jurisdiction of county court taken away by act,
SEC. 6, p. 16, acts 1834 ; which last act is repealed by act, 12th
Feb. 1837.)
SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, That the judge of each
county court, shall have power either in open court, or in vaca-
jion to take tne probaie of wi]]s, grant and revoke letters testamentary,
and letters of administration, appoint and displace guar
dians of infants, orphans, idiots, lunatics, and persons non com
pos mentis, and to make all necessary orders for issuing of pro
cess and notices. That letters testamentary, or of administration,
son granted by the said judge, shall be issued by the clerk, and
bear test in the name of said judge. That the said judge shall
also have power to order sale and distribution, in all cases ac
cording to laws of estates, testate or intestate, and shall have
and exercise general powers as a judge of probate, and in the
absence of the judge of the superior court, from any county in
this Territory, the judge of the county court shall have full
power to make all such orders and interlocutory decrees in all
cases in chancery, pending or to be instituted in the superior
courts, as said judge of the county courts may deem necessary
and proper, and the papers therein shall be immediately returned
to the said superior court, to be proceeded upon by said supe
rior court, as if such order or interlocutory decrees had been
made by such superior court.
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That upon probate of any
will, or granting letters of administration, or upon any cause in
said county court, the party applying to the court shall pay to
the judge thereof three dollars for his fee, in every cause, to be
paid at or before any decision trrereon, which sum, in case of
recovery and execution, shall be taken as a part of the costs, or
in case of probate of any will, or granting letters of administra
tion, shall be allowed to any executor or administrator, paying
the same in his settlement of the estate.
SEC. 10. Be it further enacted, That there shall be appointed
in each justice's district, in each county, one constable,
or more, if the county court, in session for the transaction of
county business, shall deem it necessary; every such constable
to be appointed by such county court, to hold his office for the
term of two years, unless sooner removed by the said court, or
in vacation by the judge thereof, to take and subscribe on oath,
faithfully to perform the duties of his office, and to execute a
bond in the penalty of five hundred dollars, under the same
regulations and restrictions, as are prescribed to sheriffs, by
the provisions of this act : Provided, that nothing in this sec
tion contained, shall prevent any constable from acting in more
than one justice's district, in the same county : And Provided,
in case of vacancy in any district, the judge may appoint a
constable therein, to continue until the next session thereafter
ensuing of the county court, for the transaction of county bu
siness.
SEC. 11. Be it further enacted, That there shall be commissioned
a sheriff for each county who shall perform all the duties
required of him by law, and before entering on the duties of his
office, shall take and subscribe an oath faithfully to discharge
the duties of his office, and shall execute bond in the penalty of
two thousand dollars, with good and sufficient security, to be
approved of by the respective judges of the county courts, con
ditioned for the correct and faithful performance of the duties of
his said office, which said bond shall be recorded in the office
of the clerk of such court, and filed therein, and said bond
shall not be void upon payment of the whole penalty thereof,
but shall remain in full force, and the sheriff and securities shall
be and continue liable to all persons injured by any violation or
non-performance of the duties of his office. That the county
court in each county in this Territory, any two justices being
present, shall, from time to time, take up the list of jurors, and
shall select therefrom not more than three fourths, nor less than
one half of the whole number of persons returned as jurors, ac
cording to law ; which persons so selected shall serve as grand
jurors and petit jurors, in the manner pointed out by law, and
those persons whose names are rejected by said county court,
shall no longer be liable to be placed upon the venire, until a
new selection be made.
SEC. 12. Be it further enacted, That after every selection
so made as aforesaid, the county court shall cause a list to be
made out and certified by the clerk of said court, containing the
names of all such jurors so selected ; which list shall be depo
sited with the clerk of the superior court for said county, and the
venire for said superior court shall be filled up from said list in
the manner prescribed by law.
SEC. 13. Be it further enacted, That there shall be com
missioned in each count) a clerk of the county court, whose duty
it shall be to record all decrees, orders, judgments, and other
papers required by law to be recorded, to keep the records and
minutes, and preserve the papers appertaining to county business,
or to suits, or other matters in said court ; and who, before en
tering on the duties of his office, shall take an oath faithfully to
perform the duties of the same, and shall execute a bond in the
penalty of two thousand dollars, with good and sufficient secu
rity, to be approved by the county judge, conditioned for the
correct and faithful performance of the duties of his said office,
which bond shall be recorded in the office of said clerk, and be
filed in the office of the clerk of the superior court, holden in
and for said county. The bonds of the several county officers,
provided for in this act, shall each and all of them be made pay
able to the Territory of Florida.
SEC. 14. Be it further enacted, That the sheriffs and clerks
of the several county courts of this Territory, shall hold their
respective offices for the term of two years, unless sooner re
moved by legal authority.
SEC. 15. Be it further enacted, That the offices of the se
veral clerks of the county courts, shall be offices of original re
cord for deeds, mortgages, wills, and other instruments, required
by law to be recorded in their respective counties.
SEC. 16. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty
of the clerk of each county court, to mike out a correct docket
of all suits and causes of action, brought in said court, at least
five days before the first day of each county court, and deliver
the same to the judge thereof, and in case either of the parties,
to any suit before said court, or his attorney, shall request it, in
writing, either before, or during the term of said court, said clerk
shall issue a venire facias directed to the sheriff, commanding
him to summon a sufficient number ol qualified jurors to attend
the said term of said court ; but in no other case shall such
venire facias be issued, except as in this act is hereinbefore
provided.
SEC. 17. Be it further enacted, That whenever there shall
not be a sufficient number of jurors so summoned, in attendance,
it shall be lawful for the judge to order the sheriff to make up
the deficiency from the bystanders ; and the jurors in county
courts shall possess the same qualifications, and be liable to the
same exceptions as jurors in the superior courts.
SEC. 18. Be it further enacted, That the county courts
shall have power to fine and imprison for contempt of their
auihority : Provided, that the fine for such contempt shall in no
case exceed twenty dollars, or the imprisonment twenty-four
hours.
SEC. 19. Be it further enacted, That cases by appeal and
writ of error, shall be taken from the county to the superior
court, in the same manner, upon the same conditions, and subject
to the same restrictions and limitations, as are provided in
case of appeals from, or writs of error to the superior courts of
this Territory : Provided, that such restrictions or limitations,
shall, in no case, be construed to deprive the party of their ap
peal or writ of error, by reason of the smallness of the amount
in demand or controversy.
SEC. 20. Be it further enacted,, That if either party shall
desire to remove his case, by writ of error or by appeal, from
the judgment of the county court, upon any matter, rule, order,
or decision of the court, not otherwise appearing on record, he
may, in like manner, as in the superior court, file his bill of ex-
ceptions thereto, praying that it be signed, sealed, and made a
part of the record, and it shall be the duty of the judge, to in
spect the said bill, and if it contain a correct and faithful state
ment of the point, matter, or decision, excepted to, the said judge
shall sign, seal, and certify the same, and it shall thereupon be
come a part of the record, and be placed among the files of the
case, and if it shall appear to the superior court, that any case
brought into it by appeal or writ of error from the county court,
was so brought upon pretexts merely frivolous, and for the pur
pose of delay, then, in every such case, damages may be
awarded to the aggrieved party, not exceeding ten per centum,
on the principal sum found due. No person shall be allowed to
withdraw an appeal after it shall have been entered, but by con
sent of parties.
SEC. 21. Be it further enacted, That should the party neg-
lect to take an appeal within the time allowed by law, he may
at any time within two years thereafter, before or after the final
execution of tne judgment, procure a copy of the record, and
if there be error in the proceedings, assign said error, and present
it to the judge of the superior court, either in term time or in
vacation, and should the judge be of opinion that injustice has
been done, or that there is error in the proceedings, he may
award a writ of error to the county court in which the judg
ment was rendered, which, if before the final execution of the
judgment, shall be a supersedeas, and suspend further pro
ceedings upon the judgment or execution, until the matter
thereof should be heard in the said superior court, the writ of
error thus awarded, shall be issued by the clerk of the superior
court, and its operations as a supersedeas, shall be obeyed
by the clerk and sheriff of the county court respectively, upon
notice thereof, which shall be given by the clerk of the supe
rior court, endorsing the writ of error, " supersedeas," A. Bv,
clerk.
SEC. 22. Beit further enacted, That whenever there is an
appeal from a justice of the peace, to a county court, and the
decision of the justice shall be confirmed, the decision of the
county court shall be final, except in' cases where a question or
questions of law apparent of record, by bill of exception or other
wise are involved. Provided however, that no judge of a su
perior court, or judge of a county court in this Territory, when
a party in a justice's court shall have a right to appeal from the
decision of said justice, to his own court.
SEC. 23. Be it further enacted, That an act entitled an
act to establish county courts and prescribe their jurisdiction,
approved the 13th November, 1829, and all provisions, acts,
or parts of acts, relating to the same subject, inconsistent with
the provisions of this act, be and the same are hereby repealed.
SEC. 24. Be it further enacted, That upon every verdict
rendered by a jury in any of the county courts of this Territory,
the jury shall be entitled, before the rendition thereof, to.reeeive
from the plaintiff three dollars.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That the clerks of the
several county courts in this Territory, be and they are hereby
directed and required to hand over to the clerks of the superior
.,.!.... , . . T ,,
courts, having jurisdiction over their counties respectively, all
papers relating to suits and causes heretofore commenced in
said county courts, and over which, by the act, to which this is
an addition, said county courts have no jurisdiction, and that it
be and it is hereby made the duty of the several clerks of the
superior courts to receive said papers and to docket said suits in
their proper order.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That all suits heretofore commenced
in the several county courts* of this Territory, over
which, by the act to which this is an addition, said county courts
have no jurisdiction, shall be docketed in the superior court
having jurisdiction over the county in which such suits were
commenced, and shall be proceeded in and tried, in the same
manner as if they had originally been commenced in said supe
rior courts. 
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Coun
cil of the Territory of Florida, That the county courts of this
Territory shall be courts of record, and shall within their respeclive
counties, have and exercise original jurisdiction over all
cases where the sum, debt, damages, or matters in demand orc
controversy, shall be above fifty, and not above one thousand
dollars ; and in all cases above one thousand dollars, where
the judge of the superior court, in his own judicial dis
trict, is a party, either plaintiff or defendant, or where such
judge cannot, for any other cause, take cognisance of the suit,
the said court shall have also appellate jurisdiction over the
judgment of any justice of the peace ; the case on every such
appeal to be tried anew upon its merits, but without requiring
written pleadings ; no appeal from any justice's court shall be
allowed, when the sum in demand or controversy, does not exceed
ten dollars, except for matters of law apparent of record ;
and in every such case the trial in the county court shall be
upon, and by inspection of record ; and writs of error, certiorari,
mandamus, and prohibition shall issue from the county court to
any justice's court, which shall be tested by the judge awarding
the same.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That the county courts of
the seve-fal counties of this Territory, shall have the same pow-
ers in relation to the sales of the real estates of deceased persons
or ot minors, as is vested in the superior court by an act, ap
proved the 21st day of January, eighteen hundred and thirty-six,
entitled " An Act to enable executors, administrators, and guar
dians to sell the real estate of infants," under the same rules and
restrictions as is in said act prescribed : Provided, however,
that whenever any superior or county court shall authorize the
sale of real estate, in either of the cases before mentioned, the
executor, administrator, or guardian applying for authority to
sell, shall enter into bond, with good and sufficient security, in
double the amount of the estimated value of the real estate authorized
to be sold, payable to the governor of the Territory of
Florida, and his successors in office, conditioned for the faithful
and legal application of the proceeds of said sale.
SEC. 3. Be itfurther enacted, That in all cases [where] it may
be necessary to sell the fend or negroes, belonging to the estate
of deceased persons, for the payment [of] debts due by the de
ceased, the judge of the county court shall order the sale of either,
as he may consider most to the interest of the estate, or the par
ties to whom the property belongs.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, ^hat in all cases in which
the officers of said courts, or in which justices of the peace, con
stables, or tax collectors shall receive money by virtue of their
offices, and shall not pay over the same to the persons entitled
thereto upon demand, they shall pay to the persons entitled to
receive the same, ihe principal and interest received, with twen
ty-five per cent. damages, which may be recovered by rule be
fore the court, and the party held in custody, as for contempt,
until the principal, interest, damages, and cost, are paid. ,
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That the county courts in
the Southern District, shall be held quarterly from the times at
which they are now held by law.
SEC. 6. Be it further exacted, That any person who may
feel aggrieved by any order or decree of such county court, for the
sale of any such real estate or slaves, may appeal from the said
order or decree in the same manner as appeals are, or may by
law be taken in other cases, from the county to the superior
court; and such appeal shall in all cases operate as a supersedeas.
SEC. 7. Be it further enacted, That in all cases when the
judge of the superior court shall be interested in such real es
tate, such appeal may be taken directly to the court of appeals.
SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, That the natural guardian of
any minor, may, upon petition, be allowed to sell the real estate
of such minor, subject to, the same provisions herein directed,
without the necessity of taking out letters of guardianship.
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That all laws or parts of laws,
so far as they conflict with this law, be and the same are hereby
repealed. *

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Coun
cil of the Territory of Florida, That all that part of the Terri
tory aforesaid, lying south of the line commencing at Boca Gasperilla,
the mouth of Charlotte harbour on the Gulf of Mexico,
and extending up the northern margin of said Charlotte harbour
to the mouih of said Charlotte river, thence up the northern
margin of said river to lake Macaco, thence along the northern
margin of said lake to its most eastern limits, thence in a direct
or of the publication of such notice, and upon the finding of a
jury of inquest, to be called for that purpose, to award their
judgment upon said finding, and execution shall issue accord
ingly. .
SEC. 15. Be it further enacted, That if there be two or
more suits commenced by attachment against the same person,
and several judgments be obtained at the same term, they shall
be satisfied pro rata, out- of the judgments which may have been
obtained against the garnishee or garnishees in any such suits,
unless the defendant in such suit or suits have sufficient other
property to satisfy the same.
SEC. 16. Be it further enacted, That all writs of attachment
shall be made returnable to the next term of the court, having
jurisdiction of the same, after the date thereof, and the bond,
affidavit, and other papers, on which said attachment may have
been obtained, shall also be filed in the proper court, on or be
fore the first day of the term, to which said writ of attachment
may be returnable.
SEC. 17. Be it further enacted, That whenever a plaintiff in
attachment, shall obtain judgment against a defendant or de-
fendants, and after a return upon the fi. fa. of " no property
found," it shall and may be lawful for him to sue out process of
garnishment against any third person, indebted to, or having ef
fects of the defendant or defendants, in execution, in his or their
hands, and said garnishee shall be required to appear at the next
succeeding term of the court, from which the said process shall
have issued, and shall make return of his or their indebtedness
in the manner provided for in the tenth section of this act.
SEC. 18. Be it further enacted, That the filing of the declaration
and other pleadings, in a suit commenced by attach-
ment, shall be governed by the same rules which govern the
filing of the declaration and other pleadings in ordinary suits at
law, and judgment shall be rendered therein as in other cases.
SEC. 19. Be it further enacted, That the court to which at-
tachments shall be returnable, shall always be open for hearing
and deciding, on motion for dissolving such attachments.
SEC. 20. Be it further enacted, That all acts in relation to
or regulating the mode of proceeding on attachment, in force at
the time of the passage of this act, be and the same are hereby
repealed.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That the first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, and seventh sections of the act to which this is an
amendment, be and the same are hereby repealed.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful for
any c^erlt of t^e superior or county courts of tins Territory, or
for any justice of the peace to grant writs of attachment, each
for and returnable only to his own particular court, directed as
tj ^ to ^ marsnal sheriff, constable, or other pro-
J ' ,. . . ' , ' , . ' r
per omcer, commanding him to attach and take into custody so
much of the lands, tenements, goods, and chattels of the party
against whose property the writ is issued, as will be sufficient
to satisfy the debt or sum demanded, with costs, by the plaintiff
in attachment.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That such writ shall in no
case be issued, unless the party applying for the same, or his
agent or attorney, shall first make oath in writing, that the amount
of the debt or sum demanded, is actually due, and also, that the
party from whom it is due, is actually removing out of the Ter
ritory, or resides beyond the limits thereof, or absconds, or con
ceals himself, so that the ordinary process of law cannot be
served upon him, or is removing his property beyond the limits
of the Territory, or secreting, or fraudulently disposing of the
same for the purpose of avoiding the payment of his just debts.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That when any executor or
administrator resides, or has removed beyond the limits of this
Territory, and there are assets of the testator or intestatee in
this Territory, it may be lawful for any person having a debt or
demand against the estate of the deceased, to take out an attacbment
against such assets, upon making oath, in writing, that
the above debt or sum demanded is actually due, and that the
executor or administrator, as the case may be, resides or has
removed beyond the limits of this Territory; Provided, that no
attachment shall issue if the said executor or administrator shall
have any legally authorized and publicly known agent in the
•» • r i l n l j
territory, service ot any summons upon whom shalt be as good
and valid as if it had been served upon the person of the said
executor or administrator.
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That the courts respectively,
to which such attachments are returnable, shall be always open
for tne purpose of hearing and deciding motions for dissolving
such attachments, and in any such case, upon oath, made and
tendered to the court, that the allegations in the Plaintiff's affidavit,
are untrue, either as to the debt or sum demanded, or as to
the special cause assigned, whatever it may be for granting the
attachment, then, in every such case, it shall be the duty of the
court to hear evidence upon the issue so presented, and if, in
the opinion of the court, the allegations in the plaintiff's affida
vit are not sustained and proved to be true, the said attachment
shall be dissolved : Provided, that if the party defendant shall
demand the same, a jury shall be empannelled to try the issue
joined, as aforesaid.
SEC. 6. Be if further enacted, That in all cases of attach
ment now pending before the courts of this Territory, motions
may be made, and shall be heard and decided, for dissolving the
same in the manner directed in the last preceding section of this
act, but on the trial of any such motion, the evidence shall be
confined strictly and exclusively to the state of facts alleged in
the plaintiff's affidavit as they existed at the time of issuing the
attachment.
SEC. 7. Be it further enacted, That when any suit shall
hereafter be commenced by attachment, and the same on motion
be dissolved before plea to the action, then, in every such case,
the suit shall abate and be dismissed from court, but if such mo-
tion is made after the party defendant has appeared and plead
to ihe action, the attachment only shall be dissolved, and the
plaintiff may still proceed in said suit and prosecute his debt or
demand to final judgment, but if the suit b,e already pending and
the attachment be dissolved at any stage of the proceedings, the
suit itself shall abate and be dismissed : Provided, the motion
to dissolve such attachment be made at or before the first term
of the court,when the suit is pending after the passage of this
act.
SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, That in case any attachment
shall be levied upon property claimed by any other person than
the defendant in attachment, such person may, at his option, re-
plevy the same or interpose a claim in the manner that is or may
f J . , , . , " . _ .77, . -i J
be provided in case of execution : Provided, that in neither case
shall bond be required of such person in a greater amount than
the value of the property so claimed.
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That when any property taken
in attachment shall be replevied by the defendant, or for the de-
fendant in attachment, as authorized in the thirteenth section of
the act to which this is an amendment, no bond shall be required
exceeding in amount the value of the property replevied.
SEC. 10. Be it further enacted, That no attachment shall
issue until the party applying for the same, by himself, or by his
agent, or attorney, shall enter into bond with at least two good
and sufficient securities, payable to the defendant, in at least
double the debt or sum demanded, conditioned to pay all costs
and damages the defendant may sustain in consequence of improperly
suing out said attachment : Provided, nevertheless,
that the bond taken in case of attachment, shall not, on account
of any informality in the same, be adjudged void, as against
obligors, nor shall they be discharged therefrom, although the
attachment be dissolved by reason thereof.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Council of the Territory of Florida, That from and after the
passage of this act, it shall be lawful for any person to obtain a
writ of attachment whether the debt or demand be due or not :
Provided, that the same will become due within nine months
from the time of applying for said writ of attachment. And
provided, also, that at the time of such application, the person
against whom the debt or demand charged, shall be actually re
moving his or her property beyond the limits of this Territory,
or be fraudulently disposing of or secreting the same for the
purpose of avoiding the payment of his or her just debts or de
mands. .
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That such writ as is provided
for in the preceding section of this act, shall in no case be issued
unless the party applying for the same, or his agent or attorney
shall first make oath, in writing, that the amount of the debt or
demand claimed and charged against the opposite party, is ac
tually an existing debt or demand ; stating also, in said oath, in
writing, the time when said debt or demand will actually become
due and payable ; and also, that the party against whom the said
writ of attachment is applied for, is actually removing his or
her property beyond the limits of this Territory, or (as the case
may be) is fraudulently disposing of or secreting the same for
the purpose of avoiding the payment of his or her just debt or
demand, —satisfactory proof of which shall be demanded and
produced to the officer granting the attachment.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That no writ of attachment,
provided for in this act, shall, in any case, be issued, till bond
with security as directed in the tenth section of the act, ap
proved, February 15th, 1634, entitled "an Act to amend an
act regulating the mode of proceeding on attachments," be
given.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That in all cases when any
writ of attachment shall be issued under the authority of this act,
the property attached shall be discharged and restored to the de
fendant or defendants, on his, her, or their entering into bond
with sufficient security, to be approved by the court to which
the writ is returnable, conditioned for the payment to the plaintiff
in attachment of the debt or demand, when the same shall become
due —or said property so attached may be replevied according
to law as in other cases.
SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That motions for dissolving
writs of attachments granted by authority of this act, maybe
made, and shall be heard and decided as in other cases.
SEC. 6. Be itfurther enacted, That in all cases, on motions
to dissolve an attachment, the party plaintiff and party defendant
shall have right, and equal right to demand a jury to try any
issue made on such motion.
SEC. 7. Be it fwither enacted, That no part of this law
shall be construed to operate retractively.
