THE CODE OF PROCEDURE.“

AN ACT to Simplify and Abridge the Practice, Pleadings, and Proceedings of
the Courts of this State.

WHEREAS, It is expedient that the present formsof actions and
pleadings in cases at common law should be abolished, and
that the distinction between legal and equitable remedies
should no longer continue, and that an uniform course of proceeding in all cases should be established; therefore,

77w people of the State of Florida, represented in Senate and
Assembly, (lo enact as follows :

GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND DIVISIONS.

Division of remedies.

Definition of an action.

Deiinition of a special proceedin .

Division of actions into civil an criminal.

Definition of a criminal action.

Deiinition of a civil action.

Civil and criminal remedies not merged in each other.

SECTION 1. Division of Remedies.

Remedies in the courts of justice are divided into :
1. Actions.
2. Special Proceedings.

SEC. 2. Deiinition of an Action.

An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of justice, by
Which a party prosecutes another party for the enforcement or
protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or
the punishment of a public oii'ense. '

SEC. 3. Deiinition of aSpecial Proceeding.
Every other remedy is a special proceeding.

PART FIRST.

OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE AND THEIR J URISDICTIOIL‘IIJA¢

TITLE I.—-Or THE COURTs IN GENERAL.
“ II.—OF THE SUPREME COURT.
“ III.-OF THE CIRCUIT COURTS.
“ IV.—OF THE COUNTY COURTS.
“ V.-OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

TITLE I.

0f the Courts in General.

The several courts Of this State.
Their jurisdiction generally.

SEC. 8. The several Courts of this State.

The following are the courts of justice in this State:
. The court for the trial of impeachments.

. The supreme court.

The circuit courts.

The county courts. \

The courts Of justices of the peace.

. The mayors’ courts of cities.

meeeww

SEC. 9. Their Jurisdiction generally.

These courts shall continue to exercise the jurisdiction now
vested in them respectively, except as otherwise prescrlbed 1n
this act.

TITLE II.

0f the Supreme Court.

Its jurisdiction. ‘

May reverse, affirm, or modify judgment or order appealed from.

Terms of the court. Preference 0 causes.

Number of judgeswho may give judgment.

Sheriffs to provide rooms, &c., for court.

Court may be adjourned to places other than those designated by law.

'SEC. 10. Supreme Court.

The supreme court shall have jurisdiction to review upon
a peal every actual determination made by the circuit court in
a cases in which is involved the title to, or right of possession,
of real estate, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll,.
or munici al fine, and in all actions in which the demand or the
value of t e property in controversy shall exceed three hundred
dollars, and also in all other civil cases not heretofore included
in the general subdivisions of law and equity, and by this act denominated special proceedings. Appeals may be taken in the
following cases: '

1. From a judgment in any such action or proceeding de-‘

termined in the circuit court, and upon the appeal from such
judgment to review any intermediate order involving the merits,
and necessarily affecting the rights of the parties.
. 2. From any order, decision, or judgment in actions other
than for the recovery of money only, when such order, decision,
or judgment affects a substantial rlght, or when such order or‘
decision grants or refuses a new trial.

3. From iinal order affecting a substantial right made in a
special proceeding, or upon a summary application in an action
after judgment, and upon such appeal to review any intermediate
order involving the merits, and necessarily aii'ecting the order
appealed from.

4. Whenever the decision of any motion heretofore made,
or hereafter to be made, in the circuit court of this State, at any
term thereof, involves the constitutionality of any law of this
State, or has been or shall be placed in the opinion or reasons for
such decision of the jud e making such decision upon the un-'
constitutionality of suchixw, then an appeal shall be, and may
be, made from such decision, and from any order entered or to
be entered thereon, to the supreme court; Provided, however,
That the time for appealino' from such decision, or from such
order, shall not be extended hereb ~'.

SEC. 11. May reverse, aihrm, or modify Judgments or Order
appealed from.

The supreme court may reverse, adirm, or modify the judgment or order appealed from, in whole or in art, and as to any
of all of the parties; and its judgment shall e remitted to the
court below, to be enforced according to law.

SEC. 12. Additional terms of the supreme court, other than
those rescribed by the constitution of this State, may be a pointe by said court, or by a majority of the justices, and he d
at the seat of government of this State. The court may by
general rules rovide what causes shall have a preference on the
calendar; an whenever in any action or proceeding in which
the peo 1c of this State, or any State otlicer, or any board of
State 0 cers, is or are sole plaintiffs or defendants, an appeal
has been or shall be brought from any judgment or order for
or against him or them, in the circuit court, such appeal shall
have a preference in the Supreme Court, and may be moved by,
either party out of the order of the docket.

SEC. 13. Giving Judgment.

The concurrence of two justices is necessary to ronounce a
judgment. If two do not concur, the case must e re-heard;
but no more than two re-hearings shall be had, and if, on the
second re—hearing, two judges do not concur, the judgment

shall be aiiirmed.

SEC. 14. Provision for Rooms for holding Court.

If, at a term of the su reme court, proper and convenient
rooms, both for the consu tation of the judges and the holding
of the court, with furniture, attendants, fuel, lights, and stationery, suitable and suiiicient for the transaction of its business, be
not provided for in the place where by law the court may be
held, the court may order the sheriff to make such provision,
and the expense incurred by him in carrying the order into effect
shallbe a charge against the State.

SEC. 15. Adjournment.

Any one or more of the justices may adjourn the court, with
the like effect as if all were present.

T I T L E I I I .
Appellate Jurisdiction of Circuit Courts.

SEC. 16. The circuit courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
review upon appeal any iinal determination hereafter made by
the county courts of this State.

Ap eals from county courts to circuit courts may be taken
as fol ows: . '

1. From a judgment in an action commenced in the county
court, where the amount in controversy is one hundred dollars
and upwards, and upon the appeal from such judgment to review any intermediate order, mvolving the merits and necessa—
rily affecting the judgment, and to revise or atiirm such j udgment in the whole or in part, and order a new trial in such
court.

2. From any order, decision, or judgment in special proceed— 7
ings, or in proceedings supplementary to execution, when such
order, decision, or judgment aifects a substantial right, or
when such order or decision grants or refuses a new trial, and
may aflirm or reverse the same.

SEO. 17. Extraordinary and Special Terms, how appointed.

The circuit judge may appoint extraordinary and special
terms of the circuit courts whenever, in his judgment, the public good shall require it.

SEC. 18. Places of holding the Courts.

The places appointed within the several counties for holding
circuit courts shall be those designated by law. Terms of the
circuit court may be adjourned to be held on any future day
by an entry to be made in the minutes of the court; and juries
may be drawn and summoned for an adjourned circuit court;
and causes may be tried at an adjourned circuit court in the
same manner as if such courts were held at the time fixed by
law.

SEC. 19. Publication of Appointments thereof.

Notice of every appointment made of an extraordinary or
special term, shall be immediately published in one or more
newspapers, published in the same circuit, or in which legal notices are required to be inserted, at least once in each week, for
three weeks before the holding of any court in pursuance thereof. The expense of the publication shall be paid out of the
Treasury of the State.

SEC. 20. Rooms, Fuel, &c., how furnished.

The commissioners 'of the several counties shall provide the
courts, appointed to be held therein, with room, attendants, fuel,
lights, and stationery, suitable and suihcient for the transaction
of their business. If the commissioners neglect, the court may
order the sheriif to do so; and the expense incurred by him in
carrying the order into effect, when certified by the court, shall
be a County charge.

TITLE IV.

0f the County Courts.

Repeal of existing statutes detining their jurisdiction.
Their jurisdiction.

SEC. 21. Repeal of Existing Statutes Deiining their J urisdiction.

A11 statutes. now in force, conferring or deiining the jurisdiction of the county courts, so far as they conflict with this act,
are repealed 5. but the repeal contained in this section shall
not affect any proceedings now pending in those courts.

SEC. 22. Their Jurisdiction.

The county court has jurisdiction in the following special
cases; but has no original civil jurisdiction, except in such cases
and those provided by the Constitution of this State:

1. Civil actions for the recovery of a sum of money not exceeding three hundred dollars, or the recovery of the possession of personal property not exceeding in value three hundred
dollars.

2. The exclusive power to review, in the iirst instance, a judgment rendered in a civil action by a justices’ court in the county,
or by a justices’ court in cities, on appeal, and to aiiirm, reverse,
or modify such judgment.

3. To grant new trials, or aiiirm, modify, or reverse judgments in actions tried in such court upon the minutes, or exceptions or case made, subject to an appeal to the circuit court;
but in any action or proceeding pending in the county court,

in which the county judge is, for any cause, incapable of acting,
it shall be his duty to make a certificate of such fact, and iile
the same in the odice of the clerk of such county court, and
thereupon, if it be a case in which the circuit court might have
ori inal jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of such action or proceeding
sha be vested in the circuit court, and further proceedings
shall be had therein, according to the practice of such court;
and if the case be one in which the circuit court would not have
original jurisdiction, it shall be the duty of the clerk, on the
filing of the certificate of disqualification of the judge, to transmit all the papers iiled in the action, together with a certified
copy of all the proceedings up to that time, to the clerk of the
county court of an adjoining county, and ive notice thereof to
the parties or their attorneys; and on ii ' g such papers and
proceedings in the county court of the adjoining county, said
county court shall be possessed of jurisdiction thereof, and
shall proceed there as though the case had been commenced in
the last named county.

T I T L E V.
0f Courts of Justices of the Peace.

Jurisdiction of justices of the peace.

No jurisdiction in certain cases.

Answer of title to real prOperty. .
Undertaking to be given. ’
When action discontinued. Costs.

Jurisdiction, if undertaking is not given.

When action to be dismissed.

Action in county court.

Judgment in county courts. Costs.

Where several causes of action, title as to one.

Docketing judgments and transcripts.

Rules in justices’ courts.

SEC. 23. Jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace.

Justices of the peace shall have civil jurisdiction in the followin<r actions :

1. fn actions arising on contracts for the recovery of money
only, if the sum claimed does not exceed fifty dollars.

2. An action for damages for injury to rights pertaining to
the person, or to personal or real pr0perty, if the damages claim—
ed do not exceed fifty dollars.

3. An action for a penalty not exceeding fifty dollars.

4. An action commenced by attachment of pro erty, as provided by statute, if the debt or damages claimed not exceed
fifty dollars.

5. An action upon bond conditioned for the payment of
money, not exceedmg fifty dollars, though the penalty exceed
that sum, the judgment to be given ‘for the sum actually due.
Where the pa ents are to be made by instalments, an action
may be broug t for each instalment as it becomes due, where
the instalments do not exceed fifty dollars each.

6. An action upon a judgment rendered in a court of a
justice of the peace, or by a justice or other inferior court in a
city; but no such action shall be brought in the same county
within five years after its rendition, except in case of the death,
resignation, incapacity to act, or removal from the county of the
justice who rendered the judgment, or that the process was not
personally served on the defendant, or on all the defendants, or
in case of the death of some of the parties, or where the docket
or recolrd of such judgment is, or shall have been, lost or destro ’e . 7.3 To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defendant, where the amount confessed shall not exceed fifty dollars.

8. An action for damages for fraud in the sale, purchase,
or exchange of ersonal property, if the damages claimed do
not exceed fifty ollars.

9. An action to recover the possession of personal property
claimed, and damages for the detention thereof, the value of
which shall not exceed the sum of fifty dollars.

SEC. 24. The plaintiff in such action, at the time of issuing
the summons, but not afterwards, may claim the immediate delivery of such prOperty as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 25. Before any process shall be issued in an action to recover the possession of personal property, the plaintiff, his
agent, or attorney, shall make proof by afiidavit, showing,

1. That the plaintiff is the owner, or entitled to immediate
possession of the property claimed, particularly describing the
same.

2. That such property is wrongfully withheld or detained by
the defendant.

3. The cause of such detention or withholding thereof, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
person making the aiiidavit. . ,

4. That said personal prOperty has not been taken for any
tax, fine, or assessment, pursuant to statute, or seized by virtue
of an execution or attachment against the property of said

plaintiff, or,.if so seized, that it is exempt from such seizure by

statute. .
5. The actual value of sald personal property.

SEC. 26. On receipt of such aiiidavit, and an undertaking in
writing, executed by one or more sufiicient sureties, to be approved by the justice of the peace before whom such action 18
commenced, to the effect that they are bound in double the
value of such property, as stated in said aflidavit, for the prosecution of said action, and for the return of said pr0perty to the
defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to
him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against
said plaintiff, the justice shall endorse upon said affidavit a direction to any constable of the county in which said justice shall
reside, requiring said constable to take the property described
therein from the defendant, and keep the same, to be disposed
of according to law; and the said justice shall at .the same time
issue a summons directed to the defendant, and requiring him
to ap car before said justice at a time and place to be therein
speci ed, not less than three and not more than six days from
the date thereof, to answer the complaint of said plaintiff; and
the said summons shall contain a notice to the defendant that
_ in case he shall fail to appear at the time and place therein

mentioned, the plaintiff will have judgment for the possession
of the property described in said affidavit, with the costs and
disbursements of said action.

SEC. ‘27. The constable to whom said affidavit, endorsement,
and summons shall be delivered, shall forthwith take the property described in said aflidavit, if he can find the same, and shall
keep the same in his custody. He shall thereupon, without
delay, serve upon said defendant :3. copy of such aflidavit, notice,
and summons by delivering the same to him personally, if he
can be found in said county ; if not found, to the agent of the
defendant in whose possession said prOperty shall be found ; if
neither can be found, by leaving such copies at the last or usual
place of abode of the defendant, with some person of suitable
age and discretion; and shall forthwith make a return of his
proceedings thereon, and the manner of serving the same, to the
justice who issued the said summons.

SEC. 28. The defendant may, at any time after such service,
and at least two days before the return day of said summons,
serve upon plaintiff, or upon the' constable who made such service, a notice in writing that he excepts to the sureties in said
bond or undertaking; and if he fail to do so, all objection
thereto shall be waived. If such notice be served, the sureties

shall justify, or the plaintiff give new sureties on the return day
of said summons, who shall then a pear and justify, or said justicc shall order said property delivered to the defendant, and
shall also render judgment for defendant’s costs and disbursements.

SEC. 29. At any time before the return day of said summons,
the said defendant may, if he has not excepted to plaintiff’s
sureties, require the return of said property to him, upon 'giving
to the plaintiff, and filing same. with the justice, a written undertaking, with one or more sureties, who shall justify before
said justice, on the return day of said summons, to the effect
that they are bound in double the value of said property, as
stated in plaintiff’s aflidavit, for the clivery thereof to said

laintitl', if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to
im of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against
said defendant; and if such return be not required before the
return day of said summons, the prOperty shall be delivered to

the plaintiff.

SEC. 30. The qualification of sureties and their justification
under this act shall be asfollows, viz.: Each of them must be a
resident and householder or freeholder within the State, and
each be worth double the amount specified in the ailidavit, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but a justice of the
peace, on justification, may allow more than two bail to justify,
severally, in amounts less than that expressed in the affidavit, if
the whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufhcient
bail. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall attend before the justiee of the peace, and may be examined on
oath on the part of the plaintiff, touching his sufliciency, in such
manner as the justice of the peace may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing and subscribed by the
bail, if required by the plaintiff.

SEC. 31. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in
a building or inclosure, the constable shall publicly demand its
delivery. If it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or
inclosure to be broken open, and take the property into his pos- .
session; and, if necessary, he may call to his aid the posse of
t the county. When the constable shall have taken the property,
he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and
his necessary expenses for keeping, the same. '

SEC. 32. The actions so commenced shall be tried in all respects as other actions are tl‘ICd in justices’ courts.

SEC. 33. In all actions for the recovery of possession of personal property, as herein provided, if the prOperty shall not have
been delivered to plaintiff, or the defendant by answer shall
claim a return thereof, the justice or jury shall assess the value
thereof, and the injury sustained by the prevailing party b
reason of the taking or detention thereof, and the justice sha l
render judgment accordingly, either for return of property, or
for its value, at the election of the prevailing party, together
with costs and disbursements.

SEC. 34. If it shall appear, by the return of a constable, that
he has taken the prOperty described in the plaintiff’s aiiidavit,
and that defendant cannot be found, and has no last place of
abode in said county, or that no a ent of defendant could be
found on whom service could be ma 9, the justice may roceed
with the cause in the same manner as though there ha been a
personal service.

SEC. 35. For the endorsement on said affidavit, the justice
shall receive an additional fee of twenty-five cents, which shall
be included in the costs of the suit.

SEC. 36. If pro erty taken by replevin before a justice of the
peace be claims by any other erson than the defendant, or
Ihis agent, and such person shall ma e affidavit of his title thereto,
and right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of such
right and title, and serve the same upon the constable, the
constable shall not be bound to keep the pr0perty, or deliver
it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on demand of him or his
agent, shall indemnify the constable against such claim, by an
undertaking, executed by two suiiicient sureties, accompanied
by their afiidavit that they are each worth double the value of
the property as Specified in the affidavit of the plaintiff, and
householders of the county. And no claim to such property by
any other person than the defendant or his agent, shall be valid
against the constable, unless made as aforesaid; and notwith- ’
standing such claim when so made, he may retain the property
a reasonable time to demand the idemnity.

SEC. 37. N o Jurisdiction in Certain Cases.

But no justice of the peace shall have cognizance of a civil
action :

1. In which the pe0ple of this State are a party, excepting for
penalties not exceeding fifty dollars.

2. Nor where the title to, or boundaries of, real property _
shall come in question, except as hereinafter provided.

3. Nor of a civil action for false imprisonment, libel, slander,
malicious prosecution, criminal conversation, or seduction.

4. Nor of a matter of account where the sum total of the
accounts of both parties, proved to the satisfaction of the justice, shall exceed one hundred dollars. ,

5. Nor of an action against an executor or administrator as
such.

SEC. 38. Answer of Title.

In every action brought in a court of justice of the peace
where the title to, or boundaries of, real prOperty shall come in
question, the defendant may, either with or without other matter of defense, set forth in his answer any matter showing that
such title or boundary will come in question. Such answer
shall be in writin , signed by the defendant or his attorney,
and delivered to t e justice. The justice shall thereupon countersign the same, and deliver it to the plaintiff.

SEC. 39. Undertaking to be given.

At the time of answering, the defendant shall deliver to the
justice a written undertaking, executed by at least one suflicient
surety, and approved by the justice, to the effect that if the
plaintiff shall, within twenty days thereafter, deposit with the
justice a summons and complaint in an action in the circuit
court for the same cause, the defendant will, within twenty days
after such deposit, give an admission in writing of the service
thereof. Where the defendant was arrested in the action before
the justice, the undertaking shall further provide, that he will
at all times render himself amenable to the process of the court
during the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking, the surety shall be liable not eXceeding one hundred dollars.

SEC. 40. When Action discontinued. Costs.

Upon the delivery of the undertaking to the justice, the action before him shall be discontinued, and each party shall pay
his own costs. The costs so paid by either party shall be allowed to him if he recover costs in the action to be brought for
the same cause in ,the circuit court. If no such action be
brought Within twenty days after the delivery of the undertaking, the defendant’s costs before the justice may be recovered of
the plaintiff.

SEC. 41. If Undertaking not given.
If the undertaking be not delivered to the justice, he shall

have jurisdiction of the cause, and shall proceed therein; and
the defendant shall be precluded, in his defense, from drawing
the title or boundary in question.

SEC. 42. When Action to be Dismissed.

7 If, however, it appear on the trial from the plaintiff’s own showing, that the title to, or boundary of, real property is in question,
and such title or boundary shall be diSputed by the defendant,
the justice shall dismiss the action, and render judgment against
the plaintiff for the costs.

SEC. 43. Another Action may be Brought.

W'hen a suit before a justice shall be‘discontinued by the delivery of an answer and undertaking as heretofore provided, the
plaintiff may prosecute an action for the same cause in the circuit court, and shall complain for the same cause of action only
on which he relied before the justice ; and the answer of the defendant shall set up the same defense only which he made before the justice.

SEC. 44. Judgment in Circuit Court. Costs.

If the judgment in the circuit court be for the plaintiff, he
shall recover costs; if it be for defendant, he shall recover costs,
except that upon a verdict he shall pay costs to the plaintiff,
unless the judge certify that the title to real property came in
question on the trial.

SEC. 45. Answer of Title as to part. Transfer of Cases to the
Circuit Court.

If; in an action before a justice, the plaintiff have several
causes of action, to one of which the defense of title to real
property shall be interposed, and as to such cause the defend~
ant shall answer and deliver an undertaking as hereinbefore
provided, the justice shall discontinue the proceedings as to that
cause, and the plaintiff may commence another action therefor
in the circuit court. As to the other causes of action, the justice may continue his proceedings.

SEC. 46. Docketing Justices’ Judgments.

A justice of the peace, on the demand of a party in whose
favor he shall have rendered a judgment, shall give a transcript
thereof, which may be filed and docketed in the office of the
clerk of the county where the judgment was rendered. The
time of the receipt of the transcript by the clerk shall be noted
thereon, and entered in the docket of county court judgments ;

and from that time the judgment shall bé a judgment of the
county court, and enforced in like manner as other judgments of
the county court. A certified transcript of such judgment may
be filed and docketed in the clerk’s ofiice of any other county,
and with the like effect in every respect as in the county where
the judgment was rendered ; except that it shall be a lien only
from the time of tiling and docketing the transcript. But no
such judgment fora less sum than twenty-five dollars, exclusive
of costs, hereafter docketed, shall be a lien upon or enforced
against real property.

SEC. 47. Rules.

The following rules shall be observed in the courts of justices
of the mace :

1. T e leadings in these courts are—

]. e complaint by the plaintiff.
2. The answer by the defendant. ,

2. The pleadings may be oral or in writing ; if oral, the substance of them shall be entered b the justice in his docket ; if
in writing, they shall be filed by ' , and a reference to them
shall be made in the docket.

3. The complaint shall state, in a plain and direct manner,
the facts constituting thecausc of action.

4. The answer ma contain a denial of the complaint, or of
any part thereof, an also anotice, in a plain and direct manner,
of any facts constituting a defense, counterclaim, or set-off, and
if in writing, must be verified by the oath of the defendant, or
one of several defendants, or by his attorney or agent.

5. Pleadings are not required to be in any particular form,
but must be such as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended. h

6. Either party may demur to a pleadin of his adversary, or
any part thereof, when it is not suflicient y explicit to enable
him to understand it, or it contains no cause of action or defense, although it be taken as true.

7. If the court deem the objection well founded, it shall order
the (pleading to be amended, and if the party refuse to amend,
the efective pleading shall be disregarded.

8. In case a defendant does not a pear and answer, the plaintiff cannot recover Without proving Ihis case.

9. In an action or defense, founded upon an account, or an
instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be suflicient
for a party to deliver the account or instrument to the court,
and to state that there is. due to him thereon, from the adverse
party, a specified sum, which he claims to recover or set oif.

10. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allega«

tions in a pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless
the court shall be satisfied that the adverse party has been mis—
led to his prejudice thereb . .

11. The pleadings may e amended at any time before the
trial, or during the trial, when by such amendment substantial
justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after the
joining of the issue, and it be made to appear to the satisfaction
of the court, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the
adverse party in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The court may also, in its discretion,
require as a condition of an amendment the payment of costs to
the adverse party.

12. Execution may be issued on a judgment heretofore or
hereafter rendered in a justice’s court, at any time within five
years after the rendition thereof, and if issued by a justice of
the peace, shall be returnable within sixty days from the date of
the same. '

13. If the judgment be docketed with the cmmty clerk, the
execution shall be issued by him to the sheriff of the county,
and have the same effect, and be executed in the same manner,
as other executions and judgments of the county court.

14. The court may, at the joining of issue, require either party,
at the request of the other, at that or some other Specified time,
to exhibit his account on demand, or state the nature thereof as
far forth as may be in his power, and in case of his default, preclude him from giving eVIdence of such parts thereof as shall
not have been so exhibited or stated.

15. The provisions of this code respecting forms of action,
parties to actions, the rules of evidence, and the service of pro.
cess upon corporations, shall apply to these courts.

SEC. 48. The defendant may, on the return of process, and before answering, make an offer to allow judgment to be taken
against him for an amount, to be stated in such offer, with costs.
The plaintiff shall thereupon, and before an other proceedings shall be had in the action, determine w ether he will accept or reject such offer. If he accept the offer, and give notice
thereof to the justice, the justice shall note the offer, and the acceptance thereof, and render judgment accordingly. If notice
of acceptance be not given, and if the plaintiff fail to obtain
judgment for a greater amount, exclusive of costs, than has
been specified in the offer, he shall not recover costs, but shall
pay to the defendant. his costs accruing subsequent to the

offer.

PART ,SECOND.

OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

TITLE L—OF THEIR FORM.
“ II.——OF THE TIME OF COMMENCING THEM.
“ III.—0F THE PARTIES
“ IV.—OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL.
“ V.—OE THE MANNER 0F COMMENCING THEM.
“ VL—OF THE PLEADINGS.
“ VII.—OF THE PROVISIONAL REMEDIES.
“ VIII—OF THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT.
“ IX—OE THE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT.
“ X.—OR THE COSTS.
“ XL—OF APPEALS. .
“ XII.—OF THE MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.
“ XIIL—ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.
“ XIV.-—PROVISIONS RELATING TO EXISTING SUITS
“ XV .-—GENERAL PROVISIONS.

T I T L E I .
0f the Form of Civil Actions.

Distinction between actions at law and suits in equity, and their forms, abolished.

Parties to an action, how designated.

Actions on judgments, when and how to be brought.

Feigned issues abolished, and order for trial to be substituted.

SEC. 49. Distinction between Actions at Law and Suits in
Equity, and their Forms, abolished. '

The distinction, between actions at law and suits in equity,
and the forms Of all such actions and suits heretofore existing,
are abolished; and there Shall be in this State hereafter but one

form of action for the enforcement or protection of private
rights and the redress of private wrongs, which shall be denomi—
nated a civil action.

SEC. 50. Parties to an Action, how Designated.

In such action, the party complaining shall be known as the
plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 51. Actions on Judgments, when and how to be Brought.

No action shall be brought upon a judgment rendered in any
court of this State, except a court of a justice of the peace, between the same parties, without leave of the court for good
cause shown, on notice to the adverse party.

SEC. 52. Feigned Issues abolished, and Order for Trial substituted.

Feigned issues are abolished; and instead thereof, in the cases
where the pov’ver now exists to order a feigned issue, or when a
question of fact, not put in issue in the pleadings, is to be tried
by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, stating distinctly
and plainly the question of fact to 3e tried, and such order shall
be the only authority necessary for atrial.

TITLE II.

()f the Time of commencing Civil Actions.

Actions in general.
Actions for the recovery of real property.

A

SEC. 53. When Action deemed to have been Commenced.

An action is commenced as to each defendant when the summons is served on him, or on a co—defendant who is a joint contractor or otherwise united in interest with him. An attempt
to commence an action is deemed equivalent to the commence-—
ment thereof, within the meaning of the statute limiting the time
for commencing actions, when the summons is delivered, with the
intent that it shall be actually served, to the sheriff or other oilicer of the county in which the defendants, or one of them,
usually or last resided ; or if a corporation be defendant, to the
sheriff or other ofiicer of the county in which such corporation

was established by law, or where its o'eneral business was transacted, or where it kept an office for the transaction of business.

SEC. 54. Exception where Defendant is out of the State.

when the cause of action shall accrue against any person,
he s ll be out of the State, such action may be commenced
within the time limited by law after the return of such person
into this State; and if, after such cause of action shall have accrued, such person shall depart from and reside out of this State,
or remain continuously absent therefrom for one year or more,
the time of his absence shall not be deemed or taken as any part
of the time limited for the commencement of such action.

SEC. 55. Exception as to Persons under Disabilities.

If a person entitled to bring an action, except for a penalty or
forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other officer for an escape, be at
the time the cause of action accrued, either—

1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or,

‘2. Insane ; or,

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the

sentence of a criminal court for a term less than his natural life;
or, ,
4. A married woman ;
The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited
for the commencement of the action, except that the period
Within which the action must be brought cannot be extended
more than five years by any such disability, except infancy, nor
can it be so extended in any case longer than one year after the
disability ceases.

SEC. 56. Provision where Persons entitled Die before the Limitation explres.

If a person entitled to bring an action die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the
cause of action survive, an action may be commenced by his
representatives after the expiration of that time, and Within one
year from his death. If a person against whom an action may be
brought die before the expiration of the time limited for the
commencement thereof, and the cause of action survives, an action may be commenced against his executor or administrator
after the expiration of that time, and within one year after the
issuing of letters testamentary, or letters of adminlstration.

In Suits by Aliens, time of War to be deducted.

When a person shall be an alien subject or citizen of a country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance

of the war shall not be a part of the period limited for the commencement of the action.

SEC. 57. Provision where Judgment has been Reversed.

, If an action shall be commenced within the time prescribed
therefor, and a judgment therein for the plaintiii‘ be reversed on
appeal, the plaintiff, or, if he die and the cause of action survive,

hlS heirs or representatives, may commence a new action Within
one year after the reversal.

SEC. 58. Time of stay of Action by Injunction, or Statutory
Prohibition, to be deducted.

When the commencement of an action shall be stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of

the injunction or prohibition shall not be part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.

SEC. 59. Disability must exist when Right of Action accrued.

No erson shall avail himself of a disability unless it existed
when 1is right of action accrued.

SEC. 60. Where two or more Disabilities, Limitation does not
attach until all Removed.

Where two or more disabilities shall co-exist at the time the
ri ht of action accrues, the limitation shall not attach until they
a1 be removed.

SEC. 61. Acknowledgment or New Promise must be in Writmg.

No acknowledgment or promise shall be suiiicient evidence of
a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the case out of the
operation of the statute of limitations, unless the same be contained in some writing signed by the party to be charged there-A
by; but this section shall not alter the effect of any payment of.
principal or interest.

T I T L E I I I .
0f the Parties to Civil Actions.

Action to be in the name of the real party in interest.

Assignment of a thing in action not to rejudiee a defense.

Executor or trustee may sue without e persons beneficially interested.
When married woman a party. Actions by and against.

Infants to appear by guardian.
Guardian, how appointed.

Who may be joined as laintiii's.
Who may be joined as efendants.

Parties in interest, when to be joined. When one or more may sue or defend
for the whole.

One action may include different es to commercial per.
Action, when not to abate by dea , marri e, or other ' bility.
Court, whento decide controversy, or to 0 er other parties to be brought in.

SEC. 62. Action to be in the name of the real Party in interest.

Every action must be prosecuted in the name. of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise rovided in this act. But
this section shall not be deemed to ant orize the assignment of a
thing in action not arising out of contract.

SEC. 63. Assignment of a Thing in Action not to Prejudice.

In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action
by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other
defense existing at the time of or before notice of the assignment ; but this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory
note, or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith, and upon
good consideration, before due.

SEC. 64. Executor or Trustee may Sue without the Person
beneficially interested. .

An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust,
or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without
joining with him the person for Whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust, Within the meaning of
this section, shall be construed to include a person With Whom,
or in Whose name, a contract is made for the beneht of another.

SEC. 65. \Vhen Married “roman a Party. Actions by and
against.

When a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined
with her,‘ except that,

1. When the action concerns her separate property she may
sue alone; I

2. When the action is between herself and her husband she
may sue or be sued alone, and in no case need she prosecute or

defend by a guardian or next friend.

SEC. 66. Infant to appear by Guardian.

When an infant is a party he must appear by guardian, who
may be ap ointed bv the court in which the action is prosecuted,

or by a ju ge therebf, or a county judge.

SEC. 67. Guardian, how appointed.

1. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, or if under that age,
upon the application of his general or testamentary guardian, if he
has any, or of a relative or friend of the infant. If made by a
relative or friend of the infant, notice thereof must first be given
to such guardian, if he has one; if he has none, then to the person with whom such infant resides.

2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within
twenty days after service of the summons; if he be under the
age of fourteen, or neglects to apply, then upon the application
of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the
infant, after notice of such application being first given to the
general or testamentary guardian of such infant, if he has one
within this State; if he has none, then to the infant himself if
over fourteen years of a e, and if within the State; or if under
that age and within the tatc, to the person with whom such infant resides. And in actions for the partition of real property,
or for the foreclosure of a mortgage or other instrument, when
an infant defendant resides out of this State, or is temporarily
absent therefrom, the plaintiff may apply to the court in which
the action is pending, at any term thereof, and will be entitled
to an order designating some suitable person to be the guardian
for the infant defendant for the purpose of the action, unless the
infant defendant, or some one in his behalf, within a number of
days after the service of a copy of the order, which number of
days shall be in the said order specified, shall procure to be
appointed a guardian for the said infant, and the court shall
give special directions in the order for the manner of the service
thereof, which may be upon the infant.

SEC. 68. Who may be joined as Plaintiffs.
All persons having an interest in the subject of the action,

and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs,
except as otherwise provided in this title.

SEC. 69. Who may be joined as Defendants.

Any person may be made defendant who has or claims an
interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or Who is a
necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the
questions involved therein.

SEC. 70. Parties in interest, when to be Joined. When one or
more may Sue or Defend for the Whole.

Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
must be joined as laintiffs or defendants; but if the consent of
any one, who sho d have been joined as plaintiff, cannot be ob—
tained, he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being
stated in the complaint, and when the question is one of a common or general interest of many persons, or when the parties
are very numerous, and it may be impracticable to bring them all
before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit
of the whole.

SEC. 71. One Action may include different Parties to Commercial Paper.

Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory
notes, may, all or any of them, be included in the same action,
at the option of the plaintiff.

SEC. 72. Action, when not to abate by Death, Marriage, or
other Disability.

No action shall abate by the death, marriage, or other disa-.
bility of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the
cause of action survive or continue. In case of death,marriage,
or other disability of a party, the court, on motion, at any time
within one year thereafter, or afterwards on a supplemental
complaint, may allow the action to be continued by or against
his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other
transfer of interest, the action shall be continued in the name of
the original party, or the court may allow the person to Whom
the transfer is made to be substituted in the action. After a
verdict shall be rendered in any action for a wrong, such action
shall not abate by the death of any party, but the case shall
proceed thereafter in the same manner as in cases where the cause
of action now survives by law. At any time after the death,
marriage, or other disability of the party plaintiff, the court in

 

which an action is pending, upon notice to such persons as it may
direct, and upon application of any person aggrieved, may, in its
discretion, order that the action be deemed abated, unless the
same be continued by the proper parties within a time to be
fixed by the court, not less than six months nor exceeding one
year from the granting of the order.

SEC. 73. Court when to decide Controversy, or to order other
Parties to be brought in.

The court may determine any controversy between the parties
before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of
others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without the presence
of other parties, the court must cause them to be brought in.
And when, in an action for the recovery of real or personal
property, a person not a party to the action, but having an interest in the subject thereof, makes application to the court to
be made a party, it may order him to be brought in by the
proper amendment.

A defendant, against whom an action is pending upon a contract, or for speciiie, real, or personal property, may at any time
before answer, upon aiiidavit that a person not a party to the
action, and without collusion with him, makes against him a demand for the same debt or property, upon due notice to such
person and the adverse party, apply to the court for an order to
substitute such person in his place, and discharge him from liabilit to either party, on his depositing in court the amount of
the ebt, or delivering the property or its yalue to such person
as the court may direct ; and the court may, in its discretion,
make the order.

TITLE IV;

0f the. Place qf Trial of Civil Actions.

Certain actions to be tried where the subject, or some part thereof, is situated.

Other actions where the cause, or some part thereof, arose.

Other actions according to the residence of the attics.

Action may be tried in any county, unless the cfendant demand trial in the
proper county.

- SEC. 74. Certain Actions to be tried where the Subject, or
some part thereof, is situated.

Actions for the following causes must be tried in the
county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof,
is situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place
of trial in the cases provided by statute :

1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate, or interest therein, or for the determinatlon, in any form, of such right
or interest, and for injuries to real pr0perty.

2. For the partition of real property.

3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage on real property.

4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any
cause. '

SEC. 75. Actions to be tried where the Cause, or some part
thereof, arose.

Actions for the following causes must be tried in the county
where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the like
power of the court to change the place of trial in the cases provided b statute:

1. or the recovery of a penalty or a forfeiture imposed by
statute, except that when it is imposed for an offense committed
on a lake, river, or other stream of water, situated in two or more
counties, the action may be brought in any count bordering on
such lake, river, or stream, and opposite to the p ace where the
offense was committed.

2. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed to
execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his ofiice,
or against a person who, by his command or in his aid, shall do
anything touching the dutles of said ofiicer.

SEC. 76. Other Actions according to the Residence of the
Parties.

In all other cases the action shall be tried in the county in
which the parties, or any of them, shall reside at the commencement ; or if none of the parties shall reside in the State, the same
may be tried in any county which the plaintiff may designate in
his complaint, subject, however, to the power of the court to
change the place of trial in the cases provided by statute.

SEC. 77. Action may be tried in any County unless Defendant demand Trial in the prOper County.

If the county designated for that purpose in the complaint be
not the propel-county, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried
therein, unless the defendant, before the time for answering expire, demand, in writing, that the trial be had in the proper
county, and the place of trial be thereupon changed by consent

of parties or by order of the court, as is provided in this section. a

The court may change the place of trial in the following
cases:

1. When the county designated for that purpose in the complaint is not the proper county.

2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial
cannot be had therein. ' A

3. When the convenience of witnesses and the‘ends of justice
would be promoted by the change.

When the place of trial is changed, all other proceedings shall
be had in the county to which the place of trial is changed, unless otherwise provided by the consent of the parties, in writing,
duly filed, or order of the court; and the papers shall be filed or
transferred accordingly.

T I T L E V.
0f the manner of Commencing Civil Actions.

Actions, how commenced.

Summons, requisites of.

Notice to be inserted in certain actions.

Complaint need not be served with summons.

Defendant, when to pay costs for‘unreasonably defending.
Notice of pendency of action affecting title to real property.
Summons, by whom served.

How summons served and returned.

Publication, when defendant cannot be found.
Proceedings, where part only of several defendants served.
When service deemed made in case of publication.

SEC. 78. Actions, how Commenced.

Civil actions in the courts of record of this State shall com:mence by the service of summons.

SEC. 7 9. Summons, requisites of.

The summons shall be subscribed by the plaintiff or his attorney, and directed to the defendant, and shall require him to answer
the complaint, and serve a copy of his .answer on the person
whose name is subscribed to the summons, at a place within the
State, to be therein specified, in which there is a post office,
Within thirty days after the service of the summons, exclusive of
the day of service.

SEC. 80. Notice to be Inserted in Certain Actions.

The plaintiff shall also insert in the summons a notice, in substance as follows :

1. In an action, arising on contract for the recovery of money
only, that he Will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if
the defendant fail to answer the complaint in thirty days after
the service of the summons.

2. In other actions, that if the defendant shall fail to answer
the complaint within thirty days after service of the summons,
the plaintiff will apply to the court for the relief demanded in

the complaint.

SEC. 81. Complaint need not be Served with Summons.

A copv of the complaint need not be served with the summons. in such case the summons must state where the complaint is or will be filed; and if the defendant, within twenty days
thereafter, causes notice of appearance to be given, and in person or by attorney demands in writing a copy of the complaint,
specifying a place within the 'State where it may be served, a
cop thereof must, within twenty days thereafter, be served accor ingly, and after such service the defendant has thirty days
to answer; but only one cepy need be served on the same attorney.

SEC. 82. Defendant, when to pay Costs for Unreasonany Defending.

In the case of a defendant against whom no personal claim is
made, the plaintiff may deliver to such defendant, with the summons, a notice subscribed by the plaintiff or his attorney, setting
forth the general object of the action, a brief description of the
property affected by it, if it affects specific, real, or personal
pro erty, and that no personal claim is made against such defen ant, in which case no copy of the complaint need be served
u on such defendant, unless, within the time for answering, he
s all, in writing, demand the same. If a defendant on whom
such notice is served unreasonably defend the action, he shall
pay costs to the plaintiff.

SEC. 83, Notice of pendency of action affecting Title to Real
Property. '

In an action affecting the title to real prOperty, the plaintiff,
at the time of filing the complaint, or at any time afterward, or
Whenever a warrant of attachment, as hereinafter provided, shall
be issued, or at any time afterwards, the plaintiff, or a defendant when he sets up an aiiirmative cause of action in his answer
and demands substantive relief, at the time of filing his answer,

or at any time afterwards, if the same be intended to affect real
estate, may file with the clerk of such county in which the
property is situated a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties, the object of the action, and
the description of the property in that county affected thereby;
and if the action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage, such notice must be filed twenty days before _ judgment, and must contain the date of the mortgage, the parties thereto, and the time
and place of recording the same. From the time of filing only
shall the pendency of the action be constructive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property affected thereby ; and
every person whose conveyance or incumbrance is subsequently
executed or subsequently recorded, shall be deemed a subsequent purchaser or incumbrancer, and shall be bound by all proceedings taken after the filing of such notice, to the same extent
as if he were made a party to the action. For the purposes of
this section an action shall be deemed to be pending from the
time of-iiling such notice ; Provided, however, That such notice
shall be of no avail unless it shall be followed by the first publication of the summons on an order therefor, or by the personal
service thereof on a defendant within sixty days after such filing;
and the court in which the said action was commenced may, 1n
its discretion, at any time after the action shall be settled, discontinued or abated, as is provided in section 72, on application
of any person aggrieved, and on good cause shown, and on such
notice as shall be directed or approved by the court, order the
notice authorized by this section to be cancelled of record by
the clerk of any county in whose ofiice the same may have been
filed or recorded ; and such cancellation shall be made by an endorsement to that effect on the margin of the record, which shall
refer to the order, and for which the clerk shall be entitled to a

fee of twenty-five cents.

SEC. 84. Summons, by whom Served.

The summons may be served by the sheriff of the county
where the defendant ma be found, or by any other person not
' a party to the action. he service shall be made, and the summons returned, with proof of the service, to the person Whose
name is subscribed thereto, with all reasonable diligence. The
person subscribing the summons may, at his option, by an endorsement on the summons, fix a time for the service thereof
and the service shall then be made accordingly. ' ’

SEC. 85. How summons Served and Returned.

The summons shall be served by delivering a cOpy thereof as
follows :

1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or
other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer, a
director or managing agent thereof; but such service can be
made in respect to a foreign corporation only when it has
prOperty within this State, or the cause of action arose therein,
or where such service shall be made within this State personally
upon the president, treasurer, or secretary thereof.

2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian; or
if there be none within the State, then to any erson havin the
care and control of such minor, or with whom e shall resi e, or
in whose service he shall be employed.

3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsmmd
mind, and for whom a committee has been appointed, to such
committee and to the defendant personally.

4. In all other cases, to the defendant personally.

SEC. 86. Publication when Defendant cannot be found.

Where the person on whom the service of the summons is to
be made cannot, after due diligence, be found within the State,
and that fact appears by ailidavit to the satisfaction of the court
or a judge thereof, or of the county judge of the county where
the trial is to be had, and it in like manner appears that a cause
of action exists against the defendant in respect to whom the
service is to be made, or that he is a pro er‘party to an action
relating to real pr0pcrty in this State, suc court or judge may
grant an order that the service be made by the publication of a
summons in any of the following cases :

1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, has property
within the State, or the cause of action arose therein.

2. Where the defendant, being a resident of this State, has
departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors, or to
avoid the service of a summons, or'keeps himself concealed
therein with like intent.

3. Where he is not a resident of this State, but has property
therein, and‘the court has jurisdiction of the subject of the action.

4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal property
in this State, and the defendant has, or claims, a lien or interest,
actual or contingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists
wholly or partly in excluding the defendant from any interest
or lien therein.

5. Where the action is for divorce, in the cases prescribed by
law, the order must direct the publication to be made in two
newspapers, to be designated as most likely to give notice to the
person to be served, and for such length of time as may be

deemed reasonable, not less than once a week for six weeks. In
case of publication, the court or judge must also direct a coPy
of the summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in the
post ofiice, directed to the person to be served, at his place of
residence, unless it appear that such residence is neither known
to the party making the application, nor can with reasonable
diligence be ascertained by him. When publication is ordered,
personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint out of
the State is equivalent to publication and deposit in the post office.
The defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his
representatives, on application and suflicient cause shown, at
any time before judgment, must be allowed to defend the ac.
tion ; and except in an action for divorce, the defendant against
whom publication is ordered, or his representatives, may in like
manner, upon good cause shown, be allowed to defend after
judgment, or at any time within one year after the notice
thereof, and within seven years after its rendition, on such terms
as may be just ; and if the defense be successful, and the judgment or any part thereof have been collected or otherwise enforced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court
directs; but the title to pro erty sold under such judgment to a
purchaser in good faith sha 1 not be thereby affected. And in
all cases where publication is made, the complaint must be first
filed, and the summons, as published, must state the time and
place of such filing. In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages
on real estate, already instituted or hereafter to be instituted,
if the residence of any party or parties, having any interest
in or lien upon such mortgaged premises, is unknown to the
plaintiff, and the residence of such party or parties cannot, with
reasonable diligence, be ascertained by him, and such fact he
made to appear by aiiidavit to the court, or to a judge thereof,
or to the county judge of the county where the trial is to be had,
such court, judge, or county judge may grant an order that the
s1unmons be served on such unknown party or parties by publishing the same for six weeks, once in each week successively, in
the State paper and in a newspaper printed in the county where
the premises are situated, which publication shall be equivalent
to a personal service on such party or parties.

SEC. 87. Proceedings where Part only of Several Defendants
served.

Where the action is against two or more defendants, and the
summons is served on one or more of them, but not on all of

them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows:
1. Ifthe action be against defendants jointly indebted u on

contract, he may proceed against the defendant served, un ess

the court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may
be entered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so
far only as that it may be enforced against the joint property
of all, and the separate property of the defendants served, and
if they are subject to arrest, against the persons of the defendants served; or,

2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he
may proceed against the defendants served in the same manner
as if they were the only defendants.

 If all the defendants have been served, judgment may be
taken against any or either of them severally, when the plantiff
would be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defendants if the action had been against them or any of them
alone.

4. If the name of one or more parties shall, for any cause,
have been omitted in any action in which judgment shall have
passed against the defendants named in the summons, and such
omission shall not have been pleaded in such action, the plaintiff, in case the judgment. therein remain unsatisfied, may by
action recover of such partner separately, upon proving his
joint liability, notwithstanding he may not have been named
in the original action; but the plaintiff shall have satisfaction of
only one judgment rendered for the same cause of action.

SH. 86. When service deemed made in case of Publication.

In the cases mentioned ' in section 86 the service of the sum»mons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time
prescribed by the order of publication.

SEC. 69. Service of Stunmons, how Proved.

Proof of the service of the summons, and of the complaint or
notice, if any, accompanyino the same, must be as follows:

1. If served by the sherid‘, his certificate thereof; or,

2. If by any ntllL‘l‘ person, his afiidavit thereof; or, .

3. In case ut publication, the aiiidavit of the printer, or his
foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same, and an aflidavit of
a deposit of a copy of the summons in the post of’dce, as required by law, if the. same shall have been deposited; or,

4. The written admission of the defendant. _

In case of service, otherwise than by publication, the certificate, aflidavit, or admission must state the time and place of
service. ‘

SEC. 9‘0. When J urisdidtion of action Acquired.

From the time of the service of the summons in a civil action,
or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the court is deemed

3 ~ .

to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the
subsequent pl‘chedlllgS. A voluntary appearance of a defendant is equivalent to personal serv1ee of the summons upon him.

T I T L E V 1.
0f the Plecu‘Zi-ngs in (Evil Actions.

The complaint.

The demurrer.

The answer.

The reply. 0
General rules of leadj .

Mistakes in plea ing an amendments.

‘ SEC. 91. Forms of Pleadings.

All the forms of pleadings heretofore existing are abolished,
and hereafter the forms of pleadings in civil actions, in courts of
record, and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings
is to be determined, are those prescribed by this Title.

SEC. 92. Complaint.- _
The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is the complaint.

SEC. 93. Complaint, what to Contain.

The complaint shall contain: 1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in
Which the action is brought, the name of the county in which
the plaintiff desires the trial to be had, and the names of the
parties to the action, plaintiff and defendant.

2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting a
cause of action, Without unnecessary repetition.

3. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff supposes himself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the
amount thereof shall be st‘ated.

SEC. 94. Defendant to Demur or Answer.

The only pleading on the part of the defendant is either a
demurrer or an answer. It must be served within thirty days
after the service of the copy of the complaint.

SEC. 95. When the Defendant may Demur.

The defendant may demur to the complaint when it shall
.appear upon the face thereof, either: 1. That the court has no jurisdiction over the person of the
defendant, or the subject of the action ; or,

2. That the plaintiif has not legal capacity to sue ; or,

3. That there is another action pending between the same
parties, for the same cause; or,

4. That there is defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant; or,

5. That several causes of action have been impr0per1y united;
or, .

6. That the complaint does not state facts sufiieicnt to constitute a cause of action. °

SEC. 96. Dcmurrer must specify Grounds of .Objection.

The demurrer shall distinctly spacify the grounds of objection
to the complaint. Unless it do so, it may be disregarded. It
may be taken to the whole complaint, or to any of the alleged
causes of action stated therein.

SEC. 97. How to proceed if Complaint be Amended.

If the complaint be amended, a coPy thereof must be served
on defendant, who must answer it within thirty days, or the
plaintiff, upon filing with the clerk a proof of the serv1ce and of
the defendant’s omission, may proceed to obtain judgment, as
provided by section 194; but where an application to the court
for judgment is necessary, eight days’ notice thereof must be
given to the defendant.

SEC. 98. Objection not Appearing on Complaint.

When any of the mattersenumerated in section 114 do not
appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be
taken by answer.

SEC. 99. Objection, when deemed \Vaived.

If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer,
the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the complaint does not state facts suiiicient to constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 100. Answer, what to Contain.

The answer of defendant must be sworn to and must contain:

1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of
'the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof, suiiicient to form a belief.

‘2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or
counter-claim, 1n ordinary and concise language, Wlthout repetition. ’ '

SEC. 101. Counter-claims. Several defenses.

The counter-claim mentioned in the last section must be one
existing in favor of the defendant or defendants, and against the
plaintiff or plaintiffs, or a plaintiff against whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and arising out of one of the
following causes of action :

l. A cause (if action arising out of the contract or transaction
set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintiff’s

,claim, or connected with the subject of the action.
' 2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action
arising also on contract, and existing at the commencement of
the action. 0

The defendant may set forth, by answer, as many defenses
and counter-claims as he may have, Whether they be such as
have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both.
They must each be separately stated, and refer to the causes of
action which they are intended to answer, in such manner that
they may be intelligibly distinguished. ‘

SEC. 102. Sham Defenses to be Stricken out.

Sham and irrelevant answers and defenses may be stricken
out, on motion, and upon such terms as the court may 1n Its dlscretion impose.

SEC. 103. Reply, when put in and what to Contain.

When the answer contains new matter constituting a counterclaim, the plaintiff may, within twenty days, reply to such new
matter, denying generally or Specially each allegation contro—
verted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof suflicient to form a belief; and he may allege, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to such new matter in the answer; and the plaintiff may, in all cases, demur to an
answer containing new matter, Where upon its face it does not
constitute a counter-claim or defense; and the plaintiff may demur to one or more of such defenses or counter-claims, and reply
to the residue of the counter-claims. And in other cases where
an answer contains new matter constituting a defense by way of
avoidance, the court may, in its discretion, on the defendant’s
motion, require a reply to such new matter; and in that case the
releply shall be subject to the same rules as a reply to a counter0 mm.

SEC. 104. When Defendant may move for Judgment upon an
Answer. .

If the answer contains a statement of new matter constiqiting .
a ecunter-claim, and the plaintiff fail to reply or demur thereto
within the time prescribed by law, the defendant may move, on
a notice of not less than ten days, for such judgment as he is entitled to upon such statement, and, if the case require it, a writ
of inquiry of damages may be issued.

SEC. 105. Demurrer to Reply.

If a reply of the plaintiff to. any defense set up by the answer
of the defendant be insufficient, the defendant may demur thereto, and shall state the groxmds thereof.

Sun 106. What Pleadings to be Verified.
3

Every answer, amended complaint, or reply, in a court of record, must be subscribed by the party or hls attorney, and verified as provided in the next section. '

SEC. 107. Verification of Pleadings.

The verification must be to the effect that the same is true to
the knowledge of the person making it, except as to those matters stated on information and belief, and as to those matters he
believes it to be true, and must be by the aflidavit of the party,
or, if there be several parties united in interest and pleading together, by one at least of such parties acquainted with the facts,
if such party be within the county where the attorney resides
and capable of making the afljdavit.

The affidavit may also be made by the agent or attorney, if the
action or defense be founded upon a written instrument for the .
payment of money only, and such instrument be in the possession
of the agent or attorney, or if all the material allegations of the
pleading be within the present knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the pleading is verified by any other person than
the party, he shall set forth in the afiidavit his knowledge or the
grounds of his belief on the subject, and the reasons why it is
not made by the party. ' When a corporation is a party, the
verification may be made by any officer thereof; and when the
State or any oflicer thereof in its behalf is a party, the verification may be made by any person acquainted with the facts.
The verification may be omitted when an admission of the truth
of the allegation might subject the party to prosecution for felony; and no pleading can be used in a crlminal prosecution
against the party as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such
pleading.

SEC. 108. How to state an Account in Pleading.

It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading
the items of an account therein alleged, but he shall deliver tothe adverse party, Within ten days after a demand thereof, in
writing, a copy of the account, which, if the pleading is verified,.
must be verified by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, if within the personal knowledge of such agent or attorney,,
to the effect that he believes it to be true, or be precluded from
giving evidence thereof. The court, or a judge thereof, or a
county judge, may order a further account when the one delivered is defective, and the judge may in all cases order a bill of
particulars of the claim of either party to be furnished.

SEC. 109. Pleadings to be liberally Construed.

In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a
view of substantial justice between the parties. '

SEC. 110. Irrelevant or Redundant Matter to be strickep out.

If irreleVant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it
may be stricken out, on motion of any person so aggrieved thereby, and When the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or
uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not

apparent, the court may require the pleading to be made definite"
and certain by‘ amendment.

SEC. 111. J udgment, how to be Pleaded.

In pleading a judgment, or other determination of a court
or oflicer of special jurisdiction, it.shall not be necessary to state
the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determi.nation may be stated to have been duly given or made. If such
allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound toestablish, on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.

SEC. 112. Conditions Precedent, how Pleaded.

In pleading the performance of conditions precedent, in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing suchperformance ; but it may be stated generally that the party duly
performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation
be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish,
on trial, the facts showing such performance. In an action or
defense founded upon an instrument for the payment of money
only, it shall be sufficient for a party to give a copy of the in, strument, and to state that there is due to him thereon, from the
adverse party, a specified sum, which he claims.

SEC. 113. Private Statutes, how to be Pleaded.

In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it
shall be suiiicient to refer to such statute by its title, and the day

of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice
thereof.

SEC. 114. Libel and Slander, how stated in Complaint.

In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to
state in the complaint any extrinsic facts, for the purpose of
showing the application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter
out of which the cause of action arose; but it shall be sullicient
to state generally that the same was published or spoken concerning the laintilf, and if such allegation be controverted the

laintiif sha be bound to establish, on trial, that it was so published or spoken. '

SEC. 115. Answer in such Cases.

In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant
may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged
as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the
amount of damages; and Whether he prove the justification or
not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

SEC. 116. In action to recover Property distrained for Damage, Answer need not set forth Title.

In an action to recover the possession of property distrained
doing damage, an answer that the defendant, or person by whose
command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property
upon which the distress was made, and that the property distrained was at that time doing damage thereon, shall be good,
Without setting forth the title to such real property.

SEC. 117. What causes of Action may be joined in the same
Action. '

The plaintiff may unite in the same complaint several causes
of action, whether they be such as have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both, where they all arise out of,

1. The same transaction, or transactions connected with the
same subject of action;

L‘. Contract, express or implied; or,

3:. Injuries, with or without force, to person or property, or
cit her; or,

4. Injuries to character ; or,

5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages,
for the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same;
or,

6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages, for ‘the withholding thereof; or,

7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue ofa contract, or by operation of law. But the causes of action, so united, must all belong to one of
these classes, except in actions for the foreclosure of mortgages,
and must affect all the parties to the action, and not require
different places of trial, and must be separately stated. In actions to foreclose mortgages, the court shall have power to adjud e and direct the payment, by the mortgagor, of any residue
of t e mortgage debt that may remain due and unsatisfied after
a sale of the mortgaged prennses. In cases in which the mortgagor shall be personally liable for the debt secured by such
mortgage, and 1f the mortgage debt be secured by the Covenant
or obligation of any person other than the mortgagor, the plaintiff may make such person a party to the action, and the eourt
may adjudge payment of the residue of such debt remaining due
and unsatisfied, after the sale of the mortgaged premises, against
such other person, and may enforce such judgment as in other
cases.

SEC. 118. Allegation not denied, when to be Deemed True.

Every material allegation of the complaint, not controverted
by the answer, as prescribed in section 100, and every material
allegation of new matter in the answer, constituting a set-off or
counter-claim, not controverted by the reply, as prescribed in
section 103, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true.
But the allegation of new matter in the answer, not relating to
a set-off or counter-claim, or of new matter in a. reply, is to be
deemed controverted by the adverse party as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case may require.

SEC. 119. Material Variances, how Provided for.

N o variance between the allegation in a pleading and the
proof shall be deemed material, unless it shall have actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his action
or defense, upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged that
a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and in what respect he has been misled, and
thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended,
upon such terms as shall be just.

SEC. 120. Immaterial Variances, how Provided for.

Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last sectlon, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the
evidence, or may order an Immedlate amendment, without costs.

SEC. 121. What to be Deemed a Variance.

Where, however, the allegation of the cause of actiOn or defense to which the proof is directed is unproved, not . in some
particular or particulars only, but in its entire sc0pe and meaning,
it shall not be deemed a case of variance, within the last two
sections, but a failure of proof.

SEC. 122. Amendments of Course, and after Allowance of Demurrer.

Any pleading may be once amended by the party of course,
without costs, and Without prejudice to the proceedings already
had, at any time within twenty days after it is served, or at any
time before the period expires for answering it ; or it can be so
amended at any time within twenty days after the service of the
answer or demurrer to such pleading, unless it be made to appear
to the court that it was done for the purposes of delay, and the
plaintiff or defendant will thereby lose the benefit of a term for
which the cause is, or may be, noticed; and if it appear to the
court that such amendment was made for such purpose, the
same may be stricken out and such terms imposed as to the
court may seem just. In such case a copy of the amended plead- ing must be served on the adverse party. After the decision of
a demurrer, either at a general or Special term, the court may,
in its discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was interposed
in good faith, allow the party to plead over on such terms as
may be just. If the demurrer be allowed for the cause mentioned
in the fifth subdivision of section 95, the court ma Y, in its discre—
tion, and upon such terms as may be just, order the action to be
divided into as many actions as may be necessary to the preper
determination of the causes of action therein mentioned.

SEC. 1123. Amendments by Order.

The court may, before or after judgment, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading, process, or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the case, or, when the amendment does not
change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the
pleading and proceeding to the facts proved.

SEC. 124. Relief in Case of Mistake.

The court may likewise, in its discretion, and upon such terms
as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be made, or other
act to be done, after the time limited by this act, or by an order

enlarge such time; and may also, in its discretion, and upon
such terms as may be just, at any time within one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order, or other
proceeding taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect, and may supply an omission in '
any proceeding; and whenever any proceeding taken by a party
fails to conform in any respect to the provisions of this Code, the
court may in like manner, and upon like terms, permit an
amendment of such proceeding, so as to make it conformable
thereto. ‘

SEC. 125. Giving a Party a Fictitious Name, when Allowed.

When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name ; and when his true name shall be discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

SEC. 126. N 0 Error or Defect to be regarded, unless it affects
Substantial Rights.

The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any error
or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not affect
the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment
shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.

SEC. 127. Supplemental Pleadings.

The plaintiff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed, on
motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer, orreply, a1leging facts material to the case occurring after the former complaint, answer, or reply, or'of which the party was ignorant when
his former pleading was made, and either party may, by leave
of the court, in any pending or future action, set up, by a supplemental pleading, the judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction rendered since the commencement of such action, determining the matters in controversy in said action or
any part thereof, and if said judgment be set up by the plaintiff,
the same shall be Without prejudice to any provisional remedy

theretofore issued or other proceedings had in said action in his
behalf: '

T I T L E V I I .
c  [/10 Provisional Remedy“ 7'}, 0h,” Jictians‘

Arrest and bail.

Claim and delivery of personal property. Injunction. °
Attachment.

Provisional remedies.

SEC. 128. N 0 Person to be Arrested, except as Prescribed by
this Act.

N 0 person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed by this act.

SEC. 129. Cases in which Defendant may be Arrested.

The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter prescribed, in
the following cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of action not arising out of contract, Where the defendant is not a
resident of the State, or is about to remove therefrom, or Where
the action is for an injury to person or character, or for injuring,
or for wrongfully taking, detaining, or converting property.

2. In an action for property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied b a public oiiicer, or by' an attorney, solicitor, or counsellor, or by an oiiicer or agent of a corporation or banking association, in the course of his employment as such, or by any factor, agent, broker, or other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for
any misconduct in of’dce, or in a professional employment.

3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property
unjustly detained, Where the prOperty or any art thereof has
been concealed, removed, or disposed of, so t at it cannot be
found or taken by the sheriff, and with the intent that it should
not be so found or taken, or with the intent to deprive the. plaintiff of the benefit thereof. .- ' '

4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property
for the taking,“ detention, or conversion of which the action is
brought, or when the action is brought to recover damages for
any fraud or deceit.

5. No female shall be arrested in any action, except for a Wilful injury to person, character, or property.

SEC. 130. Order for Arrest, by whom made.

An order for the arrest of the defendant must be obtained
from a judge of the court in which the action is brought.

SEC. 131. Affidavit to obtain Order.

The order may be made, where it shall appear to the judge
by the adidavit of the plaintiff, or of any other person, that sufficient cause of action exists, and that the case is one of those
mentioned in section 129. '

SEC. 132. Security by Plaintiff before Order for Arrest.

Before making the order, the judge shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with or without sureties,
to the effect, that if the defendant recover judgment the plaintiff
will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at
least one hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed
by the plaintiff, without sureties, he shall annex thereto an affidavit that he is a resident and householder, or freeholder, within
the State, and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking,
over all his debts and liabilities. '

SEC. 133. Order when made, and'its Form. Time to Answer,
or to Move to Vacate.

The Order may be made to accompany the summons, or at
any time afterwards before judgment. It shall require the
sheriff of the county where the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest him, and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and
to return the order at a time and place therein mentioned, to
the plaintiff, or attorney by whom it shall be subscribed or endorsed. But said order of arrest shall be of no avail, and shall
be vacated, or set aside, on motion, unless the same is served upon
the defendant, as provided by law, before the docketing of any
judgment in the action ; and the defendant shall have twenty
days, after the service of the order of arrest, in which to answer
the eomplaint'in the action, and move to vacate the order of
arrest, or to reduce the amount 0 wail.

SE4; 134. Aiiidavit and Order to be. Delivered to Sheriff, and
COpy to Defendant. ‘ .

The aiiidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to the
sheriff, who,‘upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to him
a 00py thereof.

SEC. 135. Arrests, how made.

The sheriffshall execute the order by arresting the defendant,
and keeping him in custody until discharged by law, and may
call the power of the county to his aid in the execution of the
arrest, as in case of process. '

SEC. 136. Defendant to be Discharged on Bail or Deposit of
Money.‘

The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in
this chapter.

SEC. 137. Bail, how given.

The defendant may give bail by causing a written undertaking
to be executed by two or more sufiicicnt bail, stating their
places of residence and occupations, to the effect that the defendant shall, at all times, render himself amenable to the process of'
the court, during the pendeney of the action, and to such as may
be issued to enforce the judgment therein, or, if he be arrested
for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section 129,
an undertaking to the same effect as that provided by section
160.

Sac. 13b. Surrender of Defendant.

At any time before a failure to comply with the undertaking,
the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he
may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county Where he was
arrested, in the following manner :

1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be delivered to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and shall, by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender; ' .

2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and
sheriff ’s certificate, a judge of the court, or a county judge, may,
upon a notice. to the plaintiff of eight days, with a e0p of the
certificate, order that the bail be exonerated, and on fi ing the
order and the papers used on said application, they shall be
exonerated accordingly. But. this section shall not apply to an
arrest for cause mentioned in subdivision 3 of section 129, so as
to discharge the hail from an undertaking given to the effect
provided by section 160.

For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, at any
time or place, before they. are finally charged, may themselves
arrest him, or, by a written authority, indorsed on a certified
copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable
age and discretion to do so.

SEc. 139. Bail, how Proceeded Against.

In case of failure to comply with the undertaking, the bail
may be proceeded against by action only.

SEC. 140. Bail, how Exonerated.

The bail may be exonerated either by the death of the dcfendant or his imprisonment in a State prison, or by his legal
discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the
process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of .the county where
he was arrested, in execution thereof, within twenty days after
the commencement of the action against the bail, or within such
further time as may be granted by the court.

SEC. 141. Delivery of Undertaking to Plaintiff, and its Acceptance or Rejection by him. 7.

Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff shall deliver the order of arrest to the plaintiff, or attorney by whom it
is subscribed, with his return endorsed, and a certified copy of
the undertaking of the bail. The plaintiff, within ten days thereafter, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not ac- '
cept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted it, and the
sheriff shall be exonerated from liability.

SEC. 142. Notice of Justification, new Bail.

On the receipt of such notice, the sheriii’or defendant may,
Within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintiff, or attorney by
whom the order of arrest is subscribed, notice of the justification
of the same, or other bail, (specifying the places of residence and
occupation of the latter,) before a, jud e of the' court or county
judge, at a specified time and place; t 9 time to be not less than
five nor more than ten days thereafter. In case other bail be
given, there shall be a new undertaking in the form, prescribed
in section 137. '

SEC. 143. Qualification of Bail.

The qualification of bail must be as follows:

1. Each of them must be a resident and householder, or freeholder, within the State ;

2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order
of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the
judge or justice of the peace, on justification, may allow more
than two bail to justify, severally, in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to
that of two suflicient bail. SEC. .144. Justification of Bail.

For the purpose of justification each of the bail shall attend
before the judge or a justice of the peace, at the time and place
mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the
part of the plaintiff, touching his suiiiciency, in such manner as
the judge or justice of the peace, in his discretion, may think
proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintiff

SEC. 145. Allowance of Bail.

If the judge or justice of the peace find the bail suiiicient, he
shall annex the examination to the undertaking, endorse his a1lowance thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk, and
the sheriff'shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.

SEC. 146. Deposit of Money with Sheriff.

The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of giving
bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order.
The sheriff shall thereupon give the defendant a certificate of the
deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

SEC. 147. Payment of Money into Court by Sheriff.

The sheriff shall, within four days after the deposit, pay
the same into court, and shall take from the officer receiving the
same two certificates of such payment, the one of which he shall
deliver to the plaintiff and the other to the defendant. For any
default in making such payment, the same proceedings shall be
had on the ofhcial bond of the sheriff to collect the sum deposited as in other cases of delinquency.

SEC. 148. Substituting Bail for Deposit.

If money be deposited, as rovided in the last two sections,
bail may be given and justiged upon notice, as prescribed in
section 162, any time before judgment ; and thereupon the judge
before whom the justification is had, shall direct, in the order
for allowance, that the money deposited shall be refunded by the
sheriff to the defendant, and it shall be refunded accordingly.

SEC. 149. Money Deposited, how Applied or Disposed of.

Where money shall have been so deposited, if it remain 011 deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment of
money to the plaintiff, the clerk shall, under the direction of the
court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying
the judgment shall refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant.
If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk shall refund to him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.

SEC. 150. Sheriff, when liable as Bail, and his Discharge from
Liability. . '

If, after being arrested, the defendant escape, or be rescued,
or bail be not given or justified, or a de osit be not made instead
thereof, the sheriff shall himself be lia le as bail. But he may
discharge himself from such liability by the giving and justification of bail, as provided in sections 143, 144, 145, and 146, at
any time before process against the person of the defendant to
enforce an order or judgment in the action.

SEC. 151. Proceedings on Judgment against the Sheriff:

If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied
in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had on the
official bond of the sheriff to collect the deficiency, as in other
cases of delinquency. '

SEC. 152. Bail Liable to Sheriffs.
O

The bail taken upon the arrest shall, unless they justify, or
other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff, by action,
for damages which he may sustain by reason of such omission.

SEC. 153. Motion to Vacate Order for Arrest or reduce Bail.

A defendant arrested may, at any time before judgment, apply, on motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce. the
amount of bail.

SEC. 154. Afiidavits on Motion.

If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may Oppose the same by
afiidavits, or other proofs, in addition to those on which the order
of arrest was made.

SEC. 155. Replevin or Delivery of Personal Property, when
it may be Claimed.

The plaintiff, in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property as provided in this chapter.

.SEL’. 150. Affidavits and their requisites. .
Where a delivery is claimed, an aflidavit must be made by,
the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, showing :. ' '

1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed,
(particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in
reSpect to which shall be set forth ; . .
d 2. That the preperty is wrongfully" detained by the defenant ;
:3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to
his knowledge, information, and belief ;

. 4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment,
or fine, pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution or
attachment against the property of the plaintiff, or if so seized,
that it is ~by statute exempt from such seizure ; and,

5. The actual value of the property.

SEC. 157. Requisition to Sheriff to take and Deliver the Propertry.

The plaintiff may thereupon, by an indorsement in writing
upon the aflidavit, require t e sheriff of the county where the

property claimed may be, to take the same. from the defendant
and deliver it to the plaintiff.

SEC. 158. Security on the part of the Plaintiff, and Justification.

Upon receipt of the affidavit and notice, with a written undertaking, executed by one or more suiiicient sureties, approved by
the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in double the value
of the property, as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution of
the action, for the return of the pro )erty to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for t e payment to him of such
sum as may, for an cause, be recovered against the plaintiff,
the sheriff shall forthwith take the property describedv'n the
affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent,
and retain it in his custody. He shall also, without delay,
serve on the defendant a cepy of the afiidavit, notice, and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can
be found, or to his agent, from whose possession the property is
taken ; or if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual
place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age and

iscretion.

SEC. 159. Exception to Sureties, and Proceedings therein, or
on Failure to Except.

The defendant may, within three days after the service ofa
copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff
that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to
do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objection to them.
When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify, on notice,
in like manner as upon bail on arrest ; and the sheriff shall be

responsible for the .sufiiciency of the sureties, until the objection to them is either waived as above provided, or until they
shall justify, or new sureties shall be substituted and justify.
If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannotreclaim the
prOperty as provided in the next section.

SEC. 160. Defendant, when entitled to Re-delivery.

At any time before the delivery of the prOperty to the plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the suretles of
the plaintiff, require the return thereof, up‘on giving to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or more suiiicient
sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double the value
of the property,'as stated in the afiidavit of the plaintiff, for the
delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and
for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, he
recovered against the defendant. If areturn of the property be
not so required within three days after the taking and service
of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiff,
except as provided in section 165.

SEC. 161. Justification of Defendant’s Sureties.

rl‘he defendant’s sureties, upon a notice to the plaintiff of not
less than two or more than six days, shall justify before a circuit or county judge or justice of the peace, in the same
manner as upon bail on arrest; upon such justification, the
sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff
shall be responsible for the defendant’s sureties until they justify, or until justification is completed or expressly waived, and
may retain the property until that time; but if they, or others in
their places, fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he
shall deliver the property to the plaintiff:

' SEC. 162. Qualification and Justification of Sureties.

The qualification of sureties, and their justification, shall be

as prescribed by sections 163 and 164, in respect to bail upon
an order of arrest.

SEC. 163. Property, how taken when Concealed in Building
or Enclosure.

If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery;
if it be not delivered he shall cause the building or enclosure
to be broken Open, and take the property into his possession; and
if necessary he may call to his aid the power of the county.

SEC. 164. Property, how kept.

When the sheriti'shall have taken property, as in this chapter
provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the
party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking,
and his necessary expenses for keeping, the same.

SE(‘. 165. Claim of PrOperty by Third Person.

If the pr0perty taken be claimed by any other person than
the defendant or his acrent, and such person shall make ailidavit
. of his title thereto, and his right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds for such right and title, and sewe the same upon the sheriif, the sheriff shall not'be bound to keep the property or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on demand
of him or his agent, shall indemnify the sheriff against such
claim by an undertaking executed by two sutiicient sureties,
.accompanied b their atlidavits that they are each worth double
the value of t e pr0perty as specified in the aiiidavit of the
plaintiff, and householders of the county, and no claim to
such prOperty by any other person than the defendant or his
agent shall be valid against the sheriff, unless made as afore.said ; and notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may
retain the property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.

Sne. 166. Notice and Ailidavit, when and where to be Filed.

The sheriff shall file the notice and ailidavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the action is
pending, Within twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein. ‘

SE4 '. 167. Injunction.

An injunction by order of the court shall be equivalent to a
writ of injunction, and may be substituted therefor. The order
. may be made by the judge of the court in which the action is
brought, or by a county judge, in the cases provided in the next
section ; and when made by a judge, may be enforced as the or.der of the court.

SEC. 168. Injunction, in what Cases Granted.

Where it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintiff is
entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part .
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of
some act, the commission or continuance of which during the
litigation would produce injury to the plaintiff, or when, during
the litigation, it shall ap ear that the defendant is doing, or
threatens, or is about to c, or procuring or suifering some act
‘to be done, in violation of the plaintiff’s rights respecting the

subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment inef—
fectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such
act. And where, during the pendency of an action, it shall appear by afiidavit that the defendant threatens, or is about to
remove or dispose of his preperty, with intent to defraud his
creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain
such removal or disposition.

SEC. 169. At what time it may be Granted.

The injunction may be granted at the time of commencing
the action, or at any time afterwards, before judgment, upon its
appearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, by the aiiidavit of
the plaintiff, or of any other person, that sufficient grounds exist therefor. A 001337 of the aflidavit must be served with the injunction.
SEC. 170. Notice when Re uired. Tem3orar ' In'unction.
a q I y J

An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant shall
have answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order to show
cause ; but in such case the defendant may be restrained until
the decision of the court or judge granting or refusing the injunction.

SEL:. 171. Security upon Injunction. Damages, how Ascertained.

Before granting an injunction, the judge or court shall require
a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with or with—
out sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay to the party
enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount to be speaiied, as he may sustam by reason of the injunction, if the court
shall finally decide that the plaintiff was not entitled thereto.
The damages may be ascertained by a reference, or otherwise,

as the court shall direct.

SEC. 17 ‘2. Order to show cause why Injunction should not be
Granted. If the court or judge deem it preper that the defendant, or
any of the several defendants, should be heard before granting
'the injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be
shown, at a specified time and place, Why the injunction should
not be granted ; and the defendant may in the meantime be restrained by an order. *

SEC. 173. Security upon Injunction to SuSpe'nd Business of
Corporation. '

An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary business
of a corporation shall not be granted, except by the court or a
judge thereof. Nor shall it be granted without due notice of
the application therefor to the prOper officers of the corporation,
except where the people of this State are a party to the proceeding, as such proceedings are or shall be provided by law,
unless the plaintiff shall give a written undertaking executed
by two sufhcient sureties, to be approved by the court or a
judge, to the effect that the plaintifl will pay all damages, not
exceeding the sum to be mentioned in the undertaking, which
such corporation may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the
court shall finally ( ecide that the" plaintiff was not entitled
.thereto'. The damages may be ascertained by a reference or

otherwise as the court shall direct.

515v. 174. Motion to Vacate or Modify Injunction.

If the injunction be granted by a judge of the court, or by a
county judge, without notice, the defendant, at any time before
the trial, may apply, upon notice to a judge of the court in
which the action is )rought, to vacate or modify the same. The
application may be made upon the complaint and the affidavits
on which the injunction was granted, or upon affidavits on the
part of the defendant, with or without the answer.

SEC. 175. Aflidavits on Motion. .

If the ap lication be made upon aflidavits on the part of the
defendant, ut not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same
by aflidavitsor other proofs, in addition to those on which the.
injunction was granted.

SEl'. 176. Preperty of Foreign Corporations, and of Non-resident, or Absconding, or Concealed Defendant, may be At-’
tached.

In an action arising on contract for the recovery of money
only, or in an action for the wrongful conversion of personal
prOperty, or against a corporation created by or under the laws
of any other State government or country, or against a defendant who is not a resident of this State, or against a defendant
who has absconded or concealed himself, or whenever any person or corporation is about to remove any of his or its property
from the State, or has assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is
about to assign, dispose of, or secrete any of his or its property
with intent to defraud creditors as hereinafter mentioned, the
plaintiff, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time afaterwards, may have the property of such defendant or corporation attached in the manner hereinafter provided, as security

for the satisfaction of such judgment  the plaintiff may recover; and for the purposes of this section, an action shall be deemed commenced when the summons is issued ; Provided, hmcever,
That personal service of such summons shall be made, or publication thereof commenced within thirty days.

. SEb..17 ‘7. \Varrant, by whom Granted.

A warrant of attachment must be obtained from the clerk of '
the court in which the action is brought.

SEC. 178. In what Cases a W'arrant may be Granted.

The warrant may be issued whenever it shall appear by afli'»
davit that a cause of action exists against such defendant, Specifying the amount of the claim and the grounds thereof, and that
the defendant is either a foreign corporation, or not a resident
of the State, or has departed therefrom with intent to defraud
his creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps
himself concealed therein with the like intent, or that such corporation or person has removed or is about to remove any of
his or its prOperty from the State with intent to defraud his or
its creditors, or has assigned, disposed of or secreted, or is about
to assign, dispose of or secrete any of his or its prOperty with
like intent, whether such defendant bearesident of this State or
not. It shall the duty of the plaintiff procuring such warrant,
within three days after the issuing thereof, to cause the aflidarvits on which the same was granted, to be filed in the office of '
the clerk of the county in which the action is brought.

SEC. 179. Security on Obtaining Warrant.

Before issuing the warrant, the judge shall require a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with sufficient sureties,
to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, or the attachment be set aside by the order of the court, the plairftiff’
will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not ‘
exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be'
at least two hundred and fifty dollars.

SEC. 180. Warrant, to whom Directed and what to Require.

The warrant shall be directed to the sheriff of any county in
which prOperty of such defendant may be, and shall require him
to attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant
Within his county, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to
satisfy the plaintiff’s demand, together with costs and expenses,
the amount of which must be stated in conformity nith thecomplaint, together with costs and expenses. Several warrants
may be issued at the same tune to the sheriffs of different counties.

SEC. 181. Mode of Proceeding in Executing Warrant.

The sheriff, to whom such warrant of. attachment is directed
and delivered, shall proceed thereon in all respects in the manner required of him by law in case of attachments against absent debtors, shall make and return an inventory, and shall keep
the property seized by him, or the proceeds of such as shall
have been sold, to answer any judgment which may be obtained
in such action, and shall, subject to the direction of the court or
judge, collect and receive into his possession all debts, credits,
and effects of the defendant. The sheriff may also take such legal proceedings, either in his own name or in the name of such
defendant, as may be necessary for that purpose, and discontinue
the same at such times and on such terms as the court or judge
may direct.

SEC. 182. Proceedings in Case of Perishable Property or Vessels.

If any pr0perty so seized shall be perishable, or if any part of
it be claimed by any other person than such defendant, or if any
part of it consist of a vessel, or of any share or interest therein,
the same proceedings shall be had in all respects as are provided
by law upon attachments against absent debtors.

SEC. 183. Interest in Corporations or Associations Liable to
Attachment.

The rights or shares which such defendant may have in stock
of any association or corporation, together with the interest and
profits thereon, and all other pr0perty in this State of such defen'dant, shall be liable to be attached, and levied upon and sold
to satisfy the judgment and execution.

SEC. 184. .Attachment, how Executed on PrOperty Incapable
of Manual Delivery.

The execution of the attachment upon any such rights, shakes,
or any debts or other prOperty incapable of manual delivery to
the: sheriff, shall be made by leaving a certified copy ’of the
warrant of attachment with the president or other head of the
association or corporation, or the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof, or with the debtor or individual holding such
property, with a notice showing the property levied on.

SEc.-185. Certificate of Defendant’s Interest to be furnished by
Corporation.

Whenever the sheriff shall, with a warrant of attachment or
execution against the defendant, apply to such ofiicer, debtor, or
individual for the purpose of attaching or levying upon such
property, such officer, debtor, or individual shall furnish him
with a certificate under his hand, designating the number of
rights or shares of the defendant in the stock of such association or corporation, with any dividend or any incumbrance
thereon, or the amount and description of the prOperty held by
such association, corporation, or individual, for the benefit of, or
debt owing to, the defendant. If such officer, debtor, or individual refuse to do so, he may be required by the court or judge
to attend before him, and be examined on oath concerning the
same, and obedience to such orders may be enforced by attachment.

SEC. '186. Judgment, how Satisfied.

In case judgment be entered for the plaintiff in such action,
the sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the' property attached
by him, if it shall be sufiicient' for the purpose :

1. By paying over to such plaintiff the proceeds of all sales of.
perishable pr0perty, and of any vessel or share or interest in
any vessel sold by him, or of any debts or, credits collected by
him, or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy such judgment.

2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall haw
been issued on such judgment, he shall proceed to sell under
such execution so much of the attached property, real or personal, except as provided in subdivision four of this section, as
may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose shall remain in his hands; and in case of the sale of any
rights or shares in the stock of a corporation or association, the
sheriff shall execute to the purchaser a certificate of sale thereof,
.and the purchaser shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in respect thereto, which were had by such defendant.

3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant shall have passed out of the hands of the sheriff without
having been sold or converted into money, such sheriff shall repossess himself of the same, and for that purpose shall have all the
authority which he had to seize the same under the attachment ;
and any person who shall wilfully conceal or withhold such property from the sheriff shall be liable to double damages at the
suit of the party injured. 4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be paid, the
sheriff may proceed to collect the notes, and other evidences of ‘
debt, and the debts that may have been seized or attached under the warrant of attachment, and to prosecute any bond he
may have taken in the course of such proceedings, and apply
the proceeds thereof to the payment of the judgment. At the
expiration of six months from the docketing of the judgment,
the court shall have power, upon the petition of the plaintiff, accompanied by an affidavit setting forth fully all the proceedings
which have been had by the sheriff since the service of the attachment, the roperty attached, and the diSposition thereof,
and also the a davit of the sheriff that he has used due diligence and endeavored to collect the evidences of debt in his
hands so attached, and that there remains uncollected of the
same any part or portion thereof, to order the sheriff to sell the
same upon such terms and in such manner as shall be deemed
proper. Notice of such application shall be given to the defendant or his attorney, if the defendant shall have appeared in the
action. In case the summons has not been personally served
on the defendant, the court shall make such rule or order as to
the service of notice and the time of service as shall be deemed
just. \Vhen the judgment and all costs of the proceeding shall
have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand, shall deliver over to the defendant the residue of the attached prOperty or
the proceeds thereof.

Snv. 187. When Action to Recover Notes, 650., of Defendant;
may be Prosecutcd by Plaintiff in the Action in which the Attachment Issued.

, The actions herein authorized to be brought by the sheriff may

be prosecuted by the plaintiff, or under his direction, upon the
delivery by him to the sheriffof an undertaking, executed by two
sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff will indemnify
the sheriff from all damages, costs, and expenses thereof, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars in any one action. Such
sureties shall, in all cases, when required by the sheriff, justify
by making an aflidavit that each is a householder, and worth
double the amount of the penalty of the bond, over and above
all demands and liabilities.

‘ SEC. 188. Bond to Sheriff on Attachment, how Disposed of
on Judgment for Defendant. '

If the foreign corporation or absent or absconding or conceal.ed defendant recover judgment against the plaintiff in such 30tion, any bond taken by the sheriff, except such as are mentioned in the last section, all the proceeds of sales and moneys collected by him, and all the property attached remaining in his
hands, shall be delivered by him to the defendant or his agent,
on request, and the warrant shall be discharged and the prOperty released therefrom.

SEC. 189. Discharge of Attachment, and Return of Property
or its Proceeds to Defendant, on his Appearance in Action.

Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in such action,
he may apply to the oflicer who issued the attachment, or
to the court, for an order to discharge the same; and if the
same be granted, all the proceeds of sales and moneys collected
by him, and all the property attached remaining in his hands
shall be delivered or paid by him to the defendant ,or his agent,
and released from the attachment. And where there is more
than one defendant, and several prOperty of either of the defendants has been seized by virtue of the order of attachment,
the defendant whose several prOperty has been seized may apply to the oflicer who issued the attachment for relief under this
section.

SEC; 190. 'Undertaking- on the part of the Defendant.

Upon such application the defendant shall deliver to the court
or othcer an undertaking, executed by at least two sureties, who
are residents and freeholders, or householders, in this State, approved by such court ,or ofticer, to the effect that the sureties
Will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of judgment
that may be recovered against the defendant in the action, not
exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be
at least double the amount claimed by the plaintiff in his complaint. If it shall appear by ailidavit that the property attached
be less than the amount claimed by the plaintiff, the court or
officer issuing the attachment, may order the same to be appraised, and the amount of the undertaking shall then be double
the amount so appraised. And in all cases the defendant may
move to discharge the attachment as in other cases of provisional remedies.

SEC. 191. ‘Vhen Sheriff to return Warrant and Proceedings
thereon.

When the warrant shall be fully executed or discharged, the
sheriff shall return the same, with his proceedings. thereon, to
‘ the court in which the action was brought. And where there is
more than one defendant, and several pr0perty of either of the
defendants has been seized by virtue of the order of attachment,
the defendant whose several property has beenseized may deliver to the court or ofiicer an undertaking in accordance with
the provisions of this section, to the effect that he will, on demand,
pay to the plaintiff the amount of judgment that may be recovered against such defendant. And all the provisions of this section applicable to such undertaking shall be applied thereto.

.SEC. 192. A Receiver may be Appointed :

1. Before judgment, on the application of either party, when
he establishes an apparent right to property which the subject
of the action, and which is in the possession of an adverse party,
and the property or its rents and profits are in danger of being
lost or materially injured or impaired, except in cases where judgment upon failure to answer may be had without application to
the court.

2. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.

3. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to
the judgment, or to preserve 1t during the pendency of an appeal,
or when an executlon has been returned unsatisfied, and the

judgment debtor refuses to apply his prOperty in satisfaction of
the judgment.

4. In the cases provided in this Code, and by special statutes,
when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights ;
and in like cases of the prOperty within this State of foreign corporations. Receivers of the prOperty within this State of foreign or other corporations, shall be allowed such commissions
by the court as may be deemed best.

5. In such other cases as are now provided by law, ormay be
in accordance with the existing practice, except as otherwise
provided in this act.

When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a party that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money
or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of
the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or
which belongs or is due to another party, the court may order
the same to be deposited in court, or delivered to such party,
with or without security, subject to the further direction of the
court. '

Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court shall have
ordered the deposit, delivery, or conveyance of money or other
property, and‘the order is disobeycd, the court, besides punishmg the disobedience, as for contempt, may make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money or property, and deposit,
deliver, or convey it, in conformity with the direction of the
court. When the answer of the defendant, eXpressly or by not
denying, admits part of the plaintiff ’s claim. to be just, the court,
on motion, may order such defendant to satisfy that part of the
claim, and may enforce the order as it enforces a judgment or
provisional remedy.

T I T L E V I I I .
0f the Trial and Judgment in Civil Actions.

Judgment upon failure to answer.
Issues, and the mode of trial.
Trial by jury.

Trial by the court.

Trial by referees.

The manner of entering judgment.

 193. Judgment Defined.
A udgment is the final determination of the rights of the par- '
ties in the action. '

SEC. 194. Judgment on 'Failure of Defendant to Answer.

Judgment may be bad, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows: .

1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of money
only, the plaintiii' may file with the clerk proof of personal service of the summons and complaint on one or more of the defendants, or of the summons, according to the provisions of section 81, and that no answer has been received. The clerk shall
thereupon enter judgment for the amount mentioned in the summons against the defendant or defendants, or against one or more
of several defendants, in the cases provided for in section 87.

But if the complaint be not sworn to, and such actionis on an
instrument for the payment of money only, the clerk, on its production to him, shall assess the amount due to the plaintiff thereon; and in other cases shall ascertain the amount which the plaintiff is entitled to recover in such action, from his examination
under oath, or other proof, -and enter the judgment for the
amount so assessed or ascertained. In case the-defendant give
notice of appearance in the action, he shall be entitled to five
days’ notice of the time and place of suCh assessment. \Vhen
the defendant, by his answer in any such action, shall not deny
~the plaintifs claim, but shall set up a counter-claim amounting
to less than the plaintiff’s claim, judgment may be had by the
plaintiff for the excess of said claim over the counter-claim, in
like manner in any such action, upon the plaintiff’s filing with the
clerk of the court a statement admitting such counter-claim,
which statement shall be annexed to and be a part of the judgment roll.

2. In other actions, the plaintiff may, upon the like proof, apply to the court, after the expiration of the time for answering,

for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an
account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court
to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the court
may take the account, or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion,
order a reference for that purpose. And where the action is for .
the recovery of money only, or of specific real or personal property, with damages for the withholding thereof, the court may
order the damages to be assessed by a jury, or if the examination of a long accomit be involved, by a reference as above provided. If the defendant give notice of appearance in the action
before the expiration of the time for answering, he shall be. entitled to eight days’ notice of the time and place of application
to the court for the relief demanded by the complaint.

3. In actions where the service of the summons was by publication, the plaintifl'may in like manner apply for judgment, and
the court must thereupon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint, and if the defendant be not a
resident of the State, must require the plaintiff or his agent to
be examined on oath respecting any payments that have been
made to the plaintiff, or to any one for his use, on account of
such demand, and may render judgment for the amount which
he is entitled to recover. '

Before rendering judgment, the court may, in its discretion,
require the laintiff to cause to be filed satisfactory security, to
abide the or er of the court, touching the restitutionof any estate
or effects which may be directed by such judgment to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution of any money that may be
collected under or by virtue' of such judgment, in case the defendant, or his representatives, shall apply and be admitted to
defend the action, and shall succeed in such defense.

. SEC. 195. Judgment on Frivolous Demurrer, Answer, or BePly- .
If a demurrer, answer, or reply be frivolous, the party prej udieed thereby, upon a previous notice of five days, may apply to

a judge of the court, either in or out of court, for judgment thereon, and judgment may be given accordingly.

SEC. 196. The Different Kind of Issues.

Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or conclusion of
law is mentioned by the one party and controverted by the other.
They are of two kinds :

1. Of law; and,

2. Of fact.

SEC. 197. Issues of Law.

An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer, or reply, or to some part thereof.

, SEC. 198. Issues of Fact.

An issue of fact arises,
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted
by the answer; or,

2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the reply;
or,

3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of" law is
joined thereon.

SEC. 199. An Issue of both Law and Fact, the Issue of Law to
be Tried First. '

Issues both of law and fact may arise upon different parts of
the pleadings in the same action. In such cases the issues of law
must be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct.

SEC. 200. Trial Defined.

A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between the
parties, whether they be issues of law or fact.

SEC. 201. Issues, how Tried.

An issue of law must be tried by the court, unless it be referred as provided in sections 216 and 217.

An issue of fact in an action for the recovery of money only,
or of specific real or personal prOperty, or for a divorce from the
marriage contract on the ground of adultery, must be tried by a
jury, unless a jury trial be waived, as provided in section 212,
or a reference be ordered, as provided in sections 216 and 217.

SEC. 202. Other Issues to be Tried by the Court.

Every other issue is triable by the court, which, however, may
order the whole issue, or any specific question of fact involved
therein, to be tried by a jury, or may refer it, as provided in
sections 216 and 217. ‘

SEC. 203. Either Party may give Notice of Trial.

At any timeafter issue, and at least eight days before the court,
either party may give notice of trial. The party giving the notice shall furnish 'the clerk, at least- four days before the court,
with a note of the issue, containing the title of the action, the
names of the attérneys, and the time when the last pleading was
served, and the clerk shall thereupon enter the cause upon the
calendar, according to the date of the issue.

SEC. 204. Order of Disposing of Issues on the Calendar.

The issues on the calendar shall be disposed of in the following order, unless, for the convenience of parties, or the dispatch
of business, the court shall otherwise direct :

1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury.

2. Issues of fact to 'be tried by the court.

3. Issues of law. '

Trial by Jury.

SEv. ‘205. Notice of Trial. Separate Trials.

Either party giving the notice may bring the issue to trial,
and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court, for
good cause, otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and
take a dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict or judgment, as
the case may require. A separate trial between a plaintiff
and any of the several defendants may be allowed by the court,
whenever, in its opinion, justice will thereby be promoted.

SEC. 206. General and Special Verdicts Defined.

A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce generall u on all or any of the issues, either in favor of plaintiff or
de en ant. A special verdict is that by which the jury find the
facts only, leaving the judgment to the court.

SEC. 207. W'hen Jury may render either General or Special
Verdict, and when the Court may direct Special Finding.

In an action for the recovery of Specific personal roperty, if
the property have not been delivered to the plainti , or the defendant by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury shall assess the value of the property, if their verdict be in favor of the
plaintiff 3 or if they find in favor of the defendant, and that he is
entitled to a return thereof; and may at the same time assess the
damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which
the prevailing arty has sustained by reason of the detention or
taking and wit holding such property.

In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real
'prOperty, the jurly, in their discretion, may render a general or
special verdict. n all other cases the court may direct the jury
to find a special verdict, in writing, u on all or any of the issues;
and in all cases may instylct them, i they rendera general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in
writing, and may direct a written fin’din thereon.

The special verdict or finding shall be led with the clerk, and

entered upon the minutes.

SEC. 208. On Special Finding with General Verdict, the Former to Control. >

Where a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with the
general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court
shall give judgment accordingly.

SEC. 209. In Actions for Recovery of Money only, Jury to Assess the Damages. .

When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in an action for the ‘
recovery of money, or for the defendant when a set-off for the
recovery of money is established beyondthe amount of the plaintiff’s claim as established, the jury must also assess the amount of
the recovery; they may also, under the direction of the court,
assess the amount of the recovery when the court give judgment
for the plaintiff on the answer. If a set-off established at the
trial exceed the plaintiff’s demand so established, judgment for
the defendant must be o‘iven for the excess ; or if it appear that a
the defendant is entitledD to any other afiirmative relief, judgment
must be given accordingly.

SEC. 210. Entry of Verdict, and Motion for New Trial on
Judge’s Minutes.

Upon receiving a verdict, the clerk shall make an entry in
his minutes, Specifying the time and place of the trial, the names a
of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and either the judgment
rendered thereon, or an order that the cause be reserved for argument or further consideration. If a different direction be not
given by the court, the clerk must enter judgment in conformity
with the verdict. If an exception be taken, it may be reduced.
to writing at the time or entered in the judge’s minutes, and
afterwards settled as provided by the rules of the court, andthen.
stated in writing in a case, or separately, with so much of the
evidence as may be material to the questions to be raised, but
need not be sealed or signed, nor need a bill of exceptions be
made. If the exceptions be in the first instance stated in a case,
and it be afterwards necessary to separate them, the separationmay be made under the direction of the court, or a judge at chambers. The judge Who tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain a motion to be made on his minutes to set aside a verdict
and grant a new trial upon exceptions,'or for insuflicient evi—
dence, or excessive damages ; but such gnotions, if heard upon the
' minutes, can only be heard at the "same term at which the trial
is had. When such motion is heard and decided upon the minutes of the judge, and an appeal is taken from the decision, a case
or exceptions must be settled in the usual form, upon Wlnch the
argument of the appeal must be had. '

SEC. 211. A motion for a new trial on a case or exceptions,
or otherw1se, must, in the first instance, be heard or decided at
a regular or speCIal term.

Trial by the Court.

SEC. 212. Trial by Jury, how Waived.

Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an issue of fact, in actions on contract, and with assent of the court
in other actions, in the manner following :

1. By failing to appear at the trial.

2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with
the clerk.

3. By oral consent in Open court, entered in the minutes.

SEC. 213. On trial by the Court, Judgment how to be Given.

Upon the trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision
shall be given in writing, and shall contain a statement of the
facts found, and the conclusions of law, separately ; and upon a
trial of an issue of law, the decision shall be made in the same
manner, stating the conclusions of law. Such decision shall be
filed with the clerk Within twenty days after the court at which
the trial took place. Judgment upon the decision shall be entered accordingly. ‘

SEC. 214. Exceptions, how and when Taken.

1. For the purposes of an appeal, either party may except to
a decision on a matter of law, arising upon such trial, within ten
days after noticein writing of the judgment, in the same manner and with the same effect as upon a trial by a jury.

2. And either party desiring a review upon the evidence appearing on the trial, either of the questions of fact or of law, may
at any time within ten da s after notice of the judgment, or
within such time as I may e prescribed. by the rules of the
court, make a case or exceptions in like manner as upon a trial
by a jury, except that the judge in settling the case must briefly

specify the facts found by him, and his conclusions of law.
)
SEC. 215. Proceedings upon Judgment on issue of Law.

On a judgment fo ' he plaintiff upon an issue of law, the
plaintiff may proceed §e manner prescribed by the first two

subdivisions of section 1. 4, upon the failure of the defendant to
answer, where the summons was personally served. If judoment be for the defendant, upon an issue of law, and if taking
of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enab.

D

.‘e

the court to complete the judgment, a reference or assessment
by jury may be ordered, as in that section provided.

Trial by Referees.

SEC. 216. All Issues Referable by Consent.

All or any of the issues in the actions, whether of fact or of
law, or both, may be referred, upon the written consent of the
parties.

SEC. 217. When Reference may be Ordered.

The court may, upon application of either party, except where
the investigation will require the decision of different questions
of law, direct a reference in the following cases :

1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of a long account on either side ; in which case, the referees may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or
to report upon any specific question of fact involved therein ; or,

2. Where the taking of an accou‘nt shall be necessary for the
information of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a
judgment or order into effect ; or,

3. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings,
shall arise,'upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action.

SEC. 218. Mode of Trial. Effect of Report. Review.

The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same manner,
and on similar notice, as a trial by the court. They shall have
the same power to grant adjournments, and to allow amendments to any pleadings and to the summons, as the court upon
such trial, upon the same terms and with the like effect. They
shall have the same power to preserve order, and punish all violations thereof upon such trial, and to compel the attendance of
witnesses before them by attachment, and to punish them as for
a contempt for non-attendance or refusal to be sworn or testify,
as is possessed by the court. They must state the facts found,
and the conclusions of law, separately ; and their decision must
be given and may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner, and
with like effect in all respects, as in cases of appeal under section 214 ; and they may in like manner settle a case or exceptions.

The report of the referees upon the‘whole issue shall stand as
the decision of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon
in the same manner as if the action had been tried by the court.
When the reference is to report the facts, the report shall have
‘ the effect of a special verdict.

SEC. 219. Referees, how Chosen. Who may be Referees. Time
for making Report.

In all cases of reference, the parties as to whom issues are
formed in the action, (except when the defendant is an infant
or an absentee,) may agree in writing upon a person or persons,
not exceeding three, and a reference shall be ordered to him.or
them, and to no other person or persons. And if such parties
do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more referees, not
more than three, who shall be free from exception, and practicing attorneys within the State. And no person shall be appointed referee to whom all parties in the action shall object,
except in actions for divorce. And no judge of any court shall
sit as referee in any action pending in the court of which he is
judge, and not already referred, unless the parties otherwise
stipulate. The referee or referees shall make and deliver a report within sixty daCys from the time the action shall be finally
submitted, and in efault thereof, and before the report is delivered, either party may serve notice 11 on the oppos1te party,
that he elects to end the reference; an thereupon the action
shall proceed as though no reference had been ordered, and the
referees shall not in such case be entitled to any fees. ‘

Illanner of Entering Judgment.

SEC. 220. Judgment may be For or A ainst any of the
Parties. May Grant Defendant Adirmative lief. Complaint
may be Dismissed for Neglect to Prosecute Action. Judgment
against Married Women.

1. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of sev' eral plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants, and it may determine the ultimate rights of the parties
on each side, as between themselves.

:2. And it may grant to the defendant any aflirmative relief
to which he may be entitled. '

3. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in
its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them,
leaving the action to roceed against the others whenever a
several judgment may e prOper. '

4. The court may also dismiss the complaint, with costs in favor of one or more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect
on the part of the plaintiff to serve the summons on other defendants, or to proceed in the cause against the defendant or defendants served. .

5. In an action brought by or against a married woman, judgment may be given against her as well for costs as for damages,
or both for such costs and such damages, in the same manner as

against other persons, to be levied and collected of her separate
estate, and not otherwise.

- SEC. 221. The Relief to be Awarded to the Plaintiff.

The relief granted the plaintiff, if there be no answer, cannot
exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint; but
in any other case, the court may, grant him any relief consistent
with the case made by the complaint and embraced within the

issue.

222. Rate of Damages where Damages are Recoverable.

Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff may claim
and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any rate of damages which he might have heretofore recovered for the same
cause of action.

SEC. 223. Judgment in Action for Recovery of Personal Pr0perty. ‘

In an action to recover the possession of persOnal property,
judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession, or for the ‘
recovery of possession, or the value thereof, in case a delivery
cannot be had, and of damages for the detention. If the property have been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant
claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be
for a return of the property, or the value thereof, in case a return
cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding the
same.

SEC. 224. Clerk to Keep a Judgment Book.

The clerk shall keep, among the records of the court, a book
for the entry of judgments, to be called the judgment book.

SEC. 225. Judgment to be Entered in Judgment Book.

The judgment shall be entered in the judgment book,’ and
shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of
the action.

SEC. 226. Judgment Roll.

Unless the party or his attorney shall furnish a judgment roll,
the clerk, immediately after entering the judgment, shall attach
together, and‘iile the following papers, which shall constitute
the judgment roll:

'1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant,
the summons and complaint, or copies thereof, .proof of service,

and that no answer has been received, the report, if any, and a
copy of the judgment.

2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or COpies thereof, and a co y of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the
offer of the defendant, exceptions, case, and all orders and papers in any way involving the merits and necessarily affecting
the judgment.

5151'. 227. Judgment, when and how to be Dockcted. Lien
Secured on Appeal.

In filing a judgment roll upon a judgment directing in Whole
or part the payment of money, it may be docketed with the
clerk of the county where it was rendered, and in any other
county, upon tiling with the clerk thereof a transcript of the
original docket, and shall be a lien on the real property, in the
county where the same is docketed, of every person against
whom any such judgment shall be rendered, and which he may
have at the time of dock’eting thereof, in the county in which
such real estate is situated, or which he shall acquire at any time
thereafter for ten years from the time of docketing the same in
the county where it was rendered. But whenever an appeal
from any judgment shall be pending, and the undertaking requi:
site to stay execution on such judgment shall have been given,
and the a )peal perfected as provided in this Code, the court in
which sue judgment was recovered may, on special motion, af—
ter notice to the person owning the judgment, on such terms as
they shall see fit, direct an entry to be made by the clerk on the
docket of such judgment, that the same is secured on appeal ;
and thereupon it shall cease, during the pendency of the appeal,
to be alien on the real property of the judgment debtor, as
against purchasers and mortgagees in good faith.

T I T L E I X .
0f the Execution of the Judgment in Civil Actions.

The execution. .
Proceedings supplementary to the execution.

The Ececution.

SEC. 228. Execution Within Five Years of course.

Writs of execution for the enforcement of judgments as now '
used are modified in conformity to this title, and the party in
Whose favor judgment has been heretofore or shall hereafter be
given, and in case of his death, his personal representatives duly
appointed, may, at any time Within five years after the entry of
judgment, proceed to enforce the same, as prescribed by this
title. '

SEC. 229. After Five Years, to be issued only by leave of
Court. Leave, how Obtained.

After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment, an
execution can be issued only by leave of the court, upon motion,
With personal notice to the adverse party, unless he be absent or
non-resident, or cannot be found to make such service, in which
case such service may be made by publication, or in such other
manner as the court shall direct. Such leave shall not be given,
unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other satisfactory proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains
unsatisfied and due. But the leave shall not be necessary When
execution has been issued on the judgment Within the five years,
and returned unsatisfied in Whole or in part. When judgment
shall have been rendered in a court of justice of the peace, and
docketed in the oche of the clerk of the county, the application
for leave to issue execution must be to the county court of the
county where the judgment was rendered.

SEC. .230. Judgments, how Enforced.

Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or the de'
livery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced in
these reSpects by execution, as provided in this title. Where it
requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the
judgment may be served 11 on the party against Whom it is given,
or the person or officer W 10 is required thereby, or by laW, to

obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse
he may be punished by the court as for a contempt.

SEC. 231. The Different Kinds of Execution. \

There shall be three kinds of execution: one against the property of the judgment debtor; another against his person; and the
third for the delivery of the ossession of real or personal prOperty, or such delivery with amages for withholdmg the same.
They shall be deemed the process of the court, but they need not
be sealed or subscribed, except as prescribed in section 234.

SEC. 232. To what Counties Execution may be ‘ Issued. Execution against Married Women.

When execution is against the property of the judgment
debtof, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county where j udgment is docketed. When it requires the delivery of real or persogal property, it must be issued to the sheriff of the county where
the property, or some part thereof, is situated. Execution may
be issued at the same time to different counties. Real property
adjudged to be sold must be sold in the county where it lies, by
the sheriff of the county, or by a referee ap ointed by the court
for that purpose; and thereupon the sher1 or referee must execute a conveyance to the purchaser, which conveyance shall be
effectual to pass the rights and interests of the parties adjudged
to be sold. An execution may issue against amarried woman, and it shall
direct the levy and collection of the amount of the judgment
against her, from her separate property, and not otherwise.

SEC. 233. Execution Against the Person, in what Cases, and
when.

If the action be one in which the defendant might have been
arrested, as provided in section 129 and section 131, an execution against the person of the judgment debtor may be issued
to any county Within the jtu'isdiction of the court, after the return of an execution against his pr0perty, unsatisiied in whole
or in part. But no execution shall issue against the person of
a judgment debtor, unless an order of arrest has been served as
in this act provided, or unless the complaint contains a statement of facts showing one or more of the causes of arrest required by section 129. SEC. 234. Form of the Execution.

The execution must be directed to the sheriff, or coroner, when
the sheriff is a party or interested, subscribed by the party issuing it, or his attorney, and must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court, the county Where the judgment roll or
transcript is filed, the names 'of the parties, the amount of the
judgment, if it be for money, and the amount actually due thereon, and the time of docketing in the county to which the execution is issued; and shall require the ofiicer substantially as follows :

1. If it be against the prOperty of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the oiiicer to satisfy the judgment out of the personal prOperty of such debtor, and if suflicient personal prOperty
cannot be found, out of the real property belonging to him on
the day when the judgment was docketed in the county, or at
any time thereafter.

2. If it be against real or personal property in the Lands of
personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real
property, or trustees, it shall require the oflicer to satisfy the
judgment out of such pr0perty.

3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the oiiicer to arrest such debtor and commit him to {he
jail of the county until he shall pay the judgment, or be discharged according to law. _

4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, it shall require the officer to deliver the possession of
the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require the officer to satisfy any
costs, damages, or rents .and profits recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal prOperty of the party against whom it
was rendered, and the value of the property for which the judgment was recovered, to be specified therein; if a delivery there—
of cannot be had, and if sufficient personal prOperty cannot be
found, then out of the real property belonging to him on the day
when the judgment was docketed, or at any time thereafter, and
shall, in that respect, be deemed an execution against property.

SEC. 235. Existing Laws relating to Executions Continued
until otherwise Prov1ded.

Until otherwise provided by the Legislature, the existing provisions of law, not in conflict with this chapter, relating to exe-.
cutions and their incidents, the property liable to sale on execution, the sale thereof, the powers and rights of ofiicers, their duties thereon, and the proceedings to enforce those duties, and the
liability of their sureties, shall apply to the executions prescribed by this chapter.

Proceedings Supplementm'y t0 the Escalation.

SEC. 236. Order for Discovery of Property. Examination of
Judgment Debtor.

1. \Vhen an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or of any one of the several debtors in the same judgment, issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides or has
a place of business, or, if he do not reside in the State, to the
sheriff of the county where a judgment roll or a transcript of a
justice’s judgment for twenty-live dollars or upwards, exclusive
of costs, is filed, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the
judgment creditor, at any time after such return made, is entitled to an order from a judge of the circuit court, or a county
judge of the county to which the execution was issued, requiring
such judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his property before such judge, at a time and place specified in the order,
within the county to which the execution was issued.

2. After the issuing of an execution against property, and
upon proof by aiiidavit, of a party or Otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge of the circuit court, or county judge, that any
judgment debtor, residing in the county Where such judge resides,
has property not exempt from execution, which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such
judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear
at a specified time and place to answer concerning the same;
and such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application
of the pro erty of the judgment debtor towards the satlsfaction
of the judgment as is provided upon the return of an execution.

 On an examination under this section, either party may examine witnesses in his behalf, and the judgment debtor may be
examined in the same manner as a witness.

4. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judg—
ment debtor, the judge may, upon proof by afiidavit or otherwise,
to his satisfaction, that there is danger of the debtor’s leaving the
State, or concealing himself, and that there is reason to believe
that he has prOperty which he unjustly refuses to apply to such
judgment, issue a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county
where such debtor may be, within his jurisdiction, to arrest him
and bring him before such judge. _ Upon being brought before the

. judge he may be examined on oath, and, if it then appears that
there is danger of the debtor’s leaving the State, and that he has
property which he unjustly refused to apply to such judgment,
ordered to enter into an undertaking, with one or more sureties,
that he will, from time to time, attend before the judge as he
shall direct, and that he will not, during the pendency of the
proceedings, dispose of any portion of his prOperty' not exempt
from execution. In default of entering into such undertaking,
he may be committed to prison by warrant of the judge, as for
a contempt.

5. No person shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter,
"be excused from answering any question on the ground that his
examination will tend to convict him of the commission of a fraud;
but his answer shall not be used as evidence against him in any
criminal proceedings or prosecutions. Nor shall he be excused
from answering any question on the ground that he has, before
the examination, executed any conve ance, assignment, or transfer of his property for any purpose, in his answer shall not be
used as evidence against him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution.

SEC. 237. Any Debtor can Pay Execution against his Credi—
tor. >

After the issuing of execution against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount
of his debt, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy
the execution; and the sheriff’s receipt shall be a suliicient discharge. for the amount so paid.

SEC. 238. Examination of Debtors, of Judgment Debtors, or
of those having Pr0perty Belonging to  Joint Debtors.

After the issuing or return of an execution against prOperty
of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the
same judgment, and upon an affidavit that any person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted
to him in an amount exceeding ten dollars, the judge may, by
an order, require such person or corporation, or any oflicer or
member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place and answer concerning the same. The judge may also, in his discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be given to any party
in the action, in such manner as may seem to him proper.

The proceedings mentioned in this section, and in section 258,
may be taken upon the return of an execution unsatisfied, issued
upon a judgment recovered in an action a ainst joint debtors,
in which some of the defendants have not een served with the
summons by which said action was commenced, so far as relates
to the joint property of such debtors; and all actions by creditors, to obtain satisfaction of judgments out of the prOperty of
joint debtors, are maintainable in like manner and to the like
effect. These provisions shall apply to all proceedings and actions now pending, and not actually terminated by any final
judgment or decree.

SEC. 239. Witnesscs required to Testify.

Witnesses may be required to appear and testify on any proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial
of an issue.

SEC. 240. Compelling Party or Witness to Attend.

The party or witness may be required to attend before the
judge, or before a referee a pointed by the judge; if before a
referee, the examination sha be taken by the referee, and certified to the judge. All examinations and answers before a judge
or referee, under this chapter, shall be on oath, except that when

a corporation answers, the answer shall be on the oath of an oilficer thereof.

SEC. 241. What PrOperty may be Ordered to be Applied to
the Execution.

The judge may order any property of the judgment debtor,
not exempt from execution, in the hands either of himself or of
any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied
towardsothe satisfaction of the judgment, except that the earnings
of the debtor for his personal services, at any time Within sixty
days next preceding the order, cannot be so applied when it is
made to appear, by the debtor’s adldavit or otherwise, that such
earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly
or partly by his labor.

SEC. 242. Judge may Appoint Receiver, and Prohibit Transfer, &c., of Property. O'rder Appointing Receiver to be Filed.
Receiver subject to Control of the Court.

The judge may also, by order, appoint a receiver of the pr0perty of the judgment debtor in the same manner and with the
like authority as if the appointment was made according to section 192. '

But before the appointment of such receiver, the judge shall
ascertain, if practicable, by the oath of the party or otherwise,
whether any other su plementary proceedings are pending
against the judgment ebtor, and if such proceedings are so
' ending, the plaintiff therein shall have notice to appear before

'm, and shall likewise have notice of all subsequent proceedings
in relation to said receivership. No more than one receiver of
the pr0perty of a judgment debtor shall be appointed. The
judge may also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition
of the preperty of the judgment debtor not exempt from execution, and any interference therewith.

Whenever the judge shall grant an order for the appointment
of a receiver of the prOperty of the judgment debtor, the same
shall be filed in the oiiice of the clerk of the county where the
judgment roll in the action, or transcript from justice’s judgment,
upon which the proceedings are taken, is filed ; and the said
clerk shall record the order in a book to be kept for that purpose

in his oflice, to be called “ book of orders appointin receivers of
judgment debtors,” and shall note the time of the ling of said
order therein. A certified copy of said order shall be delivered
to the receiver named therein, and he shall be vested with the
property and effects of the judgment debtor from the time of the
tiling and recording of the order as aforesaid. The receiver of
the judgment debtor shall be subject to the direction and control of the court in which the udgment was obtained upon
which the proceedings are founded; or if the judgment is
upon a transcript from justice’s court, filed in the county
clerk’s oflice, then he shall be subject to the direction and
control of the county court. But before he shall be vested
with any real property of such judgment debtor, a certified cOpy of said order shall also be filed and recorded in the
oche of the clerk of the county in which any real estate of such
judgment debtor, sought to be effected by such order, is situated, '
and also in the office 'of the clerk of the county in which such
judgment debtor resides.

SEC. 243. Proceedings upon Claim of Another Party to Preperty, or on Denial of Indebtedness to Judgment Debtor.

If it appear that a person or corporation, alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, such inter—
est or debt shall be recoverable only in an action against such
person or corporation by the receiver; but the judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such property or interest, till a sufiicient opportunity be given to the receiver to
commence the action, and prosecute the same to judgment and
execution; but such order may be modified or dissolved by the
judge granting the same, at any time, on such security as he
shall direct.

SEC. 244. Reference by Judge.

The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a referee agreed upon by the parties, or appointed by him, to report
the evidence or the facts, and may, in his discretion, appoint
such referee in the first order, or at any time.

SEC. 245. Costs of Proceedings.

The judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to any party
so examined, whether a party to the action or not, witness’
fees and disbursements, and a fixed sum in addition, not exceeding thirty dollars, as costs.

SEC. 246. Disobedience of Order, how Punished.

11: any person, party, or witness disobey an order of the judge
or referee, duly served, such person, party, or witness may be
punished by the judge as for a contempt. And in all cases of
commitment under this chapter, the person committed may,
in case of inability to erform the act required, or to endure the
imprisonment, be disc larged from imprisonment by the judge
committing him, on such terms as may be just.

T I T L E X .
0f (/20 Costs in (.a'ivz'l Actions.

Costs allowed to prevailing party.

Costs, when allowed of course to the plaintiff. Costs where several actions
brought on one instrument.

Costs, when allowed of course to the defendant.

Costs, when allowed to either party in the discretion of the court.

Amount of costs allowed.

Allowance in addition to costs.

Allowance, how computed. Dillicult and extraordinary eases.

Interest on verdict or report, when allowed.

Costs, how to be inserted in judgment. Adjustment of interlocutory costs.
Clerk 5 fees.

Referce’s fees.

Costs on postponement of trial.

Costs on a motion.

CoSts against an infant plaintiff.

Costs in an action by or against an executor or administrator, trustee of an
e ress trust. Security for costs.

osts on appeal. , '
Cests in actions by the people.
The like.

Costs against assignee of cause of action, after action brougl: .
Costs on a settlement.

SEC. 247. Costs Allowed to Prevailing Party.

There may be allowed to the prevailing party, upon the judgment, certain sums by way of indemnity for his expenses in the
action, which allowances are in this act termed costs.

SE(‘. 248. \Vhen Allowed of Course to the Plaintiff. Costs of
Several Actions on One Instrument.

Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintiff, upon a recovery, in the following cases:

1. In an action for.the recovery of real property, or when a
claim of title to real preperty arises on the pleadings, or is certitied b the court to have come in question at the trial;

2. u an action to recover the possession of personal property; - '

3. In the actions of which a court of justice of the peace has
no jurisdiction;

4. In an action for the recovery of money where the plaintifl
shall recover fifty dollars. But in an action for assault, battery,
false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal
conversation, or seduction, if the plaintiff recover less than fifty
dollars damages, he shall recover no more costs than damages.
“And in an action to recover possession of personal pr0perty, if
the plaintiff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he shall recoverno more costs than damages, unless he recover also property the value of which, with the damages, amounts to fifty dollars, or the possession of property be adjudged to him, the value
of which, with the damages, amounts to fifty dollars. Such value
must be determined by the jury, court, or referee by Whom the
action is tried ; '

5. When several actions shall be brought on one bond, recognizance, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument
in writing, or in any other case, for the same cause of action
against several parties Who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs other than disbursements shall
be allowed to the plaintiff in more than one of such actions,
which shall be at his election; Provided, That the party or parties proceeded against in such other action or actions shall, at
the time of the commencement of the previous action or actions,
have been Within this State and not secreted.

SEC. 249. When Allowed to Defendant.

Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant, in the actions

mentioned in the last section, unless the plaintiff be entitled to
costs therein. '

SEC. 250. When Allowed to Either Party in the Discretion of
the Court.

1. In other actions costs may be allowed or not, in the discretion of the court.

2. In all actions where there are several defendants not united
in interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers,
and the plaintiff fails to recover judgment against all, the court
may award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in
their favor, or any of them,

3. In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall be in the
discretion of the court :

1. When a new trial shall be ordered;

2. When a judgment shall be ailirmed in part, and reversed
in part.

Sac. 251. Amount of Costs Allowed.

“Then allowed, costs shall be as follows : ,

1. To the plaintiff, for all proceedings before notice of trial,
fifteen dollars ; for all roceedings after notice and before trial,
fifteen dollars; for eac additional defendant served with process, not exceeding ten, two dollars; and for each necessary defendant in excess of that number served with process, one
dollar;

‘2. To the defendant, for all proceedings before notice of trial,
ten dollars; and for all proceedings after notice of and before
trial, fifteen dollars ;

3. To either party, where a new trial shall be had, for all proeeedings after the granting of and before such new trial, ten
dollars ; for attending upon and taking the deposition of a Witness conditionally, or attending to perpetuate his testimony, ten
dollars; for drawing interrogatories to annex to a commlssion
for the taking of testimony, five dollars ; for attending the examination of a party before trial, five dollars ; for making and
servin a case, or case containing exceptions, ten dollars, except
that w ere the case shall necessarily contain more than fifty folios, there shall be allowed five dollars in addition thereto; and
for making and serving amendments thereto, ten dollars. To
the plaintiff for the appointment of a guardian of an infant defendant, ten dollars, but no more than ten dollars shall be allowed
for the appointment of Guardian in any one action; to the plaintiff for procuring an order of injunction, ten dollars;

4. To either party for the trial of an issue of law, fifteen dollars ; for every trial of an issue of fact, twenty dollars; and Where
the trial shall necessarily occupy more than two days, ten dollars
in addition thereto ; '

5. To either party on appeal from county to the circuit court
before argument, ten dollars; for argument, twenty dollars ;

6. To either party on appeal to the supreme court before argument, twenty dollars ; for argument, forty dollars; and when
a judgment is aflirmed, the court may, in its discretion, also
award damages for the. delay, not exceeding ten per cent. on the
amount of the judgment.

SEC. 252. Additional Allowance.

To either party for every term of the circuit or supreme court
at which the cause is necessarily on the calendar and is not tried,
or is postponed by order of the court, ten dollars; but in an action hereafter brought to recover dower, before admeasurement,
of real property aliened by the husband, the plaintiff shall not recover costs unless that it appear that the dower was demanded
before the commencement of the action and was refused. Costs

to be allowed in the county court in similar cases shall be onehalf the foregoing amounts, respectively.

SEC. 253. Additional Allowance.

In addition to these allowances there shall be allowed to the
plaintiff, upon the recovery of judgment by him, in any action
for the partition of real property, or for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or in any action in which a warrant of attachment has
been issued, or for an adjudication upon a will or other instrument in writing, and in’proceedings to compel the determination
of claims to real property, the sum of ten per cent. on the recovery, as in the next section prescribed, for any amount not exceeding two hundred dollars; an additional sum of live per cent. for
any additional amount not exceeding four hundred dollars; and
an additional sum of two per cent. for any additional amount not
exceeding one thousand dollars. And in the actions above named,
if the same shall be settled before judgment therein, like allowances upon the amount paid or secured upon such settlement, at
one-half the rates above specified.

SEC. 254. Percentage, how Computed. Difficult and Extraordinary Cases.

These rates shall be estimated upon the value of the property
claimed or attached, or affeCted by the adjudication upon the
will or other instrument, or sought to be partitioned, or the
amount found due or unpaid upon the mortgage in an action for
foreclosure. And whenever it shall be necessary to apply to the
court for an order enforcing the payment of an instalment falling due after judgment in an action for foreclosure, the plaintiff
shall be entitled to the rate of allowance in the last section prescribed, but no more in the aggregate than if the whole amount
of the mortga e had been due when judgment was entered. Such
amount of va ue must be determined by the court or by the
commissioners in case of actual partitions. In diflicult and extraordinary cases, where a defense has been interposed, or in
such cases where a trial has been had, and in actions or proceedings for the partitions of real estate, the court may also, in its
discretion, make a further allowance to any party, not exceeding
live per cent. upon the amount of the recovery or claim, or subject matter involved.

SEC. 255. Interest on Verdict or Report, when Allowed.

When the judgment is for the recovery of money, interest
from the time of the verdict or report until judgment be iinally
entered, shall be computed by the clerk and added to the costs
of the party entitled thereto.

. I

SEC. 256. Costs, how to be Inserted in the Ju ent. Disbursements, how Stated. Notice of Adjustments. terlocutory
Costs.

The clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment, on application
of the prevailing party, upon five days’ notice to the other, except when the attorneys reside in the same city, village, or
town, and then upon two days’ notice, the sum of allowances
for costs, as provided by this Code, the necessary disbursements,
including the fees of otlicers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses, the reasonable compensation of commissioners in taking depositions, the fees of referees, and the expense of printing the

apers for any hearino‘, when required by a rule of the court.

e disbursements shall be stated in detail, and verified by aflidavit. A copy of the items of the costs and disbursements shall
be served, With a notice of adjustment. Whenever it shall be
necessary to adjust costs in any interlocutory proceedings in an
action, or in any special proceedings, the same shall be adjusted
by the judge before whom the same may be heard, or the court
before which the same may be decided or pending, or in such
other manner as the judge or court may direct.

SEC. 257. Referees’ Fees.

The fees of referees shall be five dollars each for every day
spent in the business of the reference ; but the parties may agree
in writing upon any other rate of compensation. He shall also
be allowed ten cents for a folio of one hundred words for reducing testimony to writing.

SEC. 25 8. Costs on Postponement of Trial.

When an application shall be made to a court or referees to
postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not
exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed, as the condition of granting the postponement.

SEC. 259. Costs on a Motion.

. Costs may be allowed on a motion, in the discretion of the
court or judge, not exceeding ten dollars, and may be absélute
or directed to abide the event of the action.

Snc. 260. Costs against Infant Plaintiff.

When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintiff, the guar—
dian by whom he appeared in the action shall be responsible
therefor, and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment.

SEC. 261. Costs in an Action by or against an Executor or
Administrator, Trustee of an Express Trust, or a Person Expressly' Authorized by Statute to Sue. Reference of Claim
against a Deceased Person. Security for Costs.

1. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly
authorized by statute, costs shall be recovered, as in an action
by and against a person prosecuting and defending his oWn
right ; but such costs shall be chargeable only upon or collected
of the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the court shall
direct the same to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in such action or defense.

‘2. And whenever any claim against a deceased person shall
be referred, the prevailing party shall be. entitled to recover the
fees of referees and witnesses, and other necessary disbursements, to be taxed according to law.

3. And the court may, in its discretion, in the cases mentioned '
in this section, require the plaintiff to give security for costs.

SEC. 262. Costs ori a Review of a Decision of an Inferior
Court in a Special Proceeding.

When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in a Special
. proceeding, including appeals from probate courts, shall be V
brought before the circuit court for review, such proceedings '
' shall, for all purposes of costs, be deemed an action at issue, on'
a question of law, from the time the same shall be brought into
the circuit court, and costs thereon shall be awarded and collected in such manner as. the court shall direct, according to the
nature of the case.

. SEC." 263.' Costs in Actions by the State.

In all civil actions rosecuted in the name of the State by an
officer duly authorize for that purpose, the State shall be liable for costs in the same cases and to the same extent as private
parties. If a private person be joined with the State as plaintiff, he shall be liable in the first instance for the defendant’s
costs, which shall not be recovered of the State till after execu.

tion issued therefor against such private party, and returned
unsatisfied.

SEC. 264. Costs in Actions by the People.

In an action prosecuted in the name of the people of this State
for the recovery of money or property, or to establish a right or
claim for the benefit of any county, city, town, village, corpoA ration, or person, costs awarded against the plaintiff shall be a

Charge against the party for whose benefit the action was prosecuted, and not against the State.

SEC. 265. Costs against Assiguee of Cause of Action, after
Action Brought.

In actions in which the cause of action shall, by assignment
after the commencement of the action, or in any other manner,
become the property of a person not a party to the action, such
person shall be liable for the costs in the same manner as if he
were a party, and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment.

SEC. 266. Costs on a Settlement.

Upon the settlement before judgment of any action mentioned
in section 248, no greater sum shall be demanded from the defendant, as costs, than” at the rates prescribed by that section.

T I T L E X I .
0f Appeals in. C'ioil Actions.

Appeals in general.
Appeals to the supreme court.
Appeals to the circuit court from an inferior court.

Appeals to a county court from an inferior court.
Appeals in General.

SEC. 267 . Writs of Error Abolished, and Appeals Substituted.

Writs of error in civil actions are abolished, and the only
mode of revieme a judgment or order in a civil action shall .
be that prescribe by this title.

SEC. 268. Orders made out of Court, how Vacated or Modilied.
An order made out of court, without notice to the adverse
party, may be vacated or modilied, without notice, by the judge '
> Who made it, or may be vacated or modified, on notice, in the
manner in which other motions are made.

SEC. 269. Who may Appeal.

Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed in
this title.

SEC. 270. Parties, how Designated on Appeal.

The palty appealing shall be known as the appellant,‘and the
adverse party as the reSpondent. But the title of the action
shall not be changed in consequence of the appeal. .

SEC. 271. Appeal, how Made.

1. An appeal must be made by the service of a notice, in writing, on the adverse party, his agent, or attorney, and on the clerk
with whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered,
stating the appeal from the same or some specified part thereof.

2. When a party shall give in good faith notice of appeal
from a judgment or order, and shall omit, through mistake, to do
any other act necessary to perfect the appeal, or to stay proceedings, the court may permit an amendment, on such terms as
may be just.

SEC. 27 2. Transmitting Papers to Appellate Courts.

If the appellant shall not, within twenty days after his appeal
is perfected, cause a certified copy of the notice of appeal and of
the judgment roll, or, if the appeal be from an order or any part
thereof, a certified cepy of such order, and the papers upon
which the order was granted, to be transmitted to the appellate
court by the clerk with whom the notice of appeal is filed, the
reSpondent may cause such certified copy to be transmitted by
such clerk to the appellate court, and recover the expenses
thereof as a disbursement on such appeal, in case the judgment
or order appealed from shall be in whole or in part afiirmed.

SEC. 27 3. Intermediate Orders Affecting the Judgment may
be Reviewed on Appeal. - ‘

Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review any
intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily affecting
the udgment.

SEC. 274. Judgment 011 Appeal. Restitution.

Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate court
may reverse, aflirm, or modify the judgment or order appealed
.from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to
any or all of the parties, and may, if necessary or proper, order
a new trial. When the judgment is reversed or modified, the
appellate court may direct complete restitution of all property
and rights lost by the erroneous judgment.

SEC. 275. Time for Appealing.

The appeal to the supreme court_ under subdivision 2 of section 10 of this Code, must be taken within sixty days after written notice of the order shall have been given to the party appealing. Every other appeal allowed by the second and third
chapters of this title must be taken within two years after the
judgment shall be entered. '

SEC. 276. Appeal, in what Cases.

An appeal may be taken to the supreme court in the cases
mentioned in section 10, as hereinafter provided.

, 51512277. On Appeal, Security must be given or Deposit
made, unless Waived.

, To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written undertaking must be executed on the part of the appellant, by at
least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all
costs and damages that may be awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, or that sum
must be deposited with the clerk with whom the judgment or
order was entered, to abide the event of the appeal. Such undertaking or deposit may be waived by a written consent on the
part of the respondent.

SEC. 278. On J udlgnment for Money, Security to sta Execution.
Sureties becoming solvent. Deposit in Lieu of: ndertakiug.

If the appeal be from a judgment directing the payment of
money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgment unless a
written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant,
by at least two sureties, to the effect that if the judgment appealed from, or any part thereof, be ailirmed, or the ap )eal be
dismissed, the appellant will pay the amount directed to e paid
by the judgment, or the part of such amount as to which the
judgment shall be afBrI-ned, if it be affirmed only in part, and all
damages which shall be awarded against the appellant upon the
appeal. Whenever it shall be made satisfactorily to appear to
the court that since the execution of the undertaking the sureties have become insolvent, the court may, by rule or order, require the appellant to execute, tile, and serve a new undertaking
as above ; and in case of neglect to execute such undertaking
Within twenty days after the service of a copy of the rule or or:
der requiring such undertaking, the appeal may, on motion to
the court, be dismissed with costs. Whenever it shall-be necessary for a party to any action or proceeding to give a bond or
undertaking, with surety or sureties, he may in lieu thereof deposit with the ofiicer, or into court, as the case may require,

money to the amount for which such bond or undertaking is to
be given. The court in which such action or proceeding is
pending may direct What disposition shall be made of such

. money, pending the action or proceeding. In any case Where,
by this section, the money-is to be deposited with an ofiicer, a
judge of the court, at special term or at chambers, upon the ap—v
plication of either party, may, before such deposit is made, order it to be deposited in court instead of with such oiiicer ; and
a de osit made pursuant to such order shall be of the same effect
as i made with such ofIicer.

SEC. 279. If Judgment be to deliver Documents, 850., they
must be Deposited,

If the judgment appealed from direct the assignment or delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of the
judgment shall not be stayed by appeal, unless the things required to be assigned or delivered be brought into court, or
placed in the custody of such oHicer or receiver as the court
shall appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered into, on the
part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, and in such
amount as the court or a judge thereof, or county judge, shall direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the order of the
appellate court upon the appeal.

SEC. 280. If to Execute Conveyance, it must be Executed
and Deposited.

'If the judgment appealed from direct the execution of a conveyance, or other instrument, the execution of the judgment
shall not he stayed by the appeal until the instrument shall
have been executed and‘ deposited with the clerk with whom
the judgment is entered, to abide the judgment of the appellate
court.

SEC. 281. Security, Where J udo’ment is to Deliver Real PrOperty or for a Sale of Mortgaged f’rem‘ises.

If the judgment appealed from direct the sale or delivery of
possession of real property, the execution of the same shall not
be stayed, unless a written Imdertaking be executed on the part
of the appellant, with two sureties, to the effect that during the
possession of such property by the appellant, he will not commit, or suifer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if
the judgment be aiiirmed, he will pay the value of the use and
occupation of the property, from the time of the appeal until the
delivery of the possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment,
not exceeding a sum to be fixed by a judge of the court by
which judgment was rendered, and which shall be specified in

the undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale of mortged premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising upon
the sale, the undertaking shall also provide for the payment of
such deficiency.

SEC. 282. Stay of Proceedings upon Security given. \Vhen
Court may Dispense with Security.

Whenever an a peal is perfected, as provided by sections 278
and 279, it stays a 1 further proceedings in the court below upon
the jud ent appealed from, or upon the matter embraced
therein, ut the court below may proceed upon any other matter included in the action, and not affected by the judgment appealed from. And the court below may, in its discretion, dispense with or limit the security required by sections 278, 279,
and 281, when the appellant is an executor, administrator,
trustee, or other person acting in another’s right, and may also
limit such security to an amount not less than fifty thousand
dollars, in the cases mentioned in sections 279, 280, and 281,
where it would otherwise, according to those sections, exceed
that sum.

SEC. 283. Undertakings may be in one Instrument or Several.

The undertakings prescribed by sections 334, 335, 336, and
338 may be in one instrument or several, at the Option of the appellant.

SEC. 284. Sureties to Justify.

An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect, unless it
be accompanied by the aflidavit of the sureties, showing that
they are m the aggregate wOrth double the amount specified
therein over and above the exemptions allowed by law. The respondent may, however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties
within ten days after notice of appeal ; and unless they or
other sureties justify before a judge of the court below, or a
cormty judge, as rescribed by sections 144 and 145, within ten
days thereafter, t 0 ap eal shall be regarded as if no undertaking had been iven. e justification shall be upon a notice of
not less than ve days.

SEC. 285. Perishable Property may be Sold notwithstanding
Appeal.

In the cases not provided for in sections 278, 279, 280, 281,
and 282, the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the undertaking
mentioned in section 27 7, shall stay proceedings in the court below

upon the judgment appealed from, except that where it directs
the sale of perishable pr0perty, the court below may order the
property to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited or
invested to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

SEC. 286. Undertaking must be Filed.

The undertaking must be iiled with the clerk with whom the
judgment or order appealed from was entered.

Appeal to the (lirem’t Cow'tj-‘rom a County (.L'om't.

SEC. 287. Appeal, in what Cases.

An appeal may be taken to the circuit coru‘t from the jm lginent
rendered by a county court in a civil action, where the amount in
controversy exceeds one hundred dollars. An appeal ma y also
be taken to the circuit court from any order affecting a substantial right, made by a county court or a county judge, in any action or proceeding ; and such appeal shall be heard on a copy of
the papers on which the order appealed from was made.‘

SEC. 288. Security.

Security must be given upon such appeal in the same manner as upon an appeal to the supreme court.

SEC. 289. Appeals, where Heard.

Appeals in the circuit court shall be heard in the county
where the judgment or order appealed from was entered, and
the decision rendered on such appeal shall be certified to the
county court. '

Appeal to the County C’ourtfrom (m Inferior Court.

SEC. 290. Existing Laws Repealed, and this Chapter Substituted.

All statutes now in force providing for the review of judgments in civil cases, rendered by courts of justices of the peace,
and by the courts of cities, and regulating the practice in relation to such review, are repealed; and hereafter the only mode
of reviewing such udgments shall be an appeal, as prescribed
by this chapter. SEC. 291. By what Court Judgment to be Reviewed.

When a judgment shall have been rendered by courts of juse
tices of the peace, the appeal shall be to the county court of the

county where the judgment was rendered, and the cause shall
be tried in said court the same as if originally commenced
therein.

Sec. 292. Appeal, when to be Taken.

The appellant shall, within twenty days after judgment, serve
a notice of a peal, stating the grounds upon which the appeal is
founded. I the judgment is rendered upon process not personally served, and the defendant did not appear, he shall have
twenty days, after persona] notice of the judgment, to serve the
notice of appeal provided for in this and the next section.

SEC. ‘293. Notice of Appeal to be Served on Justice, and Costs
Paid.

The notice of appeal must, within the same time, be served on
the justice, personally, if living and within the county, or on his
clerk, if there be one, and on the respondent, personally, or by
leaving it at his residence with some one of suitable age and discretion ; or, in case the respondent is not a resident of such
county, or cannot, after due diligence, be found therein, in the
same manner on the attorney or agent,if any, who is a resident of
suclncounty, who appeared for the respondent on the trial; and
if neither the respondent nor such agent or attorney can be
found in the county, the notice may be served on the respondent by leaving it with the clerk of the appellate court; and the
appellant must, at the time of the service of the notice of appeal
on the justice, or on his clerk, as herein provided, pay to such
justice or clerk the costs of the action, included in the judgment,
together with two dollars, costs of the return, which shall be in- cluded in the judgment costs, in case the appellant recover judgmentin the county court ; and the appellant shall also execute,
on the appeal, a written undertaking on his part, with one or
more sufiicient sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay
all costs and disbursements awarded against. him in the court
below, if respondent shall recover judgment in the county court,
on such appeal, together with all costs and damages which may
be awarded against him thereon; such sureties to justify in
double the amount speciiied in the undertaking; such undertaking and the suiiiciency of the sureties to be approved by the
justice of the court below, a judge of the county court; or the appellant may deposit, with the clerk of the county court, the costs
and disbursements included in the judgment in the court below,
and the sum of fifteen dollars, to meet any costs that may be
awarded against him on such ap eal; the undertaking, when
executed and approved, to be tiled with the clerk of the county
court; the amount so.deposited shall be repaid by said clerk to

the appellant, if he succeed on the appeal; and in case the judgment be for respondent, the said cler ' shall, after execution 1s
issued, pay over the amount so deposited to the respondent, which
shall be credited on the judgment to the extent thereof, and the
balance, if any, to be returned to the appellant.

SEC. 294. Security to Stay Execution.

If the appellant desires a stay of execution of the judgment,
he shall give security as provided in the next section.

SEC. 295. Form of Undertaking.

The security shall be a written undertaking, executed by one
or more suiiicient sureties, approved by the county judge, or by
the court below, to the effect that if the jud ment be rendered
against the appellant, and execution thereon e returned unsatisiied, in whole or in part, the sureties will pay the amount unsatisfied.

SEC. 296. Execution, how Stayed.

The delivery of the undertaking to the court below shall stay
the issuing of execution; or, if it has been issued, the service of
a copy of the undertaking, certified by the court below, upon the
oiiicer holding the execution, shall stay further proceedings

thereon.

SEC. 297. In Case of Death of Justice, Undertaking to be
Filed.

Where, by reason of the death of a justice of the peace, or his
removal from the county, or any other cause, the undertaking
on the appeal cannot be delivered to him, it shall be filed with
the clerk of the appellate court, and the notice thereof given to
the reSpondent, or his attorney or agent, as provided in section
354 [293]; it shall thereupon have the same effect as if delivered to the justice.

SEC. 298. Filing in Lieu of Service of Notice of Appeal.

When, by reason of the death of a justice of the peace, or his
absence from the county, or any other cause, the notice of appeal
cannot be served as provided by section 293, it may be served
by leaving the same With the clerk of the county.

SEC. 299. Return, when and how Made and Compelled.

The court below shall thereupon, after ten days, and Within
thirty days after service of the notice of appeal, make a return
duly certified to the appellate court of all pleadings, the proceed-‘

ings, and judgment, with the notice of the appeal annexed, and
file the same in the appellate court. The return may be compelled
by attachment. But no justice of the peace shall be bound to
make a return unless the fees prescribed by the last section of
this chapter be paid on the service of the notice of appeal. SEC. 300. How Made, if Justice be out of Ofiice.

When ajustice of the peace, by whom'a judgment appealed
from was rendered, shall have gone out of oflice before a return
is ordered, he shall, nevertheless, make a return in the same
manner, and with the like effect, as if he were still in office.

SEC. 301. Further Returns.

If the return be defective, the appellate court may direct a
further or amended return as often as may be necessary, and may
compel a compliance with its order by attachment. And the
court shall always be deemed Open for these purposes.

SEC. 302. Justice Dead, Insane, or Absent.

If a justice of the peace, whose judgment is appealed from,
shall die, become insane, or remove from the State before making a return thereto, the ap ellate court may ascertain, by proof
or otherwise, the process, p eadings, and proceedings before the
justice, and may try the cause the same as if a return had been
made by the justice. If he shall have removed to another county within the State, the appellate court may compel him to make
the return as if he were still within the county Where the judgment was rendered.

SEC. 303. Noticing Appeal for Hearing.

When the appeal is perfected it shall be placed upon the calendar, and brought to trial upon notice, the same as if the actions had been originally brought in the county court.

SEC. 304. Hearing on Appeal. Judgment on Appeal.

If the appellant shall neglect to bring the cause to trial, the
001111: may dismiss the appeal and affirm the judgment below, as
the justice of the case may require. If the defendant failed to
appear before the justice, and it is shown by the afiidavits served
by the appellant, or otherwise, that manifest injustice has been
done, and he satisfactorily excuses his default, the court may permit the defendant to answer, and the plaintiff to re 1y thereto, if
necessary, and at such time and on such terms as sha be provided
by the rules of the court, and thereupon the action shall be tried

the same as if originally brought in said court. 011 the trial the
court may permit either party to amend his pleadings on suchterms as shall be just.

SEC. 305. Judgment Roll.

To every judgment upon an appeal there shall be annexed the
return on which it was heard, the notice of appeal, verdict, decision of the court, exceptions, case, and all orders and papers
in any way involving the merits, and necessarily affecting .the
judgment, which shall be filed with the clerk of the court, and
shall constitute the judgment roll. SEC. 306. Restitution.

If thejudgment below, or any part thereof, be paid or collected,
the appellate court shall order the amount paid or collected to
be restored, with interest from the time of such payment or collection, or applied on the judgment in the county court, as justice
may require. The order may be obtained on proof of the facts
made at the time of the hearing, or after the hearing, upon a revious notice of six days, and if the order shall be made be ore
the judgment is entered, the amount may be included in the
judgment. '

SEC. 307. Costs.

Ten dollars costs, exclusive of disbursements, shall be allowed
to the prevailing party on appeal, but if the party recovering
‘udgment on appeal recover a less sum in the county court than

c recovered in the court below, he shall not recover costs.

/

TITLE ~XII.

0f the Jliscellaneous Proceedings in Civil Actions, and Gmeral Provisions.

Sl‘liI11111‘1ljlu';ll"JI|l|‘|\rlt*'1"-l\ \\  it' “it! action.

1)]‘t'JL'l._"I.'lilll‘.;“ ::-_;".I.'1H-i john lln‘stu-s, heirs, legatecs, dcvisccs, and tenants holdillzj 1111!.lt"';3 _iiiliu'lllt']i‘z li'firilif.

LTtgaHi'cs-inn <=1"|11:_l;;'1m-H1 c. "whim: action.

0111321 I. [1‘ ii!" duh-minim.  u mupromisc the whole or a part of the action.

Admission or inspection of writings.

Examination of parties.

Examination of witnesses.
Motions and orders.
Entitling afiidavits.
- Computation of time.
Notices, and filing and service of papers.
Duties of sheriffs and coroners.
Accountability of guardians.
Powers of referees.
Miscellaneous provisions.

Submitting a Controversy without Action.

SEC. 308. Controversy, how Submitted without Action.

Parties to a question in difference, which might be the subject
of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present
a submission of the same to any court which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought. But it must ap ear by
aiiidavit that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in.
good faith to determine the rights of the parties. The court.
shall thereupon hear and determine the case at a regular term,

or in vacation, and render judgment thereon, as if an action
were depending.

SEC. 309. Judgment.

Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book, as in other
cases, but without costs, for any proceeding prior to notice of
trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment
shall constitute the judgment roll.

SEC. 310. Judgment, how Enforced or Appealed from.

The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it

had been rendered in an action, and shall be subject to appeal
in like manner.

Proceedi-ngs against Joint Debtors, Heirs, Devisees, Legatees,
and Tenants holding under a Judgment Debtor.

SEC. 311. Parties not Summoned in Action on Joint Contract
may be Summoned after Judgment.

When a judgment shall be recovered against one or more of
several persons jointly indebted upon a contract, by proceeding
as provided in section 87, those who were originally summoned
to answer the complaint may be summoned to show cause why

they should not be bound by the judgment, in the same manner
as if they had been original y summoned.

SEC. 312. If Judgment Debtor Die, his Representatives may
be Summoned.

In case of the death of a judgment debtor after judgment, the
heirs, devisees, or legatees of the judgment debtor, or the tenants of real pr0perty owned by him and affected by the judgment, may, after the expiration of three years from the time of
granting letters testamentary or of administration upon the estate 'of the testator or intestate, be summoned to show cause why
the judgment should not be enforced against the estate of the
judgment debtor in their hands respectively; and the personal
representatives of a deceased judgment debtor may be so summoned at any time Within one year after their appomtmcnt.

SEC. 313. Form of Summons.

The summons provided in the last two sections shall be subscribed by the judgment creditor, his representatives, or attorney ; shall describe the judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause within twenty days after the service of

the summons, and shall be served 1n like manner as the original summons. ' 7

SEC. 314. To be Accompanied by Ailidavit of Amount Due.

The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the person subscribing it, that the judgment has not been satisfied, to

his knowledge or information and belief, and shall Specify the
amount due thereon.

SEC. 315. Party Summoncd may Answer and Defend.

Upon such summons, any party summoned may answer, Within the time specifled therein, denying the judgment, or setting
up any defense thereto which may have arisen subsequently to
such judgment; and in addition thereto, if the party be proceeded against according to section 311, he may make any defense
which he might have made to the action if the summons had
been served on him at the time when the same was originall

commenced, and such defense had been then interposed to sue
action. '

SEC. 316. Subsequent Pleadings and Proceedings same as in
Action.

The party issuing the summons may demur or reply to the
answer, and the party summoned may demur to the reply ; and
the issues may be tried, and judgment may be given in the same
manner as in an action, and enforced b'y execution, or the application of the pr0perty charged to the payment of the judgment
may be compelled by attachment, if necessary.

SEC. 317. Answer and Reply to be Verified. as. in an Action.

The answer and reply shall be verified in the like cases and
manner, and be subject to the same rules, as the answer and reply in an action.

Confession of Judgment without Action.

SEC. 318. Judgment may be Confessed for Debt due or Contingent Liability.

A judgment by confession may be entered, without action,
either for money due or to become due, or to secm'e any person
against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both,
in the manner prescribed by this chapter.

SEC, 319. Statement in Writing, and Form Thereof.

A statement in writing must be made, signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect :

1. It must state the amount for which judgment may be entered, and authorize the entry of judgment therefor.

2. If it be for money due or to become due, it must state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and must show that the
sum confessed therefor is justly due or to become due.

 If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against a
contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting the liability.

SEC. 320. Judgment and Execution.

The statement may be filed with the clerk of the court, who
shall endorse upon it, and enter in the judgment book, a judgment of the circuit court for the amount confessed, with ten dollars costs, together with disbursements. The statement and
affidavit, with the judo‘ment endorsed, shall thenceforth become
the judgment roll‘ ExecutiOns may be issued and enforced
thereon, in the same manner as upon judgments in other cases
in said court. When the debt for which the judgment is recovered is not all due, or is payable in instalments, and the instalments are not all due, the execution may issue upon such
judgment for the collection of such instalments as have become
due, and shall be in the usual form, but shall have endorsed
thereon, by the attorney or person issuing the same, a direction
to the sheriff to collect the amount due on such judgment, with
interest and costs, which amount shall be stated, with interest
thereon, and the costs of said udgment. Notwithstanding the issue and collection of such execution, the judgment shall remain as
security for the instalments thereafter to become due; and whenever any further instalments become due, execution may, in like
manner, be issued for the collection and enforcement of the
same.

Ojiar of the Defendant to C'omgwomz’se the Whole or a Part
of the Action. .

SEC. 321. Offer of Compromise.

The defendant may, at any time before the trial or verdict,
serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing to allow judgment
to be taken against him for the sum or property, or to the effect
therein specified, with costs. If the plaintiff accept the offer,
and give notice thereof in writing within ten days, he may file.
the summons, complaint, and offer, with an affidavit of notice of
acceptance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to
be deemed Withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence ; and if .
the plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment he cannot recover costs, but must pay the defendant’s costs from the
time of the offer ; and in case the defendant shall set 11 a counter-claim in answer to an amount greater than the plainti s claim,
or sufiicient to reduce the plaintiff’s recovery below twenty-hve
dollars, then the plaintiff may serve upon the defendant an offer
in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for an
amount specified, or to allow said counter-claim to an amount
specified, with costs. If the defendant accept the offer, andgive
notice thereof in writing within ten days, he may enter judgment  above for the amount specified, if the offer entitle him
to judgment, or the amount specified in said offer shall be allowed him in the trial of the action. If the notice of acceptance

be not given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot. be
given in evidenee : and if the defendant fail to recover a more
favorable judgment, or to establish his counter-claim for a greater
amount than is specified in said offer, he cannot recover costs,
but must pay the plaintiff’s costs from the time of the offer.

8m. 2522. Defendant may offer to Liquidate Damages Conditionally.

In an action arising on eontraet. the defendant may, With his
answer, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing, that if he
fail in his defense, the damages be assessed at a speeified smn ;
and if the plaintiff signify his acceptance thereof in writing,
with or before the notice of trial, and on the trial have a verdict,
the damages shall be assessed aeeordingly.

Sm; 32:3. Eti'eet of Acceptance or Refusal of Offer.

If the plaintiti'do not accept the offer, he shall prove his damages as if it had not been made, and shall not be permitted to
give it in evidence. And if the damages assessed in his favOr
shall not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant
shall recover his expenses incurred in consequence of any necessary preparation or defense in respect to the question of damages. Snell expense shall be ascertained at the trial.

:ld'miss'io/I m‘ I'zzspcefiow of "Vining/s.

SEC. 324. Inspection and (‘opy of Books, Papers. and Documents, how Obtained.

Either party may exhibit to the other, or his attorney, at any
time before the trial, any paper material to the action, and request an admission in writing of its genuineness. If the adverse party or his attorney fail to give the admission within
fOur days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the pa—
per be afterwards put to expense in order to prove its genuineness, and the same be finally proved or admitted on the trial,
such expense, to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the
party refusing the admission, unless it appear to the satisfaction
of the court that there were good reasons for the refusal. The
court before which an action is pending, or a judge or justice
thereof, may, in their discretion, and upon due notice, order
either party to give to the other, within a specified time, an inspeetion and eopy, or permission to take a cepy, of any books,
papers, and documents, in his possession or under his control,
containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or the
defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the

court, on motion, may exclude the paper from being given in
evidence, or punish the party refusmg, or both.

Eramjmtt-io” of Parties.

SEC. 325. Action for Discovery Abolished.

No action to obtain discovery under oath, in aid of the prosecution or defense of another action, shall" be allowed, nor shall
' any examination of a party he had, on behalf of the adverse
party, except in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
0- .
SEC. 326. A Party may Examine his Adversary as a Witness
on the Trial, &c.

A party to an action may be examined as a witness, at the instance of the adverse party, or of any one of several adverse parties, and for that purpose maybe compelled, in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination as any other
witness, to testify, either at the trial, or conditionally, or upon
commission. SEt'. 327. Such Examination also Allowed before Trial.

The examination, instead of being had at the trial, as provided in the last section, may be had at any time before the trial,
at the option of the party claiming it, before a judge of the
court, or a county judge, on aprevious notice to the party to be
examined, and any other adverse party, of at least iive days, unless for good cause shown the judge order otherwise. But the
party to be examined shall not be compelled to attend in any
other county than that of his residence, or where he may be
served with a summons for his attendance.

SEC. 328. Party, how Compelled to Attend.

The party to be examined, as in the last sectiOn provided,
may be compelled to attend, in the same. manner as a witness
who is to be examined conditionally : and the examination shall
be taken and filed by the judge in like manner, and may be
read by either party on the trial.

SEC. 329. Effect of Refusal to Testify.

If a party refuse to attend and testify, as in the last four sections provided, he may be punished as for contempt, and his
complaint, answer, or reply, may be stricken out.

SEC. 3330. Interested \Vitnesses.

No person oli'ered as a witness shall be excluded by reason of
his interest in the event of the. action.

851.3331. Examination of Parties to the Action or Special
Proceeding.

.\ party to an action or s ecial proceeding in any and
all courts, and before any an all oflieers and persons acting judicially, may be examined as a. witness on his own behalf,
or in behalf of any other party, conditionally, on commission
and upon the trial or hearing in the case, in the same manner
and subject to the same rules of examination as any other wit—
ness; Provided, however, That no party to the action or pro:eeding, nor any person who has a legal or equitable interest
which may be affected by the event of the action or proceeding,
nor any person who, previous to such examination; has had
such an interest, however the same may have been transferred
to or come to the party to the action or proceeding, nor any
assignor of anything in controversy in the action, shall be examined in regard to any transaction or communication between
such Witness and a person at the time of such examination de~
ceased, insane, or lunatic, as a witness against a party then prosecuting or defending the action, as executor, administrator, heir
at law, next of kin, assignee, legatee, devisee, or survivor of
such deceased person, or as assignee, guardian, or committee of
such insane person or lunatic, when such examination, or any
judgment or determination in such action or proceeding, can in
any manner affect the interest of such witness, or the interest
previously owned or represented by him. But when such executor, administrator, heir at law, next of kin, assignee, legatee,
devisee, survivor, guardian, or committee shall be examined on
his own behalf in regard to such transaction or communication,
or the testimony of such deceased or insane person or lunatic, in
regard to such transaction or communication, however the same
may have been perpetuated or made competent, shall be given
in evidence on the trial or hearing on behalf of such executor,
administrator, heir at law, next of kin, assignee, legatee, devisee.
survivor, guardian, or committee, then all other persons not 0therwise rendered incompetent shall be made competent witnesses
in relation to such transaction or communication on said trial or

hearing.
SEC. 332. Delinition of an Order.
Every direction of a court or judge made or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, 1s denominated an order.

.I)Qf;‘ll?."2.0‘ll (37"(1 jitdl’t‘m.

Sue. 33:3. Motions, how and where Made.

1. An application for an order is a motion.

2. Motions may be made to a judge out of court, except for a
new trial on the merits. _

3. Orders made out of court, without notice, may be made by
the court in any part of the. State.

4. Motions upon notice must be made within the county in
which the action is triable, or in a county adjoining that in
which it is triable.

5. A motion to ya 'atc or modify a provisional remedy, and
an appeal from an order allowing a pmyisional remedy, sliall
have preference over all other motions.

G. No order to stay proceedings for a longer time than twenty days shall be granted by a judge out of court, except upon
previous notice to the adverse party.

7. When any party intends to make or oppose a motion in any
court of record, and it shall be necessary for him to have the
aflidavit of any person who shall have refused to make the same,
such court may, by order, appoint a referee to take the aflidavit
or deposition of such person. Such person may be subpwnaed
and compelled to attend and make an aHidavit before such referee, the same as before a referee to whom it is referred to try
an issue. And the fees of such referee for such service shall be
five dollars per day.

Snc. 334. \Vhenever a motion shall be made in any cause or
“proceeding in any of the courts of this State to obtain an injunction order, order of arrest, or warrant of attachment, or to vacate,
modify or set aside any injunction order, order of arrest, or warrant
of attachment granted in any such case or proceeding, it shall be
the duty of the judge before whom such motion is made to render and make known his decision on such motion within ten
days after the day upon which such motion shall or may besubmitted to him for his decision.

SEO. :3: 5. Noticeof Motion.

“’hcn a notice ofa motion is necessary, it must be served
eight days before the time appointed for the hearing; but the
court or judge may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a
shorter time.

SEC. 336. In Absence, «be, of Judge at Chambers, )lo~
tion may be 'l‘ransfm‘red by hlm to Another Judge.

r..-_._. -_ -——v" vw_'—'——-v .‘_,.

When notice of a motion is given, or an order to show cause
is returnable before a circuit judge out of court, and at the
time fixed for the motion he is absent or unable to hear it, the
same maybe transferred by his order to a judge of an adjoining
circuit, and such judge shall hear and determine the same, and
transmit the order made by him to the elerk of the court in
which th‘ action is penth to he filed and entered with the

5,

like. eti'eet as if made by the judge of said court.

Sm: 337. Enlarging Time for l’roeeedings in an Action.

The time Within which any proceedings in an action must be
had, after its commencement, except the time within which an
appeal must be taken, may he enlarged, upon an afiidavit showing grouiuls therefor, by a judge of the court. The aiiidavit or
a c0py thereof must he served with a copy of the order, or the
Order may be disregarded.

Sl-zv. 338. Affidavits Defectiver Entitled, _Valid.

It shall be necessary to entitle an atiidavit in the action, but
an affidavit made without a title, or with a defective title, shall
he as valid and effectual for every purpose as if it were duly entitled, if it intelliginy refer to the action or proceeding in which
it is made.

('0u1/Mhlliuu qf Time.

SE('. 339. Time, how Computed.

The time within which an act is to he done, as herein provided, shall he computed by excluding the first day and including
the last. If the last day be Sunday it shall be excluded, and
the following day included.

SE“. 340. Notices, (be, how Served.

. . a - O
Notices shall be In writing; and notices and other papers may
be served on the party or attorney 1n the manner prescribed in
the next three sections, where not otherwise provided by this
act. ‘

Sm: 341. Service, how Made.

The service may be personal, or by delivery to the party or
.attorney on whom the service is required to he made ; or it may
be as follows:

1. If upon an attorney, it may he made during his absence
from his ofliee by leavmg the paper with his clerk therein, or
with a person having charge thereof; or, when there is no person in the oflice, by leaving it, between the hours of six in the
morning and nine in the evening, in a conSpicuous place in the
ofiice ; or, if it be not open so as to admit of such service, then by
leaving it at the attorney’s residence with some person of suit~
able age and discretion.

2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper at
his residence, between the hours of six in the morning and nine
in the evening, with some person of suit-able age and discretion.

SEC. 342. Service by Mail.

Service by mail may be made where the person making the
service and the person on whom it is to be made remde 1n different places, between which there is a regular communication

by mail.
See. 343. Service by Mail.

In case of service by mail, the paper must be deposited in the
postoflicc, addressed to the person on whom it is to be served,
at his place of residence, and the postage paid.

 344. Double Time when Served by Mail.

Vthn the service is by mail, it shall be double the time required in. cases of personal service.

SEC. 345. Notice of Motion, &c., when Personally Served.

Notice of a motion, or other proceeding before a court or
judge, when personally served, shall be given at least eight days
before the time appointed therefor.

SEC. 346. When Papers need not be Served on Defendant.

\Vhere a defendant shall not have answered or demurred,
service of notice or papers, in the ordinary proceedings in an ac~
tion, need not be made on him, unless he be imprisoned for the
want of a bail, but shall be made upon him or lns attorney, if not
tice of appearance in the action has been given.

Sm; 347. Service of Papers where Parties Reside out of the
State.

VVllerc a plaintiff or a defendant, who has demurred or an—
swered or given notice of appearance, resides out of the State,
and has no attorney in the action, the service may be made by
mail, if his residence be known ; if not known, on the clerk of
the court.

SEC. 348. Summons and Pleadings to be Filed.

The summons and the several pleadings in an action shall be
tiled with the clerk within ten days after the service thereof, re—
spectively, or the adverse party, on proof of the omission, shall be
entitled, without notice, to an order from a judge that the same
be filed within a time to be specified in the order, or be deemed
abandoned, or such adverse party may file the cepy served on
him.

SEC. 349. Service on Attorney.

Where a part ' shall have an attorney in the action, the service
of papers shall e made upon the attorney instead of the party.

Sn; 350. \Vhen this Chapter does not Apply.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the service
of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to bring a party
into contempt.

Duties qf Sheriffs rmr/ Constables.

SEC. 351. Duty of Sheritl' and Constable in Serving or Execut—
ing Process, and how Enforced.

Whenever, pursuant to this act, the sheriff may be. required to
serve or execute any summons, order, or judgment, or to do anyother aet, he shall be bound to do so in like manner as upon process issued to him, and shall be equally liable in all respects for
neglect of duty; and if the sherifi‘be a party, any constable may
be required to perform the service: and all the provisions of this
act relating to sheriffs shall apply to constables when the sher—
iff is a party.

SEC. 352. Guardians not to teeeive Property until Security
Given.

No guardian appointed for an infant. shall be permitted to reeeive property of the infant, until he shall have given suiiicient
security, approved by a judge of the court or county judge, to
account for and apply the same, under the direction of the
court.

Sm; 353. Powers of Referees.

Every referee appointed pursuant to this act shall have power
to administer oaths in any proceeding before him, and shall have
generally the powers now vested in a referee by law.

Jle’smjllcmeous .I’roeiso'ous.

SEe. 354. Papers Lost or \Vithheld, how Supplied.

If an original paper or pleading be lost or withheld by any
person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be tiled and
used instead of the original.

SEe. 355. \Vhere Undertakings to be Filed.

The various undertakings required to be given by this act
must be filed With the clerk of the court, unless the enurt expressly prowdes for a dili‘erent disposition thereof.

SE“. 350‘. Time for Publication of Notices, how Computed.

The time for the publication of legal notices shall be Computed
so as to exclude the first day of publication, and ineludethe day
on which the act or event, of which notice is given, is to happen,
or which completes the full period required for publication.

SEC. 357. Laws of other States and Governments, how
Proved.

Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code, or other written
law enacted by any other State or territory, or foreign government, purporting or proved to have been published by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence
of the existing law in the courts and judicial tribunals of such
State, territory, or government, shall be admitted by the («MPH
and officers of this State, on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. The unwritten or common law of any other
State or territory, or foreign government, may be proved as
facts by parol evidence; and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts may also be admitted as presumptive evidence of such law.

TITLE XII].
.rir'HO/m‘ in Particular Vases,

Actions against foreign corporations.

Actions in place of srircj’arias, «1m; moment», and of informations in the nature
of a. quo rmrrcmto. Actions for the partition of real property.

Actions to determine eontiieting eiaims to real property, and for waste and
nuisance.

General provisions relating to actions concerning real property.

-‘il'tilms against I'D/wig”, ('0/7H)I'¢lt£0us.

Size. 358. \Vhere and by \thu Brought.

An action against a corporation created by or under the laws
of any other State, government, or country, may be brought in
the cn‘mit or county court of the State in the following cases:

1. By a resident of this State for any cause of action;

‘2. By a plaintiff not a resident of this State, when the muse
of action shall have arisen, or the subject of the action shall be
situated, within this State.

SH. 359. Scire Faeias and Quo \Var 'anto.

The remediesheretofore obtainable by the writ of .mirejilcias,
the writ of qua Inn-mute, and proceedings by information in the
nature of (12:0 wrrmcto, may be obtained by civil actions under
the provisions ofthis act.

Size. 363”. Actions of Attorney-General. '

Actions may be brought by the Attorney-Gelneral, in the
name of this State, whenever the Legislature shall so direct,
against a corporation, for the purpose of vacating 0' annulliug
the proceedings organizing the corporation, or renewing its corporate existence, on the ground that such act or renewal was
procured upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a
material fact by the persons incorporated,or by some of them, or
with their knowledge and consent.

SEC. 361. Action to Annul a Corporation, when and how
Brought by Attorney-General by leave of Court.

An action may be brought by the Attorney-General in the
name of this State for the purpose of vacating the charter or annulling the existence of a corporation other than municipal,
Whenever such corporation shall—

1. Offend against any of the provisions of the act or acts ereating, altering, or renewing such corporation; or,

‘2. Violate the provisions of any law by which such corporation shall have forfeited its charter by abuse of its powers; or,

3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or franchises
by failure to exercise its powers; or, a

4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act which
amounts to a surrender of its corporate 'rights, privileges, and
franchises; or,

5. Whenever it shall exercise afranchise or privilege not conferred on it by law. And it shall be the duty of the AttorneyGeneral,whenever he shall have reason to believe that any of these
acts or omissions can be established by proof, to bring the action
in every case of public interest, and also in every other case in
which satisfactory security shall be given to indemnify the
State against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby.

Sm; 362. Duty of Attorney-General.

lt shall be the duty of the Attorney-General to bring the action on his own motion, and to give notice of such motion to the
corporation or its officers. '

SEC. 363. Action upon Information or Complaint, of Course.

An action may be brought by the Attorney-General in the
name of this State, upon his own information, or upon the com—
plaint of any private party against the parties offending, in the
following cases: i

1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully
hold or exercise any public office, civil or military, or any franchise within this State, or any office in a corporation created by
the authority of this State ; or,

2. When any public oflicer, civil or military, shall have done
or suffered an act which, by the- provisions of law, shall make a
forfeiture of his oflice ; or,

 When any association or number of persons shall act with—
in this State as a corporation, without being duly incorporated.

But proceedings under this chapter against a justice of the
supreme court or a circuit judge can be maintained only in the
supreme court.

SEC. am. Action, when and how Brought to Vacate Letters
Patent. An action may be brought by the Attorney-General, in. the
name of the peOple of this State, for the purpose of vacating or

annulli'ng letters patent granted by this State, in the following
cases: .

1. \Vhen he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent were obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion, or'
concealment of a material fact, made by the person to whom the
same were issued or made, or with his consent or knowledge ;
01', '

2. \Vhen he shall have reason to believe that such letters pat—
ent were issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a material
fact ; or,

3. When he shall have reason to believe that the patcntee, or
those claiming under him, have done or omitted an act, in viola—
tion of the terms and conditions on which the letters patent were
granted, or have by any other means forfeited the interest acquired under the same.

SEC. 365. l’telator, when to be Joined as Plaintiff.

\Vhen an action shall be brought by the Attorney-General, by
virtue of this chapter, on the relation or information of a person
having an interest in the question, the name of such person shall
be joined with the State as plaintiff. And in every such case
the Attorney-General may require, as a condition for bringing
such action, that satisfactory security shall be given to indemnify the State against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby.

Star. 366. Complaint and Arrest of Defendant in Action for
llsurping an ()flice.

\Vhencver such action shall be brought against a person for
usurping an office, the Attorney-General, in addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also set forth in the complaint
the name of the person rightfully entitled to the ofliee, with a
statement of his right thereto; and in such case, upon proof by
affidavit that the defendant has received fees or emoluments be,longing to the ofiice, and by means of his usurpation there—
of, an order may' be granted by a judge of the court for the
arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail ; and thereupn
he shall be arrested and held to bail in the manner and with the
same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in
other civil actions where the defendant is subject to arrest.

Slit. 367. Judgment in such Actions.

In every such case judgment shall be rendered upon the right
of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so alleged
to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice
shall require. ‘

SEC. 368. Assumption of (Mice, &c., by lielator, when J udgment is m his Favor.

If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person,
he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office, and executing
such omeial bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself the execution of the of’rice; and it shall be his duty, immediately thereafter, to demand of the defendant in the action all the
furniture, books, and papers in his custody, or within his power,
belonging to the oiiice from which he shall have been excluded.
If the defendant refuse or neglect to deliver such furniture, books,
and papers, he may be punished as for contempt of court, and
may be. further committed toail until he shall comply with such
demand or be discharged by the judge.

Snc'. 369. Damages, how Recovered.

If judgment be rendered, upon the right of the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover by
action the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of
the usurpation by the defendant of the. ofiice from which he has
been excluded.

SEC. 370. One. Action against Several Persons Claiming Oflice
or Franchise.

Where several persons claim to be entitled to the same office or franchise, one action may be brought against all such
persons, in order to try their respective rights to such office or
franchise.

8150.371. Penalty for Usurping ofiice of Franchise, how
Awarded.

When a defendant, whether a natural person or a corporation,
against whom such action shall have been brought, shall be adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully holding or exercising any ofh'ce, franchise, or privilege, judgment
shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from such
office, franchise, or privilege, and also that the plaintiff recover
costs against such defendant. The court may also, in its discretion, tine such defendant a sum not exceeding two thousand
dollars, which fine when collected shall be paid into the treasury

ofthe State.

SEC. 37 2. Judgment of Forfeiture against a Corporation.

If it shall be adjudged that a corporation against which an action shall have been brought pursuant to this chapter has, by

neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its Corporate rights, privi—
leges, and franchises, judgment shall be rendered that the corporation he excluded from such corporate rights, privileges, and
franchises, and that the corporation he dissolved.

 O . O I C
Sue. 373. ( osts against Corporation, or Persons (‘lamnng to
be such, how Collected.

lfjudgment he rendered in such action against a corporation,
or against persons claiming to he a corporatim], the court may
cause the costs therein to he collected by execution against
the persons claiming to he a corlmration, m- by attachment or process against the directors or-other officers ofthe corporat ion.

Slit". 374. ltestraining Corporation. and the Appointment ofa
{eceiven

\Vhen such judgment shall he rendered against a corporation,
the court shall have power to restrain the corporation,
to appoint a receiver of its property, and to take an account,
and to make distribution thereof among its creditors, and it shall
he the duty [ofthe Attm'ncy-General,] immediate] y after the rendition of such judgment, to institute proceedings for that purpose.

51am 875. ('Opy of Judgment lloll against Corporation. where.
to he Filed. '

lipon the rendition of such judgment against a corporation,
or for vacating o' annulling of letters patent, it shall he the
duty of the Attomiey-General to cause a c0py of the judgment
roll to he forthwith filed in the ofliee of the Secretary of State.

I

Mac. 9-76. Entry of Judgment relating to Letters Patent, &e.

Such secretary shall thereupon, if the record relates to letters
patent, make an entry in the records of the land office of the
substance and effect of such judgment, and of the time when the
record thereof \ 'as doeketed ; and the real proPerty granted by
such letters patent may thereafter be disposed of as if letters
patent had not been issued.

SEc. 877. Actions for Forfeiture of Pro )ert-v to the State.
1 .

\Vhenever, by the provisions of law, any prOperty, real or
personal, shall be forfeited to the State, or to any oilicer to their
use, an action for the recovery of such property, alleging the
grounds of the forfeiture, may he brought by the proper oflieer,
in the circuit court.

Actimzjbr the Par-627mm, of Real Property.

SEC, 378. Provisions of the Statutes Applicable to Actions
for Partition.

The provisions, of the statutes relating to the partition of
lands, tenements, and hereditaments, held or possessed by joint
tenants in common, or coparceners, shall apply to actions for such
partitions brought under this act, so far as the same can be so applied to the substance and subject matter of the action, without
regard to its form.

. [etionsfbr [Waste and Nuisance.

SEC. 37 9. \Vaste, how Remediable.

Wrongs heretofore remediable by action of waste, are subjects
of action as other wrongs, in which action there may be judgment for damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party offending.
and eviction from the premises.

SEC. 380. \Vhen Judgment of Forfeiture and Eviction to he
Given.

Judgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given in
favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the tenant
'in possession, when the injury to the estate in reversion shall be
adjudged in the action to be equal to the value of the tenant‘s
estate, or unexpired term, or to have been done in malice.

Snc. 381. Writ of Nuisance Abolished.

The writ of nuisance is abolished ; but any proceeding heretofore commenced, or any judgment rendered, or right acquired,
shall not be affected thereby.

_ SEC. 382. Remedy for Injuries heretofore Remediable by
Writ of Nuisance.

Injuries heretofore remediable by writ of nuisance, are subjects of action, as other injuries ; and in such action there may
be judgment for damages, or for the removal of the nuisance.
or both.

SEC. 383. Application of this Act to Actions Pending. Extraordinary Terms. '

The provisions of this act apply to future proceedings in ac00118 or suits heretofore commenced and now pending or determined, as follows:

. 1. If there has been no pleading therein, to the pleadings and
- all subsequent proceedings ;

2. When there is an issue of law or of fact, or any other
question of fact to be tried, to the trial and all subsequent proceedings; 3. After a judgment or order, to the proceedings to enforce,
vacate, modify, or reverse it, including the costs of an appeal.

Size. 384. Appeal from Decrees now Pending. In all cases 0f appeal to the supreme court, in actions which
were originally commenced in a court of Chancery of this State,
the supreme court shall revrew the cause upon the facts and the
law.

TITLE XIV.

General Provide/1s.

SEC. 385. Definition of “Real Property.”

The words “ real property,” as used in this act, are (ac-extensive With lands, tenements, and hereditaments.

SEC. 386. Definition of “ Personal Property.”

The words “ personal property,” as used in this act, include
money, goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt.

SEC. 387. Deiinition of “ Property.”

The word “ property,” as used in this act, includes property
real and personal.

SEC. 388. The Deiinition of “ Clerk.”

The word “ clerk,” as used in this act, signifies the clerk of the
court where the action is pending, and in the circuit court, the
clerk of the county mentioned in the title of the complaint, or in
another county to Which the court may have changed the place
of trial, unless otherwise specified.

SEC. 389. Rule of Construction.

The rule of common law, that statutes in derogation of that
law are to be. strictly construed, has no application to this act.

Sec. 390. Statutory Provisions Inconsistent with this Act He»
pcaled. , .

All statutor‘v provisions inconsistent with this 'act are repealed; but this repeal shall not revive a statute or law which
may have been repealed or abolished by the provisions hereby
repealed. And all rights of action given or secured by existing
laws must be prosecuted in the manner provided by this act. If
a case shall arise in which an action for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or the prevention of a wrong,
cannot be had under this act, the practice heretofore in use may
he adopted so far as may he necessary to prevent a failure of
justice.

Size. :‘91. llules and Practice Inconsistent with this Act Abrogated.

The present rules and practice of the courts in civil actions,
inconsistent with this act, are abrogated, but where consistent.
with this act, they shall continue in force, subject to the power
of the respective courts to relax, modify, or alter the same.

Site. 392. Judges to Meet and Make General .llules.

The judges of the supreme court shall revise their general
rules, and make such amendments thereto, and such further rules,
as may be necessary to govern the practice of the circuit and
county courts, and as may be necessary to carry this act'into full
effect. They shall make such rules and cause the same to be
published Within ninety days from the passage and approval of
this act.

SEC. 39:5. This Act, when to Take Effect.
This act shall take eil'ect on the first day of July, A. l). 1870.

Approved February 19, 1870.

RULES OF PRACTICE

FOR. '1‘“ E

SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.

 

RULE I. It shall be required ofan applicant for admission as
an attorney and counsellor of this court, that he shall produce
evidence of having been admitted to practice in some court of
record in this State, or some other State, or of the United States,
and that he sustain a fair private and professional character,
and that he take the following oath, in Open court: “ I do
solemnly swear, that I will demean myself, as an attorney and
counsellor of this court, uprightly and according to law, and
that I will support, maintain, and defend the (‘onstitntion of
the U nited States and of the State of Florida.”

RULE II. All motions made or submitted to the court- shall
be entered upon the motion docket, and the affidavits or papers
upon which the same are based shall he filed at least one day
before the hearing thereof The court will, when deemed necessary, require notice of a motion to be given to parties or
their attorneys.

Motions will he heard immediately after the orders of the
preceding day are read, and opinions delivered, on each day
during the term, and before taking up the docket, unless in
cases of necessity, or in relation to a cause when called in its
order, the court otherwise direct.

RULE III. The clerk shall, before the commencement of each
term, prepare a docket of all causes pending in this court, to
be numbered and entered in the order of the time of_the filing
of the papers relating thereto, and a copy thereof shall be furnished to each of the justices, and one copy for the use of the
members of the bar.

RULE IV. Where an appeal is from a final judgment, the return of the court below shall consist of a certified copy of the

notice of appeal, and of the judgment roll. .

When the appeal is from an order, or any part thereof, the
return shall consist of a certified capy of the notice of a peal, of
the order, and of the papers and records upon which t e court
below granted the order.

RULE V. Ifthe a pellant shall not cause the proper returns
to be made and {i1 with the clerk of this court within twenty
days after the perfecting of the appeal, and the respondent
shall not elect to cause such return to be made, [as provided by
Section 272 of the Code of Procedure,] it shall be the duty of
_ the court, unless ood cause be shown for the ap llant’s omis. sion, to dismiss t e appeal, upon the motion of t e respondent,
on his producing a certilicate from the clerk of the court below
that an appeal has been taken, and an ailidavit that notice of
the motion to dismiss the appeal has been served upon the appellant’s attorney [or upon the appellant in person if he haVe
no attorney of record]; and on filmg a certified capy of the
order dismissing the appeal with the clerk of the court below,
{hither proceedings 'may be had as though no appeal had been
ta en. ‘ '

» RULE VI. If the return made by the clerk of the court below
shall be defective, either party may, on affidavit specifying the
defect, ap ly to one of the justices of this court, in vacation,
for an or er that the clerk make the necessary correction of the
return without delay, and the justice may make such order, and
the court may enforce obedience thereto. ‘
; Upon a suggestion of a diminution of the record, the court
may award a writ of certiorari directing the court below to
make a further return, or supply the necessary paper or record,
or may make an order directing the clerk to make the necessary
return. The afiidavit upon which the motion therefor is based
must set forth the substance of the paper or record required to
be returned, so that it can be particularly specified .in the certiorari or order, and also that the same was at the time of the
trial or hearing, and still remains, on file or of record in the
court below, and that the afiiant was not aware, and could not
in the exercise of due diligence have informed himself, of the defect, so as to have had the record made complete before the ii]ing thereof in this court, and that said application is not made
for the purpose of delay. Every such motion must be made at
the first term after the docketing of the cause, or special cause
must be shown for the delay.

RULE VII. Whenever it shall be necessary or pmper, in' the
opinion of the judge who presided at the trial, that original papers, or any part thereof, used on the trial or hearing of the

cause, éhould be inspected by this court, such presidin judge
ma make such rule or order for the transmission, safe eping,
and? return of such original paper, as to him may seem prOper;
and this court will, in that case, consider such original papers
in connection with the transcript of the proceedings.

RULE VIII. No ori inal record shall he suffered by the clerk
to be taken from his 0 cc or the court room. RULE IX. In every cause in which either party shall fail to
appear when the same is called, the adverse party may proceed

ex parte.

RULE X. The attorneys and guardians ad litem in the court
below shall be deemed the attorneys or guardians ad litem of
the same parties in this court, unless others are required or appointed, and notice thereof served on adverse party.

, RULE XI. Not more than two counsel shall be heard on ‘

either side of a cause unless by special permission of the court;
and on motions, only one counsel will be heard without such

permission.

RULE XII. Criminal causes shall have a preference, and may

1

be moved in behalf of the State out of their order on the docket. <

RULE XIII. [n all causes brought up b appeal, it shall be ,

the duty of the counsel of the appellant to 1e an assignment of
errors within ten days after the return to the appeal shall be
filed; and he shall not be permitted to discuss any other matters
in the record, save those relating to the errors assigned.

RULE XIV. No cause standing for argument shall be heard

by the court, until the parties shall have furnished each member 1

of the court with a brief abstract of the cause pending, containing the subr‘tance of all the material pleadings, facts, and documents on which the parties rely, and the points of law and fact
intended to lie presented in the argument, with a reference to the
authorities he intends to cite. If the case he voluminous, an
index to the pleadings, exhibits, depositions, and testimony
shall be furnished.

In cases where it may be necessary for the court to go into an
extended examination of evidence, each party shall briefly state
upon his points the leading facts which he deems established,
with a reference to the pages of the record where the evidence
of such facts may be found. The court will not hear an extended discussion upon any mere question of fact.

1

A

l
1

RULE XV. In all causes brought to this court by appeal or
“ otherwise, either party may. apply for and receive from the
clerk of. this court a copy of the record, the costs of which
shall abide the event of the suit, and be taxed as other costs in
the cause.

. RULE XVI. When any cause shall be dismissed in this court,
- except where the dismissal shall be for want. of jurisdiction,
' costs shall be allowed to the respondent unless otherwise. ordered. .

When a judgment, (glecree, or order shall be aliirmed, costs
shall be allowed to the respondent uriless otherwise ordered.

When a judgment, decree, or order shall be reversed, costs
shall be allowed to the appellant unless otherwise ordered.

When a judgment, decree, or order shall be u’dirmed in part,
and reversed in part, costs shall be awarded, in the discretion of
the court, against either or both parties.

RULE XVII. In case of the dismissal of any suit, or the affirmance or reversal of . any judgment, decree, or order, it shall
be the duty of the clerk to transmit to the court below a cer—
tified copy of the judgment, decree, or order of this court, together with such original papers as may have been transmitted
from that court, and to issue such process as may be directed by
this court, or required by law and the rules ofthis court.

RULE XVIII. No copy ofa judgment or decree of this court
shall be transmitted to the court below, nor shall any mandate
or process issue. thereon,- until after the final adjournment of
the court, without leave of the court.

RULE XIX. When costs shall be. allowed, it shall be. the
duty of the clerk to insert the amount thereof in the body of
the final judgment, order, or mandate.

RULE XX. The original opinions 0f the court shall be filed
with other papers in a cause, and recorded by the clerk in books
prepared for that purpose.

, RULE XXI. Service of all papers and notices required ’by

these rules, or by the order of the court, upon parties may be
inade by delivering a cOpy of the papers or notices to the attorney
of the opposing party, or in his absence by leaving the same in
his oiiice, during the usual oiiice hours, or by putting them into
the post oiiice, directed to such attorney, or one of several attorneys, at his place of residence, and paying the postage

thereon. When service is made through the mail, doub! time
of notice is allowed.

RULE XXII. The attorney or attorneys who prosecute an appeal will be held liable to the clerk of this court for his costs.
'The clerk may exact security in advance [to be ap roved by
him, or by a justice of this court, or a circuit judge , or a deposit of $15 from the appellant, before docketing a cause, to secure payment of the clerk’s fees. Execution may be issued by
'the clerk against the party giving such security, [otherwise
than by deposit of money,] and the sureties, if his fees shall
not be paid within twenty days after such costs shall be taxed
by one of the justices of this court, five days notice having been
first served upon the appellant or his attorney of the time and
place of taxation, with a c0py of the items of such costs.

The clerk may refuse to issue a copy of the final judgment,
decree, or order, or process thereon, until his fees in the cause
shall be paid, unless for some special reason the court otherwise-order.

RULE XXIII. Re-hearings must be applied for by petition
in writing during the term at which the judgment is entered,
and the attention of the court called thereto, unless further
time is allowed by the court. The petition shall not assume
any new ground or position not taken upon the argument, or
in the points made upon which the cause was submitted, but
must set forth concisely the particular omission or cause for
which the judgment is supposed to he erroneous. The court
will consider the petition without argument. A petition for
rehearing is not a part of the record, unless so ordered, or rehearing granted.

RULE XXIV. In cases where no provision is made by law or
by these rules, the proceedings shall be according to the customary practice as it heretofore existed.

These rules shall take effect when published, and all rules of
this com-t which confiict with the foregoing are abrogated, except so far as it may be necessary to follow them in carrying
into effect the judgments and decisions of this court in cases already heard, and where returns have been made to the clerk of

this court to writs of error or appeal.

RULES or PRACTICE
CIRCUI’I‘ AND COUNTY COURTS

PRESCRIBED BY THIS SUPREME sonar or m aim or FLORIDA.

 

RULE I. It shall be required of an applicant for admission to
the bar, that he shall present a petition to the judge of the cir—
cuit court, showing that he has attained the age of twenty-one
years and sustains a good moral character, and praying, that
he may be examined and admitted to practice as an attorney
and counsellor at law in the circuit courts of the State; whereupon he shall be examined in open court, or by a committee to
be appointed by the judge, as to his capacity and fitness for
admnssion.

RULE II. If he shall be found duly qualified, he shall be admitted, and shall thereupon take the following oath in 0 en
r court: “ I do solemnly swear [or aiiirm] that I am duly quali ed,
according to the constitution and laws of this State, to exercise
the oilice of attorney and counsellor at law, and Will, to the
best of my abilities, discharge the duties thereof, and honestly
and uprightly demean myself in my practice, and preserve, protect, and defend the constitution of this State and of the United
States.” Whereupon a license shall be given by the judge, attested by the clerk under the seal of the court, which shall entitle such applicant to practice in the circuit and all inferior
courts of the State.

RULE III. Attorneys at law Who have been admitted to

{ practice in any court of record in any State of the Union, or in

any United States court, shall be admitted to practice in any of

the courts of this State,.on producing evidence of having been

so admitted, and upon taking the oath above mentioned.
(Joust, Art. VL, § 21.

RULE IV. No attorney, or other oilicer of court, shall “enter
'j himself, or be taken as bail in any criminal case, or as security
in attachment, appeal, or writ of error, or other proceedings in .

court, on pain of having the proceedings dismissed on account
thereof.

RULE V. Every attorney whose name shall be signed to any
summons shall, on demand in writing, made by, or on behalf of,
any defendant, declare forthwith whether such writ was issued
by him or with his authorit or rivity; and ifhe shall answer
in the anirmative, then he s all also, in case the judge shall so
order and direct, declare in writing, within. a time to be allowed
by such judge, the place of residence of such plaintiff, if known,
on ain of being guilty of a contempt of the court; and if he
shall answer in the negative, then all proceedings upon the
same shall be dismissed.

RULE VI. The summons and the several pleadin s in an action shall be filed with the clerk within ten days a r the service thereof, respectively, or the adverse party, on proof _ of the
omission, shall be entitled, without notice, to an order from the
judge that the same be filed within a time to be specified in
the order, or be deemed abandoned, or such adverse party may
file the copy served on him. (Code, Sec. 348.)

‘RULE VII. A demurrer shall have annexed thereto a certificate of counsel that in his opinion it is well founded, and an
ailidavit of' the party demurring, or his attorney, that it is not
interposed for delay. A copy of such certificate and aflidavit
must be served with the demurrer, otherwise it may be returned
within two da s after service to the attorney or party whose
name is signe thereto, and ma be disre arded; but if not so
returned, such certificate or a davit sha be deemed to be
waived. No joinder in demurrer is necessary. A demurrer to
an answer must be served within twenty days after service of
the answer.

RULE VIII. A defendant shall be allowed the same time for
answering, after the delivery of a bill of particulars on demand
thereof, or under an order of the court or of the judge thereof,
which he had at the time of serving the demand or order, or the
judge of the court may for cause allow further time.

RULE IX. An answer alleging the non-joinder of another
person shall be of no avail if such person has been discharged
by bankruptcy and certificate.

RULE X. When money is paid into court, such payment shall
be pleaded by answer, in all cases, and as near as may be, in the
following form, mutatis mutandz's:

 

 

as. [or in person] says that the plaintiff ought not furA. B. , ther to maintain his action, because the defendant
now brings into court the sum of dollars ready to be paid
to the plaintiff. And the defendant further says, that the plaintiff has not sustained damage [or that he is‘ not indebted to the
plaintiff] to a greater amount than the said sum, &c., in respect
of the cause of action in the complaint mentioned; and this he is
ready to verify. Wherefore he prays judgment if the plaintid' ought further to, maintain his action.

C. D. g The defendant, by G H , his attorney,

 

v RULE XI. The plaintiff; after the delivery of an answer of
; payment of money into court, shall be at liberty to reply to the
: same by accepting the sum so paid into court, in full satisfac* tion and discharge of the cause of action in respect of which it a
' has been paid in, or the plaintiff may reply that he has sustain— .
. ed damage or that the defendant is indebted to him, as the a
case may beg to a greater amount than the said sum, and in the ‘
event of an issue thereon being found for the defendant, the defendant shall be entitled to judgment and his costs of suit.

RULE XII. In all cases in which a plea pm’s claw-zen continu' cmce was heretofore by law pleadable, the same defense may be
made by answer, under section one hundred and twenty-seven
of the Code of Procedure.

RULE XIII. Objections to interrogatories, or to the form in
’ which they are conceived, must be assigned in writing before de' positions are taken by commission. Objections to the execution ;
of the commission for taking interrogatories, or to the manner in ‘
Which depositions are taken, shall be made and disposed of be— L
fore the parties go to trial. ' l

RULE XIV. DepOsitions returned to the clerk’s oliice may be
Opened at any time by consent of the parties, or by order of the ‘
court, or the judge thereof.

_ RULE XV. In all civil actions, after the time for answering i

has expired, the party desiring to take the testimony of wit— ‘
nesses out of court, Within the county where the action is pend- ?
ing, to be used on the trial, may obtain an order from the judge ‘
that the testimony of witnesses be taken by the clerk of the— 1
court, or a deputy clerk. A deputy may be appointed by the
clerk for the express purpose of taking testimony in any cause
under such order, who, before aetin g, shall take the Oath of 1
office prescribed by the constitution. Witnesses may be exam- ‘

ined upon written or oral interrogatories and cross interrogatories,

 

and their testimony shall be reduced to writing, and read over
to and be si ned by them. The clerk or deputy shall, immediately after t e taking of the testimony, certify the time, place,
and manner of taking, and at whose instance the same was
taken, and file the same in the oflicc of the clerk'of the court in
which the action is pending.

When testimony is so taken, it shall be upon notice to the
adverse party, if such party has appeared in the action; said
notice to be given in writing, specifying the time and place of
taking the same, and allowing twenty-four hours for each twenty
miles, or fraction thereof, from the residence of the person on
whom the notice is served to'the place of taking the testimony.

Suhpmnas may be issued for witnesses to attend such examination, and the witnesses shall be. subject to like penalties
for refusing to attend as when required to attend before the
court.

llan XY 1. When documentary evidence is introduced in a
cause, it shall be filed with the clerk and considered in the custody of the court, and not to be withdrawn except by leave
thereof.

RULE XVII. When a case. is called in its order, the same
must be tried, continued, or dismissed; but by consent, it may
be laced at the foot of the docket, to be again called, if there
sha l be time for a second call of the docket.

{UL}: XVII]. A defendant cannot move for judgment, as in

case of non-suit or a dismissal .of the complaint, on account of
the failure of the plaintiflEo notice the cause for trial, or to
,proceed with the trial, un 's the defendant shall have given
notice of trial. And when a plaintiff has given notice of trial,
and the defendant has not given such notice, the plaintilf must
either proceed to trial, dismiss the cause, or continue it, and paythe defendant‘s costs in preparing for trial. Either party giving notice of trial must proceed therewith, unless the cause be
dismissed, continued by consent, or by the court upon application of the party desiring a continuance, and showing proper
cause therefor.

lieu; XIX. A party applying for a continuance shall state
fully and clearly all the facts which he conceives may entitle
him in law to such continuance, which shall be sworn to. In
cases of application for a continuance, the party applying shall
have his :iiiidavit ready on the calling of the case, unless he
show satisfactory cause for the omission.

' RULE XX. The plaintiif shall in no case be compelled to submit to a non-suit, but if he desire to do so, he must do it befom
the jury retire. RULE XXI. Only one counsel on each side shall conduct the
examination of witnesses, except by permission of the court. ,

RULE XXII. In all actions by and against executors and administrators, or persons authorized by statutes to sue or be
sued as nominal parties, the character in which the plaintiff or
defendant is stated on the record shall not, in any case, be considered as in issue, unless specially denied.

RULE XXIII. The several clerks of the court shall keep in
their respective oilices, in addition to the “ judgment book ” required to be kept by the Code of Procedure, such other books,
preperly indexed, as may be necessary to enter the title of civil
actions and Special proceedings, and the steps taken therein; to
enter the minutes of the court; docket judgments; enter orders
and all other necessary matters and proceedings; and such other
books as the courts of the reSpective circuits may direct. They
shall also keep a bench docket and bar docket, with the cases arranged in the order of the date of the issue; and shall also
keep a motion docket.

RULE XXIV. In all cases where publication of a summons is
necessary under section eighty-six of the Code of Procedure
(exce t as otherwise provided therein in cases of divorce and
the oreclosure of mortgages), the order of publication. shall
direct the summons to be published in a newspaper published
within the judicial circuit in which! e cause is pending, for
such time as may be deemed reaso ble not less than once in
each week for six successive weeks, and also that a c013 of the
summons and complaint be forthwith deposited in e postoiiice, directed to the person to be served, at his place of resi—
dence, unless it appear that such residence is not known, nor
can be ascertained after diligent inquiry. "

RULE XXV. On process or papers to be served, the attorney,
besides subscribing or endorsing his name, shall add thereto his
place of residence ; and if he shall neglect so to do, papers may be
served on him through the mail, by directing them according
to the best information which can conveniently be obtained concerning his residence. This rule shall apply to a party who
prosecutes or defends in person, whether he be an attorney or
not.

RULE XXVI. At any time after the day when it is the' duty
of the sheriff or other ohicer to retilrn, deliver, or file an process, undertaking, order, or other paper, any party entit red to
have such act done may serve on the oilicer a notice to return,
deliver, or file such process, undertaking, order, or other paper,
as the case may be, within two da s, or show' cause, at a term
to be designated in such notice, w y an attachment should not
issue against him. ‘

RULE XXVII. Service of notice of an appearance or retainer
generally by an attorney for the defendant shall, in all cases,
be deemed an appearance. And the plaintiff, on filing such notice at any time thereafter, may have the appearance of the defendant entered, as of the time when such notice was served.

RULE XXVIII. Applications may be made in the manner
rovided by law to compel the production and discovery of
ooks, papers, and documents relating to the merits of any

civil action pending in court, or of any defense in such action,
in the following cases: a

1. By the plaintiff, to compel the discovery of books, papers,
or documents in the possession, or under the control, of the dcfendant, which may be necessary to enable the plaintiff to frame
his complaint, or to answer any pleading of the defendant.

2. The plaintiff may be compelled to make the like discovery

of books, papers, or documents, when the same shall be necessary to enable the defendant to answer any pleading of the plain“if

RULE XXIX. The petition for such discovery shall state
the facts and circumstances on which the same is claimed, and
shall be verified by aliidavit, stating that the books, papers, and
documents, whereof discovery is sought, are not in the possession nor under the control of the party a plying therefor, and
that thgparty making such aiiidavit is adrvised by his counsel,
and ve ' y believes, that the discovery of the books, papers, or
documents mentioned in such petition, is necessary to enable
him to draw his complaint, answer, demurrer, or reply, or to
prepare for trial, as the case may be. ~

RULE XXX. The order granting the discovery shall specify
the mode in which the same is to be made, which may be either
by requiring the party to deliver sworn copies of the matters to
be discovered, or by requiring him to produce and deposit the
same with the clerk of the court in which the trial is to be had,
unless otherwise directed in the order. The order shall also
specify the time within which the discovery is to be made;

and when papers are required to be deposited, the order shall
specify the time that the deposit shall continue.

RU LE XXXI. The order directing the discovery of books, papers, or documents shall operate as a stay of all other proceedings of the adverse party in the cause, until such order shall
have been complied with, or vacated; and the party obtaining
such order, after the same shall have been complied with or va—
cated, shall have the like time to prepare his complaint, answer,
reply, or demurrer, to which he was entitled at the time of serving a copy of the order. But the judge in granting the order,
may limit its effect by declaring how far it shall operate as a
stay of proceedings.

RULE XXXII. Whenever it shall be intended to review upon
‘ appeal the evidence and proceedings on the trial, a case or exceptions shall be prepared by the party intending to appeal,
and a cOpy thereof shall be served on the adverse party or his
attorney, or the same may be deposited in the clerk’s office for
the inspection of any party interested, and notice thereof shall
be served on the adverse party or his attorney, if ' there be an
attorney of record, within twenty days after the trial by jury,
or notice of the judgment, if tried before the court or a referee,
and the adverse party may within ten days thereafter pre are
amendments thereto, and deposit the same in the clerk’s o ce.
Either party may then, within ten days, notify the adverse party
to appear before the judge or referee before whom the cause
was tried, to have the case or exceptions settled, at a time and
place to be named, within ten days from the service of notice.
The judge or referee shall thereupon correct and settle the same,
as he shall deem to consist with the truth of the facts, and sign
the same.

RULE XXXIII. If the party shall omit to make a case or exceptions within the time above limited, he shall be deemed to have
waived his right thereto ;and when a case or exceptions is made,
and the parties shall omit within the several times above limited, the one party to propose amendments, and the other to no.
tify an appearance before the judge or referee, they shall respectively be deemed, the former to have agreed to the case
or exceptions as proposed, and the latter to have agreed to the
amendments as proposed, in which case the same’ may be settled
and signed without notice within the same time as when notice
is necessary.

)UULE XXXIV. “’here a party makes aease or exceptions, he
shall procure the same to be filed within ten days after the same
shall be settled, or it shall be deemed abandoned.

RULE XXXV. Exceptions shall contain only so much of the .
questions upon 1

evidence as may be necessar§ to present the
'which the same were taken on t etrial, and it shall be the duty of
the judge, upon settlement, to strike out all the evidence and
other matters which shall not have been necessarily inserted.

RULE XXXVI. No order extending the time to answer or de- .
mur to a complaint shall be granted, unless the part applying j

for such order shall present to the judge to whom e application shall be made an afiidavit of merits, or an aiiidavit of the
attorney or counsel retained to defend the action, that, from the
statement of the case made to him by the defendant, he verily
believes that the defendant has a good and substantial defense
upon the merits to the cause of action set forth in the complaint,
or to some part thereof.

RULE XXXVII. The court shall be at all times considered .
open for the trial of any cause or matter where no issue has been ‘

made by the pleadings after the time for that purpose has exired, and where the Intervention of a jury is not required, and
or granting orders and hea ' motions, except for a new trial
upon the merits. And where e plaintiff is entitled to judgment u on the failure of the defendant to answer, and the relief
deman ed requires application to be made to the court, such application ma be made at any place within the same circuit
where the ju ge may be. But a writ of inquiry shall be executed in the county in which the action is pending.

RULE XXXVIII. On a hearing before referees, the plaintiff
may submit to a non-suit or dismissal of his complaint, or may
be non-suited, or his com laint be dismissed in like manner as
upon a trial at any time efore the cause his been finally submitted to the referees for their decision, in which case the referees shall report according to the fact, and judgment may
thereupon be perfected by the defendant.

RULE XXXIX. Copies of the allidavits, pa ers, or records
whereon a motion is to be founded, except suc as shall have
been theretofore served in the action or proceedin , or on file,
or of record in the same court, shall be served wit the notice
or order to show cause when notice of motion is required. The
afiidavits, papers, and records which shall have been reviously
served, or which shall be on file in said court, shall plainly
referred to in the order or notice. If the adverse party shall not
ap ear to oppose, the party making the motion or obtaining the
or er shall be entitled to the rule or judgment moved for on
proof of due service of the order or notice of motion and pa~

‘
4

1

l
l
1

pers required to be served on him, unless the court shall otherwise direct. And when the motion is for irregularity, the notice or order shall specify the irregularity complained of.

This rule, so far as it. permits a judgment by default or consent of the adverse party, shall not extend to a complaint for a
divorce. All motion papers not previously filed shall be filed
with the order allowing or denying a motion by the party making the motion.

RULE XL. In all cases where a motion shall be granted
on payment of costs, or on the performance of any condition, or
Where the order shall require such payment or performance, the
party whose duty it shall be to compl therewith shall have
twenty days for that purpose, unless ot erwise directed in the
order. But where costs to be taxed are to be paid, the party
shall have fifteen days to comply with the rule after the costs
shall have been taxed on notice,.unless otherwise ordered.

RULE XLI. No private agreement or consent between the parties or their attorneys, in respect to the proceedings in a cause,
shall be binding, unless the same shall have been reduced to the
form of an order by consent, and entered, or unless the evidence
thereof shall be in writing, subscribed by the party against
whom the same shall be alleged, or by his attorney or counsel.

RULE XLII. Orders granted on petitions,‘or relating thereto,
shall refer to such petitions by the names and descriptions of
the petitioners without reciting or setting forth the tenor or substance thereof unnecessarily. Any order or judgment directing the payment of money or affecting the title to proPertjz, if founded on petition where no complaint is filed, may, ‘at
t e request of any party interested, be enrolled and docketed
as other judgments.

. RULE XLIII. Motions in action made after the commencement
thereof may be founded upon petition duly verified, or by ailidavit, or by both, at the election of the party making such motions, except where otherwise provided by law.

RULE XLIV. It shall be the duty of every attorney or oilicer of court to act as the guardian of any infant defendant in
any suit or proceeding against him, whenever appointed for
that purpose by an order of court. And it shall be the duty of
such guardian to examine into the circumstances of the case, so
far as to enable him to make the pr0per defense when necessary
for the protection of the rights of the infant, and he shall be

entitled to such compensation for his services as the court may
deem reasonable.

RULE XLV. No person shall be appdinted guardian ad litem,
.either on the application of the infant or otherwise, unless he be
the general guardian of such infant, or an attorney, or other of»iicer of the court, who is fully com etent to understand and
protect the rights of the infant, an who has no interest 'adverse to that of the infant, and is not connected in business with
the attorney or counsel of the adverse party. And no person
shall be appointed such guardian who is not of sudicient ability
to answer to the infant for any damage which may be sustained
by his negligence or misconduct in the defense of the suit.

RULE XLVI. No guardian ad litem, unless he has given security to the infant according to law, shall, as such guardian, re.ceive any money or propertybelonging to such infant, or which
may be awarded to him in the suit, except such costs and expenses as may be allowed by the court to the guardian out of
.the fund, or recovered by the infant in the suit. Neither shall
the general guardian of an infant receive any part of the pro—
ceeds of a sale of real property belonging to sue infant sold un.der a decree, judgment, or order of court, until such guardian has

given such further security for the faithful discharge of his trust
,as the court may direct.

RULE XLVII. Where the rights and interests of the several arties in partition, as stated in the complaint, are not denie or
controverted, if any of the defendants are infants, or absentees,
or unknown, the plaintiff, on an aflidavit of the fact, and notice
to such of the parties as have ap cared, may apply to the court
for an order of reference to ta e proof of the plaintiff’s title
and interest in the premises, and of the several matters set forth
in the bill or petition, and to ascertain and report the rights and
interests of the several parties in the premises, and an abstract
.of the conveyances by which the same are held.

RULE XLVIII. Every receiver of the property and eifects of
the debtor shall, unless restricted by the special order of the
court, have general power and authority to sue for and collect
all the debts, demands, and rents belonging to such debtor, and
to compromise and settle such as are unsafe and of a doubtful
character. He may also sue in the name of a debtor, where it is
necessary or pr0per for him to do so; and he may apply for and
obtain an order of course that the tenants of any real estate belon ing to the debtor, or of which he is entitled to the rents and
pro ts, attorn to such receiver and pay their rents to him. He

shall also be permitted to make leases from time to time, as may
be necessary, for terms not exceeding one year, and it shall be hisduty, without any unreasonable delay, to convert all the personal estate and effects into monby, but he shall not sell any real
estate of the debtor without special order of the court, until after
a judgment in the cause. He is not to be allowed for the costs
of any suit brought by him against an insolvent from whom he
is unable to collect his costs, unless such suit is brought by or-der of the court, or by the consent of all persons interested in
the funds in his hands. But he may sell such des crate debts
and other doubtful claims to personal property at pu lic auction,
giving at least ten days’ public notice of the time and place of

such sale. '

RULE XLIX. Where the service of the summons, and of the
complaint or notice accompanying the same, shall be made b
any other person than the sheriff, it shall be necessary for such
person. to state in his affidavit of service when and at what particular place he served the same, and [in case of personal service}
that he knew the person served to be the person mentioned an
described in the summons as defendant therein, and also to state
in his ailidavit whether he left with the defendant such copy, as
well as delivered it to him. And in case the defendant is not
personally served he shall state in such affidavit when, where,

and with whom such copy was left.

RULE L. The sheriff shall file with the clerk the affidavits
on which an order of arrest is made within ten days after the

arrest.

RUL’E LI. If, in an action to foreclose a mortgage, the defendant fail to answer within the time allowed for that purpose, or
the right of the plaintiff, as stated in the complaint, is admitted
by the answer, t e plaintiffmay have an order referring it to the
clerk, or to some suitable person, as referee, to compute the
amount due to the plaintiff, and to such of the defendants as are
prior incumbrancers of the mortgaged premises, and to examine
and report whether the mortgaged premises can be sold in parcels, if the whole amount secured by the mortgage has not become due. If the defendant is an infant and has put in the general answer by his guardian, or if any of the defendants are absentees, the order of reference shall also direct the person to
whom it is referred to take proof of the facts and circumstances
stated in the complaint, and to examine the plaintiff or his agent
on oath as to any payments which have been made, and to compute the amount due on the mortgage preparatory to the application for judgment of foreclosure and sale. Where no answer

is put in by the defendant within the time allowed for that purpose, or any answer not denying any material facts of the complaint, the plaintiff, after the case is in readiness for trial as to
all the defendants, may a ply for judgment upon due notice to
such of the defendants as ve appeared in the action, and without putting the case on the docket. The plaintiff in such case,
when he moves for judgment, must show by aiiidavit, or otherwise, whether any of the defendants who have not appeared are
absentees, and if so, he must produce the report as to the proof
of the facts and circumstances stated in thecomplaint, and of the
examination of the plaintiff or his agent on oath, as to any payments which have been made. »

RULELII. In every judgment for the sale of mortgaged premises, the description and particular boundaries of the prOperty to
be sold, so far, at least, as the same can be ascertained from the
mortgage, shall be inserted; and unless otherwise specially ordered by the court, the 'udgment shall direct that the mortgaged
premises, or so much t ereof as may be suiiicient to raise the
amount due to the plaintiff for principal, interest, and cost, and
which may be sold separately without material injury to the
parties interested, be sold by, or under the direction of the sheriff
of the county or a referee, and that the plaintiff or any other
party may become a purchaser on such sale; that the sheriff or
referee execute a deed to the purchaser; that out of the proceeds
of the sale he pay to the plaintiff or his attorney, the amount of‘
his debt, interest, and costs, or so much as the purchase money
will pay. of the same, and that he take the receipt of the plaintiff
or his attorney for the amount so paid, and file the same with
his report of sale ; and that the purchaser at such sale be let into
possession of the premises on production of said deed.

In case of a surplus arisin from the sale of the mortgaged
premises under any such ju gment, the sheriff or referee shall
retain such surplus, subject to the order of the court, unless directions are given in the judgment for the disposition of such
surplus.

RULE LIII. On filing the report of the sale, any party to the
suit, or any person not a party who had a lien on the mortgaged
premises at the time of the sale, either by judgment or decree,
upon tiling with the clerk where the report of the sale 'is filed,
a notice stating that he is entitled to such surplus moneys, or
some part thereof, and the nature and extent of his claim, may
have an order of reference to ascertain and report the amount
due to him, or to an other person, which is a lien upon such
surplus moneys, an to ascertain the priorities of the several
liens thereon, to the end that on the coming in and confirmation

of the re ort on such reference, such further order may be made
for the istribution of such surplus moneys as may be just.EVery party who appeared in the cause, or who shall have filed
such notice with the clerk, previous to the entry of the order of
reference, shall be entitled to service of a notice to attend on such
reference, and to the usual notices of subsequent proceedings
relative to such surplus. But if such claimant has not appeared
or made his claim by an attorney of this court, the notice may?
be served by putting the same into the post oi‘ice directed to the
claimant at his place of residence as stated in the notice of his
c aim.

RULE LIV. ‘Whenever a sheriff or referee sells mortgaged
premises under a decree, or order, or judgment of the court, it
shallbe the duty of the plaintiff, before a deed is executed to the
purchaser, to file such mortgage in the oiiice of the clerk, unless
such mortgage has been duly proved or acknowledged, so as to
entitle the same to be recorded, in which case, if it has not
been already done, it shall be the duty of the plaintiff to cause
the same to be recorded at full length in the count or. counties
where the lands so sold are situated before a dee is executed
to the purchaser on the sale; the expense of which filing or recording, and the entry thereof, shall be allowed in the taxation
of costs, and if filed with the clerk, he shall enter in the minutes,
the filing of such mortgage, and the time of filing. But this rule
shall not extend to any case where the mortgage appears, by the
pleadings or proof in the suit commenced thereon, to have been

ost or destroyed. ’

RULE LV. Where mortgaged premises, or other real estate
directed to be sold, consist of several distinct lots or parcels
which can be sold separately without diminishing the value
thereof on any such sale, it shall be the duty of the sheriff or‘
other person conducting the sale to sell the same in separate
lots or parcels, unless otherwise specially directed by the 'court.
But if the sheriff, or other oiiicer, or person so conducting the
sale, is satisfied the property will produce a greater price if sold
together than it would in separate lots or parcels, he may sell
it together, unless otherwise directed in the order of sale.

RULE LVI. In all cases in which any particular number of
days, not expressed to be clear days, is prescribed by the rules or
practice of the courts, the same shall be reckoned exclusively
of the first day ; and z'nclusivelg/ of the "last day, unless the last
shall happen to fall on a Sunday, Christmas day, Good Friday,
or a day appointed for a ublic fast or thanksgiving, in which
case the time shall be rec oned exclusively of that day also.

RULE LVII. Appeals to the circuit court from judgments of
the county courts ma be disposed of in the circuit court in the
same manner and un er the same regulations as provided in
cases of appeal to the supreme court, and when it is intended to
review the judgment 0 the county court upon the evidence or
other matter not appearing of record, a case or exce tions must
be repared and settled in the manner provided in R es 31 to 34,
an upon like notices.

RULE LVIII. These rules, so far as they are ap licable to the
jurisdiction of the county courts, shall be the ru es cf practice
in the county courts, except as otherwise provided by law.

RULE LIX. In cases where no provision is made by statute
or by these rules, the proceedings shall be according to the customary practice as it has heretofore existed in the circuit
court.

These rules shall take eii‘ect immediately after publication,
and all rules which, coniiict with the foregoing are hereby abrogated.

SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA, )

TALLAHASSEE, August 30, 1870. f
The foregoing rules of practice for the Supreme Court of
Florida, and for the circuit courts and county courts, have

been prepared and adapted in pursuance of sectlon 392 of the
“ Code of Procedure.”
E. M. RANDALL,

,, O. B. HART,
J as. D. WESTCO'IT, J 3.,
Justices Sup. Court.

