§S238. (3170. (3158.) Times and place of session. [The Supreme Court
of the State o Georgia shall sit at the seat of government, and its
terms shall begin on the the second Monday in February, and the ﬁrst
Monday in September of each year. The Court shall be held by two
or more of the Judges thereof, and shall continue until the business of
the Court is disposed of.] (a.)
§3239. (3171.) (3159) Attendmweo Judges, and adjournmentx. It shall
be the duty of all the Judges of sai Court to attend each term thereof;
‘but if from providential cause any one of the Judges cannot attend the
Court, such Court may be held by two Judges. If only one Jud e shall
'attond he may adjourn the Court to any time agreed upon by imself
and another of sa1d Judges, whose consent shall be in writing and ﬁled
with the Clerk of said Court. If no Judge attends it shall be the duty
of the Clerk and Sheriff, or either of them, to adjourn said (‘ourt until
the next regular term.
§3240. (317'2.) ($3160.) May be adjourned to some other lace. When from
providential cause the Supreme Court cannot be eld at the time
and place designated by law, it may be adjourned by order of the
Judges, or any two of them, in vacation, to some other convenient time
and place, and the session then held shall be valid, and notice shall be
given of such adjournment if possible.
§3241. (3173.) ( 3161.) Superior Courts to be held twice a year. The Su-
perior Courts shall be held in each county in the respective judicial circuits,
twice in every year, by one'or more of the Judges of the Supe-5
rior Courts, at the several times prescribed by law.
§3242. (3175.) (3164.) Adjournmenlby clerk from day to day. In case
of unavoidable accidents, whereby the Su erior Court in any count
shall not be held at the time appointed for olding the same, the cler
of such Court shall adjourn the same from da to day, not exceeding
two days; and unless the presiding Judge sha l order to the contrary
within the two days aforesaid, the clerk shall then adjourn said Court
to the next term.
§3244. (3177.) (3166) Court may be adjourned, when. No Superior
Court shall be adjourned by the Judge in vacation, except for the
causes above stated ;_ but the Judge may, in term time, adjourn such
Court to such time as he may think ﬁt.
§3245. (3178.) Adjo-umed and special terms. The Judges of the
Superior Courts of this State may, in their discretion, hold adjourned
terms of said Courts in every county within their respective circuits,
when the business requires it to close the dockets, and may, in the
the exercise of a sound discretion, cause new juries to be drawn for the
same, or order the juries drawn for the re ular term to give their at
tendance at such adjourned terms; and suc Judges are authorized to
hold special terms of said Courts for the trial of criminals, in anv
county of their circuits, at discretion, and to compel the attendance (if
rand and petit jurors, either of a previous term, or to draw new jurors
or the same, according to the laws now of f0rce.] 
§3246. (3181.) (3170.) Convemion of Judges may make rules of practice.
The several Judges of the Superior Courts of this State may convene
at the seat of government once in each year, at such time as they, or a
majority of them, may appoint, for the purpose of establishing uni
form rules of practice throughout the several circuits of this State;
which rules, so established, shall be published immediately after the
adjournment of said convention.
§3247. (3182) (3171.) All other rules void. All rules of practice for
the SuperiorCourts, prescribed by any other authoritv than that which
has, by the previous section, been deputed to all the'Judges of the Su
perior Courts of Georgia, in convention, shall be null and void and
mo erative.
§‘ 248 (3183.) (3172) Judge ex reseing opﬂtion onfarts, error. It is
error for any or either of the Ju ges of the Superior Courts of this
State, in any case, whether civil or criminal, or in cquity, during its
progress, or in his charge to the jury, to express or intimate his opinion
as to what has or has not been proved, or as to the guilt of the accused;
and should any Judge of said Court violate the provisions of this sec
tion, such violation shall be held by the Supreme Court to be error, and
the decision in such case reversed, and a new trial granted in the Court
below, with such directions as the said Supreme Court may lawfully
give.
§3249. (3184) ( 3173.) Judge must char e the jury, etc. The Judges of
the Sulperior Courts shall, at each term 0 said Court in every_year give,
specia y in charge to the grand juries the law against aming, carry
. t
ing deadly weapons, furnishing negroes with isonous he law
rugs,
tion against forestalling, regrating and engrossing.
requiring railroads to furnish water and lig t on trains, and the sec-
(a.) [And the said
Judges shall al at each term of their respective ourts,g1ve specialéy
in charge to sai grand juries the law embraced in sections (143
(4489) (4490) and (4491) of this Code] (b.)
)
§3250. (3185? (3174.) For e1-wry right there shall bea remedy. Forever_\'_
right there sha 1 be a remedy, and ever ‘ourt having jurisdiction ot
the one may, if necessary, frame the ot 181'.
§3151. (3186.) ( 3175.) An action. An action is merely the judicial
means of enforcing a right.
§3252. (3187.) (3176.) Distinctions of actiom abolished. All distinc
tions of actions into real, personal and mixed, are abolished. An ac
tion may be against the person, or against property, or both. Gener
ally, a procee ing against the person binds the property also. and
a roceeding against property, without service on the person, binds
on y the particular property.
§3253. (3188.) (3177) Acivil action deﬁned. A civil action is one
founded on private rights, arising either from contract or tort.
§3254. (3182).) (3178.) A penal action deﬁned and parties provided. A
penal action is one allowed in ursuance of public justice under par
ticular laws. If no s ecial 0 cer is authorized to be the plaintiff
therein, the State, or t e Governor, or the Attorney or Solicitor-Gen
eral may be the plaintiff.
§3255. (3190) (3179) No demand necessary. No demand is necessary
to the commencement of an action, except in such cases as the law or
the contract prescribes.
§3236. (3191.) (3180.) Against different persons. Distinct and separate
claims of or against different persons, cannot be joined in the same
action.
§3237. As a general rule,
the action on a contract, whether express or implied, or whether by
parol, or under seal, or of_ record, _must be brought in the name of the
party in whom the le_ga_l mterest ll] such contract 1s vested, and against
the party who made it in person or by agent.
§3258. ($193.) (3182) Parties to actions for torts. An action for a tort
must, in eneral, be brought in the name of the person whose legal
right has een affected, and who was legally interested in the property
at the time the injury thereto was committed, and against the party
committing the injury, either by himself, his servant or agent in his
employment.
§3259. (3194.) (3183.) A tenant in common may sue alone. A tenant
in common need not join his co-tenant, but may sue separately for his
interest, and the judgment in such case affects only himself.
§3260. (3195) (3184.) Dates and amounts may be set out in ﬁgure-9. Dates
and amounts in pleading may be set out in ﬁgures (or Arabic iiuinerals,)
and when a party si ns a contract with the initials of his Christian
name only, he may e sued in the same way.
§3261. ($196.) ($3185.) Dtfermzt claims may be joined. All claims aris
ing en: contracta between,the same.parties_ ma 1 be joined in the same
action and all claims arising ea: delwto may in li '_e manner be joined. The
defendant may also set up, as a defense, all claims against the plaiiititi
of a similar nature‘ with the plaintiff ’s demand.
§3262. (3197.) (3186) When parties must sue sqvarately. Courts will
not, in one suit, take cognizance of distinct and separate claims of dif
ferent persons, but where the damage, as well as the interest is several,
each party injured must, in that case, sue separately.
3263. (3198.) (3187.) Suits by an infant not void. A suit commenced
and rosecuted by an infant alone is not void, and, although the suit
is de ective in wantin a guardian or next friend, the defect is amend
able before verdict an cured by verdict.
§326-1. (3199.) (3188.) Grounds of attachment. Attachments may issue
1n the following cases:
1. When the debtor resides out of the State.
2. When he is actually removing," or about to remove, without the
limits of the county.
3. When he absc0nds.
. When he conceals“ himself.
5. When he resists a le al arrest.
6. When he is causing is property to be removed beyond the limits
of the State.
§3265. (3200.) (3189.) By whom aﬂidavit maybe made. Before process
of attachinent shall issue, the part seeking the same, his agents. 0!
attorney at law, shall make an aiﬁ avit before some Judge of the Su
erior Court, Jud e of the County Court, Justice of the Peace or Notary
ublic, that the ebtor has placed himself in some one of the positions
enumerated in this Code, and also the amount of the debt claimed to°
be due. \Vhen the aiﬁdavit is made by the attorney at law, or agent
of the party, he may swear that the amount claimed to be due, is due
according to the best of his knowledge and belief.
§3266. 3201.) C3190.) Plaintiff or agent must give bond and security. The
art ' see ing the attachment, before the same issues, shall also give
on , with good securit ,in an amount at least double the debt sworn
to, payable to the defen ant in attachment, conditioned to pay such de
fendant all damages that he may sustain, and also all costs that may be
lncurred by him in consequence of suing out the attachment in the
event the plaintiff shall fail to recover in said case" which bond it
shall be the duty of the magistrate or other oiiicer before whom the
affidavit is made to take, and where the aflidavit is made by the agent
or attorney at law of the plaintiff, such agent or attorney at law 1s
hereb authorized to sign the name of the principal, who shall also be
boun thereby in the same manner as though he had signed it himself.
§3202.) (3191.) Coparmer, agent or attorney may make aﬂidalvit.
When the debt, for the recovery of which the attachment is sought, is
due to a copartnership, or is due to several persons jointly, it shall be
lawful for any one of the copartners or 'oint creditors, his agent or at
torney at law, to make the aﬂidavit, an give the bond as prescribed
by this Code, and to sign the name of the other co-partners or joint
creditors to said bond, and they shall be bound thereby in the same
manner as though they had signed it themselves.
§3268. Who shall be surety on bond. [N o person shall be taken as secu
rity on any attachment or garnishment bond, who is an attorney for
the plaintiff, or a non-resident of this State, except such non-resident
is possessed of real estate in the county where the attachment or gar
nishment issue, of the value of the amount of such bond
§3269. (3203.) (3192.) Attachment, who ma issue. Afﬁdavit being
thus made and bond given, it shall be the uty of the ofﬁéer before
whom such aﬁidavit is made and bond given, or any ofﬁcer authorized
so to do, to issue an attachment against the defendant, which mav be
levied on the property of the defendant, both real and personal, if to
be found in this State.
§3270. (3204.) (3193.) Property in a different county, how levied upon.
\Vhen the plaintiff in atachment wishes to levy his attachment upon
property in a different county from that in which the same is return
able, it shall be the duty of the magistrate, or other officer issuing such
attachment, upon the request of the laintiﬁ‘, his agent or attorney at
law to make out a cop or copies of t e original attachment, bond and
aﬁidavit, and certify the same, officially, to be a true copy or copies;
and upon such copies bein' delivered to any oﬂicer to whom the same
isdirected, of the county w ere the ro erty of the defendant is, it shall
be the duty of such oﬂlcerto levy, tldrtliwith, the same upon the pro ~
erty of the defendant in such county, and to return the same, wit
his actings and doings entered thereon, to the Court to which the orig~
inal attachment is returnable.
§3271. Su_ﬁ‘ic2'mw_z/ of bond may be contested. PVhen any attachment
shall be issued and levied upon the property o the defendant, it shall
be lawful for the defendant, his agent or attorne ', to ﬁle his affidavit
that he has a good defense to the action, and t at the bond given in
such attachment is not a good bond, and the ground of its insulﬁciency,
and when such aﬁidavit is made and delivered to the levying oﬂicer, it
shall be the dutv of such oﬂicer to return such attachment, together
with the aﬂidavit, forthwith to the oﬂicer issuing the same, and the
oﬁicer issuing the attachment shall, without delay, hear testimony as
to the suﬂiciency of said bond, and such oﬂicer may, in his discretion,
require additional security or a new bond, to be given within the time
prescribed b the otﬁcer, and in default thereof, the levying oﬂieer shall
dismiss the lvy made under said attachment.
§3272. (3205.) (3194.) Attachments, where retunmble. \Vhen theamount
sworn to shall exceed the sum of [one hundred] (a) dollars, the at
tachment shall be made returnable to the next term of the Su erioror
County Court of the county where the defendant resides, or w ere he
last resided, but if such Superior Court shall sit within twenty days
or such County Court shall sit within ﬁfteen days next after issuing
such attachment, it shall be made returnable to the next term of the
Superior or County Court thereafter; and when the debt sworn to does
not exceed the sum of one hundred] (a.) dollars, the attachment shall
‘be made returnable to t e next J ust1ce’s Court of the district in which
the debtor resides, or last resided ; but if the next J ustice’s Court shall
sit within ten days next after issuing such attachment, it shall be made
returnable to the next J ustice’s Court thereafter, except when the de
fendant resides out of the State ; and, in that case, if the debt sworn
to exceeds [one -hundred] (a.) dollars, the attachment may be made re
turnable to the Sn rior Court of any county in this State; and- if it
does not exceed one hundred] (a.) dollars, the attachment may be
made returnable to a J ustice’s Court of any district of any county in
this State.
§3273. (3206.) (3195.) To whom directed. Attachment returnable to
the Superior and County Courts shall be directed to all and singular
the Sheriffs and constables of this State, and attachments returnable
to the Justices’ Courts shall be directed to all and singular the consta
bles of this State.
§3274. ( 3207.) 3196. May issue on the Sabbath day. Attachments
may issue and be evie on Sunday _when the plaintiﬂ, his a ent, or
attorne ' at law shall swear, in addition to the oath prescribed y this
Code, t at he has reason to apprehend the loss of the debt, unless pro
cess of attachment do issue on Sunday, and shall also comply with the
other provisions of this Code in relation to issuing attachments.
§3275. (3208.) ( 3197.) When the debt is not due. When the debt is not
due, the debtor shall be subject to attachment in the same manner and
to the same extent as in cases where the debt is due, except that where
the debt does not become due before ﬁnal judgment, execution upon the
judgment shall be stayed until the debt is due.
§3276. (3209.) (3198.) Joint contractors subject to attachnwnt. In cases of
jpint contractors and copartners, where any one of them shall render
imselfliable to attachment according to law, an attachment may issue
against him upon the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney at law complying
with the previous rovisions of this Code in relation to the issuing of
attachments; and t e proceedings against such joint contractors or co
partner shall be in all res ects as in other cases of attachments, except
that such attachment sha l be levied only upon the separate property
of such joint contractor or copartner.
§3277. (3210.) (3199.) May issue against adm1'ni.strator, etc. Process of
attachment may issue against an administrator on an estate, or the ex-
ecutor of the last will and testament of any deceased person, as in other
cases, when such administrator or executor shall be actually removing,
or about to remove, the roperty of said deceased person without the
limits of any county of t is State: Provided, ﬁnal judgment shall not be
entered up against such administrator or executor until after the ex—
iration of two years from the granting of letters of administration, or
otters testamentary, as the case may be.
§3278. (3210.) (3199.) Attachments lie for any money demand. In all
cases of money demands, whether arising ea: contractul or ea: delicto, plain
tiﬁ' shall have the right to sue out the attachment when the defendant
shall have placed himself in such situation as willauthorize a laintiﬂ‘
to sue out attachment upon the plaintiﬁ"s complying with the aw now
of force III relation to issuing attachments.
§3279. ( 3211.) (3200.) ilfay be su-ed out by a security against his printi
In all cases where a person is surety or indorser upon an instru
ment of writing, and the principal shall become subject to attachment,
_'according to the provisions of section 3264 of this Code, it shall be law
ful for such surety or indorser, upon complying with the provisions of
this Code_in relation to the issuing of attachments, to have attachment
against ll1S principal ; and the proceedings shall be, in all respects, the
same as in other cases of attachment, according to the provisions of this
Code, and the money raised by such attachments shall be paid to the
person holdin such instrument of writing. But if the surety or in
dorser has paitgi the debt, then the money raised upon such attachment,
or so much thereof as will pay the amount the surety or indorser has
paid, shall be paid to such surety or indorser; and in case the debt is
not due at the time judgment is rendered against the principal, exe
cution shall be stayed until the debt is due.
§3280. (3212) ( 3201.) When suit is pen.ding. In all cases where the
plaintiff has commenced suit for the recovery of a debt,and the defend
ant, during the pendency of such suit, shall become subject to attach
ment, agreeable to section 3264 of this Code, the plaintiff, upon com
plying with the provisions of this Code in relation to the issuing of
attachments, may have an attachment against the defendant, and all
the proceedings in relation to the same shall be as hereinbefore pre
scribed in relation to attachments where no suit is pending. And :1
satisfaction of the judgment in the common law a.ct1onsshall.satis_f_\'
the judgment in attachment, and a satisfaction of the judgment in
attachment shall satisfy the judgment in the common law action.
§328l. C3213.) ($202.) Foreign 2'nc0rp0mt‘i0ns subject to attarlnnent. At
may issue against incorporations not incor rated by the
laws of this State, who are transacting business within t 1e State, under
the same rules and regulations as are by this Code rescribed in rela
tion to issuing attachments and garnishments in ot er cases.
[Section (3214) Repealed by Constitution of 1868, Article I., sec
tion 18.]
§3‘282. ($3215.) (320-4.) A compliance in substance sufiicient. A subste.ntial
compliance in all matters of form shall be he d sufficient in all
applications for attachment, and in all attachments issued as provided
by this Code. 
3283. (3216.) (3205.) Forms of a davit, bond and attachnwnt. In all
cases of attachment, the form of t e aﬂidavit, bond and attachment
may be as follows: ‘
GI-zonum, COUNTY.
AFFIDAVIT.
Before me, the subscriber, a
in and for said county,
personally, and on oath sa s that is indebted to him in the
sum of and that the sai
Sworn to before me, -i, this the -—- day of ——, 18—-.
GEORGIA, COUNTY.
soxn.
\Ve, principal, and , security, acknowled e ourselves
bound unto, —— in the sum of dollars, subject tot e following
conditions:
That the said , principal is seeking an attachment against the
 
said , which is now about to be sued out, returnable to the —
term of the -—- Court of the county aforesaid : now, if the said
shall pay all damages that the said may sustain, and also all costs
that may be incurred by him in consequence of suing out such attach
ment, in the event that the said shall fail to recover in said case,
then this bond to be void.
Executed in presence of , this i day of Z, 18-.
Gaoacm, COUNTY
ATTACHMENT.
 
To all and singular the She1~z:ﬂ"s and constables of said State:
You are hereby commanded to attach and seize so much of the prop
erty of as will make the sum of dollars and all costs, and
also to serve such summons and garnishment as may be laced in your
hands, and that you make return of this attachment, with your actings
and doings entered thereon, to the ———term of the ——- Court of said
county, to which Court this attachment is hereby made returnable.
Hereof fail not.
Witness my hand and seal,
,this the —— day of——, 18——.
[n s.]
L. s.
L. s.
. §3284. (3217.) ( 3206.) Duty of the oﬂicer to whom the attcwhrneni is directed.
It shall be the duty of any one of the ofiicers to whom an attach
ment may be directed, as provided in section 3273, Article I., to levy
the same upon the property of the defendant that mav be found in the
county of which he is Sheriff, or constable; and when an attachment
shall come into the handsof an oﬂicerof the county in w ich such at
tachment is returnable, and t e defendant shall have removed his
property beyond the limits of said county before such an attachment is
executed, it shall be the duty of the otﬁcer having such attachment to
follow such property into any county in the State and levy the same,
and brirl; the property back into the county where the attachment is
returna e.
§3285. 3218.) ( 3207.) Attachments must be returned. It shall be the
duty of t e oﬁicer levying such attachment to return the same, with
his actings and doings entered thereon, together with the aﬁidavit and
bond, to the Court to which the same is made returnable.
§3286. ($3219.) (3208.) (wiser mast levy, etc. In all cases it shall be the
duty of the oﬂicer levying attachments, to levy them in the order in
which they came in his hands, and it shall be his duty to enter upon
the same the year, month. day of the month, and hour of the day on
which he made the levy.
§3287. (3220.) (3209.) May be levied on the property, etc. \Vhen an at
tachment has been issued by the pro er otﬁcer, the same may be levied
upon the pro erty of the defendant, oth real and personal, which may
be found in t e county.
§3288. (3221.), (3'210.) May be levied by service of arnishment. Service
of the attachment, by serving process of garnis ment, shall be as ef
fectual for all purposes as though the attachment had been served by
levying the same upon the property of the defendant.
§3289. $3222.) (321l.) Shares or interest in any corporation, etc. VVhen the
process o attachment shall issue against a party who shall have or
own any interest, or an amount of shares, in any corporation in this
State, the same may be attached in the followin manner : The oﬂicer in
whose hands the attachment is placed, shall in orse an entry thereon of
his levy on the corporate shares or interest of the defendant, and shall
forthwith serve a copy or the attachment so indorsed upon the presi
dent of the corporation, at the oﬁice of the company, or by leaving the
same at the usual or most notorious place of doing the business of such
-company, which entry and service shall amount to and be considered
a seizure of said corporate interest or shares, to all intents and pur
poses, and under an execution issued on such attachment may be sold
as in other cases of ordinary execution. 
§3223.) (3212.) Transfer after levy is void. Any transfer b the
defendant of the stock or interest so attached after the lev ' of suc at-
tachment, shall be void, and when an execution is issued, t e said stock
or interest shall be sold by the Sheriff, or his deputy, according to the
provisions of this Code, to make bank and other stocks subject to exe
cutions.
§3291. (3224.) (3213.) wcer sellin must give ai certiﬁcate. Certiﬁcates
of purchase shall be granted by t e ofﬁcer selling as rescribed in
cases of executions, and on presentation of such certi cates to the
proper oﬁicer of said corporation, it shall be his duty to make such
transfer on his books, if necessary, and afford the purchaser such evi
dence of title to the stock purchased, as is usual and necessary with
other stockholders.
§3292. (322-5.) (3214) Vendor may attach for purchase money. In all
cases of sale of lands, where the vendor has not executed a deed of
conveyance to the purchaser for the same, but has given bond for titles,
or other evidence of the contract, and the purchase money has not been
paid, and the vendee shall become liable to attachment agreeable to
the provisions of section 3264 of this Code, attachment may issue
against him at the instance of the vendor, upon com lying with the
provisions of this Code in relation to attachments; w ich said attach
ment shall be levied upon the land described in the bond, or other evi
dence of contract for titles, and the subsequent proceedings shall be,
in all respects, as heretofore prescribed in this Code in relation to at
tachments; and it shall be lawful for the partv bound by such bond, or
other contract for titles, to file in the clerk’s oflice of the Superior Court
of the county where the land is situated, a good and suﬁicient deed of
conveyance of said land tothe obli ee of said bond or other contract
for titles; and when judgment is o%tained upon such attachment, the
execution issuing thereon may be levied upon said land, and the same
be sold, and the money arising from said sale shall be appropriated to
the pa ment of said judgment on the attachment, to the exclusion of
any ot er attachment, judgment or other debt of the defendant.
§3293. Atta/rhment may issue Igor urc/uwe money, where. [Process of
attachnieiit may issue in beha 0 any creditor whose debt is created
by the purchase of prolperty, upon such debt becoming due, when the
debtor who created sue de tis in the ossession of the pro erty, for the
purchase of which the debt was createg. (a.) Or where saig property is
in the possession of any one holdiii t e same for the beneﬁt of said
debtor, or in fraud against such cre itor; and jud ments on such at
tachments shall take rank from the date of the evy of the attach
ment.
§3294. Attachment, hm_v obtained. [Before process of attachment shall
issue, under the preceding section, the part seeking the attachment.
agent or attorney at law, shall make a davit before some rson
authorized by law to issue attachnients, that the debtor has plac him
self in the position mentioned in said section, and also the amount of
the debt claimed to be due; and shall also describe in the affidavit the
property for which the debt was created. When the affidavit is made
y _ the agent or attorney at law, he may swear that the amount
claimed to be due is due, according to the best of his knowledge and
belief. The oﬂicer issuing the attachment, before issuing the same.
shall take from the party seeking the attachment, a bond in double
the amount claimed to be due, conditioned and made payable as at~
tachment bonds are, by the provisions of this Code, required to be con
ditioned and made payable.
§3295. Att_aehme_nt, how issued and levied. [Aﬂidavit being thus made
and bond given, it shall be the duty of the oﬁicer before whom such
is made, to issue an attachment a ainst the defendant, which
shall be levied only on the property_descr1 ed in said affidavit, by the
officer to whom the attachment is directed.
§3296. Subsequent proceedings. [S0 much of the law of this Code as
regulates the proceedings in relation to remedy by attachment, as is not
in conﬂict with the three precedin sections, shall apply to and con
trol proceedings under this Article. (d.)
§3297. Attachments where debtor is fmuduleiztly disposing of his pr ert .
PVhenever a debtor shall sell, or convey, or conceal his pro erty iab e
or the payment of his debts, for the ur ose of avoidingt e payment
of the same, or whenever a debtor s ali) threaten or prepare so to do,
his creditors may petition the Judge of the Superior Court of the cir
cuit where such debtor resides, if qualiﬁed to act, and if not, the Judge
of any adjoining circuit, fully and distinctly stating his grounds of
complaint against such debtor, and praying for an attachment against
the propert of such debtor liable to attachment, supporting his peti
tion by aﬁi avit, or testimony, if he can control the same] 
§3297. (a.) Additional round for attazrh-nwnt—mezkz'ng fraudulent liens.
Whenever any person s all make a fraudulent lien on his pro erty,P
he shall be subject to the provisions of the laws now in force. re ative
to fraudulent debtors, and in all cases where an attachment is sought
against the fraudulent debtor, the oﬁicer issuing the same shall require
bond and security of the applicant for attachment, as in other cases of
attachment.
§3298. Judge ah-all proceed, how. [Such Judge may then grant an at-
tachment, to be issued in the usual form, and directed as usual, and“
which shall be executed as existing laws provide, and subject to ex
isting laws as to traverse, replevy. demurrer, and other modes of defense;
or such Judge may, if he deem it more proper under the circumstances
of the case as presented to him, before granting such attachment, ap
point a day on which he shall hear the petitioner, and the party
against whom an attachment is prayed, (providing in his order for due
notice to said party,) as to the propriety of granting such attach
ment, and, if satisﬁed upon such hearin that such attachment should
not issue, he shall not grant the same ; ut if satisﬁed that the same
should issue, he shall grant an attachment, to be governed and regu
lated as herein provided for attachments to be issued when no hearing
is had.
§3299. Attachment, how removed. [If the party whose property has
been attached without a hearing, as provided in the precedin scction,1
desires so to do, he may apply to said Judge, stating fully and istinctly
the grounds of his defense, showing why such attachment should not
have been issued, or should be removed, supporting the same by aili
davit, or such other testimony, by aﬂidavit or otherwise, as he can con
trol, such Judge shall then appoint a time and place for hearing both
parties, plaintiff and defendant, providing for due notice to all persons
interested, allowing them full opportunity to sustain their respect
ive cases, as in application upon in'unction, and may then, upon a
review of the law and the facts of t e case, make such order in the
premises as is consistent with 'ustice, either totally or partially remov
ing such attachment, or wholly or partially retaining the same,,oir
disposing of the same in some manner which would be equitable and
just to all parties] (c.) ~
§3300. Stwh attachments, how issued, returned, etc. [Such attachments,
when issued and served, shall be returned and disposed of as attach
ments are now returned and disposed of, and be sub'ect to the same
defenses, and may be taken out, u n the aﬂidavit of t e agent or attor
ney of the creditor, if he can, by is own oath, make out a case which
wi 1 satisfv said Judge. (a.)
§3301. Cranting or re using attachments ma be excepted to. The decision
of the Judge granting or refusing an attac ment under t e provisions
of this Article, may be excepted to and carried to the Supreme Court,
as was racticed in applications for injunction prior to 28th October,
1870.
§3302. (3226.) (3215.) Gm"niah1nmt,howobtaz'ned. In all cases where
attachment mav issue, it shall be the duty of the magistrate, or other
oﬁicer issuing the same, at the request of the plaintiff, his agent or
attorney at law, to issue summons of garnishment, directed to any r
son that may be indebted to, or have property or eﬂects of the defen at
in their hands, re uiring them to appear at the Court to which the
attachment is ma e returnable, then and there to de e on oath what
they were indebted to the defendant at the time of t e service of said
garnishment, or what property or effects of his they have in their
ands, or had at the time of the service of said summons of garnish
ment; and it shall be the duty of the oﬂicer levying such attachment
to serve such summons of garnishment.
§3303. ( 3227.) Q3216.) When garnishee resides out of the county, dc.
[VVhen the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney at law, shall desire to gar
nishee persons not residing in the county in which the attachment is
sues, it shall be the duty of the magistrate issuing the same, at the
request of the plaintiff, his agent, or attornev at law, to make outa
copy of the aﬂidavit, bond and attachment, and certify the same to be
a true co y; and upon the delivery of such copy to any magistrate, or
other oﬂiger who is authorized by law to issue an attachment, in the
county in which the. person sought to be garnished resides, it shall be
the duty of such ma istrate, or other oﬂicer, to make out a summons of
garnishment for suci persons as he may be requested to do by the
plaintiff, his a ent, or attorney at law, requiring such persons to be
and appear at t e next Superior, or County Court, or J ustice’s Courtof
the county in which it issued, and depose in the manner rescribed by
law; but if the next Court, as aforesaid, shall be held wit in less than
ten days next after the issuing of said summons of garnishment, then
the person garnished shall be required to appear and de se at the next
Court thereafter ; which said summons may be serv by any oﬁioer
authorized by law to levy an attachment, who shall return such certi
ﬁed copy, aﬂidavit, bond and attachment, to the Court as aforesaid, to
gether with his actings and doings entered thereon.
§3304. ($3228.) (3217.) If the gamishee fails to answer, etc. \Vhen any
person summoned as garnishee fails to appear, in obedience to the summons,
and answer at the ﬁrst term of the Court at which he is required
to appear, the case shall stand continued until the next term of the
Court; and if he should fail to appear and answer by said next
term, the laintiﬁ may, on motion, have 'udgment against him for the
amount o the judgment he may have 0 tained against the defendant
in attachment, or so much thereof as shall remain unpaid at the time
the judgment is rendered against the garnishee; and the Court ma
continue the case until ﬁnal judgment is rendered against the defen -
ant in attachment.
§3305, (3229.) (3218) If the garniahee admits qﬂ"ects. \Vhen the gar-A
nishee ap ears and answers that he is indebted to, or has property or
eﬁects in is hands belonging to, the defendant in attachment, judgment
shall be rendered against him in favor of the plaintiff for such
acknowled ed indebtedness, and the roperty and effects, whatever
they may e, shall be delivered into t e hands of the Sheriff or con
stable, as the case may be, and by order of the Court shall be by him
sold, and the money arising from such sale shall be held subject to
the order of the Court, and in case the garnishee fails to deliver over
such property or effects to the oﬁicer as aforesaid, it shall be lawful for
the Court to attach him as for contem t; the property and effects so sur
rendered and delivered into the han s of the oiiicer, as aforesaid, shall
be sold at such time and lace, and after such notice given, as the Court
ordering the same shall irect.
§3306. ($5230.) ($3219.) Plainti may traverse the answer of gar'mIahee.1
W en the summons of garnis ment is returnable to the Superior or
County Court, and the plaintiﬂ‘ in attachment is not content with the
answer of the garnishee, he may at the term of the Court to which the
return is made, traverse the same, and the issue formed upon such tra
verse shall be tried at the same term by a petit jury, unless cause is
shown for a continuance. On the trial of said issue, it shall be compe
tent for the plaintiff to show the amount of indebtedness of the ar
nishee, and the value of the roperty and effects not surrendere as
aforesaid; and upon ﬁnal ju gment being rendered against said gar
nishee, the plaintiff in attachment shall have execution for the amount
of such judgment and cost as at common law.
§3307. (3231.) (3220.) If the issue is in a Justi1:e’s C'0u.rt. When the
summons of garnishment is returnable to a J ustice’s Court, the issue
formed upon the traverse as aforesaid, shall be tried by [the J ust-ice of
the Peace, with the right of appeal according to the law govern1ngap
' peals from Justices’ Courts
§3308. (3232) (32'21.) Declaration shall be ﬁled, when. \Vhen the at
tachment has been returned to the proper Court, the subsequent pro
'ceedings shall be in all respects the same as in cases where there is
personal service, and when the attachment is returnable to the Supe
rior or County Court, the plaintiff shall ﬁle his declaration at the ﬁrst
term.
§3309. (3233) (3222) Notice to defendant. The plaintiff, his agent,or
to the defendant of the
attorney at law, may give notice in writing
pendency of such attachment and of the
shall be served personally on the defendant by the S eriif, his de uty,
proceedin s thereon, which
or a constable of the count to which said attachment is returnab e, by
giving him a copy of sai notice, at least ten days before ﬁnal 'udg
ment on said attachment, and returning said ori inal notice with his
service entered thereon to the Court in which sai attachment is pend
ing, which being done, the judgment rendered upon such attachment
shall have the same force and effect as jud ments rendered at common
law; and no declaration shall be dismissed ecause the attachment may
have been dismissed or discontinued, but the plaintiff shall be entitled
to jud ment on the declaration ﬁled, as in other cases at common law,
upon t 1e merits of the case.
§3310. (3234.) (3223). Defendant may make his defense. The de-
fendant may appear by himself or attorney at law, and make his de-
fense at any time before ﬁnal judgment is rendered against him.
§3311. (3235).) (3224.) Defendant may plead a set-017‘ not due. Any de-5
fendant against whom an attachment may issue for the recovery of a
demand which is not due, under the provisions of section 3275, Article
I., may avail himself in his defense of any set-off pleadable by the la.ws
d this State, notwithstanding such set-off may not be due at the time
of suing out such attachment, or at the trial thereof; and if said set-oﬁ‘,
so pleaded, shall exceed the plaintiﬁ"s demand, the defendant shall
have judgment against the plaintiff for such excess as at common law
with a stay of execution until the time the said set-off so pleaded shall
become due.
§33l2. ($5236.) (322-5.) May traverse the truth of plaintifs aﬁidmnlt. In
all cases of attachment the defendant may traverse the truth of the
aﬁidavit in relation to the ground upon which the attachment issued
at the return of the attachment, and if said attachment is returnable
to the Superior Court, the issue formed upon such traverse shall be
tried by a jury at the same term, unless good cause is shown for a con
tinuance; and if the ﬁnal verdict upon such issue shall be in favor of
the defendant, said attachment shall be dismissed at the cost of the
plaintiff. And if the attachment is returnable to a Justice Court, the§§
issue formed upon the traverse aforesaid shall be tried by [the Justice
ofthe Peace, with the right of appeal, according to the law regulating
appeals from Justice’s Courts.
§33l3. ( 3237.) (3226) No traverse shall delay plaintrf No traverse of
the plaintiﬁ"s attachment, affidavit, or other proceeding of the attach-
ment shall delay judgment on the declaration where personal service
has been perfected, but judgment may be had thereon, subject to the
rules of the common law, as well before the trial of the issue made on
the attachment proceedings as afterward.
§3314. (3238) (3227.) either party die, parties may be made. In case
either plaintiff or defendant shall die before ﬁnal judgment is rendered
in any case, and there is representation upon the estate of the defend-
ant, parties shall be made in the same manner as in cases where there
is personal service. But'if there is no known representation upon the
estate of the defendant within this State, and the plaintiff shall die,
his executor or administrator may, at any time after his qualiﬁcation
as such, cause to be issued by the 'C1erk of the Court, or Justice of the
Peace, a scirefacias, returnable to the next term of the Court after issu
ing the same, giving notice to the opposite party of his intention to be
made aparty in lace of his deceased testator or intestate, which shall
be posted u at t e door of the Court House where such attachment is
pending at east twenty days before the term at which such scire facias
1s made returnable; and upon affidavit being made by the executor or
administrator of this being done, and said affidavit being ﬁled among
the pa ers in the case, said executor or administrator shall, on motion.
be ma e a party, and the same proceed in his name.
§3315. (3239.) (3228) Ontlw death of defendant. When the defendant
shall die seire facias shall issue in the manner aforesaid after the expi
ration of twelve months from the death of the defendant, directed to
the representative of the deceased defendant, notif ing him of the pen
dency of such attachment, and of the intention 0 the plaintiﬂ' to pro
ceed with the sanie, which being osted as aforesaid, and aﬂidavit made
and ﬁled as aforesaid, 1t shall be awful for the plaintiff to proceed in
the same manner as though the death of the defendant had not 0:
curred, but the executor or administrator upon the estate may, at agrliiy
time before ﬁnal judgment upon the attachment, come in and be m e
a party, and defend 1n the same manner as his tcstator or intestate
might have done.
§3316. (3240.) (3229.) Attachments and returns thereon amendable. The
plaintiﬁ‘ in attachment shall have the right to amend his attachment,
or bond, or declaration as in other cases at common law, and the levy
ing oﬁicer shall have the right to amend his return by supplying any
omissions or errors, and the Court before which the attachment shall be
returned shall have power to order said amendments.
§3317. (3241.) (3230) Judgment may be set aside for fraud A judg
ment in attachment may be set aside in a Court of law upon an issue
sug estin fraud or want of consideration, tendered by a judgment
cre itor o the defendant in attachment.
§3318. (3242.) (3231.) I'nterrogator1'es,h01u sued out. In cases of attach
and garnishment, interrogatories may be sued out and served as
provided in other cases.
§3319. ($243.) (3232) Defendant may replevy property, qﬂrl-er’s duty.
W en an attachment has been levied upon the property of a defend
ant, it shall be the duty of the oﬂicer levying the same to deliver the
lpro erty so levied u n to the defendant, upon his giving bond, with
goog security, payab e to the plaintiff in attachment, obligating them
selves to pay the plaintiff the amount of the judgment and costs that
he may recover in said case: Provided, the property levied on shall be
equal to, or exceed in value, t e amount of the debt sworn to be due;
but in case the (property levied upon shall be of less value than the
amount of the ebt claimed to be due, then the said bond shall be in
double the amount of the property levied upon, to beJudged of by the
levying ofﬁcer;] (a.) and the oﬁicer taking said bon shall return the
same with said attachment to t_he Court to which the same 1S made re
turnable, and it shall he lawful for the plaintiff to take judgment
against the defendant and his securities u on said bond for the amount
of the judgment he may recover in his sai attachment case.
§3320. (32-14.) ($3233.) Property of a, foreign corporation, etc. _ \Vhcn an
attachment shall be levied on the property of an incor oration not in
cor rated by the laws of this State, it shall be lawful or any agent of
sue incorporation to relieve the property levied on, or discharge the
summons of garnishment that may issue, by giving bond to the levying
oﬂicer, payable to the plaintiff, conditioned to pay the amountthat may
be recovered in said case; which bond the levying officer shall return
to the Court to which the attachment is made returnable, and judg
ment may be entered up in like manner against the principal and se~
curity upon said bond for the amount the plaintiff may recover against
such corporation.
§3321. (3245.) (3234) Perishable prop .3; may be sold. Vi/hen the d8-A
fendant fails to replevv the property, and the same remains in the
hands of the levying oiiicer, and is of a perishable nature, or liable to
deteriorate in value from keeping, or there is expense attending the
kee ing of the same (the same not being land), upon these facts being
m e plainly to appear to a Judge of the Superior Court, or county
Judge of the county in which the attachment is returnable, (where the
same is returnable toa Su erior or County Court), or to a Justice of the
Peace of the county (iv ere the same is returnable to a Justice’s
Court), it shall be their duty to order a sale of the property, which
shall be at the usual place of holding Sheriﬁ“'s sales of the county where
such property may be, when the attachment is returnable to the Supe
rior or County Court; and when the attachment is returnable to a
Justice’s Court, at the usual place of constables sales of the district
where the property may be, or at such other place as the magistrate
ordering said sale may direct. The time and place of holding such sale
shall be advertised at the Court House, and at two other public laces
in the county where the same is to take place, at least ten days efore
the day of sale. And when the attachment is returnable to a. J ustice’s
Court, it shall be advertised at the Court House door of the district in
which the attachment is returnable, and the money arising from such
sale shall be held b_y the oﬁicer making the same, subject to the order
of the Court to which the attachment is returnable.
§3322. (3246. (3235.) Claims, how in oserl. When ro ertv shall
b1'd b 't f tth tmdth ' 'pdb
0 e 0 * 0 a 1S0 1 ran
ersolitlenotna >a1itlrtliesucl£irati,l.a:l(i1nIi:1r(il;l itsrhall ﬁesatliiaedut 'aofI'Il:l’1e yersoh
p . . p y . l Y ‘
claiming the same, his agent or attorney at law, to malre oath efore
some person authorized by law to administer an oath, that the property
levied on is the roperty of the claimant, and is not subject to such at
tachment, accor ing to the best of l1is knowledge and belief, and said
claimant shall give bond, with good security, payable to the plaintiif in
attachment, in a. sum at least equal to double the value of the property
claimed, to be 'ud ed of bv the lev in oﬁicer conditioned to ay the
_ J S . Y 8 1 P
plaintiff‘ all damages which the jury, on the trial of the right of prop
erty, may assess against him, in case it should be made to appear that
such claim was made for the purpose of delay; and in case the claim is
interposed by the agent or attorney at law of the claimant, such agent
or attorney at law shall have power to sign the name of the claimant
to the bond, and such claimant shall be bound in the same manner as
though he had signed it himself. It shall be the duty of such oﬂicer
taking such aﬁidavit and bond, to return the same to the Court to
which the attachment is returnable, unless the property levied on
should be real estate, in which case it shall be his duty to return the
same to the Superior Court of the county where the land liesz‘ [Pm
vided, that if the claimant is unable to give such bond and securitv, he
may interpose his claim, as elsewhere provided in this Code.
§3323. (3247.) (3236.) How tried. The claim shall be tried in the
same manner and subject to the same rules and regulations as are pre~
scribed by law for the trial of other claims in the Court to which it is
returned.
§3324. (3248) (32-37.) The claimant, his agent or attorney may 7‘q)lﬂ‘_l].
The claimant, his agent, or attorney at law, may give bond, with good
security, ayable to the levying oﬂicer, in a sum equal to double the
value of t e property claimed, the value to be judged of by the levy
ing officer, conditioned to deliver such property at the time and place
of sale, provided the same should be found subject to the attachment;
and, upon the delivery of such bond to the levying oﬁicer, it shall be
his duty to deliver such pro erty to the claimant, his agent or attorney
at law, and it shall be the duty of the levyin officer to return sue
bond, together with the afﬁdavit and claim bon ,tothe Court to which
such attachment is returnable; and when said claim is interposed by
the agent, or attorney at law, of the claimant, such agent, or attorney
at law shall have power to sign the name of the claimant to the bon ,
who shall be bound thereby in the same manner as though he had
signed it himself.
3325. (3249.) (3238.) On failure of claimant to deliver, etc. Upon the
fai ure of the claimant to deliver such property, according to the con-
ditions of said bond, the levying officer may immediately sue the
claimant and security upon the bond, and recover the full value of the
propert claimed, and also all damages, costs and charges, that the
plainti may have sustained .in consequence of the failure of the com
plainant to deliver said property.
§3326. (3250) (3239.) May be sued for hire or use of property. ' In cases
where the claimant shall deliver the property, and upon selling the
sarne a suﬂicient amount shall not be raised to pay the debt and costs
of the plaintiff, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff to institute suit
against the claimant and his securities upon his said bond, and to re
cover the full value of the hire or use of the property while the same
has been in the possession of the claimant, and also full damages for
any deterioration of the value of the property, by use or otherwise,
while the same has been in the possession of the claimant. provided
such recovery shall not exceed the amount of the debt that mav re
main due from the defendant in attachment to the plaintiff. [Tl10
remedy provided in this section is and shall be extended to all other
claims in the cases herein provided for.
§3327. ( 3251.) (3240.) Claim may be interposed. In cases of attach
ment, a claim may be interposed either before or after judgment.
§3328. C3252.) ( 3241.) When judgment binds deg'enda11t’s property. When
the defendant has given bond and security, as provided in section 3319
of this Code, or when he has appeared and made defense by himself or
. - attorney
at law, or when he has been clted to a pear, as provided 1n.'
section 3309 of this Code, the judgment rendere against him in such
case shall bind all his property, and shall have the same force and effect
as when there has been personal service, and execution shall issue ac
cordingly, but it shall be ﬁrst levied upon the property attached. In
all other cases, the judgment on the attachment shall only bind the
property attached, and the judgment shall be entered only against such
property.
§3329. (3253) (3242) Executions mast isms on all judgment-9. After the
ju grnent has been obtained in any ease of attachment, execution shall
lssue, as in cases at common law, which execution shall be levied in
the same manner as executions issuing at common law, and the pro
ceedings, in all respects, shall be the same, except that when the judg
ment only binds the roperty levied on by the attachment, as aforesaid,
the execution shall e issued against such property only, and that
property only shall be levied on and sold.
§3‘230. (3254.) ( 3243.) Money ra-ised, how applied. All money raised by
the sale of defendant’s property, or otherwise, by virtue of the pro
visions of this Code, in relation to attachments, shall be aid over to
the creditors of the defendant, according to the priority o the lien of
their judgments, saving only that as between attaching creditors, the
attachment ﬁrst levied shall be ﬁrst satisﬁed, to the entire exclusion of
any attachment of younger levy.
§3331. (3255.) (32-14.) I/ien. oj attachments, how created. The lien of
attachment is created by the levy, and not the judgment on the attach
ment; and in case of a conﬂict between attachments, the ﬁrst levied
shall be ﬁrst satisﬁed; but in a contest between attachments and ordi
nary judglments, or suits, it is the judgme'nt, and not the levy, which
ﬁxes the ien.
§3332. (3256.) (324-5.) Suits, how c'0'mme'ru'cd. Ordinar suits in the
Superior Court shall be by etition to the Court,‘ signed y the laintiﬂ
or is counsel, plainly,‘ full)' and distinctly setting forth his c arge or
demand, and no want of form shall be cause of delay, if this Article is
substantially complied with.
§3333. (3257) (3246. Time of ﬁling to be indorsed. Upon such petition
the clerk shall in orse the date of its ﬁling in office, which shall
be considered the time of the commencement of the suit.
§3334. 3258.) (3247.) Process to be annexed. To such petition the
clerk shal annex a. process, (unless the same be waived) si ned by the
clerk or his deput ' and bearing test in the name of a udge of the
Court, and directe to the Sheriff or his deputy, requiring the appear
ance of the defendant at the return term of the Court.
§3335. (3259) (3248.) Appearance and leading cure defects. Appear
ance and leading shall be a. waiver of a 1 irregularities of the process,
or of the a sence of process, and the service thereof.
3336. (3260.) (3245).) If the Judge be dead, etc. If the Judge in whose
name the process bears test is dead, or otherwise disqualiﬁed at the time,
the process shall be good and amended on motion.
§3337. (3261.) (3250.) Process and service may be waived. The defend
ant may acknowledge service or waive process, provided the same be
in writing, signed by the defendant, or some one authorized by him.
§3338. ( 3262.) (3'25l.) Wlwretobe ﬁled. The original petition shall
be deposited in the clerk’s oﬁice at least twenty days before the term
to which it is returnable; and if delivered within the twenty days,
the clerk shall make the same returnable to the next term thereafter.
§3339. ($5263.) (32-52.) Original and copy to be delivered to Shemf The
clerk shall deliver the original petition, with process annexed, to-f
gether with a. copy of the petition and process for each defendant, to
the Sheriff or his deputy, who shall serve such copy upon each defend-
ant residing in the county at least ﬁfteen days before the ﬁrst day of
the term, and within ﬁve days from the time of receiving the same,
and make an entrv of such service _upon the original petition, and re-
turn the same to the clerk. Leaving a copy at the defendant’s resi-
dence shall be a sufficient service.
§3340. (3264.) (3253.) Entry of Sheriff may be traversed. The entry of
the Sheriﬁ, [or any oﬂicer of the Court,] (a.) or his deputy, may be traversed
by the defendant at the ﬁrst term after notice of such entry is
had by him, and before pleading to the merits; but this shall not de
prive the defendant of his right of action against the Sheriﬁ‘ for a false
return. 
§3341. (3265.) (32-54.) When defendants reside out of the county. If any;3~
of the defendants reside out of the county, the clerk shall issue a second
original and copy for such other county or counties, and forward the
same to the Sheriff, who shall serve the co y and return the second
original, with his entry thereon, to the cler of the Court from which
the same issued.
§3342. ($5266.) (3255.) If no Slwri or clerk be elerted. If any county
shall refuse or neglect to elect a S eriﬂ' or clerk for sixty days after a
vacancy shall have occurred, suitors may apply to any clerk or Sheriﬂ
of an adjoining county, and have the requisite duty erformed by them,
and their acts shall be as valid as if they were 0 cers of such delin
quent countv.
§3343. ($3267.) (3256) If rocess be delivered too late. If the process is
delivered to the Sheriff, or is deputy, too late for service within the
time speciﬁed, he shall return the same, with an entry, stating the
truth of the case, and if the defendant cannot be found, and does not
reside within the county, the Sheriff shall make return of the fact in
the same manner.
§3341. ($3268.) ($3257.) If the Sheriff is aparty, etc.
party to the cause, the process shall be directed to the coroner of the
county, and to the Sheriffs of the adjoining counties, and may be served
by either, as convenience may suggest.
§3345. (3269.) (3258.) Petition or process not a ected by formal objectimw.
No technical or formal objections shall invali ate any petition or pro
ccss, but if the same substantially conforms to the requisitions of this
Code, and the defendant has had notice of the pendency of the cause,
all other objections shall be disregarded: Provided, there 1s a legal cause
of action set forth as required by this Code.
§3346. (3270. (3259.) S ial pleadingu notadmitfed. N0 special plead
ings shall be a mitted at aw in the Superior Courts, and everycase
shall go to the jury and be tried upon the petition, process, and answer
alone, and no non-suit shall be awarded when the cause of action is
substantially set forth in the declaration for any formal variance be
tween the allegations and the proof.
§3347. 3271.) (3260) Joint contractors, where sued. In all cases where
a person esires to institute a suit upon any bond, note, or other writ-
ten obligation, subscribed b several persons who reside in different
counties such person shaliy have his option to institute his suit in
either of: said counties, and the process shall be issued, served and re
turned, as provided in this Code, and on such return plaintiff may pro
ceed as in other cases.
§3348. (3272.) (3261.) Representative of obligor mat be sued, etc. \Vhere
any person shall be in ossession, (in his own rig t, or in any other
capacity,) of any note, ill, bond or other obligation in writing, signed
by two or more persons, and one or more of the persons, whose names
are so signed as aforesaid, shall die before the payment of the money,
or the compliance with the conditions of said bond, or obligation in
writing, the erson holding such bill, bond, note, or other obligation in
writing, shal not be compelled to sue the survivors alone, but may at
his discretion sue the survivor, or survivors, or the representatives of
such deceased nerson or persons, or survivor, or survivors, in the same
action with the representative, or representatives of such deceased
person, or persons: Provided, nothing herein contained shall authorize.
the bringing of an action of any kind, whatever, against the repre
sentative, or representatives of any estate, or estates, until twelve
months after the probate of the will, or the grantiiig of letters of ad
ministration on such estate, or estates.
§3250. (3274.) ( 3263.) Several joint copartners sued in the sanw ad-ion,
etc. When two or more joint contractors, or joint and several contrac
tors, or copartners are sued in the same action, and service shall be per
fected on one or more of said contractors or copartners, and the oﬂicer
serving the writ shall return that the rest are not to be found, it shall
and may be lawful for the plaintiff to proceed to judgment and execu
tion against the defendants who are served with process in the same
manner as if they were the only or sole defendants, and if either of
the defendants die lpending such action, his representative may be
made a party, and t e case proceed to jud ment and execution as in
other cases against the representatives of eceased persons.
§3351. ( 3275.) (3264.) Judgmems bind copartnership property etc. J litig
ments so obtained shall bind, and execution may be levied oii the joint
copartnership roperty, and also the individual property, real and per-
sonal, of the efendant or defendants who have een served with ac
copy of the process, but shall not bind or be levied on the individual
property of the defendant or defendants who are not served with a pro
cess.
3352. (3276.) ( 3265.) if several are served, the plea of infancy, etc. In
all cases against 'oint obligors or proinisors, any one or more 
l cases against 'oint obligors or proinisors, any one or more of the
parties may plead infancy ; if such plea b'e sustained, the action shall not
abate, but the Court shall award judgment as in cases of non-suit, in fa
vor of the partv or parties so pleading, and permit the plaintiff to pro
ceed against the other defendant or defendants to said suit, without
further delay or costs.
§3353. ( 3277.) (3266.) When the maker’ and indorser reside in diﬂ'ercnt5g
counties, etc. In case a maker and indorser of a romissory note reside
in different counties, the same ma be sued in t e same county where
the maker resides; and a copy 0 the petition and process served on
the indorser residing out of the county in which the suit may be com
menced, as provide in case of joint obligors and promisors shall be
deemed sufiicient service.
§3354. (3278) (3267.) Suit on attachment, bond of plaintzf When a
person who has been a defendant in attachment desires to sue the plaintiﬂ'
for damages, and the plaintiff shall not reside in this State, it shall
be suﬁicient to serve a cop Y of the petition and process on the security
to the bond given by the plaintiff, and said action may proceed against
both principal and security.
§3355. (3279).) (3'268.) Land divided by county lines. In all cases where
any person residing in one county whose plantation or land extends
over the line into an adjoining count ,and there is no one u n whom
service in an action of ejectment can e legally perfected in t e county
where such land may lie, it shall be lawful for the Clerk of the Supe
rior Court of the county wherein such land may lie, to issue process in
behalf of the plaintiﬁ' against the defendant, which process shall be
directed to the Sheriﬂ' of the county wherein such land may lie, and
su<l:hdSheriﬂ' shall serve the same, and such service shall be good and
va 1 .
§3356. (3280) 3269.) Mesne roﬁta, how recovered. The plaint_iﬁ' in
ejectment may a d a count in is writ or declaration, and submit the
evidence to the jury, and recover by way of damages all such sums of
money to which he may be entitled by way of meane proﬁts, together
with the premises in'dis ute. The count for mesiw proﬁts may be in
the name of the.nomina or real plaintiff in the action.
§3857. (3281.) (3270.) Marne proﬁts, no sqiarate auit'for._ Noplaintiﬁ
ejectment shall have and maintain a separate action in his behalf
for the recovery of mesne proﬁts which may have accrued to him from
the premises in dispute.
§3358. (3282) (3271.) Joint owner may we alone. Any foint tenant,
tenant in common, or other person havinga part interest in ands or tene
ments, ma have and maintain an action of ejectment or trespass for the
recovery o such lands or tenements, or for an in'ury thereto, without
joining with him any other person as plaintiff; ut the judgment in
such case shall not affect the rights of those interested in such lands or
tenements who are not parties to the suit.
§3359. ($3283.) (3272) When several claimants can_1wt join. When sev
eral persons claim several parcels of land under distinct titles, an_d_d0
not sustain to each other the relation of landlord and tenant, a joint
action of ejectment cannnot be maintained against them, nor can a Joint
or several recovery be had in such action, either for the premises or
meme proﬁts.
§3360. (3284.) (3273) True claim.a»nt made dqfmda-nt. A plaintiff in
€_]8CtI1‘16I1l1 may in all cases make the true claimant defendant by serv
ing a copy of the pending action upon him, and the person so notiﬁed
shall be bound by the ju gment.
§3361. (3285) (3274) Defendant may disclaim. A defendant in eject
ment may at the ﬁrst term come in and disclaim any claim of title, or
right of possession; and after such disclaimer is ﬁled, such defendant
,shall not be liable for any future cost.
§3362. ($3286.) (3275.) Juldgmentconclusive. A judgment in ejectment
‘shall be conclusive as to the title between the parties thereto, unless
the jury ﬁnd for the plaintiﬁ" less than the fee.
it between the same parties, involving titles to land, t e jury shall
have the right to determine whether said action has any real merit,
and if none, they shall have the power to determine what amount of
damage the defendant shall have sustained by and on account of said
last mentioned suit, and shall return the same in their verdict, on
which judgment may be rendered, and ﬁeri facias issue, as in other
cases involving moneys] 
§3364. (3288) (3276.) Co-dqfenrlant, who may be. A revious war
rantor of the title to the land in dispute may be a co-de endant in an
action of ejectment, provided he would be answerable in damages in
case of eviction.
§3365. (3289.) (3277.) The consent rule. The consent rule in eject
ment shall always be considered as ﬁled, and admits lease, entry and
ouster. The ﬁctitious forms in pleading in ejectment shall be suffi
cient.
§3366. (3290.) _(3278.) Plaintzﬁ" may recover on his 1m-iorposssssion, when.
A plaintiff in eyectment may recover the premises in dispute upon
his prior possession alone, against one who subsequently acquires pos
session of the land by mere entry, and without any lawful right what
ever.
On a second
§3367. (3291.) (3279.) Joint stock co1npam'es, corpomtzbns, em, how sued.
all suits against the members of a private association, joint stock
company, or the members of existing or dissolved corporations, to re
cover a debt due by the association, com any, or corporation, of which
they are or have been members, or for t e a propriation of money or
funds in their hands to the payment of such ebt, the plaintiff or com
plainant in such suit may institute the same, and roceed to judgment
therein against all or any one or more of the mem ers of such associa
tion, company, or corporation, or any other person liable, and recover
of the member or members sued the amount of unpaid stock iii his
hands, or other indebtedness of each member or members: Provzkied,
the same does not exceed the amount of the plaintiffs debt against
such association, compan , or corporation ; and if it exceed such debt,
then so much only as wil be suﬂicient to satisfy such debt.
§3368. (3292) (3280.) LzTab'il2'ty of railroad cmnpanies. In all cases
where the person or property of an individual may be injured, or such
propertydestro 'ed, by the carelessness, negligence, or impro r conduct
of any_ railroa company, or oﬁicer, agent, or employee 0 such oom
pany, in or b the running of the cars or engines of the same, such.
company shal b_e liable to pay damages for the same to any one whose
pro erty or person may be so injured or destroyed, notwithstanding any
y- awe, rules, or regu ations, or notice, which may be made, passed, or
given, by such company, limiting its liability.
3369. (3293.) (3281) Service of process, how perfected. Service of all
bills, subpoenas, writs, attachments, and other original process necessary
to the commencement of an suit a ainst any corporation in any Court
of law or equity, except as hereina ter provided, may be perfected by
serving any oﬁieer or agent of such corporation, or by leaving the same
at the place of transacting the usual and ordinary public business of
such corporation, if any such lace of business then shall be within the
jurisdiction of the Court in wiiich said suit may be commenced. The
ofﬁcer shall specify the mode of service in his return.
_§3369. (a.) Service of companies where roads are leased. Whenever any
railroad company, incorporated under thelaws of this State, or whose line
of road may extend into this State, may have leased their line of road
to any person or corporation, and said lessee, or lessees, are in possession
of said road, service on such leasin company mav be perfected as fol
lows: The plaintiff shall ﬁle wit the Clerk of the Superior Court,
Judge of the County Court, or Justices of the Peace, where such suit is
commenced, a. notice in writing, directed to the president of the leasing
company, informing him fully of the pendency of .such suit, and its
nature, which shall be enclosed in a. Si’/8.lI"l&)6d envelope, to be furnished
by and at the expense of the plaintiff, an sent by said clerk, County
Judge or Justice through the mail to the president of the leasing com
pany at his residence, -at least ﬁfteen days before the appearance term,.
and said Clerk, Judge or Justice shall, in addition, deliver to the Sheriﬁ
or constable a copy of the writ or summons, who shall serve the same on
the depot agent of said lessees, and make return thereof as in other cases.
§3370. (3294.) (3‘282.) When and how service may be perfected by ublww
tion. In all cases where any corporation shall have no publicp ace for
doing business, or shall have no individual in oﬁice upon whom service
of writs or process may be perfected within the knoweldge of any
party, COI1'|é?llﬂ.1IlZ].I1l5 either in law or equity, the said complainant may
make an a 'davit that the said corporation has no public place of doing
business, or has no individual in oﬁice upon whom service of writs or
process may be perfected, within the knowledge of said compla.inant,,
and such aﬂidavit being ﬁled in the clerk’s oiﬁce of the Court to which
the said writ may be made returnable, the clerk of the said Court shall
issue a citation to the said defendants to be and a pear at the said
Court, to answer the complaint; which citation shal be published once
a week for three weeks prior to the Court to which the said complaint
may be returnable, in some newspaper ublished in the county in.
which suit is brought. If no pa er is pu lished therein, then in the
one nearest thereto ; and such a vertisement shall be deemed and held
a service upon such corporation for all purposes either in law or equity,
and any copy of the newspaper containing said publication shall be
received in any of the Courts as sufficient evidence of such service.
§3371. (3295.) (3283.) Notice to stockholders and ejfect of. Plaintiffs or
complainants, within one month after the institution of any suit or*
suits, at law or equity, against any corporation, joint stock or manu
facturing company, may publish once a week, for four successive weeks,
in some public gazette of this State, notice of the commencement of
said suit or suits, and said publication shall operate as notice to each
stockholder in said corporation, joint stock or manufacturing company,
for the purposes hereinafter mentioned.
§3372. (3296.) (3284.) Judgment or decree. VVhen notice has been given
as provided in the preceding sections, and a judgment or decree has
been obtained against any corporation, joint stock or manufacturing
compan ', where the individual or private roperty of the stockholders
is boun for the whole or any part of the ebts of said incorporation,
joint stock or manufacturing company, execution shall ﬁrst be issued
against the goods andchattles, lands and tenements of said corporation,
'oint stock or manufacturing company; and upon the return thereof
y the proper oﬂicer, with the entry thereon of “no property to be
found,” then, and in that case, the clerk, or other oiﬁcer, upon an ap
plication of the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, accompanied with a
certiﬁcate as hereinafter directed to be obtained, forthwith shall issue
an execution against each of the stockholders (if required) for their
ratable part of said debt and cost of suit, in proportion to their respec
tive shares, orother liabilities under their charter of incorporation.
§3373. (3297.) (328-5.) Pres"id'ing ojﬁcer bound to ice the nmnes, etc. It
shall be the duty of the president or presiding 0 'cer of such incorpo
ration, joint stock or manufacturing company, by whatever name he
may be designated, upon application of the plaintiﬁ“, his agent, or at
torney, forthwith to ive a certiﬁcate, under oath, of the stockholders
in said company, an the number of shares owned by each at the time
of the rendition of judgment against said company; and if, upon a
plication by the laintiif, his agent, or attorney, the president, or 0 cer
aforesaid, sha 1 refuse to give a certiﬁcate as aforesaid, or shall ab
scond or conceal liimself to avoid giving the same, the plaintiﬂ‘, his
agent, or attorney may make oath of such refusal, and the clerk, or
other oﬁicer, shall issue an execution against such president or presid
ing ofiicer, as aforesaid, for the amount of principal, interest and cost
of said suit.
§3374. (3298) (3286.) The president may defend suit. If the president,
other officer of said corporation, joint stock or manufacturing com
pany, shall fail or refuse to defend said suit or suits brou ht as afore
said, any one of the stockholders of the said company sha l be permit
ted to plead to and defend the same in as full and am le manner assaid
company, in its corporate capacity, could or might 0.
§3375. (3299.) (3287.) Illegal-ity oj ezecztfzbn. In a judgment against
corporation, joint stock or manufacturing company, under the pro
visions of this Code, the defendant or defendants in execution shall be
entitled to an illegality under the same rules, regulations and restric
tions as defendants are in other cases.
§3376. (3300.) (3288) Cumulative only. The preceding sections in
relation to proceedings against corporations, joint stock and manufact
uring companies shall be understood and construed as cumulative of
the common law.
§3377. ($301.) ($3289.) ‘Olaims against a. trust estate etc. Any person
having a claim against any trust estate for services rendered to said
estate or for articles, or property, or money furnished for the use of said
-estate, or where a.Court of equit would render said estate liable for the
payment of said claims, may co lect and enforce the payment of such
claim in a. Court of law.
§3378. (3302) (3290.) How and where sued, etc. The person having
such claim as provided in the previous section, if the same exceeds
the sum of [one hundred] go.) dollars, ma ﬁle his petition, setting
forth the grounds of such c aim, and also lio
w and in what manner
said estate is liable for the payment of said claims, and also setting
forth the name or names of the trustees and the castui we trust, which
petition shall be ﬁled in the oﬂice of the Clerk of the uperior Court
under the same rules and regulations as in ordinary cases at common
law, and the subsequent proceedings shall be, in all respects, the same.
§3379. (3303.) (3291.) Party defendant. If there is no trustee, or he
a mere naked trustee and non-resident 1n the county, the ee.st~ui que
trust shall be made the defendant, and the proceedings shall be, in all
respects, the same as when the trustee is defendant.
§3380. (3304.) (3292. How and where sued, etc. \Vhen the claim does
not exceed the sum of one hundred] (a.) dollars, [principal,] (a.) suit
'ma_v be brought in a J ust1ce’s Court, under the same rules and regula
tions as in ordinary suits in those Courts, saving only. that the sum
shall set forth hoév and in WI€1B.th\\'8-ydﬂﬂjd trust estate is liable
for the payment of sai claim" an t e 'u gments rendered in a Jus
tice’s Court shall have the same forcg agtll effe t as is hereinafter pre
scribed in relation to judgments ren er in t e Su erior Court.
§3381. (330-5.) (3293.) Trust estate only bound. T e judgment thus
rendered shall impose no personal liability on the trustee, or in any
wav render his property liable for the payment of the same; but said
judgment shall only bind such trust estate, and execution shall issue
accordingly.
§3382. (3306. (3294.) Execution must speczfy property. All executions
issued upon ju gments rendered under the provisions of the ﬁve pre
ceding sections shall specif in the body of the execution the property
upon which the saine 1s to levied, and it shall be levied on noother
property. 
§3383. (3307.) (3‘295.) Esrecution returned nulla bona. Upon the ren
dition of a judgment in favor of a arty ainst an executor or admin
istrator upon any liabilit 1 of the ecease -V. and a return of nulla bomr
by the Sheriif or other 0 'cer authorized to make the same, the said
party may at once proceed to sue upon the bond of the executor or
administrator, and may recover judgment against the principal and
his sureties in the same action, and if the rincipal has removed beyond
the limits of this State, or has departed t is life, or has no legal repre
sentative, then he may sue the sureties on his bond.
§3384. (3308.) ($296.) Principal ailing to settle with legatee, etc. \Vhen
any executor or administrator sha l fail to settle and account with any
distributee or legatee of the estate he represents, such distributee or
legatee may institute his suit upon the bond of such representative in
the ﬁrst instance, and may recover judgment against the principal and
his sureties without a suit against the executor or administrator in his
representative character. 
§3385. ($3309.) ($3297.) A ward mag/sue his guardian. When any guar
dian shall fail or refuse to settle and account with his ward upon his
coming of age, such ward may institute his suit in the ﬁrst instance
against his guardian and sureties without ﬁrst suing his guardian.
§3386. (3310.) (3298.) When sureties may be sued in the ﬁrst instance.
hen any executor, administrator or guardian shall remove from this
State, or shall place himself in such situation as by the provisions of
this Code an attachment would lie against a debtor, or if such execu
tor, administrator or guardian is dead and his estate unrepresented, it
shall and may be lawful for any party in interest, or any person having
demands against such executor, administrator or guardian, in such rep
resentative character, to institute his suit against the sureties, or any
one or more of them, upon the bond of such executor, administrator
or guardian, in the ﬁrst instance without ﬁrst obtaininga judgment
against such executor, administrator or guardian in his representative
character.
§3387. (3311) (3299.) Property of principczltﬁrst to be ezvhlausted. When
Ju s
vment shall be obtained against principa and sureties, as provided
in t e four preceding sections, the pro erty of the sureties shall not be
levied upon until that of the principa shall be exhausted, which may
be evidenced by a return of nutta boruz.
§3388. (3312) (3300.) How service perfected on administrator, etc. In
all cases where there are two or more executors or administrators, and
one or more of such executors or administrators shall remove without
the limits of this State, service of any writ or process upon those re
maining in the State shall be as effectual and complete, for all purposes
whatever, as though service had been made upon all such executors or
administrators.
§3389.- (3313.) (3301.) Form for the recovery of real e-state. The form
of a declaration for the recovery of real estate and mesm proﬁts maybe
as follows, to-wit :
Gaonom,
-—— Courzrv.
The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D., of said county is in posses
sion of a certain tract of land in said county (here describe the land), to
which your petitioner claims title; that the said C. D. has received the
proﬁts of said land since the —- day of ——, 18——, of the yearly value
of dollars, and refuses to deliver said land to your petitioner, or to
pay him the proﬁts thereof' wherefore your petitioner prays proces
may issue re airing the said C. D. to be and appear at the next Supe
rior Court to e held in and for said county, to answer your petitioner’s
complaint.
§3390. (3314.) (3302) For the recovery of crsonal property. The form
of a declaration for the recovery of personaliproperty may be as follows,
to-wit:
GEORGIA,
-—— COUNTY.
}To THE Suraaroa Couar or sun COUNTY.
l To THE — Couar or saw COUNTY.
The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D. of said county is in posses
sion of a certain (here describe the property) of the value of -—— dol
lars, to which your petitioner claims title; that the said C. D. refuses
to deliver the said —— to your petitioner, or to pay him the pnoﬁts
thereof: wherefore your petitioner prays process may issue requiring
the said C. D. to be and appear at the next —— Court to answer your
petitioner’s complaint.
In suits brought under this form, the verdicts and judgments may
be the same as in actions of trover.
§3391. ( 3315.) (3303.) For the recovery of moneyon note, etc. The form
of an action to recover money on a note, bill, bond, receipt, or written
romise of any description, by adding a copy of which, with the in
orser’s name (if any), and the credits thereon, and when the action is
on a bond, the breach from which arises, the right of action shall be set
out plainly, may be as follows, to-wit:
Gnoncra,
Q To rm-: i Cover or SAID COUNTY.
-—— COUNTY.
The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D., of said county, is indebted
'to him in the sum of i dollars, besides interest, on a -—-, dated
—, and due ——, which said C. D. refuses to pay: wherefore your
petitioner prays process may issue reauiring the said C. D. to be and
-appear at the next —- Court for sai
t1oner’s complaint.
§3392. Form of action on polwdes of insurance.
recover money on an insurance polic Y may be the same as is prescribed
in the recedin section, and it shall not be necessary to set forth in
the b y of the eclaraticn, alle ations of conditions other than may be
embraced in the form prescribe in said section; nor shall it be neces~
sory to attach a copy of what may be written, or printed upon the
policy, except what appears upon the face and in the body of the
policv. (a.)
[The form of action to
$1393 ($5316.) (3304.) For recovery of money on open account. The form
of an action on an account may be as follows, to-wit:
Gsoaom,
COUNT“ To THE —- Couar or ssm Conrrrv.
The petition of A.-B. showeth that C. D., of said county, is indebted to
your petitioner Z dollars, on an account, as will fully appear bv refer
ence to a bill of particulars hereunto annexed, which account the said
‘C. D. refuses to pay: wherefore, your petitioner prays process may issue
requiring the said C. D. to be and appear at the next? Court, to
answer your petitioner’s complaint.
§3394. (3317.) (3305.) On a judgment. The form of an action to
recover money on a judgment may be as follows, to-wit :
GEORGIA,
CoUNTY_ To rm-1 i Couar or sun COUNTY.
The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D., of said county, is indebted
to your petitioner the sum of —— dollars, besides interest, on a judg~
ment obtained by your petitioner against the said C. D., at a (name the
Court) held on the i day of ———, 18-, in the (county, district or
town,) of -—, in the State of ——, as_will fully appear bv reference to
an exempliﬁcation of the proceedings in said case ; that the said judg
ment is unsatisﬁed, and that the said C. D. neglects to pav the same:
wherefore, your petitioner rays process may issue requiring the said
C. D. to be and a pear at t e next Court to be held for the county
of , then an there to answer the plaintiﬂ"s complaint.
§3395. ( 3318.) (3306.) Breach of warranty. The form of an ‘action for
a breach of warranty in a deed may be as follows, to-wit :
,
('E€d$'JINA,11Y_ To THE j Couar or SAID Counrv.
The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D., of said county, is indebted
to him in the sum of ——dollars, for this: that on the -—— da ofi,
18-, the said C. D. executed to 'our petitioner a warranty eed toa
certain tract of land (here descri e the land), for the sum of -—— dol
lars, paid by vour petitioner to the said C. D.; that "your titioner has
been evicted from said lot of land, and that the said C. . refuses to
indemnify your petitioner for his damages in that behalf: wherefore your
petitioner rays process may issue requiring the said C. D. to be and
appear at t e next 4 Court for said county to answer your petitioners
complaint.
§3396. (3319.) (3307.) Form of an action for words. The form of an
"action for words may be as follows, to-wit :
_GEg?)%I§éY_ Q To rm; HONORABLE 1 Couar or sun Counrr.
The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D., of said county, has injured
and damaged your petitioner in the sum of 1 dollars, by falsely and
maliciously saying of and concerning your petitioner, on the —- day
Z, 18-—, the following false and malicious words, to-wit : (here give
the words): wherefore, your petitioner prays process may issue requir
ing the said C. D. to be and appear att e next ——— Court to be held
llll and for said county, then and there to answer your petitioner’s (‘Olli
p aint.
§3397. (3320.) (3308) . ppl to all suits for slander. All suits for
slander may be prosecuted un er the last preceding form of action, and
the writ or com laint shall be deemed an held sulﬁciently technical
and full, if it fo lows such form without material variation. Every
thing else material for the maintenance of the action may be supplied
by proof.
§3398. (3321.) 3309.) May rwcompan the words, etc. \Vhen the last
preceding form of action is adopted, t e plaintiff may accompany the
words set forth by such explanatory innuendoes as will serve to state
the cause of action distinct y.
§3399. (3322.) (3310.) Apply to executors, etc. The forms of action
hereinbefore prescribed may be used in cases for or against. executors,
administrators, and other trustees. '
§3-100. (3323) 3311.) Actions heretogore comnwnced. In all actions
which have been eretofore, or may e hereafter, commenced in the
forms prescribed by this Code, the evidence admissible and the form of
the verdict shall be the same as though said actions had been com
menced a.nd prosecuted under the forms existing and in use by the
common law.
§3~101. (3324.) (3312.) Abstract of title. To the -declaration prescribed
by this Code for the recovery of land and nwsne proﬁts, the plaintiff
shall annex an abstract of the title relied on for such recovery.
§3402. (3325.) (3313.) Civil cases at law. All civil cases in law, (€‘X'§
cept as hereinafter provided) shall be tried in the county wherein the
defendant resides.
§3403. (3326) (3314.) Suits respecting titles to land. All suits respect
ing the title to lands shall be tried in the Superior Court of the county
wherein the land lies.
§3404. (3327) (3315.) Joint contractors, partners, etc. Joint, or joint
and several obligors or promisors, or joint contractors, or copartners,
residing in different counties, may be sued as such in the same action
_in either county in which one or more of the defendants reside.
§3-105. (3328) (3316.) Maker and -indorser. \Vhen a. maker and in
dorser of a. promissory note reside in different counties, they may allbe
sued in the same action in the county where the maker resides.
§3406. (33'29.) ($3317.) Railroad companies. All railroad companies
. . . . .
shall be liable to be sued in any county in which the cause of action
originated, b ' any one whose person or property has been injured by
such railroa company, their oﬂicers, agents, or em loyees, for the pur
se of recovering damages for such injury; and a so on all contracts
[)i(r)iade or] (a) to be performed in the county where the suit is brought.
§3-107. (3330.) Lessees liable to sail. [The lessees of any railroad, or
the person, or persons, or company having possession of the same, shall.
be liable to suit of any kind in the same Court or jurisdiction as the
lessors or owners of the railroad were before the lease] 
§3-108. ( 3331.) Sails against imuraawe cmnpanies. [Whenever any per
son may have any claim or demand upon any insurance company hav
ing agencies, or more than one place of doing business, it shall be law
ful for such person, or persons, to institute suit against said insurance
com an within the count ' whcrethe rinci al oﬂice of such com ny
. P Y . 3 P
is located, or in any county where sai insurance company may ave
an agency or place of doing business, or in any county where such
a enc or lace of doin business was located at the time the cause of
8 _ Y P E _ _ _
action accrued, or the contract was made, out of which said cause of ac
tion arose] 
§3409. (3332.) Service, how perfected. [In all such suits, service shall
be eﬁ'_ected upon such insurance company by leaving a copy of the bill
or writ with the agent of the compan , if any; if no agent should be
in the county, then at the agency or p ace of doing business, or where
the same was located at the time such cause of action accrued, or the
contract was made, out of which the same ar0se.
§3410. (3333.) Express companies’ venue. [The Court sitting in tlli‘
county where goods are received for shipment, or where goods are toll?
delivered, shall have jurisdiction over all express com nies,whi¢l1
now do or may hereafter do business in this State, and t e judgmﬂll
shall bind all the property of said. companies] (d.)
§3~l11. (3334) Express companies may be sued, how. [Such express com-
panics may be effect-ually sued in any proceeding at law or e uity}$
against them (in all cases where their chief oﬁicer does not resi e in
this State), by leaving the bill, writ, subpoena, attachment, or other
original process necessary to commence the same, at any of the oﬁices
of such company doing business in this State, or by serving the same
upon any agent of said company within this State; and the judgment
or decree obtained in cases so commenced shall bind the pro erty of
the defendant as fully as though service had been effected on the pres
ident or other chief officer
§3412. ( 3335.) Name of chie oﬁicer to be posted. [When the chief officer
of any express company sha l reside in this State, it shall be the duty
of such company to ost in a public and conspicuous place, at each oﬂice
where it transacts usiness, the name of its president or other chief
oﬁicer, on whom service can be erfected in this State; otherwise, ser
vice made as provided for in t e preceding section shall be deemed
suﬂicient and proper service] (f.)
§3412. ( a.) elegraph companies, where suable. Whenever any person
may have any claim or demand upon any telegraph company havin
ofﬁces or more than one place of doing business in this State, it shaltl
be lawful for such person or persons to institute suit against such tele
graph company within the county where the princi al oﬂice of such
company is located, or in any county where suchte e ra h com an_y
may have an agency or place of business, or where suc p ace of usi
ness was located at the time the cause of action accrued, or the contract
was made, out of which said cause of action arose. In all suits brought,
under the provisions of this section, service shall be effected upon such
telegraph company by leaving a copy of the bill or writ with the
agent of the company if any, if no such agent should be in the
county, then at the agency, or place of doing business, where the same‘
was located at the time such cause of action accrued, or the contract
was made, out of which the same arose.
§3413. ( 3336.) Banks, where sued. [It shall be lawful to sue any of
the incorporated banks of this State, in any county thereof, for any
acts of their agents, where said banks or corporations may now have,
or hereafter may establish, an agencv.] (g.)
§3414. (3337) Service 1%‘ rocess. [Service of the process upon the
agent of any such banks s a l be as legal and eﬁectual as if served on the
president, cashier, or bank at its usual place of business] (h.)v
§3415. (3338.) Proceedings. [When such process is served upon such
agent, the proceedings thereafter shall be conformable to the provisions
0 existing laws in suits against banks; and the judgment, when obtained,
shall be as binding and effectual as judgments against banks
now are by law.] (a.)
§3416. (3339) (3318.) Gitizem of another State. A citizen of another
State, passing through this State, may be sued in an county thereof
in which he may happen to be at the time when sued’.
$3417. (33-10.) ( 3319.) Scire faciae against bail. Scire zfacias a ainst
bail must issue from, and be returnab e to, the Court in whic the
-original judgment was obtained.
§3418. (3370.) (33-51.) Bailintrover. Where any person who is about
to commence an action or suit at law, or in equity, for the recovery
of personal property, shall require bail, such person, his agent, or at
torney, shal make aﬁidavit that the (property is in the possession, cue
tody, or control of the defendant, an that he has reason to apprehend
that the said personal property has been or will be eloigned or moved
away, or will not be forthcoming to answer the jud ment, execution,
tor decree that shall be made in the case ; and shall a so state in his af
ﬁdavit the value of the same, and the amount of hire claimed, if any,
and add that he does verily and bone ﬁde claim said personal property,
or some valuable interest therein.
§3419. (3371.) (3352) Aﬂidavit, how ﬁled, and subsequent proceedings.
When such aﬂidavit is made as prescribed in the preceding section it
shall be ﬁled in the clerk’s office of the Court to which said etitioii,
bill, or.other process ma be returnable, and a copy thereof a xed to
the original petition, bi 1, or process, and to the copy or copies thereof,
and it shall be the duty of the Sheriff, or other lawful oﬁicer serving such
petition, bill, or other process, to take a recognizance, ayable to the
plaintiff or complainant, with good security, in doub e the amount
sworn to, for the forthcoming of such personal property to answer such
judgment, execution, or decree as may be rendered or issued in the case,
and such security shall be bound for the payment of the eventual con
demnation inoney, for which judgment ma be signed up against the
defendant, and said security and execution rad thereon without further
proceeding.
§3420. (33_72.) (3353) Bail ending the action, replevy of £1-op_crly. When
such aﬂidavit shall be made uring the pendency of suc suit or action
a copy thereof, and of the process of subpoena, shall be served in like
manner by the Sheriff or other lawful officer, and security taken as
required in the precedinv section, and upon defendant failing to give
such security, whether the ailidavit be made at the commencementof
the suit or pending the same, the property shall be seized and taken
by the Sheriﬁ" or other lawful ofﬁcer, and deliveredover to the plaintiff
or complainant, his agent or attorney, upon his entering into like
recognizance, with security; and if such property is not to be found, and
cannot be seized and taken by such Sheriff. or other lawful oﬂicer, the
defendant shall be committed to jail, to be kept in safe and close cus-.
tody until the said personal property shall be produced, or until he
shall enter into bond, with good security for the eventual condemnation
money.
§3420. (a.) Release of defendant without security, /when. When the de-
fendant in any action for the recovery of personal property in which
bail is required, shall by reason of his-inability to give security, be held
in imprisonment, it shall be lawful for him to make his petition in
writing upon oath to the Judge of the Court in which the suit is pend
ing, in which he shall state that he is neither able to give the security
required by law, nor produce the property, and can furnish satisfactory
reasons for its non-production, and traverse the facts stated in the
laintiﬂ"s aﬂidavit for bail, of which petition he shall cause acopy to
eserved upon the plaintiff, whereupon it shall be the duty of such
judicial ofﬁcer in term time or vacation, after not less than ﬁve days’
notice of the time and place of hearing has been given to both parties,
to proceed in a summary way, to hear evidence upon the facts contained
in said petition, and if he shall ﬁnd that the petitioner can neither give
the security nor produce the property, and that the reasons for its non
production are satisfactory, he shall discharge the petitioner u on his
own recognizance, conditioned for his appearance to answer t e suit,
but otherwise he shall recommit him to custody. The action taken
upon such petition shall not in any way affect the rights of the plaintiﬁ‘
upon the trial of the uestion of property involved in the suit, but
the same shall be decided by the tribunal having jurisdiction thereof.
§3421_. (337_3.) (3354.) Parties made on motion. When a' plaintiff or
complainant in any cause now or hereafter pending shall die, the executor
or administrator of such plaintiff or complainant may be made
parties on motion, to be made in writing, of which the defendants, or
their counsel, shall have notice.
§3-122. 3374.) ( 3355.) Party defendant, how and when made. In case
the defen ant shall die pending a suit at law, or in equity, the plain
tiﬁ? may sue out ascirefacias immediately after the expiration of twelve
months from the probate of the will or granting of letters of adminis
tration, requiring such executor or administrator to appear and answer
to the said cause. '
57Executor made a party to pending action may be ruled to trial at once: 60 Ga.
1 .
§3423. (3375) (33-56.) Successor of executor, etc., mm; be made party. Upon
the death of any executor, administrator, or guardian, or upon the rev
ocation of his letters testamentary, of administration, or guardianshi _
as the case may be, pending suits at law or in e uity by or against sue
executor, administrat0r,or guardian, as such, an such death or removal
being suggested of record, a scire faciaa may issue to make the successors
of such deceased or removed person a party at any time after his appoint
ment and qualiﬁcation, instead of the deceased or removed executor,
administrator, or guardian.
Successor of executor made a party by scire fac1'¢u: 46 Ga., 60Q—601.
§3424. C3376.) ($3357.) Parties, how made in claim cases. In all cases
where a claim shall be interposed to property levied upon by virtue of
aﬁeri _facia.s or attachment from any of the Courts of this State, in fa
vor of one or more persons, and pending such claim one of the plain
tiffs shall die, the case shall proceed in the name of the survivor, and on
the death of the last or only plaintiff, the executor or administrator of
such deceased may, on motion, be made a party instanter, and said case
shall proceed without further delay.
N Vilpere claimaint dies his representative made aparty: Rule of Superior Court,
O. .
§3-124. (a.) How made in other cases. When a party plaintiffshalldie,
pending a suit on any chose in action in any of the Courts of this
State, and the chose in action, the foundation of said suit, be assigned
to the widow, or widow and children, or children only of decedent, as
any part of a twelve months’ support, then the widow for herself, or
for the use of herself and children, and in the event of children only,
then a next friend for said children, may be made a party laintiif to
such action upon the same terms and in the same manner t at admin
istrators are made parties laintiﬁ‘ to suits in favor of their int:-states
in this State, u n the sulbmission by such erson to the Court of a
certiﬁed copy 0 assignment, and the action s all proceed in the name
of parties so made.
§34'25. (3377.) ($3358.) A al when party dies before it -is e'ntered,'judg
ment where no appeal is entere . When either the plaintiif or defendant
shall depart this life pending a trial, or after a cause has been tried,
and before the expiration of the time within which such party, if liv
ing, might enter an appeal, and no appeal shall have been entered, the
legal re resentatives of such party dying may enter an appeal within
thirty ays from the time such executor or administrator shall have
been qualiﬁed; and if such appeal is not entered within the time
herein prescribed, 'udgment may be entered and execution issued as
though the decease party was in life, without making the representa
tive a party.
See 1 Ga., 475.
§3426. (3378.) (3359.) Appeal revives the suit. Vl/hen an appeal shall
be entered as provided in the preceding section, it shall not be neces
sary to revive such suit by 8C’lT8 facias, but it shall be revived by the
party appealing, giving notice to the adverse party within thirty days
from the time of entering such appeal, and when a defendant shall ap
peal, said cause shall stand for trial on the a peal docket at the ﬁrst
term of the Court after the ex iration of twe ve months from the qual
iﬁcation of such executor or a ministrator.
§3427. (3379.) (3360) Representatives of garnishees may be made parties.
When any person, after being summoned as garnishee, shall die,.either
before or after answer, the executor or administrator of such person
shall be made a party by scire facias in the usual way.
§34‘28. ( 3380.) (3361.) Administrator de bonis non may be made ])(l7:g.
In case of the death or removal from office of any such executor or
ministrator, pending such proceeding as prescribed in the preceding
sections, an administrator de bonis non may be made a party'in like
manner.
VVhen administrator dc bani: non made a party : 30 Ga., 775 ; 46/600.
§34‘29. (3381.) (3362) Contents of scirefaeias. All writs of seire faeias,
for the purpose of making parties to any suit at law or in equity pend- C
ing in the Superior Courts of this State, shall be issued by the clerk of W
said Court, in which it shall be sufficient for such clerk to state the
names of the parties, the term of the Court to which said cause was
made returnable, and the name of the suit or action, requiring the party
to show cause why he should not be made a arty to said cause, without
sitting forth the substance of the bill or dec aration, or the proceedings
t ereon.
As to judgment, upon return of scire facias: 1 Ga., 367.
§3430. (3382) (3363.) Scirefaeias, how issued and served. All writs of
scirefaeias, to make parties, shall be issued, directed, and served, and
returned as provided in sections 3607 and 3608.
§3431. (3-383.) (3364) Scire facias against parties in dzjferent counties.
In cases where there are several arties to be served with seire faeias,
and any one or more of them resi out of the State or county in which
the suit. is pending, a service upon those residing in the county where
the suit is, and a return that the others are not to be found, shall be
suﬁcient to authorize the making of the representatives of the deceased
plaintiff or defendant parties, so as to authorize the original suit in
the name of the parties so made, to proceed to trial and judgment as
though all such parties had been served with scire faeias.
§3432. Q3384.) (3365.) Representative of non-resident defendants, how made
parties. In all cases where a defendant duly served with process, or sub
prena in any case at law or equity, shall reside out of this State, or shall
remove therefrom during the pendency of said cause, and the plaintiff
or complainant shall die, his legal representatives shall be made parties
on motion and without notice.
§3433. (3385.) (3366.) Husband of female party may be joined rm the
record. When afeme sole being plaintiff or defendant shall marry pending
any suit at law, or in equity, the same shall not abate by reason of
suchintermarriage, but the same being suggested of record, such cause
shall roceed in the name of the husband and wife, either as plaintiffs
or detldndants, as the case may be.
Stated : 27 Ga., 402.
§_3434. (3386.) (3367.) Parties, how made when both die. When both
plaintiff and defendant die, before a seire faeias issues to make parties,
the action does not abate, but acire faeias may issue on the motion of
the representative of either party against the representative of the
other, and the cause proceed.
Set forth in: 2 Ga., 81.
§3435. (3387) (3368.) Representatives of uaee may be mode parlies. On
the death of the usee, his representatives must be made parties,as
hereinbefore provided, before the cause can proceed, even in a claim
case.
Stated in: 3 Ga., 159; 6/100. See Rule of Superior Court, No. 14.
§3436. (3388.) (3369.) Successors of trustees may be made On
the death of a trustee or receiver, pending a suit to which he may be
a party as such, the same does not abate, but his successor may bemade
a party thereto by scirefacias, and said cause proceed to judgment.
$3437. (3389.) (3370.) E'a'ec'uti0n against female defendants. On the
death [of a male defendant, or on the death] (a.) or marriage of a female
defendant, after ﬁnal gudgment, when no execution has been issued
previous to such deat or marriage, execution may issue as though
such marriage or death had not taken place.
§3438. (3390.) (3371.) When action does not abate. No suit shall abate by
the death of either party, where such cause of action will in tiny case
survive to or ‘against the legal representatives of the deceased party,
either in the same or any other form of action.
§3439. (3391.) (3372.) Suits against removed executor do not abate. When
letters testamentary may be revoked and an intestacy for any cauzw
declared, no suit b or against the removed executor shall abate, and
the newly-appointe administrator can be made a party plaintiff or de
fendant in his stead.
§3440. (3392.) (3373.) Death of one of several administrators does not abate‘
suit. An action against two joint administrators or executors does not
abate by the death of one, but proceeds a ainst the survivor.
§3441. (3393) (3374.) Death of co-defen ant. On the death of the 00
defendant in any action of ejectment, made such after the commence
ment thereof, the action may proceed against the surviving defendant
without making the representative of the deceased co-defendant a
party.
§34-'12. (3394.) (-3375.) One of several defendants not being liable. An
action against several persons does not abate where it appears that
some of the defendants are not liable, but may proceed against those
who are liable.
§3443. (3395.) (3376.) Suite against tS'hertﬂ' s'lL7"Ui'U6 his death. An ac
tion against a Sheriff for an escape out of process shall not abate on the
death of such Sheriﬂ, but shall survive against his securities and legal
representatives.
Stated: 1 Ga., 514.
§3444. (3396) (3377.) Death of one of several defendants. In all cases
which have been or may be commenced in an of the Courts of this
State, at law or in equity, against two or more cfendants,‘ one or more
of whom have (lied, or may die pending said case or cases, it shall and
may be lawfulfor the plaintiff or complainants to suggest said death of
record, and to proceed in the trial of said case or cases, against the sur
viving defendant, to the extent of their respective liabilities.
1874.
3445. ( 3397.) (3378.) Retraxit. A retraceit is the open, public and
vo untary renunciation by the plaintiﬂ‘, in open Court, of his suit or
cause of action, and if this is done by the plaintiff, and a judgment en
tered up thereon by the defendant, the plaintiﬂ"s right of action is for
ever gone.
§3446. (3398.) ($3379.) Diﬂ"e'rs from dismissal. A retraxit differs from a
non-suit, dismission, or discontinuance, in this: A retraxit is positive
and conclusive of the plaintiﬂ"s right of action, while a non-suit,dis
mission, or discontinuance, is negative, and the plaintiff may recom
mence his suit on the payment of costs. 
3447. (3399.) (3380.) Actions may be dismissed at any time. The
plaintiff in any action, in an Court, may dismiss his action either in
vacation or term time, and, i done in term time, the clerk or Justice
shall enter such dismissal on the docket.
§3448. Judgment without a jury, wlwn. [The Court shall render judg
ment without the verdict of a jury in all civil cases founded on uncon
ditional contracts in writing, where an issuable defense is not ﬁled
,under oath or affirmation]
See Rule of Court No, 39, for form of such judgment. Where lea ﬁled in 18$ 0!!
§34».$l9. Agents and attorneys may swear to plea, when. [In all civil
cases founded on unconditional contracts in writing, where there is an
issuable defense, and where thedefendant does not reside in the county
in which suit is pending, it shall and may be lawful for the agent or
attorney at law of such defendant to make oathto the plea, and the
same shall be as good and sulﬁcient as if made by the defendant him~
self; and in such cases the agent or attorney may swear that what is
contained in such plea is true, according to the best of his knowledge
and belief.] (b.)
lvhere the oath of the attorney to the plea would have been suﬂlcient under this
section: 60 Ga, 263; 53/584.
§3450. Pleas, how sworn to. [All pleas or defenses in any Court of
this State, which have to be ﬁled under oath, shall be held to be suﬂi-‘
ciently veriﬁed when the same are sworn to before any Notary Public,
Justice of the Peace, Judge of a Court of law, or Chancellor, Commis
sioner, or Master of an Court of equity of the State or county where
the oath is made,or be ore any other oﬁicer of such State or county who
is authorized by the laws thereof to administer oaths, and such oath so
made shall have the same force and effect as if it had been made be
fore an oﬁicer of this State authorized to administer the same. The
otﬁcial attestation of the ofﬁcer before whom the oath or aﬂidavit may
be made, shall be prime _fmrie evidence of the official character of such
oﬂicer, and that he was authorized by law to administer oaths] (c.)
As to form of aﬂldavit to: See Rule 24 of Superior Court.
§34-51. Pleas sworn to by third ersons, when. [In any case in any of the
Courts of law or equity, when y law pleas are required to be made
under oath, as issuable defenses, and the defendant shall fail or refuse
to make his plea, as required by law, any party interested, showing to
the satisfaction of the Court his or her interest, ma Y make his or their
plea or pleas, and such plea or pleas shall be as goo in law as if made
y the real defendant to the record: Provided, said arty shall swear
that they are interested in the event of the suit, an that the defend
ant fails or refuses to make such pleas] 
3452. ($3400.) (3381.) Defcndanﬂs answer to be ﬁled at ﬁrst term. In
all cases at law, where the defendant has been served with petition
and process, as provided b this Code, he shall ap ear at the Court to
which such process is ma e returnable,and, on or before the last day of
said Court, shall make his defense in writing, which shall plainly,
fully and distinctly set forth his defense, and be signed by the defend
ant or his attorney, which said answer shall contain as many several
matters as such defendant may think necessary for his defense.
§3453. (3401.) (3382. No part to be stricken out. N0 part of an answer
shall be stricken out or rejected on account of being contradictory to
another part of the same, but the Court shall suffer the whole answerto
remain, if the defendant should desire it, and avail himself of any ad
vantage he can or may have under either or the whole of said answer,
and proceed to trial accordingly. 
§3454. (3402) ($3383.) Pleas of non est facium must be sworn to. N0
person shall, in his lea or answer, be permitted to deny any deed, bill,
single or penal bon , note, draft, receipt, order, or other instrument in
writing, which is the foundation of the action, unless he shall make
afﬁdavit of the truth of such plea or answer at the time of ﬁling the
same.
§3455. ($3403.) (3384.) Petition and answer make issue. The petition
and answer shall be suﬁicient to carry the cause to the jury, without
any replication, or other course of proceeding.
Stated : 24 Ga., 265. Plaintiﬁ may prove in avoidance of the plea without replica
tion: 5 Ga., 311.
§34-56. (3404.) (3385.) Dilatory pleas must be zrwornto. No dilatory an
swer shall be received or admitted, unless an aﬁidavit shall be made
to the truth thereof, and must be ﬁled at the ﬁrst term.
§3457. (3405.) (3386.) Judgment by default, and on accounts. When
any defendant shall fail to appear and answer at the return term of the
petition and process, the Court shall enter default on the docket. which
shall be considered a judgment b default, ‘without a formal entry
thereof, and the laintitf ’s claim, a legation, or demand, shall be tried
in all cases of efault by a jury, except as provided elsewhere in this
Code, but no such trial shall, in any case, be had at the ﬁrst term, e_x
cept specially provided for by law: [Provided,_that in all cases of suits
on open accounts, in the several Courts of this State, where the writ
or process has been served crsonally, as the law now directs, on the
defendant, and there is no efense made by the arty sued, either in
person or by attorney, at the time the case is_ su_ mitted for trial, the
case shall be considered in default, and the p_laint1ﬁ' shall be rmittcd
to take [judgment] (a) as if each and every item were prov by testi
1nony.] (a.)
§3458. (3406.) (3387.) General issue, special pleas. The general issue
is a denial of the allegations in the plaintiﬁ"s declaration, and shall be
considered as ﬁled in all cases which are answered to at the ﬁrst term ;
and no other evidence is admissible under such plea, except such as
disproves the plaintiﬁ"s cause of action; all other matters in satisfac
tion or avoidance, must be specially pleaded.
§3459. .(_3407.) (3388.) Advantage may be taken 0 patent defects by 1110-§
tion. All'dei'ects which appear on the face of t: e pleadings may be
taken advantage of by motion. '
§3460. ($5408.) (3389) .Iu.risdictionmt given by consent. Parties, by con
sent,‘ express or implied, cannot give jurisdiction to the Court as to the
erson or subject matter of the suit. It may, however, be Waived.‘ s1
ar as the rights of the parties are concerned, but not so as to prejudice
third persons. 
§3461. (3409.) (3390.) Jurisdiction, when admitted. If a defendant ap~
pear and plead to the merits, without pleading to thejurisdiction, and
without excepting thereto, he thereby admits the jurisdiction of the
Court.
§3462. (3410.) ($3391.) Pleas to the '1u"isd:z'1:tion. Pleas to the jurisdic
tion must be pleaded in person, an must, when relied on, be leaded
specially, unless a want of jurisdiction appears on the face of t e pro
ceeding,-s—in which case, it may be taken advantage of, on motion.
(3-111.) (3392.) Contents ofthe plea. In all pleas to the juris
diction of the Court, it must a pear that there is another Court in this
State which -has jurisdiction oi) the case.
$3464. (3412) (3393) Must be sworn to. A plea to the jurisdiction,
being a dilatory plea, must be sworn to.
§3-465. (3-113.) (3394.) Pleas of set-oﬁ‘. Debts, as a general rule, must
be mutual between the same parties at the commencement of the ac
tion to be set off against each other. Every plea of set-oﬁ“ must set out
the demand as plainly as if sued on.
§3466. (3414.) (3395) Plea of set-oﬂi; against estates. \Vhen a defe_nd-5
ant pleads a set-oﬂ‘ of a larger amount than the demand of the testator
or intestate, the plaintiff may reply by showing that the estate is in
solvent, and that there are outstanding debts, of higher dignity than
the defendant’s set-oﬁ‘, sufﬁcient to exhaust the assets, for the urpose
of protecting the executor or administrator from an absolute ju gment.
Stated: 5 Ga.. 357.
§3467. ($3415.) (3396.) Judgments may bosetoﬂ". One judgment may
be set off against another, on motion, whether in the handsiof an origi
nal party or an assignee.
§3468. (3416.) (3397.) lVhen improvements may be set of inA trespasser cannot set off improvements in an action brought for nmne
proﬁts, except when the value of th'e premises has been increased by
the repairs or improvements which have been made. In that case the
jury may take into consideration the improvements or repairs, and di
minish the proﬁts by that amount, but not below the sum which the
premises would have been worth without such improvements or re
pairs.
§3469. (3417.) (3398.) Jud ment for cu-ess of set-of, etc, In all cases of
mutual debts and sets-off, w ere the jury shall ﬁnd a balance for the
defendant, such defendant may enter up judgment for the amount, and
take out execution in such manner as plaintiffs may do by this Code:
Provided, such defendants shall, at the time of ﬁling his answer, ﬁle
therewith a true copy or copies of the subject-matter of such sets-oil;
and where the plaintiff shall be indebted to the defendant on o n
account for dealings bet ween themselves, and where the defendants ll
hold and possess in his own right, by assignment, indorsement, or other
wise, according to law, any bond, note, bill, or other writing for money,
or other thing, of the plaintiﬁ"s, such defendant may offer the same as
set-oil‘, and, on due proof, shall be allowed the same.
Judgment for excess: 57 Ga., 145.
§3470. (3418.) 3399.) Limitations of sets-oﬂ’. The statute of limita-
tions applies to t e subject-matter of sets-off, as well as the plaintiffs
deman .
See : 20 Ga., 696.
q)Sections (3419) and (3420) on plea of usury, repealed by Act of 19th
Fe ruary, 1873.
§3470. (a.) hat a plea of usur_1/ must set forth. The plea of usury
must set orth the sum upon which it was paid,or to be paid, the time
when the contract was made, when payable, and the amount of usury
agreed upon, taken or reserved:
§3471. (3421.) ($3402.) Plea of failure of consideration. Whenever an
action shall be commenced at common law, founded upon any contract,
the defendant in such action may plead and give in evidence to the A
jury,upon the trial thereof, that the consideration upon which said C
contract was founded has totally or partially failed. Such plea shall !
only be pleaded in cases between the original parties to the contract,
or their privies or assignees, whose title has been acquired with notice,
actual or constructive, or by operation of law.

§3472. (3422) (3403.) Non est factum. The plea of mm est factum is
a enial of the execution of the instrument sued upon, and applies to'
notes and other instruments, as well as deeds, and applies only when
the execution of the instrument is alleged to be the act of the party
ﬁling the plea, or adopted by him.
§3173. (3-423.) (3-104.) Pleas peculiar to e:a:cutors and administrators.
W en an executor or administrator is sued as such, he may plead ne
tmques executor, or that no assets have come into his hands, or plane
administra-vit prarter,‘ a sum not sullicient to satisfy debts of ahigher
nature against the deceased, held by third persons, or plene admimlstmvit,
that he has fully administered the assets that came into his hands, or,
ending the action, his letters testamentary or of administration have
een revoked, and the administration committed to another, to whom
all the assets which came into his hands have been delivered.

§3474. (3424,) (340-5.) Other pleas by executors, etc. An executor or
administrator, when the cause of action originated in the lifetimeof
the testator or intestate, may plead any plea which such testamr or
intestate might plead if living, and he may also plead in abatement in
all such cases where such plea is applicable.
§3475. (342-5.) (3-106.) P/ca y nut tad record. The plea of nu! tie! rmmi
can only be pleaded to a recor which is the gist or foundation of the
action, and not to a record which is stated as an inducement only.

$3476. (3426.) (3-107.) Pleas of former recovery and pendem-y qfforwr
suit. A former recovery,‘ or the pendency“ of a former suit for the same
_cause of action, between the same parties in the same or any other
Court that has jurisdiction, shall be a good cause of abatement; but if
the ﬁrst action is so defective that no recovery can be possibly had, the
pendency of a former suit will not abate the action.
§3477. (3427.) ($5408.) Plea of coverture.
a contract made by her while covert, and she leads her coverture in bar,
it is not a suﬂicient reply that she promise to pay or perform the eon
tract after she is constituted a free dealer, or becomes a fenw sole, unless
it be shown that there was a new consideration, or moral obligation,
or separate estate secured to her at the time she made the contract.

§3178. (3428) C3409.) Defense by Sheri_ﬂ". A Sheriff, or other oﬂicer,
cannot defend himself against an action for escape by showing that the
process under which the arrest was made was irregular, though he may
when the process is void.

§3178. A11
parties, whether plaintiffs or defendants in the Superior or other (‘ourts
(except the Supreme Court,) whether at law or in eciuxiltiy, may, at any
e 1
stage of the cause, as matter of right, amend their p ngs in all res
pects, whether in matter of form or of substance, provided there is
enough in the pleadings to amend by.

§3480. 3430.) 3411.) New cause of tuition and parties not allowable.
No amen ment a din a new and distinct cause of action,‘ or new and
distinct parties, shall e allowed unless expressly provided for by law.
§3481. (3431.) Amendments to -iwwlade issue. \Vhen any suit or ac-
tion is pending in any Court of law or equity in this State, for the
recovery of personal property, the issue of said property born, or to be
born, or accruing after the commencement of such suit or action, may
be recovered in such suit or action, and it shall be the duty of the Court
to allow the declaration or bill to be amended at any stage of the pro
ceedings so as to include such issue.
§3482. (3432.) (3412.{ Amendingpa-rty may be upon terms. ln case
the part applying for cave to amend the plea ings or other proceed-
-ings sha l have been guilty of negligence in respect to the matter of
amendment, the Court may compel him to pay his adversary the cost
of the proceedings for which he moves, and may force reasonable and
equitable terms upon him at discretion, not touching the real merits
of the cause in controversy.

§3483. (3433) (3413) Mzlsmomers amendablelinstanler. All Il'll8IlOH]€‘l'S
whether in the christian or surname, made in writs, petitions, bills or
other 'udicial proceedings on the civil side of the Court, shall, on mo
tion, e amended and corrected instanter, without working unneces
sary delay to the party making the same.

§3484. C3434.) ( 3414.) Names of part-new-s may be added imtanter. In
all suits b or against partners, or where any two or more pe-sons sue
or are sue in the same action, and the name of an person who ought
to be joined in such action as plaintiff or defen ant is omitted, the
omissions shall, on motion, be amended by adding the proper party in
stanter.

§3485. (3435) (3ll5.) Names of one or more defendants may be stricken.
When two or more persons sue or are sued in the same action, either
on a contract or for a tort, the plaintiff may amend his declaration by
striking out one or more of such defendants and proceed against the
remplining defendant or defendants, if there is no other legal difficulty
in t e case.

§3486. (3436.) (34l6.) Name of one or more plr.i.i-nlijfs -may be stricken.
W en several plaintiffs sue jointly, the declaration may be amended
by striking out the name of one or more of such plaintiffs. And
when it becomes necessary for the purpose of enforcing the rights of
56
such plaintiﬂ, he may amend by substituting the name of another per
son in his stead, suing for his use.

§3487. (3437.) (3417.) Rqiresevilatipe character of parties may be changed.
In an action by or against an executor, administrator, or other repre
sentat-ive, the declaration may be amended by striking out the repre
sentative character of such plaintiff or defendant. And in an action
by or against an individual, thc pleadings may be amended by insert
ing his representative character.

§3488. (3-138., C3418.) Omission of jurisdiction amendable. The omis
sion to give the Court jurisdiction in the pleadings is amendable.

§3489. (3439) (3419.) Scirefacias amendable. Scire facias is amends.
ble as other pleadings.

§3490. (3440) C3420.) Amen.d'me'nt of process. Void process, or where
there is no process or waiver thereof, cannot be amended, but if ser
vice be acknowledged by the defendant, and, upon hearing testimony,
the Court becomes satisﬁed that process was waived b the defendant,
and that at the time such service was acknowledge ,by accident or
mistake, the entry of such waiver was omitted, such omission may be
supplied by amendment mmc pro tuna.
§3491. ($3441.) (3421.) A'm.e'ndment_of verdict. A verdict may be so
amended as to make it conform to the declaration, if the error plainly
appears upon the face of the record.

§3492. (34423 (3422) After dispersion of jury. A verdict may be
amended in mere matter of form after the jury have dispersed; but
after it has been received and recorded, and the jury dispersed, it can
not be amended in matter of substance, either by what the jurors say
they intended to ﬁnd, or otherwise.

§3493. (3443.) (3423.) Where part is legal and part. illegal. If a art of
a verdict be legal and a part illegal, the Court will construe sue ver
dict, and order it amended by entering a remitter as to that part which
is illegal, and give judgment for the balance.

§3494. (3444.) (3424.) Amendment of judgments. A judgment may be
amended by order of the Court in conformity to the verdict upon which
it is predicated, even after an execution issues.
§3195. (3445.) (342-5.) Am-endmcnt of executions. A_ﬁeri_facias may be
amended so as to conform to the judgment from which it issued, and
also as to the time of its return; but if such fa. be levied at the time
of the amendment, such levy must fall; stil the amended fi. fa. may
be re-executed.

§3496. Mistakes in eawzcution amendable. [When the clerk of any Court
has made, or shall make, any mistake in issuing any execution, such
clerk, or any successor of his in oﬂice, may correct such mistake b
amending said execution, and shall note and certify the fact that suc
amendment was made by him on the execution, or such clerk may
issue an alias _ﬁ. fa. to be signed and dated by him at the time it is
issued instead of the _ﬁ. fa. in which the mistake was made; and such
clerk shall note the fact of the issuing of such alias on the original,
which original shall remain of ﬁle in his otiice. and shall likewise
make a memorandum thereof on the execution docket, and shall also
transcribe upon the alias all the entries and credits from the original,
and no order of Court shall be necessary in the cases contemplated by
this section.

§3497. (3446.) (3426.) Oﬁcial entries amendable. The Sheriff or other
executing oiﬁcer may amend h1s oﬁicial entries and returns so as to
make such entries and returns conform to the facts of the case at the
time such entry-or return was made. '

§3417.) (3427.) May be made mmc pro lune. If the Sheriif or
other executing oﬁicer shall fail to make an ofﬁclal return, which by
law he should have made, such entry or return may be made nwnc pro
tune by order of the Court, so as to ma e the proceedings conform to the
facts at the time the entry should have been made.
§3499. (3448.) (3-428.) Amendment of records. It is a power incident
to all Courts to correct their own proceedings before ﬁnal judgment.

§3500. $3449.) 3429.) Discretion of Court as to amendments, and rule-9
therefor. n allowing or refusing amendments, there is a wide discre
tion to be exercised by the Court ; hence no ﬁxed rule can be laid down
which would apply to each particular case that might arise, but as a
general rule the Court will amend the entries of its orders on the min
utes, or the records and other proceedings, mmc pro lunc
1. When the case is within some statutory rovisions.
2. \Vhcn there is something on the face of t e proceedings to amend
by, from which what actually took place in the prior proceedings can
be clearly ascertained and known.
3. In all cases where such amendment will clearly be in furtherance
of justice.

§3501. (3450) ($3430.) Aj)‘i<lav1't-s of ill/'gal'ity amendnble. Affidavits of
n motion and leave of Court, amendable 4in.sta.nter b
the insertion 0 new and inde endent grounds: Provided, the defen ant
will swear that he did not now ‘of such grounds when the origi
nal aﬁidavit was ﬁled.
the Court, by affidavit or otherwise, that the omission arose from ig
norance, inadvertence, mistake, or inability at the time to make it
more perfect; he must, however, amend instanter, and it will not be
permitted to delay a creditor thereby.
See: 12 Ga.. 118.
§3503. (3452) (3432) Anwndnwnt 0 rules for new trial. A rule mlwi
fora. new trial may be amended by a ding new grounds not taken at
the time the application was ﬁled.

§3504. (34-53.) ($3433.) Aﬂidavits cannot be amended. An aﬂidavit
which is the foundation of a legal proceeding cannot be amended ex
cept expressly provided for by law.

§3505. (34-54.) ($3434.) Ammdnw-nt of appeals and other bonds. An ap~
peal bond, and all other bonds taken under requisition of law in the
course of a judicial proceeding, may be amended and new security given
if necessary.

§3506. (34-5-5.) (3435.) Aﬁitlavitw appeal anwndable. Where material
words are omitted by accident or mistake in an affidavit to appeal in
f07‘m!1, pauperie, such omission is amendable.

§3507. (34-56.) (3436) Clericttl 1n1ls'takcs 1n.uy be amemled. The mistake
or misprision of a clerk or other ministerial otiicer shall in no case
workdto the injury of a party where by amendment justice may be pro
mote .
§3508. (3457.) (3437.) Production of books, eta, may be compelled. The
sevcral Courts shall have power on the trial of any cause cognizable
before them respectively, on notice and proof thereof being previously
given by the opposite party or his attorney, to require either party to
produce books, writings and other documents in his possession, power,
custody or control, which shall contain evidence pertinent to the cause
in question, under circumstances where such party might be compelled
to produce the same by the ordinary rules of proceeding in equity.

§3509. (3458.) (3/138.) Notice to produce papers. The notice required
by the preceding section shall be in writing, signed by the party seek
ing the production of the books or other writings, or is attorney, and
served on the adverse party or his attorney, when returnable to the
Superior Courts, ten days; and when returnable to a Justice’s Court
shall be served ﬁve days, before the production of the books, writings,
or other documents sha l be required: Prmnlded such party resides in the
county where the suit is pending; if out of said count and within one
hundred miles, ﬁfteen days; if over one hundred mi es and less than
two hundred miles, twenty days, and if beyond the limits of this
State, sixty days.

§3510. (3459.) (3439.) Co'nseque'_nce.s of failure to produce papers. If the
plaintiff or his attorncg, being so notiﬁed, shall fail or refuse to comply
with such order, the ourt shall, on motion, give judgment against
such plaintiffas in case of non-suit, and if the defendant shall fail or
refuse to comply therewith, the Court, on motion, shall give judgment
against such defendant, as in‘case of judgment by default.

§351l. (3460.) (3440) Continuance. In case of the service of any no
tice, as aforesaid, when it shall appear to the satisfaction of the Court,
by an affidavit of the party or ot crwise, that such party has used due
and proper diligence. and cannot procure the books, writings or other
documents required, the cause may be continued at the instance of the
party notiﬁed.
§3512. (346l.) (34-ll.) Aﬁ‘ida~vit of non-resident. \Vhen the arty no
titied resides without the limits of this State, but in one of t c St-ates
or territories of the United States, such party may make the oath rc
quirod before a commissioner of this State, resident in such State or
territory, or before any officer of such State or Territory in which the
party notiﬁed may reside, who is authorized by the laws of such State
or territor to administer an oath, which shall be suﬂicient, provided
the oﬁicia character of _the oﬂicer attesting said affidavit shall be prop
erly proven by the certiﬁcate of the Governor, the Secretary of State,
the Chll8.lI1lC6ll(i1l‘ oéitihe _It{eeper3f the Great Seal of the State or Territory
in w ic suc a avi is ma e.
§3513. (3462.) ($3442.) Notice. how made available. Before the notice
provided for in the preceding section shall be available, the party giv
gligtiltl OLl11S agent,tmgsi5_ma.ktehoq;tltih(or his attorney State inh hip) place)
a e as reason 0 e ieve a e paper require IS or as een in
existence; that it is in the possession, power or control of the person
notiﬁed, and that it is material to the issue.

§3514. ($463.) (3443.) Subpaena dunes tccum. When any deed, bond,
note, book, writing or other document which it ma ' be necessary to
use as testimony in any cause pending in any of t e Courts of this
State, may be in the possession of any person resident in an ' county
in this State, and who is not a party to said cause, the Cler of the
Court, or Justice of the Peace, (as the case may be) in which said cause
is pending shall, upon application of the party or his attorney desir
ous of using such testimony, issue a subpoma duces tecum, directed to the
person having such deed, bond, note, book, writing or other document
in his possession, requiring him to be and a pear at the next term of
said Court, and to bring with hi into said ourt the paper desired to
be used as testimony, which sai subpcena shall be served u n such
erson, if a resident of the county where such case is en ing, ten
ays, and if not a resident of such county, twenty days w en returna
ble to the Superior Courts, and when returnable to a J ustice's Court,
ﬁve days before the Court to which it is made returnable, by a Sheriﬂ',
constable or some private person; and the oﬂicial return of the Sheriff
or constable, or the afﬁdavit of such private person, shall be suﬁicient
evidence that the same was duly served.

"%3:0ri1% sii))lL>1p63ei1a(3s‘lihll) bldevizgii/e‘dMa{1(d'l:<::vt:d?baeg pr0vi€l1e((tl(iZi1Cet8hf2ec£:i?e:
ceding section, and the person whose attendance is thereby reqpired
shall fail to comply with the requisitions thereof, the Court sha l on
motion, issue an attachment against such defaulting person, returnable
to the next term of said Court, and shall ﬁne such person in a sum not
pxceeding three'hulr)idre¢(l1 do(l1la;_'st,)un}lles(s3 he sha}l)l makeila SllﬂlCl8Il1t plxcuse
or such failure, to e ju ge o yt e ourt" ut suc person s ia ,nev
ertheless, be subject to an action at the instance of the party by whom
he was subpoenaed for any damages which such arty may have sustain
ed by reason of such failure: Provided, that if the person so sub (enaed
shall within ten days after the service of such subpoena, de iver to
the arty at whose instance the subpoena was sued out, or his attorney,
or ﬁ e in the oflice of the Court, or Justice of the Peace, from which
such subpuana issued, the (paper, the production of which is required by
such subpoena, or shall eliver to the said party, or his attorney, or
shall ﬁle in the said office, his aﬂidavit that the said paper is not in his
power, custoddv, possession or control, and that it was not at the time
of serving sai sub na then such delivery and ﬁling of the pa er so
sought as aforesai , or df such affidavit, shall be consideredda full and
complete compliance with the requisitions of such subprrna aces tecum.
§3-5'16. (3-165.) (3445.) Se<:onda1~y evidence. In all cases pending in any
of said Courts where any party, either at law or in e uity, shall pursue
the course in this Chapter pointed out, and is una le thereby to pro
such deed, bond, note, book, writing, or other document, such
party shall be ermitted to go into parol evidence of the contents of
such deed, bon , note, book, writing, or other document.
§3517. (3466.) 3446.) When transcri its of books may be used. When
any person shall e notiﬁed or serve with subpoena du/res tecum to pro
duce books in his osscssion to be used as testimony on the trial of any
cause, as hereinbe ore provided, if such person will make oath that he
cannot produce the books required without suifering a material injur
in his business, and shall also make, or cause to be made out, a fu l
transcript from such books of all the accounts and dealings with the
opposite party, and have such transcript examined and sworn to by
an impartial witness and produce the same in Court, it shall be a com
pliance with the notice or subpoena duces tecum.
§3-518. ($3467.) (3447.) W/wn books may be examined by commissioners.
When the transcript provided for in the receding section shall be pro
duced in Court, if the adverse party is issatisﬁed therewith, and will
swear that he believes that the books contain entries material to him
which do not appear in the transcript, the Court will grant him a
commission to be directed to certain persons named by the parties and
approved by the Court, to cause the adverse party to produce the books
re uired, (he being sworn that the books produced are all that he has
or ad that answer to the description in the notice), and to examine
said books, and to transmit to the Court a full and fair statement of the
accounts and entries between the parties under their hand, which
shall be sealed up and transmitted to the Court,as in case of interroga
tories; which statement, when received b the Court, shall be deemed
a compliance with the notice, or subpoena aces tecam.

§3519. ( 3468.) (3448.) But one continuance at common law. No trial in
any civil cause shall be had at the ﬁrst term (except expressly pro
vided for by law), and no cause whatever depending ID any of the
Courts of this State, shall be continued more than one term at common
law, at the instance of the same party for any cause whatever.

§3520. (3-169.) (34/19.) Amending party, when entitled to continuance.
The party amending pleadings or other proceedings in any of said
Courts shall not be entitled to delay or continuance on account of such
amendment, except by leave of the Court to enable him to make such
amendment.

§3521. ($5470.) (3450) Continuance charged to amending party, when.
When any amendment shall be made to the leadings or other pro
ceedings in the cause, if the opposite part wil make oath, or his coun
sel state in his place that he is surprised v such amendment, and that
he is less prepared for trial, and how, thanhe would have been if such
amendment had not been made, and that such surprise is not claimed
for the purpose of delay, the case may be continued in the discretion of
the Judge, at the instance of the amending party.

§3522. (3471.) ($451.) Omuinuancefor absence of witnesses. In all ap-
plications for continuances upon the ground of the absence of a wit
ness, it must be shown to the Court that the witness is absent; that he
has been subpoenaed ; that he resides in the count where the case is
pending; that his testimony is material; that suc witness is not ab
sent by the ermission, directly or indirectly, of such applicant; that
he expects e will be able to procure the testimony of such wit
ness at the next term of the Court; and that such application is not
made for the purpose of delay, but to enable the party to procure the
testimon of such absent witness, and must state the facts expected to
be prove by such absent witness.
§3-523. (3472.) (3452) Admission of facts. No continuance shall be
allowed in any Court on account of the absence of a witness, or for the
purpose of rocuring testimony, when the o posite party is willing to
admit, and oes not contest the truth of, the acts expected to be proved,
and the Court shall order such admission to be reduced to writing.

§3524. ( 3473.) (3453) When ab-sense of a party is cause of continuance.
If either party shall be providentially prevented from attending at the
trial of any cause, and_ the counsel of such absent party will state in
his place that he cannot go safely to trial without t e presence of such
absent party, such cause shall be continued, provided his continuances
are not exhausted.

§3525. (347-1.) ( 3454.) Continuame{or absence or ill-nee of counsel. The
illness or absence from providentia cause of counsel, where there is
but one, or of the leading counsel where there are more than one, shall
be a sutﬁcient ground for continuance, provided the party making the
application will swear that he cannot go safely to trial without the
services of such absent counsel, and that he expects his services at the
next term, and that said application is not made for delay only.
§3526. (3475.) (3455) When case is not reached. A cause not reached
at the trial term, stands over as continued.

§3527. (3476-.) (34-56.) Continuance in cases sent back from the SIl])7‘(’m!
Court. When any cause shall be sent back to the Superior Court by
the Supreme Court, the sauie shall be in order for trial at the ﬁrst term
of the said Superior Court next after the session of the Supreme Court;
and if the continuances of either party are exhausted, the said Superior
Court may grant one continuance to said party, as the ends of justice
may require.

§3528. (3477.)_ (3f157.) Diligence required. In all cases, the party
making an application for a continuance must show that he has used
due diligence.

§3529. (3478.) (3458) Continuance for non-return of interrogatories.
VV en a commission issues to examine a witness, it not having been
returned shall be no cause for a continuance, unless the party seeking
the continuance will make the same oath of the materiality of the tes
timon as in the case of an absent witness, and the party must show
due diligence in suing out and having the same executed.

§3530. ($479.) (3459.) Continuanceon the appeal. No appeal case shall
be continued more than twice by the same party, except for providen
tial cause, and for which it may be continued as often as justice may
require.
, $3531. (3480.) 3460.) Discretion of the Court. All applications _for continuances
are ad ressed to the sound legal discretion of the Court, and
if not expressly provided for, shall be granted or refused, as the ends
of justice may require. [And in all civil and criminal cases in theg
Courts of this State, the presiding Judges may, in their discrctions, ad
mit a counter-showin to a motion for a continuance, and, after a hear
ing, may decide whet er the motion shall prevail] (a.)
$3532. (3481.) ($3461.) Garnishnumt at common law. In cases where
suit is pending, or where judgment has been obtained, the p1aintiﬁ'
shall be entitled to the process of garnishment under the following
regulations 

§3533. ( 3482.) ( 3462.) Garntlshmenta, how obtained. The plaintiff, his
agent or attorney at law, shall make an aﬂidavit before some officer
authorized to issue an attachment by this Code, stating the amount
claimed to be due in such action or on such judgment, and that he has
reason to apprehend the loss of the same, or some art thereof, unless
the process of garnishment do issue, and shall give nd, with good se
curitv, in a sum at least equal to double the amount sworn to be due,
payable to the defendant in the suit or judgment, as the case may be,
conditioned to pay said defendant all costs and damages that he may
sustain in conse uence of suing out said garnishment, in the event
that the plaintiff fails to recover in the suit ending, or it should ap
pear that the amount sworn to be due on suc judgment was not due.

§3534.aé3483.) ($3463.) Aﬁidavit by agent or attorney. When the aHida
is m e by the agent or attorney at law of the plaintiff, he may
swear according to the best of his knowledge and belief, and shall have
power to sign the name of the plaintiff to such bond, who shall be bound
thereby in the same manner as though he had signed it himself.
§3535. (3484) (3464.) Aﬂidavit and bond by one of a ﬁrm, etc. When
the debt for the recovery of which the garnishment is sought is due to
copartners, or several persons jointly, any one of said copartners or
joint creditors may make the afﬁdavit an give the bond in the name
of the plaintiff, as prescribed in cases of attachment.
§3536. (3-185.) (346-5.) How and by whom issued, etc. VVhen such aﬂi
has been made, and bond given, it shall be the duty of the ofﬁcer
before whom the same is made, or any other oﬂicer authorized by this
‘Code, to issue attachments, to whom the same bond and aiﬁdavit may
be delivered, upon the request of the plaintiff, his a ent, or attorney at
law, to issue a summons of garnishment, directed to t e person sought to
be garnished, requirin him to appear at the next term of the Court
where such suit is pen ing, or where such judgment was obtained; but
if the next Superior Court shall be held within less than ten daysfrom
the time such summons shall issue, then the garnishee shall be re uired
to appear at the next Court thereafter, then and there,* to epose
on oath what he is indebted to, or what property and effects he has in
his hands belonging to, the defendant, or had at the time of the service
of the summons of garnishment; [and also what he has become in
debted to the defendant, or what property and eﬁects he has received
.or got possession of belonging to the defendant, between the time of
the service of said summons, and the time of making his return ;] (a.)
and upon such affidavit, bond, and summons of garnishment, being de
livered to any officer authorized by law to levy an attachment, it shall
be his duty to serve such summons of garnishment upon the person to
whom it is directed, if to be found in his county, and to make an entry
of such service, and of his actings and doings in the premises upon
the affidavit and bond, and return the same to the Court to which the
person summoned as garnishee is required to ap ear; and all subse
quent proceedings sha l be the same as in this C e prescribed in rela
tion to garnishment in cases of attachment. [Summons of garnish
ment may issue under the provisions of this section, from time to time,
before trial, without giving any additional bond.] (b.)
§3536. (a.) Garnisheels answer must include what. In all cases of garn- M
ishment, whether the same be by attachment or garnishment at com-'1
mon law, it shall be the duty of the garnishee to answer what prop
erty, money or effects of the defendant he has in his hands at the date
of the service of the summons of garnishment, and also what property,
money or effects of the defendant may come into his or her hands at
any time from the date of said service to the date of the answer; and
said garnishee shall also answer what he or she owes the defendant at
the date of the service, and also what he or she may become indebted
to the defendant at any time between the date of the service of the
summons and the answer thereto. .
§3536. (b.) What is subject to garnishment. All debts owing to the A
defendant, and all property, money or effects of the defendant coming ‘
into the hands of the garnishee at or within the times designated in
the preceding section shall be subject to(process of garnishment,whe.ther
the garnishee had anything in l11S han s or was indebted anything to
the defendant at the date of the service of the summons or not.
§3536. (0.) Garnishmen/ts on judgnwnts in Court of Ordinary. In all
cases where judgment has been, or may hereafter be, obtained in the '
Courts of Ordinary of this State, the plaintiff in such judgment shall
be entitled to process of garnishment, as in other cases of garnishment
at common law, and the proceedings in such cases shall be the same as
though such judgment may have been obtained in the Superior Court:
Provided, however, that the person sought to be garnished shall be di
rected and required to answer at the next term of the Superior Court
of the count wherein the judgment was obtained; but if the next
term of the uperior Court shall be held within less than ten days af
ter the summons issues, then the garnishee shall be required to appear
and answer at the next term of the Court thereafter.
§3536. (d.) Garniehments a.ga1'nst persons in other counties. The lain-
tiffs named in the foregoing section shall have power to garnis per-'
sons in counties other than the county wherein their judgments are or
may have been obtained, as in other cases of garnishment at common
law ; and the defendants in such 'udgments and claimants to the
money or property in the hands of t e garnishee shall have the right
to dissolve such garnishments, or to claim said money or property, in
the same manner as in other cases of garnishment at common law.
§3537. (3486.) ( 3466.) Garmlshment against persona residing (mt of the
county. When any of the persons sought to be garnished reside in af,
different county from the one where suit is pending, or in which judgment
was obtained, it shall be the duty of the oﬂicer taking such afh-
davit and bond, or any other officer of the county where such suit is
pending, or where such judgment was obtained, authorized by this
Code to issue an attachment to whom said bond and affidavit may be dc
livered, to make outacopiy thereof, and certify the same to be true, and
shall deliver said certiﬁe copy to the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney
at law; and upon such certiﬁed copy being delivered to any officer au
thorized to issue an attachment, of t e county where the person sought
to be garnished resides, it shall be the duty of such officer to issue sum
mons of garnishment for such person as he may be directed by the
plaintiff, his agent, or attorney at law, requiring him to appear at the
next Superior or J ustice’s Court of said county, according as such suit
is pending, or judgment was obtained in the Superior or J ustice’s Court,
then and there to depose according to the provisions of the re
vious sections; but if the said Superior Court shall be held within ess
than twenty days, or said J ustice’s Court shall be held within less than
ten days from the time such garnishment issues, the garnishee shall
be required to appear at the next Court thereafter.
§3538. Garmlshments in another county. [When any of the persons
sought to be garnished reside in a different county from the one where
suit is pending, or in which judgment was obtained, the laintiﬁ, his
agent, or attorney at law, may make afﬁdavit and give nd in any
county in the State, before any oﬁicer authorized to issue an attach
ment under this Code, and it shall be the duty of the oﬁicer taking
such affidavit and bond to make out a copy thereof, and certify the
same to be true, and to issue summons of garnishment for such person
as he may be directed by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney at law, re
quiring him to appear at the next Superior or Justice’s Court of the
county, of the garnishee’s' residence according as such suit is pending,
or judgment was obtained in the Superior or Justice’s Court, then and
there to depose according to the provisions of law; and it shall be the
duty of the oﬂicer serving such summons to return or transmit the cer
tiﬁed afﬁdavit and bond, together with his actings and doings thereon
to the Superior or J ustice’s Court of the county in which such suit is
pending or judgment was obtained, and to return the original affidavit
and bond to the Court where such person is summoned to ap ear, with
his actings and doings thereon, and all subsequent procee mgs shall
be the same as prescribed by this Code, in relation to garnishment, in
cases of attachment, where the garnishee resides out of the county in
which the attachment is returnable. This section shall not be so
construed as to repeal the preceding section, but as providing an addi
tional mode of obtaining garnishment against persons residing out of
the county where suit is pending or in which judgment was obtained,
and so much of said section as relates to the t1me_ in which service of
summons of garnishment shall be made returnable to the Superior or
J ustice’s Court, is hereby made a part of this section. (a.)
§3539. (3487.) (3467.) How i-ssued,se1-ved, and returne ,etc. U nsuch
certiﬁed copy of aﬂidavit, bond, and summons of garnishment, in de
livered to any oﬂicer authorized by law to levy an attachment, it s all
be his duty to serve the summons upon the person to whom it is di
rected, and to return the said copy, aﬁidavit and bond, to the Court
where such person is summoned to appear, together with his actings
and doings entered thereon, and all subsequent proceedings shall be
the same as is prescribed by this Code in relation to garnishment in
cases of attachment, where the garnishee resides out of the county in
which the attachment is returnable.
§3540. ( 3488.) ( 3468.) ‘Gamishments, how dissolved. In cases where
garnishments are issued when suit is pending, or judgment has been
obtained, the defendant may dissolve such garnishment, and have the
same dismissed u n ﬁling 111 the clerk’s oﬁice of the Court where suit
is pending, or ju gment was obtained, or with the Justice of the Peace
where suit is pending, or judgment was obtained in such Court, a
bond, with security, pa Yable to the laintiﬁ, for the payment of the
amount due on such _]u gment, or w ich may be recovered in said ac
tion, and the costs thereon, and the laintiff may enter up judgment
upon such bond against the principa and securities, as judgment may
be entered against securities upon appeal.

§3541. Claimants may dissolve garn~ish1nent. Whenever any rocess of
garnishment is served upon any person, base upon suit, attac ment or
judgment, and there shall be money or property of any kind or descrip
tion in the hands of the garnishee, or that shall come into hishands so as
to fall within the operation of the summons of garnishment so served as
-aforesaid, which is claimed to be the property or money of any person not
a party to the proceeding upon which said garnishment is based, said
claimant may dissolve said garnishment by ﬁling in the clerk’s oﬂice
of the Superior Court of any county, or of any City Court, or in the
ioﬂice of any Justice of the Peace, or Notary Public, according as said
garnishment may be returnable to the Superior, City, Justice or No
'tary Public’s Court, a bond with good security in twice the amount of
the sum claimed upon said suit, attachment, or judgment, to be ap
proved by said clerk, or said Justice of the Peace or Notary Public,
conditioned to pay to the plaintiff the sum that may be found due to
said defendant upon the trial of any issue that may be formed upon the
answer of the garnisliee, or that may-be admitted to be due in said
fanswer, if untraversed.

§3542. Proceedings uprm answer of garniehee. [The garnishee upon
answering, shall be discharged from all further liability, and the l8,l11tiﬁ"s
remedy shall be upon the bond so executed as aforesai ; the
plaintiff or claimant, or both of them may traverse said answer, and the
issue upon said traverse shall be submitted to a jury as other issues
upon the answer of garnishees; if said garnishee fails to answer within
the time required by the laws of this State, judgment shall be had
against him, and he shall be liable thereon, notwithstanding any bond
that may have been executed by any claimant of the fund or property
in his hands

§3543. The fund or property to be delivered to claimant. [The garnishee
shall pay over or deliver any money or property to the claimant upon
the dissolution of the garnishment, in manner aforesaid, unless pre
vented by other legal process.


§3544. Claimant is party to subsequent proceedings. [The claimant of
prescriligd, shall be a party to all further proceedings upon said garn
ishment, and judgment shall be had instanfer upon said bond for any
sums, or the value of any property that may be found to have been in
the hands of said garnishee, liable to the operation of said summons of
garnishment.
§3544.  All
onev raised by virtue of the process otg garnishment under this Code,
shall be paid over to the creditors of the defendant, according to the
priorities now established by law—the expenses of the moving credi
tors being ﬁrst aid pro ram, by the judgment creditors receiving the
beneﬁt of his iligence.
of
§3546. (3490.) (3470.) Gamishee liable for interest, when. Asa general
ru e,'a arty who is prevented from paying over money b process of law
is not iable for interest; but if a garnishee resists the pa ment of
the fund in his hands, or controverts his indebtedness, he is liable for
interest thereon—but he may relieve himself from interest by paying
the fund into Court.

§3547. ($491.) @471.) Judgment. The plaintiff shall rot have judg
(rinentdagainst the garnishee until he hasobtained judgment against the
efen ant. 

§3548. C3492.) (3472) Answer of garnishee. The garnishee must, in
his answer, admit or deny his indebtedness, or that he has or had ef
fects in his hands belonging to defendant ; and if he is unable to do so,
his inabilit must appear in his answer, together with all the facts
plainly, ful y and distinctly set forth, so as to enable the Court to give
Judgment thereon.

§3549. Garnishee relieved from cost, when. [In all cases where process
arnishment shall be served upon any person, and such person
sha 1 make a true answer to the garnishment, as now required by law,
and shall pa the sum due to the defendant, into Court, or shall
turn over an deliver up any personal pro erty of the defendants, that
he may have in his possession, as required y law, or shall answer truly
that he owes the defendant nothing, if the garnishee shall have to in
cur any expense in making his or her answer to the garnishment, or
in turning over said ersonal property, the amount so incurred shall
be taxed in the bill o costs, under the approval of the Court, and be
paid, by the party cast in the suit, as other costs are now paid.] (a.)
§3550. Remedies again.st garnishee. [Whenever the garnishee shall
answer that he has money or currency in his control belonging to the
defendant in the principal suit, or the same fact shall be ascertained in
the manner provided by law, the plaintiff, in addition to other reme
dies now existing, shall have the same remedy to enforce the delivery
of such money or currency as exist by law under section 3305 of this
Code, to enforce the delivery of property or effects, and all the provisions
of said section as it exists, and shall exist, shall apply to garnishments
at common law.

§3551. ( 3493.) ( 3473.) Collaterals mt subject to garnrlshmmt. Collater
al securities in the hands of a creditor shall not be the subject of gar
nishment at the instance of other creditors.

§3552. ($5494.) ( 3474.) Attorney at law is embject to garnishment. An at
torney at law who has money or other effects in his hands belonging
to the defendant, shall be subject to be garnished.

§3553. (3495.) (3475.) Receivers not subject to garnishvnent. A receiver
appointed by a Court of equity shall not be subject to the process of
garnishment. 

§3554. (3496) (3476) Laborers’ tuages etempt from garnilshmerzt. All
journeymen, mechanics, and day laborers shall be exem t from the
rocess and liabilities of garnishment on their daily, week y, or month-I
y wages, whether in the hands of their employers or others.

§3555. (3-497.) (3477.) When lcgatces, etc., are subject to gar-nis/murnt. As
a general ru-le, the interest of a legatee or distributee is not the sub
ject of garnishment issued against an executor or administrator, but if
the legacy has been assented to by the executor, and such legacy is not
defeated by debts against the estate, and when there has been a ﬁnal
settlement b Y the administrator, and there remains in his hands a ﬁxed
balance, suc legacy or the interest of the distributee or heir may be
reached by process of garnishment, at the instance of a creditor of such
legatee, distributee, or heir at law, as the case may be.

§3556. (3498.) (3478) Executors, etc., may be garnished, when. In
every case a garnishment may be issued against an executor or admin-1
istrator for a legacy or distributive share, [or for any debt or demand
owing by said estate to any other person,] (b.) if the creditor will swear
—in ad ition to the oath required in ordinary cases—that his debtor
resides without the State, or is insolvent. In such cases the executor or
administrator shall not be compelled to answer the garnishment until
the estate in his hands is suﬂiciently administered to enable him safely
to answer the same.

§3557. (3499) 5112.) Tax collector may issue garnishnwnt. When any
tax collector can nd no property of the defendant, on which to levy
any tax execution in his hands, it shall be his duty to make an entry
to that effect on said execution ; and such tax collector may then issue
summons of garnishment against any erson, whom he may believe is
indebted to the defendant, or who may ave property, money or effects
in his hands when said summons of garnishment shall be served by
the tax collector, the Sheriff, his deputy, or any constable of the county
in which the garnishee may reside, at least ﬁfteen da 's before the sit
ting of the Court to which the same is made returna le, and returned
to the Superior Court of the county for which he is tax collector.

§3558. (3500) (-5113.) Proceedings thereon. Said tax collector shall
on said execution the names of the person garnished, and return
said execution to said Superior Court, and all the subsequent proceed
ings shall be the same as now rovided by law in relation to garnish
ment; in other cases, when judjgment has been obtained, or execution
issue .
§3-559. ($3501.) ( 3479.) Verdict must cover the issues. The verdict must
cover the issues‘ made by the pleadings, and must be for the plaintiff
or defendant.
§3560. (3502) (3480) Must show upon what lea it is found. If there
are several pleas ﬁled by the defendant, a ver ict for the defendant must
show upon which of the pleas the verdict is rendered. The jury may
render such verdict u n all the pleas if they see ‘proper so to do. And
it shall be the duty o the Judges of the Superior‘ Courts of this State,
upon r uest of the jury, in the trial of all civil cases, to furnish said
jury wit written instructions as to the form of their verdict.

§3561. (3503.) (3481.) Construction of verdicts. Verdicts are to have
a reasonable intendment, and are to receive a reasonable construction,
and are not to be avoided unless from necessity.

§3562. (3504.) (3482.) Moulding verdicts. It shall be within the power
of the Superior Court, in proper case, to mould the verdict at law so as
to do full justice to the parties, and in the same manner as a decree in
equity, and the judgment and execution shall conform to the verdict.

§3563. (3505.) (34S3.) Verdict introver. In an action of trover the
verdict may be in the alternative; that is, it must be for the value of the
property sued for, which may be discharged by the return of the pro
perty within a given time speciﬁed in the verdict.

§3564. (3506) Plaintiﬂ’ may choose verdict. It shall be at the option of
the plaintiff, in an action to recover personal property, to say upon the
trial thereof whether he will accept an alternative verdict for the prop
erty or its value, or whether he will demand a verdict for the damages
alone, or for the property alone, and its hire, if any; and it shall be the
duty of the Court to instruct the jury to render the verdict as the
plamtiﬂ‘ may thus elect.

§3565. (3-507.) ($3484.) Verdict for total divorce. The form of a ver
dict in case of a total divorce may be as follows, to-wit: We, the jury,
ﬁnd that suﬂicient proofs have been submitted to our consideration to
authorize a total divorce—that is to say, a divorce a vinculo matrimgnii,
upon legal principles, between the parties in this case.
§3566. ( 3508.) (3485) Verdict for partial divorce. In cases of a partial
divorce, the form ofaverdict may be as follows, to-wit : \Ve, the jury,
ﬁnd that sufficient roofs have been submitted to our consideration to
authorize a partial ivorce between the parties——that is to say, a di
vbrce a. m/xnsa et thoro upon legal principle . That the plaintiff shall
ay on the -—— da of , to the defendant during her natural
ife, the sum of i do lars, for the support and maintenance of the
issue of such marriage during their natural lives.
§3567. (3-509.) (3-186.) Verdicts, how received. Verdicts shall not be
received except in open Court, unless by agreement of the parties.
§3568. (3510.) (3487.) Judgment, how and when signed up. In all cases
when a. verdict shall be rendered, the party in whose favor it may be,
or his attorney, shall be allowed to enter and sign up judgment there
on at any time within four days after the adjournment of the Court at
which such judgment was rendered, for the amount‘ thereof and all
costs recoverable thereon, and no execution shall issue on any verdict
until such judgment shall be entered up and signed by the party or
his attorney.
§3569. ($511.) (a4ss.) A peat suspends judgment. If a judgment be
entered within the time a lowed for enteringian appeal, and such ap
peal be entered, the judgment will be suspen ed.

§3570. (3512.) (3489.) Judgment for priiwi cl and interest. In all cases
' gment shall be entered up
where judgment may be obtained, such ju
for the princi al sum due, with interest: Provided the claim upon
which it was o tained draws interest; but no part of such judgment
shall bear interest except the principal which may be due on the origi
nal debt.

§3571. (3513.) (3490.) Judgment on appeals.
where security has been given, the lalntiﬂ, or his attorne , may en
ter up judgment against the principa and surety, jointly andyseverally,
and execution shall issue accordingly, and roceed against either or
both, at the option of the plaintiff, until his ebt is satisﬁed.

§3572. (3514.) (3491.) Against mraies and indorsera In all_ judgments
against sureties or indorsers on any bill of exchange, promissory note,
or other instrument lll writing, the pla1nt1ﬂ', or his attorney, shall des
ignate and identify the relation of the parties under the contract on
which such judgment is rendered, and execution shall issue accordingly.

§3573. (3-515.) (3492) Judgment against executors a-ndadministmtors. In
a suit against an executor or administrator, in his representative char
actcr, the judgment must be de bonis testatoris, except when he pleads
'ne unques executor, or a release to himseg, or plene administravit, or plene
admin istravit przeter, and his plea is foun against him; in which case the
judgment is that the plaintiff recover both the debt and costs, in the
ﬁrst place to be levied of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements
of the deceased, if to be found, and if not to be found, then to be levied
of the personalgoods and chattels, lands and tenements of the defendant.

§3574. ($5516.) ($3493.) Judgment for costs against executors, etc. When
the verdict of a jury is against an executor or. administrator, or other
trustee in his representative character, a judgment for costs should be
entered against him in the same character.

§3575. (3517.) (3494.) Judgmeruf on bonds. All judgments entered
against. the obligors of any bond, whether oﬂicial or voluntary, shall be
for the amount of damniﬁcation found by the verdict of a jury, and not
for the penalty thereof.

§3576. (3518.) ( 3495.) Judgments in (javor of or a ainst ﬁrms. J udgments
entered up, or executions issue , in favor o or against copart
ners, when the partnership style is used therein instea of the indi
vidual names of such persons comprising said ﬁrm, shall be good.
§3577. (3519.) (3496) Conclusiverwss Qfjudgments. The judgment of a
Court of competent jurisdiction is conclusive between parties‘ and priv
ies" as to the facts which it decides until reversed or set aside.

§3578. ($3520.) (3497.) Judgments at 8(l17‘t6 term of equal date. All jud —
ments si ned on verdicts rendered at the same term of the Court, sha l
be C0llSl( ered, held and taken to be, of equal date, and no execution
shall be entitled to any preference by reason of being ﬁrst placed in
the hands of the levying oﬂicer.

§3579. (3521 ) (3498.) Rank of judgments aﬂirnwd by Supreme Court. A
ju gment in the Superior Court, which is taken to the Supreme Court
and aﬁirmed, loses no lien or priority by the proceeding in the Supreme
Court, but takes effect from the ﬁrst judgment.

§3580. (3522) (3499.) ' nity and binding qﬂ'ect.~ of judgments. All
‘u ments obtained in the erior Justices’ or other Courts of this
J g P 2
State shall be of equal dignity, and shall bind all the property of the
defendant, both real and personal, from the date of such judgment, ex-
cept as otherwise provided in this Code.

§3581. (3523.) (3500.) First judgment prevents alienation in cases of appeat.
In all cases where a judgment shall be rendered, and an ap eal
shall be entered from such judgment, the property of the defen ant
shall not be bound by the ﬁrst judgment, except so far as to prevent the
alienation by the defendant of his property between the signing of the
ﬁrst judgment and the signing of the judgment on the appeal, but shall
be bound from the signing of such judgment on the appeal.

§3582. (3-524.) (3501.) Judgments do not bind chases in action. A judg
ment has no lien upon promissory notes in the hands of the defendant,
nor are choses in action liable to be seized and sold under execution,
unless made so specially by statute.

§3582. (a.) Toll-cotton not subject, when. The toll-cotton received by
persons in this State as a compensation for ginning the cotton of an-
other, shall not be sub'ect to seizure or sale under any judgment, mort
gage, lien, decree or ot er process against the person owning or having
such cotton ginned, existing rior to or at the time it was ginned.
Provided, the toll so exempted) shall not exceed one-ﬁfteenth of the
amount ginned.
§3583. (3-525.) (3502) Lien of judgment cm transferred propert1,houidia
charged. When an person has bona ﬁde, and for a valuable considera-
. .
tion, purchased rea or personal property, and has been in the posses--
sion of such real property for four years, or of such personal property
two years. the same shall be discharged from the lien of any judg
ment against the person from whom he purchased, and where a money
judgment shall be hereafter rendered against any defendant who, at the
time suit is begun, does not reside in the county where it is instituted,
the property of such non-resident defendant, which is situated, at the
date of the judgment, without such county, shall, so far as affects bona
ﬁdc purchasers, for value, without actual notice of the judgment, not be
bound b such jud ment, unless the owner of such judgment shall,
within t ree mont s from the ﬁnal rendition of the judgment, have
his ﬁeri facias entered upon the execution docket in the office of the
Cler of the Superior Court of the county where such defendant resided
at the date of the judgment. If any such judgment is so docketed after
the three months speciﬁed in the foregoing section, the provisions of
said section shall not apply to purchases made after such docketing.

§3584. (3526.) (3-503.) Lien 0 judgment on property removed from the
State. When a judgment lien as attached on ersonal property which
is removed to another State and sold, if brought ack again to this State,
it will be subject to the judgment lien.

§3585. ( 3527.) (3504. E ect of ju-dgnwnts in trovera-nd trespass. When
a verdict for damages s al be rendered in favor of a plaintiff in trover
or trespass. and a judgment signed thereon, the said verdict and judg
ment shall not have the effect to change the property which is the
subject matter of the suit, or to vest the same in the defendant in said
suit, until after the damages and costs recovered by the plaintiff in such
action are paid oﬁ' and discharged, except so far as to subject such pro
erty to be sold under and by virtue of an execution issuing from suc
judgment ‘in such action of trespass or trover, and to make the same
iab e to the payment of the damages and costs recovered in said action,
in preference to any other judgment, order or decree, against the said
defendant in said action of trespass or trover.
§3586. (3-5U5.) Sale of land when purchase vnoneyis mrtially paid. When
a person holds roperty under a bond for titles, ancf the purchase money
has been partia ly paid, the same may be levied on under judgments
against such person, and the entire interest stipulated in the bond
shall be sold. The proceeds of the sale shall be appro riated, ﬁrst to
‘the ayment of the balance of the purchase money, an the remainder
‘to t e judgment liens according to date. In all such cases, notice of
the levy shall be given by the levyin oﬁicer to the holder of the bond
for titles, and also to the maker of the nd, and in case of death, to his
legal representatives.

§3586. (a.) Name changed in divorce cases, when. In all divorce cases
new pending, or hereafter brought, the wife may pray in her leadings
for the restoration of the name which she bore at the time o her last
marriage, and in the event a total divorce shall be granted to her in
said case, the judgment or decree therein rendered shall specify and re
store to her the name so prayed for in her pleadings.


§3587. (E-529.) (3506.) Motion in arrest of judgment. When a judg
ment has een rendered, either party may move in arrest thereof, or
to set it aside for any defect not amendable which appears on the face
of the record or pleadings. '
§3588. (3530.) (3507.) Nature of such motion. A motion in arrest of
ju gment differs from a motion for a new trial in this: The former
must be redicated on some defect which appears on the face of the re
cord or p eadings, while the latter must be redicated on some extrin
sic matter not so appearing. It also differs rom a motion to set aside
a judgment in this : The motion, in arrest of judgment, must be made
during the term at which such judgment was obtained, while a motion»
to set 1t aside may be made at any time within the statute of limita
tions.

§3589. (3531.) (3508.) F01-defects in the pleadings. If the pleadings
are so defective that no le al judgment can be rendered, the judgment
will be arrested or set asi e.

§3590. (3532) (3509.) Amendable defects, no round to arrest. A judgs
ment cannot be arrested or set aside tor any efect in the pleadings or
record that is aided by verdict, or amendable as matter of form.

§3591. (3533.) (3510) Judgments obtained by erju-ry will be set aside.
Any judgment, or verdict, rule, or order of -ourt, which ma have
been obtained, or entered up, shall be set aside and be of no e ect, if
it shall ap ear that the same was entered up in consequence of corrupt
and willfu perjury; and it shall be the duty of the Court in which
such verdict, judgment, rule, or order, was obtained or entered up, to
cause the same to be set aside u n motion and notice to the adverse
party; but it shall not be lawfu for the said Court to do so, unless the
person charged with such perjury shall have been thereof duly convicted,
and unless it shall appear to the said Court that the said verdict, judg
ment, rule, or order, could not have been obtained and entered up with
out the evidence of such perjured person, savin always to third per
sons innocent of such perjury, the right which t e may lawfully have
acquired under such verdict, judgment, rule, or or er, before the same
shall have been actually vacated and set aside.

§3592. (3534) (3-511.) Jurisdiction of the motion tn arrest. All motions
to arrest or set aside a judgment must be made to the Court by whom
such judgment was rendered, and of which motion the opposite party
must have reasonable notice.

§3593. (3535) (3512) Judgnierits, haw attacked. The judgment of a
Court of com etent jurisdiction cannot be collaterally attacked in any
other Court or irregularity, but shall be taken and held as a valid
judgment until it is reversed or set aside.

§3594. (3536.)' (3513) Judgments, when void. The judgment of a
Court having no jurisdiction of the person and subject matter, or void
for any other cause, is a mere nullity, and may be so held in any Court
when it becomes material to the interest of the parties to consider it.
jurisdiction; or for fraud: 29 Am. R., 365; 30/646; 32/673.
§3595. (3-537.) (351-1.) £_Tqu.ity nuiy set asidejudgments. The judgment
a. Court of com tent urisdiction may be set aside b a decree in
chancery for frau , acci ent, or mistake, or the acts 0 the adverse
party unmixed with the negligence or fault of the complainant.

§3596. ( 3538.) ($3515.) Judgments may be attacked by creditors, etc. Credi
tors or bona ﬁde purchasers may attack a judgment for any defect ap
pearing on the face of the record; or pleadings, or for fraud, or collu
sion, whenever and wherever it interferes with their rights, either at
law or in equity.

§3597. (3539.) (3516.) Judgvnents may be t1-rmsferredn Any plaintiﬂ‘
e, and for a valuable consideration, transfer
any judgment or execution to a third person, and in all cases the trans
of any judgment or execution shall have the same rights, and be
liable to the same equities, and subject to the same - defenses, as the
original plaintiff in judgment was.
§3598. (35/40.) (3517.) Trzmsferby attorney. The transfer of a judg
ment or execution by the attorney of record shall be good to pass the
title thereto as against every person, exce t the plaintiff, or his as
signee, without notice. The ratiﬁcation by t e plaintiff shall estop him
also from denying the transfer. The receiving of the money shall be
such a ratiﬁcation.

§3599. Joint debtors may ccmtrolﬁ. ﬁa., when. [When judgments have
been obtained against several persons and one or more of them has
paid more than his just pro rtion of the same, he or they may, by
a.vin such payment entere on the fa. issued to enforce said judg
ment, ave full power to control an use said ﬁ. fa., as securities in
ﬁ. fa. control the same against principal or co-securities, and shall not
be compelled, as heretofore, to sue the co-debtors for the excess of pay
ment on such judgment.

§3600. (3541.) (3518) Confession of judgmengwhere and when allowed.
No confession of judgment shall be entered up but in the county where
the defendant resided at the commencement of the action, except ex
pressly provided for by law, nor unless the cause has been regularly
sued out and docketed as in other cases.

§3601. £3-542.) (-3519.) Judge may confess jadgnwm in his own Court. A
Judge oft e Superior Court, or Justice of the eace, may confess a judg
ment in his own Court.

§3602. (3543.) (3520) Right of confe.9s1'on and appeal. Either party has
a right to confess a judgment without the consent of his adversary, and
appeal from such contession without reserving the right so to do, in
cases where an appeal is allowed by law.
§3603. (3544.) (3521.) Need not be renewed. Judgments need not be
renewed on the Court roll.
§3601. (35-15.) (3-522.) Dormant judgments may be revived. When any
Ju gment obtained in any Court of this State is or shall become dor
mant, the sanie may be renewed by action of debt, or scire fax.-ias, at the
option of the plaintiff.

§3605. (3546) ( 35233 Debt on judgnwnts, where to be brought.
tion of debt be adopte , it must be brought in the county where the
defendant resides, at the commencement of the action.

§3606. (3-547.) (3-524.) Scire facias to revive. S_'cire facias to revive a
ju gnient is not an original action, but the continuation of the suit in
which the judgment was obtained.

§3607. (35_48.) (3525) Scire facias to revive, where to issue from. A scire
facia/s to revive a dormant judgment in the Superior Courts must issue
from and be returnable to the Court of the county in which the judg
ment was obtained, shall be directed to all and singular the Sheriffs of
this State, and signed by the clerk of such Court, who shall make out
co ies thereof, which shall be served by the Sheriﬂ‘ of the county in
w ich the party to be notiﬁed may reside, twenty da 's before the sit
ting of the Court to which it is made returnable, an the original re
turned to the clerk of the Court from which it issued, and an original
and copy shall issue in each county in which any party to be notiﬁed
may reside. 

§3608. (3549).) (3526.) Revival 3f judgments against non-residents. If the
or party to be notiﬁe
If the ac
, resides out of this State, a dormant
judgment may be revived against such defendant, or his representa
tive, by such rocess as is now issued in cases where the defendant re
sides in this tate: Provided, the defendant or party to be notiﬁed be
served with scirefaeias, by publication in some public gazette of this
State once a month for four months revious to the term of the Court
at which it is intended to revive said)judgment; which service shall be
as eifectual in all cases as if the defendant or person to be notiﬁed had
been ersonally served.
§36 ._ (3550.) (_3-527.) Judgmmt of revival, when taken. In all cases of
. . .
scare faczas to revive a Judgment, when service has been perfected as§e
herein provided, such judgment may be revived, on motion, at the ﬁrst
term, without the intervention of a jury, unless the defendant shall
put in an issuable plea, [under oath,] (a.) in which case the defendant
shall be entitled to a trial by _a jury, as in other cases.
§3610. (35-51.) (3528.) Scirefacias infavor of assignee. The scirefaeias,
when the judgment has been transferred, shall issue in the name of
‘the original plaintiff for the use of the transferee.
§36lO. (a.) (3552) (3529.) Appeals lie in what cases. [In all civil cases
tried and determined by a County Judge, or a Justice of the Peace, or
a Notary Public who is ea:o_ﬂil~io a. Justice of the Peace, and on all con-
fessions of judgments before either of said oﬂicers, where the sum
claimed is more than ﬁfty dollars, either party inay, as a matter of right,
enter an appeal to the Superior Court.] 

§3610. (b.) Claim cases in Justice Courts, appeals from. In all cases
where an execution issued from any of the Justice Courts in this State
shall have been levied on any personal property, and there is a claim
ﬁled to the same, it shall and ma be lawfu for either party interested
in said issue, to appeal from the ecision of the said Justice Court, in all
cases where the amount claimed on said execution is ﬁfty dollars, or up
wards, or where the roperty levied on is worth said amount, on their
gomplying with the aw already in existence, governing appeals from
ustice Courts in this State.
_ §36l1. (3-553.) (3-530.) A peals from %rt of Ordinary. An appeal
to the Superior Court rom any decision made by the Court of Or
diary, except an order appointing a temporary administrator: Provi
dad, that w enever an appeal shall be taken from a decision of t e Or
made under section 2511 of this Code, such appeal shall not
operate as a supersedeas, unless the executor or administrator shall ﬁrst
’ give a good and suﬂicient bond, payable to the Ordinar and his success
ors in oiﬁce, in such sum as the Ordinary may require not exceding the
amount of the estate in the hands of the administrator), conditioned
to pay all costs and damages that may accrue to the estate pending the
appeal

§3612. (3-555.) (3532) Collateral issues, how tried. All collateral issues
in the Superior Court, unless otherwise directed by law, shall be tried
by a special jury.

§3613. (3556.) ($533.) Appeals, when to be entered. A peals to the Su
perior Court must be entered within four days after t e adjournment
of the Court in which the judgment was rendered.
§3614. (3557.) (3534.) Days not counted. Sundays and holidays shall
in no case be included in the computation of the time within which
an appeal shall be entered [except that holidays are included in the
computation in cases of appeals from Justices’ Courts]

§3615. (3558.) (3535.) Attorneys may enter appeaks. An appeal may
be entered by the plaintiff or defendant in person, or by his attorney
at law or in fact, and if by the latter, he must be authorized in writin ,
which authority shall be ﬁled in the Court in which the case is en ing
at the time such appeal is entered; but if it is shown to the ourt
that such authority exists, such Court may allow a reasonable time to
ﬁle the same, and such appeal shall be dismissed and execution issue.
without further order; if such authority is not ﬁled within the time
allowed, a ratiﬁcation of an ap al, unauthorized, if made in writin ,
and ﬁled in the clerk’s oﬂice btfore the next term of the Court, sha 1
render the appeal valid. 

§3616. ($3559.) (3536.) A ellant mu-st pay cost. The appellant (ex
cept as hereinafter provide ) shall, previous to obtaining such apneal,
pay all costs which ma have accrued in the case up to the time oi en
tering such appeal, an give bond and security for the eventual con
demnation money.

§3617. (3060. (3537:) Attorney may szgnforprinezpa-l. If such appeal
shall be entere by the attorney at law or in fact, he may sign the
name of the principal to said apipeal bond, and the principal shall be
bound thereby as t ough he ha signed it himself.

§3618. (3561.) (3-538.) Appeals by partners, joint contractors and co1p0ra-
lions. When several partners or Joint contractors sue or are sued as
such, any one of said partners or Joint contractors, may enter an appeal
in the name of‘ such ﬁrm or joint contractors, and sign the name of
such ﬁrm or joint contractors to the bond required by law, which shall
be binding on the ﬁrm and such joint contractors, as though they had
signed it themselves; and in case of cor rations, the appeal may be
entered by the president or any agent t ereof managing the case, or
by the attorney of record.
§36l9. (3562) (3539.) One or more ma appeal. When there shall be
more than one party plaintiff or defen ant, and one or more of said
parties plainti or defendant desires to appeal, and the others refuse
or fail to appeal, such party plaintiff or defendant desiring to appeal,
may enter an appeal under such rules and regulations as are provided
in this Code.

§3620. (-3563.) (3540.) All bound by ﬁnal judgment. Upon the appeal
of either part laintiﬁ' or defendant, as provided in the previous
section, the wlyiolle record shall be taken up and all shall be bound b
the ﬁnal judgment, but in case damages shall be awarded upon suc
appeal, such damages shall only be recovered against the party ap
pealing and his security, and not against the party failing or refusing"
to appeal.

§3621. (3564.) (3541.) Liability and recourse of security on appeal. Such
{udgment on the ap eal, and in case
security-shall be bound for the
any such security shall be compe led to?+pay off the
ebt or damages
which Jud ment mav be entered in the cause, he shall have recourse
only against t e party for whom he became security.

§3622. (356-5.) (3542) E136ClLl07‘8, etc., 'nw,y appeal without pa ing costs,
etc. Executors, administrators, and other trustees, when sue as such,
out paying costs and giving bond and security
or defending solely the title of the estate, may enter an ap eal with-~
as herein efore re
quired; but if a judgment should be obtained against such executor,
administrator, or other~ trustee, and not the assets of the estate, he
must pay costs and give security as in other cases.

§3623. (3-566.) (3-543.) Appeals in forma pau eris. When any party,
or defendant, in anv suit at law, sha l be unable to pa Y costs
and give security as hereiribefore required, if such arty wil make
and ﬁle an aﬂidavit in writing that he 1S advised and elieves that he
has good cause of alppeal, and that, owing to his poverty, he is unable
to pay the costs an give the securigy required by law in cases of ap
peal, such party shall be permitte to enter an appeal without the
payment of costs or giving security as hereinbefore required.
§3624. (3567.) (3544.) Appeal from Ordinary, how entered. In all cases
in the Court of Ordinary, the part desiring to appeal, his attorney at
law or in fact, shall pay all costs t at may have accrued, and give bond
and security to the Ordinary for such further costs as may accrue by
reason of such appeal; this being done, the appeal shall be entered.

§3625. (3568) (3545) Appeals, how transmitted. When an appeal
has been entered in the Court of Ordinar ' it shall bethe duty of such
Ordinary to transmit the same to the Cler of the Superior Court of the
county in which such proceedings may have been had, at least ten days
before the next Superior Court of said county, to be there tried as
other appeals.
'36'26. Jzwtizres must transmit appeals. [When an appeal from the
ju gment of a Justice of the Peace or Notar Public has been entered,
it shall be the duty of such Justice of the eace or Notary Public, to
-transmit the same to the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county in
which proceedings ma have been had, at least ten days before the next
Superior Court of sai county, to be there tried as a peals have been
heretofore tried in Georgia: Provided, that nothing herein contained
shall be so construed as to deny arties the right of certiorari, when the
amount is less than ﬁfty dollars

§3627. (3571.) (3-548.) Appeal is a new investigation. An a peal to
the Su rior Court is a de 'nm=o investigation. lt brings up t e whole
record rom the Court below, and all competent evidence is admissible
on the trial thereof, whether adduced on a former trial or not; either
party is entitled to be heard on the whole merits of the case.
§3628. (3572) (3549) .E_ﬂ'ec!s of appeal. An appeal suspends but does
not vacate judgment, and, if dismissed or withdrawn, the rights of all
the parties are the same as if no appeal had been entered.

§3629. (3573.) (3550.) How withdrawn. No erson shall be allowed
to withdraw an appeal after it shall be entere but by the consent of
the adverse party.

§3630. (3574.) (3551. Appeals, how tried. All appeals to the Supe
rior Court shall be tri by a special jur at the ﬁrst term after the ap
peal has been entered, unless good cause e shown for continuance.

§3631. (357 . ($1552.) Damages for frivolous
l e
of any appeal, except from a. Justice’s Court ) it shall a pear to
the jury that the appeal was frivolous and intended for delav on y, they
shall assess damages against the a. pellant and his security”(if any) in
12846466. Judg
a Jpeals. If, upon the trial
‘favor of the respondent, for such elay. not exceeding twenty-ﬁve per
cent. on the principal sum which they shall ﬁnd due, which dama es
shall be s eclally noted in their verdict f[and if the judgment of t e
that an appeal rom a J ustice’s Court is frivo
lous, and intended for delay only, said Court shall, in addition to the
ﬁnal judgment in the case, enter 'udgment against the appellant for
twenty per cent. damages on said rivolous appeal]. (a.)
§3632. (3576) (3553.) E;v;ec'u.t1'0ns, how issued, directed and levied. Exe
(exce t as hereinafter provided) shall be issued by the clerks
cutions
of the severa. Courts in which judgment shall be obtained, and bear
test in the name of the Jud e of such Court, and shall bear date from
the time of their issuing, anc (except as hereinafter provided) shall be
directed “ To all and singular the Sheriffs of this State and their lawful
deputies,” and may be levied on all the estate, real and personal, of the
de endant, subject to levy and sale.

§3633. @577.) ( 3554. W7zen Sheri is a party, how directed and executed.
All executions, orders, ecrees, attac ments for contempt, and ﬁnal ro
cess, to be issued by the Clerks of the Su erior Courts in favor o or
against any Sheritf of this State, shall be irected to the coroner of the
county in which said Sheriif may reside, and to all and singular the
Sheriffs of the State, except the Sheriff of the county in which the inter
ested Sheriﬁ' may reside, which may be levied, served and returned by
the coroner or other Sheriff, or constable of the county, at the option
of the the plaintiff, or the party seeking the remedy.
§3634. ($3579.) ( 3556.) Fi. fa. may issue at anytime, but appeal suspends
it. Aﬁ. fa. may issue at any time after a verdict is rendered and judg
ment entered thereon; but if it is issued before the expiration of the
time allowed for entering an appeal, the same will be suspended on the
entering of an appeal by either party.

§3635. (3580.) (3557. How returnable. All executions, except as other
wise provided by this ode, shall be made returnable to the next term
of the Court from which they issued respectively.
$3636. (3581.) (3558.) Mustfollow the Judgnwnt. All executions must
fol ow the (judgment from which they issued, and describe the parties
thereto as escribed in such judgment.

§3637. (358‘2.) ($5559.) Writ of possession in ejectment. VVhen a. verdict
in ejectment shall be rendered in favor of the plaintiff, anda judgment
entered thereon, the clerk of such Court shall issue a writ of possession,
in which the clerk shall incorporate a clause directing the Sheriff to
collect, by levy and sale of the defendant’s property, all such sums of
money as, by the ﬁnding of the jury, shall have been awarded to such
plaintiff in e'ectment as meme proﬁts and costs.
§3638. (35 3.) (3560.) Against whom writs of possession issue. The writ
of possession shall not issue against third persons not known in the
suit on which such writ of possession is founded, nor put in possession
by, nor claiming under, nor by virtue of, any conveyance from the de
fendant in such suit.

§3639. (3584.) (3561.) The Judge may franw executions. The Judge of
any Superior Court may frame and cause to be issued by the clerk any
writ of execution, to carry into effect any lawful judgment or decree
rendered in his Court.
§3640. (3592.) (3569).) Form of levy. The oﬂicer making a levy shall
always enter the same on the process by virtue of which such evy is
made, and in such entry shall plainly describe the property levied on,
and the amount of the interest of defendant therein.

§364l. (3593.)’ (3570) On what property ﬁrst levied, right of. \Vhen a
defendant in . a. shall oint int out an ' ro ert on which to lev '
_ P P9 _ Y P P Y _ )
the execution such ro ert bein in the hands or ssession of a er
, P _ P Y 8 _ P0 _ , P
son not a party to the Judgment from which such execution issued, the
Sheriff, or other oﬁicer, shall not levy thereon, but shall proceed to levy
on such property as may be found in thehands and possession of the
defendant, who shall, nevertheless, be at_libert_v to point out what part
of his ro ert he ma think ro er which the Sheriff or other oﬁicer
P P Y Y P P 7 _ _ _ I _ _ >
shall be bound to take and sell first, if the same is, in the opinion of
such levying oﬁicer, suﬂicient to satisfy such judgment and costs

§3642. (3594.) (3571.) Grou=-ing crop to be sold, how. N0 Sheriff, or other
shall levy on any growing crop of corn, wheat, oats, rye, rice,
cotton, potatoes, or any other crop usually raised or cultivated by the
planters or farmers of this State, nor sell the same until such crop shall
be matured and ﬁt to be gathered: Provided, this provision shall not pre
vent any levying officer from levyin on and selling crops as heretofore
practiced in cases where the debtor a sconds or removes from the county
or State, or from selling growing crops with the land.

§3613. (359-5.) (3-572.) Notice of levy on land. The oﬁicer levying on
land under an execution shall, within ﬁve days thereafter, leave a “rit
ten notice of such levy with the tenant in possession of the land,
if any, or with the defendant, if in the county, or transmit such no
tico by mail to the defendant within the time aforesaid.
§3644. (3596) _(3573.) Oﬂicer not to sell land out of his county. A Sheriff,
or other levying officer, shall not sell land out of the county in
which he is Sheriff, or such officer, except when the defendant in exe-
cution shall own a tract or tracts of land divided by the line of the
county of his residence, in which case it may be sold in the county of
his residence; or if such tract of land is in other than that of the de
fendant’s residence, it may be levied on and sold in either county. In
all cases of levying on land, written notice of such levy must be given
to the tenant in possession, and to the defendant, if not in possession

§3645. (3597) (3574.) Constable may levy on land, when. No constable
(except as provided by this Code) shall be authorized to levy on any
real estate, unless there is no personal estate to be found sufficient to
satisfy the debt, or such real estate, being in the ssession of the de
fendant, was pointed out by such defendant, whic he hasa right to do,
and then such constable is authorized to levy on such real estate, if to
be found in his county, and deliver over the execution to the Sheriff
of the county, with a return of the property levied upon, who shall
proceelctl to advertise and sell the same as in case of levies made by
nnse .
§3646. (3598.) (3575.) Place, time, and manner of sales. N0 sales shall
be made, by the Sheriffs or coroners, of property taken under execution
but at the Court House of the county where such levy was made,
on the ﬁrst Tuesday in each month, between the hours of 10 A. M. and 4
P. M., and at public outcry: P'rmn'ded,that in all cases \vhere any Sheriﬁ',
coroner, or other levying o cer, shall levy any execution or other legal
process, upon any corn, lumber, timber of any kind, bricks, machinery,
or other articles difficult and expensive to transport, it shall and may
be lawful for said oﬂicer to sell said property without carrying and ex
posin the same at the Court House door on the day of sale: Provided,
also, t at said levying oﬁicer shall give a full description of said prop
erty, and the place where said property is located, in the advertisement
of the sale.] (a.)
§-3646. (a.) Sale may continue from dag; to day. It shall and may be
lawful for any Sheriff, coroner, constable, tax collector, guardian, trus
tee, or any other oﬁicer of this State, when selling property at public
sale, by virtue of any law of this State, to continue such sale from day
to day until such sale may be completed. And when any trustee or
other officer shall desire to continue his sale from day to day by virtue
of this section, it shall be his duty to give notice of such intended
continuance in the advertisement of such sale

§3647. (3-599.) (3-576.) Sales, how advertised. It shall be the duty of
the Sheriffs and coroners to publish weekly, for four weeks,A| (b.) in
some newspaper publishe in their counties respectively--an if there
be no such paper ublished in the county, then in the nearest news
paper having the argest or a general circulation in such count_v—uo
ticc of all such sales of land and other property executed by him, in
which advertisement he shall give a ful and complete description of
the pro erty to be sold, making known name of the plaintitfand defend
ant, an the person who may be in the possession of such property,ex
cept horses, hogs, and cattle. which may be sold at an time by the con
sent of the defendant; in which case, 1t shall be the uty of such oiﬁcer
to give the plaintiff ten days’ notice there of, and also to advertise the
same at three or more public places in the county where such property
may be, at least ten days before the sale.

§3648. Sale of perishable property. [Whenever any property shall be
levied on by virtue of anv _ﬁ. fa., attachment or other process issuing
from any of the Superior Courts of this State, or by virtue of any ﬁ. _fa.,
attachment or other process issuing from any J ustice’s Court in said
State, and the defendantfails to replevy the same, and the same remains
in the hands of the levying officer, and is of a perishable nature, or
liable todeteriorate in value from keeping, or there is expense attend
ing the keeping the same (the same not being real estate), upon the
facts being made plainl to appear to the Judge of the Superior Court,
or to the Ordinary of t e county in which such levy is made (during
the absence of the Judge of said Superior Court) when the ﬁ-. fa., is re
turnable to the Su erior Court, or to the Justice of the Peace of the dis
trict in which the evy is made, when the ﬁ.fa., is returnable to a Jus
tice’s Court. it shall be their duty to order a sale of the roperty, which
shall be at the usual place of holding Sheriﬂ"s sales of the county where
such property may be, when the ﬁ. fa., is returnable to the Superior
Court, and when the _ﬁ.fa., is returnable to a Justice’s Court, at the
usual place of constable’s_ sales of the district where the property may
 
be, or at such other place as the magistrate ordering such sale may direct.
The time and place of holding such sale shall be advertised at the Court
House and at two other ublic places when the sale is to take place, at
least ten days before the av of sale ; and when the fi. fa. is returnable to
a J ustice’s Court, it shall be advertised at the Court House door of the
district in which said levy is made; and the money arising from said
sale shall be held by the oﬁicer making the same, sub'eot to the order
of the Court having jurisdiction of the same : Provide , that the Judge,
Ordinary or Justice may order a sale of live stock, fruit or other per
sonal property in a perishable condition after three days’ notice. (a.)
1“r0ui(led,_furtb-er, that no judicial oﬁicer shall grant any order for the sale
of personal property where the defendant in fi. fa. or other process, or
his attorney, has not had at least two days’ notice of applicant’s inten
tion to apply for such order which notice shall specify the time and
place of hearing; and in case of attachment for purchase money falling
within this section, like notice shall be furnished the plaintiff or his
attorney, and in no case shall such notice be dispensed with, except
where it shall be made to appear that it is impracticable to have such
notice perfected, or the case is an urgent one; in which latter event the
Court may, in the exercise of a sound discretion, grant such order with
out notice.

§3618. (a.) Sale ofperishable property under taroﬁ. fas., etc. Whenever a
tax ﬁ.fa. or County Court _ﬁ.fa. has been levied on property of a perish
able nature, or that is liable to deteriorate in value from keeping, or
that is attended with expense in keeping, the same may be sold under
the provisions of the preceding section, exec t that in the case of
County Court fas., the County Judge shall or er the sale.
§3649 Advertising fee paid in advance, when. [No Sheriff or de uty(,
Sheriff, in this State, shall be required to advertise the property 0 any
defendant in ﬁ. fa. for sale until the cost of such advertisement shall
have been ﬁrst aid by the plaintiff in fi. fa., his agent or attorney:
Provided, that w en any such party plaintiff‘, or his agent or attorney
for him, shall make and ﬁle an affidavit in writing, that, owing to his
poverty, he is unable to pay such cost, then it shall be the duty of said
Sheriﬁ, or his deputy, to roceed as now required by law.] (a.)
§3650. ($3600.) (3-577.) Notice oj change must be given. No Sheriff, cor-A
oner, or other officer, shall change the advertising connected with his
oﬁice from one paper to another, without ﬁrst giving notice of his in
tention to do so in the paper in which his advertisements may have
been published.

§3651. (3601.) (3578.) Ojﬁcer shall ut purchaser in possession. When
any Sheriff, or other officer, shall sel any real estate by virtue of and
under any execution, it shall be the duty of such Sheriff, or other levying
ofﬁcer, upon application, to put the urchaser, his agent, or attorney,
in ssession of the real estate sold: ovided, that the provisions of this
C e shall not authorize the oﬁicer to turn out any other person than
the defendant, his heirs, or their tenants, or assignees, since the judg
ment.
§3652. ($3602.) (3579.) Possession, how obtained. If the purchaser of real
estate, at Sheriﬁ"s and other sales under execution, shall fail to make
application for possession thereof until the next term of the Su erior
Court after such sale takes place, or until the officer making suc sale
goes out of oﬁice, such possession can only be obtained under an order
of said Superior Court.

§3653. (3603.) (3580.) Widow and lessee-cannot be dispossessed. The
widow of the defendant claiming dower cannot be dispossessed of the
mansion, nor can a lessee whose lease is older than the judgment under
which the sale was made, be dispossessed under the pl‘0VlSl0I1S of the two
preceding sections.

§3654. (3604.) ($3581.) Sale of land for purchase money where titles are
[When any judgment has been or shall be rendered in any
madc
of the Courts of this State, upon any note or other evidence of debt
given for the purchase money of land, where titles have not been made,
ut bond for titles given, it shall and may be lawful for the obligor of
said bond to make and ﬁle and have recorded in the Clerk’s oﬁice of the
Superior Court of the county wherein the land lies, a good and suﬁicient
deed of conveyance to the defendant for said land; or if hc be dead,
then to the executor or administrator of such deceased defendant, the
obligee in said bond, or, if there be no such executor or administrator,
then to the heirs of said deceased; and if said obligor to be dead, then
his executor or administrator may, in like manner, make and ﬁle
such deed without obtaining an order of the Court for that purpose;
whereupon, said land may be levied on and sold under such judgment,
as in other cases: Provided, said judgment shall take and be a lien
upon the said land, and the proceeds of the sale thereof, prior to all
other judmcnts, claims, liens and encumbrances, until the said judg
ment shall be fully paid and satisﬁed. (a.) When the deed has been
or shall be ﬁled in the clcrk’s ofﬁce of t e Superior Court, as provided in
this section, and the obligee in said bond, his executor, administrator,
or heirs, before the sale under such levy, has aid or shall pay to the
said obligor, his executors or administrators, t 0 amount due on such
judgment for the purchase money of said land, said payment shall vest
the title in said land in the said obli ee, his executors, administrators,
or heirs, as the case may be, and t e Clerk of said Su erior Court
shall thereupon deliver said deed to said obli ee; or if he e dead, then
to his executor or administrator; or if there e no such executor or ad
ministrator, then to his heirs.
§3655. (3605).) (3582) Pu.rchaser’s liability. Any person who inaybe-
come the purchaser of any real or personal estate at any sale which
may be made at public outcry by any Sheriff or other officer, under and
by virtue of any execution or other le al process, and shall fail or re
fuse to com ly with the terms of suc sale when requested so to do,
shall be liab e for the amount of such purchase money, and it shall be at
the option of such Sheriﬁ or other officer, either to proceed against
such purchaser for the full amount of the purchase mone , or to resell
such real or personal estate and then proceed against the rst purchaser
for the deﬁciency arising from such sale.
§3656. Q3606.) (3583.) Form of action against purchaser. The action pro
vided for in the preceding section may be brought in the name of the
Sheriff‘ or other ofﬁcer making the sale, for the use of the plaintiff or
defendant in execution, or any other person in interest, as the case
may be.
§-3656. go.) Tim, place and manner. The time, place and manner of
'the sale 0 property, both real and personal, for taxes due to municipal
corporations in this State, shall be the same as that provided by law
for Sheriif ’s sales for State and county taxes.
§3656. (b.) Redemption. \Vhenever any land is so sold, the owner
thereof shall have the privilege of redeeming said land, thus sold,
within one year by paying the purchaser the amount paid by said
plprchaser for said land, with ten per cent. premium thereon, from the
te of the urchase to the time of the payment.
§3656. (cg Corporation may purchase, when. Whenever, at any such
sale, by a. municipal corporation for taxes due it, by its marshal, or duly
authorized oﬂicer, no one present shall bid for the property put up to
be sold, as much as the tax for which it is proposed to sell t e same,
and the oﬂ‘icer's cost, if any due thereon, after such property shall have
been cried a reasonable time, then any duly appointed oﬂicer or agent
of the corporation may bid off such property for the corporation, and
the marshal. or other officer making such sale, shall make to the corpor
ation a deed to the property so sold, and deliver the same to the officer
designated by the cor oration to receive it, and the title acquired by
the corporation at suc sale, and by such deed, shall be perfect, valid
and binding, after the period above provided for redemption by the
owners shall have elapsed, and there 1s no redemption by the owner,
as if purchased by an individual or corporation other than such cor
poration so purchasing, and the marshal-, or other duly authorized oﬁi
cer making the sale, shall put the corporation, through any oﬁicer or
person it may designate, in the possession of the property so sold.
Purchase by State : 18 Wall., 391 ; 4 0., 405; 5 C. L. J., 46; Cooley Tax., 351-352.
bO(§i3656. (d.) Property sold by corporation, how. Neither the governing
y of any such munici al corporation, whether known as mayor and
oouncilmen, mayor and a dermen, or by any other name, during whose
term of service any such sale shall take lace, nor any subsequently
elected, or a pointed governing body, shal be capable of diverting or
alienating t e title of the corporation to any propert so purchased,
exce t by a public sale of the same to the highest bid er.
§3g56. (e.) Orclinances to carry this into effect Municipal corporations
shall have full power and authority to pass appropriate ordinances and
by-laws to carry these provisions into effect.
§3656. f.) Does not app! to counties. Nothing in the preceding ﬁve
sections s all be construe to apply to counties.

§3657. ($3607.) (3584.) Levy on personalty unexplained. A levy upon
personal property suﬂicient to ay the debt unaccounted for, 1s p'ri1na.
jam}: evidence of satisfaction to t e extent of the valuc of such property,
and the dismissal of such levy unexplained is an abandonment of the
lien so far as third persons are concerned.
§3658. (3608.) (3585.) Release of property subject. If the plaintiff in
execution, for a valuable consideration, releases property which is sub
ject thereto, it is a satisfaction of such execution to the extent of the
value the property so released, so far as purchasers and creditors are
concerned.
§3659. ($609.) (3586) Allowinq fund applied to younger lizm. If an ex
ecution creditor, having the older lien on a fund in the hands of the
Sheriff, or other oﬂicer, allows such fund by his consent to be applied to
a younger ﬁ. a., it shall be considered an extinguishrncnt pro tanto of
such creditor s lien so far as third persons may be concerned.

§3660. (3610.) (3587 .)' Contract not to en orce judgment. An agreement
for a valuable consideration, never to en orcea judgment or execution,
releases the judgment or execution.

§3661. (3611.) (3588) Defendant may stay execution. In all cases in
the Superior Court where a verdict shall be rendered, the party
against whom the same may be, may, either in open Court or in the
clerk’s oﬂ"1ce, within four days after the adjournment thereof, enter into
bond, with good and sufficient security, for the payment of such ver'
dict or judgments and costs, within sixty days.
3. stay bond binds the property of the security from the date of the execptionz
57 a.,-371$.
§3662. (3612) (3589.) Execution, how stayed. Bond and security be
ing given, as provided in the preceding section, the verdict and judg
ment, or the execution thereon, shall be suspended for the said sixty
days, and if the party shall fail to pay the said verdict or judgment
within that time, execution shall then issue against such party and
his security without further proceedings thereon.
Section cited: 45 Ga., 82; 61/257.
_ §366-3. (36l3.) ($3590.) Security to have control, when. The security pay-
ing oﬁ' such judgment or execution shall have control thereof.

§3664. ($614.) (3591.) Illegal-ity, how taken. VVhen an execution against
the property of any person shall issue illegally, or shall be proceeding
illegally, and such execution shall be levied on property, such person
ma make oath in writing, and shall state the cause of such illegality,
an deliver the same to the Sheriﬁ, or other executing oﬂicer, as the
case may be, together with bond and good security for the forthcoming
of such property, as provided by this Code. 

§3665. (3615.) (3592.)' No illegality until after levy. No afﬁdavit of il—
le ality shall be received by any Sheriff, or other executing officer, unti
a levy has been made.


§3666. (3616.) (3593.) Illegallty, how returned and tried. VVhen the levy
shall have been made, and aﬂidavit and bond delivered to the oiiicer as
herein provided, it shall be the duty of such oﬂicer to suspend further
roceedings on such execution, and return the execution, aﬁidavit and
bond, to the next term of the Court from which the execution issued,
and it shall be the duty of said Court to determine thereon at the ﬁrst
term thereof, unless the plaintiff, or his attorney, desire to controvert the
facts contained in said affidavit, in which case an issue shall be joined,
which issue shall be tried by a jury at the same term, unless good
cause is shown for a continuance.
§3667. (3617.) (359/4.) Damages for delay only. Upon the trial of an
issue formed on an aﬂidavit of illegality, ﬁled in the Superior Courts,i
the jury trying the case shall have power to assess such damages, not
exceeding twenty-ﬁve per cent., as may seem reasonable and just, upon
the principal debt, provided it shall be made to appear that such ille
gality was inter sod for delay only. [And whenever an illegality
may e dismissed or insuﬁ5ciei1cy,or informality, oris withdrawn, plain
tiﬁ's in execution shall have full power to proceed, as is rovided in this
Code in cases where claims may be dismissed or with rawn.] (a.)
Damages for delay under this section : 4 Ga., 282. Where twenty per cent. damages
held to be too much: 50 Ga.. 635.
§3668. ($3618.) No judik-ial interference with taxes. No replevin shall
_ ' Ievy or distress for
nor anv judicial interference be had, in any
taxes under the provisions of this Code, but the arty injured shall
ble leftfto his proper remedy in any Court of law aving jurisdiction
t ereo.

§3669. ($619.) (3-595.) Property may be sold under other When
an execution has been levied on property, and an aﬁidavit of illegality
ﬁled to stay proceedings thereon, the property solevied on shall be sub
ject to levy and sale under other execution, and the officer making the
ﬁrst levy shall claim, receive, hold, and retain such amount of the pro
ceeds of the sale as the Court shall deem suﬂicient to pay the execution
ﬁrst levied, including‘intercst up to the time of the Court at which said
illegality shall be determined; and any bond given by the defendant
on tiling such aﬁidavit shall be released and disehargedso far as relates
to the property sold.

$3670. (3620. ($5596.) Who may ﬁle illegalily. An aﬁidavit of illo
ga ity may be led by an attorney in fact, or an executor, administra
tor, or other trustee.
Not made by co-defendant when execution not proceeding against him : 34 Ga., 268.
By a temporary administrator: 39 Ga., 565.
§3671. (3621.) (3591) Wm illegality cannot go behind judgment. If
the defendant has not been served, and does_not appear, he may take
advantage of the defect by aﬂidavit of ille ality; but if he has had his
day in Court, he cannot go behind the ju gment by an affidavit of il
legality.
§3672. (3622) (3-598.) When forthcoming bond may be given. VVhen an
execution shall be levied on personal property, and an illegality ﬁled
thereto as provided by this Code, and the party ﬁling such illegality
desires to take or keep possession of such property, he shall deliver to
the Sheriff, or other levying officer, a bond, payable to the levying ofiicer,
with good security, in a sum epual to double the value of the property
so levied upon, to be judged 0 by the levying officer, conditioned for
the delivery of the property levied upon at the time and place of sale,
in the event that such illegality shall be dismissed by the Court or
withdrawn, which bond shall be recoverable in any Court having cogni
zance thereof.
§3673. (3623) (3599.) Bonds taken by oﬂicers valid. All bonds taken
by the Sheriffs or other executing oﬂicers, from the defendants in exe
cution, for the delivery of propert (on the da of sale or any other time)
which they may have levied on y virtue o any fa., or other legal
process from any Court, shall be good and valid in aw, and recoverable
in any Court in this State having jurisdiction thereof.
§3674. (362/4.) _({-S600.) Rights of ptai_nt1T_ﬁ'.s not aﬂected. No bond taken
in conformity with the previous section shall, in an case, pre'udice
or affect the rights of plaintiff in execution, but shall re ate to, an have
affect alone between the oflicer to whom it is given and the defendant
in execution; and such officer shall, in no case, excuse himself for not
having made the money on an execution by havin taken such bond,
but shall be liable to be ruled as now prescribed by aw.
§3675. (362-5.) (3601.) Who shall pay costs. In all civil cases, in any
of the Courts of this State (except as provided for by this Code), the party
who shall discontinue, fail, or be cast in such suit, shall be liable for
the costs thereof.
3676. (3626) (3602) Attorrwy liable for costs when 1wgl' ent. If 8.I1y
pla.intifl' shall be non-suited, or cast, by reason of the Wlll ul neglect or
misconduct of his attorney, such attorney shall be liable for the costs
which may have accrued in such case ; and in like manner, if any
defendant shall be cast by reason of the willful neglect or misconduct
of his attorney, such attorney shall be liable for the costs thereof.
§3677. (3627.) 3603.) Attorney liable when client is non-resident. When
any attorney shal institute a. suit in any of the Courts of this State for
any person who resides out of this State, such attorney shall be liable
to pay all costs of the oﬁicers of Court in case such suit shall be dis
missed, or the plaintiff be cast in his suit.

§3678_. ( 3628.) (3604.) Costs when recovery is less thanﬁfty dollars. When
any action er conlraclu shall be brought to the Superior Court, and the
verdict of the jury, unreduced by matter of set-0ﬂ' or payment pending
the action, shall be for a sum under ﬁfty dollars, the defendant shall not
be char ed with more costs than would have necessarily accrued if such
case ha been before a Justice of the Peace; and the remainder of the
Court charges shall be paid by the plaintiff. and may be retained out
of the sum recovered by the plaintiﬂ', and, if that is insutﬁcient. jud ment
shall be entered by the Court against such plaintiff for the ba —
ance.
Liability of defendant for costs: 19 Ga.. 549.
§36'i9. (3629.) (3605).) Coats payable in advance, when. When the plain
tiff and his attorney both reside outside of the limits of this State, the
proper oﬂicers may demand their full costs before they shall be bound
to perform any service in any cause about to be commenced by such
non-resident attorney orvplaintiﬁl
§3680. (3630) (3606. ) No more costs than damages, when. In all actions
upon the case for slanderous words, in any Court having 'urisdiction
of the same, if the 'ur_v shall render a verdict under ten ollars, then
the plaintiff in suc action shall have and recover no more costs than
damages.

§3681. (363l.) (3607.) Costs in personal In actions of assault
and battery, and in all other personal actions, wherein the 'ury upon
the trial thereof shall ﬁnd the damages to be less than ten ollars, the
plaintiff shall recover no more costs than damages, unless the Judge,
at the trial thereof, shall ﬁnd and certify on the record that an aggra
vated assault and battery was proved.
As to actions for injuries to personal property being within provisions of 22 and 23
Charles 2d: 11 Ga., 137.
§3682. (3632.) ( 3608.) Costs of witnesses of adverse party. No party
plaintiff or defendant shall be liable for the costs of any witness of the
adverse party, unless such witness was subprenaed, sworn, and exam
ined,‘ on the trial of said cause (or the laintiﬁ' voluntarily dismisses
his cause before trial), and no party shall be liable for the costs of more
than two witnesses to the same point, unless the Court shall certify
that the question at issue was of such a character as rendered a greater
number of witnesses necessary to a single point.

§3681. ($3633.) Revenue stampstazed as costs. The amount of all rev
enue stamps used upon aflidavits, declarations, ills, jud ments, execu
tions, and any other writ, process, order, or decree, issue by any Court
of this State, upon which a revenue stamp has to be used, shall be
taxcl in the bill of costs against the defendant, in all cases in which
the defendant is cast in the suit.] (a.)
§3684. (3634.) (3609) Costs, when payable. The manner of collecting
costs in all civil cases,1n any of the Courts of this State (exec t a
otherwise provided in this Code) shall be as follows: The severa oﬁicers
of Court are hereby prohibited from demanding the costs in any
civil case, or any part thereof, until after judgment in the same, except
as provided in the case of non-resident plaintiffs and attorneys.

§3685. (3635).) (3610.) Costs, how taxed. When a case is dis sed of,
the costs of the same, including fees of witnesses, shall be inc uded in
the judgment against the party dismissing, being non-suited or cast
[and it shall be the duty of the clerk of any Court in this State, and
of any Justice of the Peace, or other oﬁicer who may issue an execu
tion, to indorse on said execution at the time it is issued, the date and
amount of the judgment, the items of the bill of cost (written in words)
and the amount of each item distinctly stated in ﬁgures ; and no costs,
or items of costs, shall in any case be demanded b any such oﬂicer
which are not itemized and indorsed as herein provi ed.

§3685. ({5i_ ({}’>l63€li3 (3611.) Plaigtiﬂ’ pays on returiln ¢(2_1ffnu(lila bo'na.d If the
painti s ou recovera ju gment againstt e e en ant an execu-
tion issues thereon, and the executing oﬁicer shall returin the same,
“ No property to be found,” a fi. fa. may issue against such plaintiff for
the purpose of making said cost out of him; and if the plaintiff re
sides out of the State, the _/i. fa. shall issue against the attorney also.

§3687. Q3637.) ( 3612.) Execution a-gczimt attorney for costs. In all cases
in which it is made to appear that an attorney is liable for costs by the
provisions of this Code, the Court shall, on motion, order a judgment
and execution against him for the same.
§3688. (3638) (36l3.) Fees of Clerk of Supreme Court. The Clerk of the
Supreme Court is entitled to the following fees, to-wit:
[For each case entered and carried to judgment .......................................... ..$6 00
For recording opinion ................................. .. 6 00
For remitter, including certiﬁcate and seal ............................................... .. 2 00](a)
Where cross-bills of exceptions, clerk entitled to tax full costs in each case: 55
Ga., 039.

 
§2-3689. ( 3639.) (3614.) Judges may change costs. The Judges of the Su
preme Court may, on application of any practicing attorney of the
Court, decrease such bill of costs, or, on the application of the clerk, in
crease it or add other items thereto. Due notice in writing must be
given of the grounds of the motion, and the decision announced by one
of the Judges in open Court.
§3690. (3640) C3615.) Fee of Sizerzﬁ of Su reme Court. The Sheriff of
the Supreme Court is entitled to the fee fol owing, to-wit :
For each case entered and carried to judgment ................................................... ..$l 25
Such fee must be charged in the bill of costs, collected by the clerk,
and paid to the Sheriff.
§3691. (3641.) (3616.) Contingent expenses of Supreme Court. Any con
tingent expenses incurred in holdin the several sessions of the Su
preme Court, for lights, fuel, rent, an stationery, etc., shall be paid to
the clerk of said Court out of the State treasury, on the certiﬁcate of
the Judges thereof as to the necessity and fact of such expenditure.
§3692. (3642.) (3617.) Contingent expenses of Superior Court. Any con
tin ent expenses incurred in holding any session of thefuperior Court,
inc uding the above and similar items, such as taking own testimony
in cases of felony, etc., shall be paid out of the county treasury of such
county, upon the certiﬁcate of the Judge of the Superior Court, and
without further order.
§3693. Feefor taking down evidence in cases offelony.
tion to be aid for taking down, in writing, the evi
(l_The compensa
ence offered in
of fe ony before tlie Superior Courts, shall be such reasonable
compensation as the Judges of said Superior Courts may determine in
their discretion to be due for services so rendered]. (a.)
§3694. (3643.) (3618.) rm of Ordinary. The Ordinaries are entitled
to the following fees, to-wit :
For receiving application and ranting citation .......................................... ..$
For taking and recording administr:|tor’s or guardian‘s bond
For issuin letters of administration. or letters testamenlary..
For recor ing the same...
For copying the same ..................... ..For signing warrant of apprsisnient .......................................................... ..
For rcceivin an appraisment or sale bill, and recording the same, if under
ﬁve linn red do lars ............................................................................ ..
If above ﬁve hundred dollars, and under two thousand .... ....................... .. 1 2!»
$83882‘?
8
  
2 00
If above two thousand, and under ten thousand dollars ........... ..
If above ten thousand, and under twenty thousand dollars..
If above twenty thousand and under ﬁfty thousand dollars.
If above ﬁfty thousand dollars ......................................................... .. . 2 50
For receiving application and granting letters dismissorv, whole service ...... .. 5 O0
For grantingcitation to show cause why administration should not be set aside
or repealed ........................................................................................... .. 2 00
For entering a caveat against administration being granted or will proven. . 1 25
For each copy of czwmt .......................................................................... .. 50
[For signing probate of will or codicil.... . .. .. . .. 1 25
For each case litigated before the Ordina y where no fees are prescribe 3 O0
For issuing commissions to examine witnesses ........................................... .. 1 25
For commission to have one year’s support set apart to widow, minor or
minors ................................................................................................. .. 1 25
For ‘recording the same.. 1 00
For examining book and giving extracts .............. .. . 1 00
For every order passed where no fees are prescribed.. 50
For each afﬁdavit when no case is pending ..................................... .. . . 30
For every service re uired and erformed. for which no fees are speciﬁed
by law, the same ees as are al owed Clerks of the Superior Courts for sim-
ilar services. or for a like amount of labor] (a.)
For every marriage license ................. ..-. .................................................... .. 1 50
I-‘or every order of sale of land or other property.. 50
For each co y of the same .............................. .. 25
Eor issuing etters of guardianship. 1 00
For recording the same ....... .. 50
For rule m's1', in each case.. 50
For copy ......................................................................... .. 25
For issuing process against a person for not making returns.. 50
For each additional copy ................................................. .. . 25
For each subpoena ..................................................................................... .. 15
For examining and recording returns on all estates not worth more than two
thousand dollars .................................................................................. .. 1 00
Foil‘ all estates worth more than two, and not more than ﬁve thousand dol
ars ............................................................................................. ..
For all estates worth more than ﬁve, and not over ten thousand dollars
- For all estates worth more than tcn thousand dollars ................................ .. 1 60
For recording all vouchers accompanying returns of administrators, execu
tors, and guardians. per 100 words ......................................................... .. 12
For recording any instrument of writing not mentioned, per 100 words ...... .. 12
For proceedings to authorize tiiles to be made to lands of deceased persons... 5 00 -
For commission to freeholders to divide estates . . . . . .. . - .. . . . 1 25
For each certiﬁcate and seal ...................................................................... .. 60
  
For entering an appeal and transmitting the proceedings to the Superior
Court ................................................................................................... .. 1 50
For ﬁling and recording an official bond .................................................... .. 1 O0
[Item 47 of section (3643) repealed by Acts of 1872, p. 64.]
For services in making settlement of accountsot any executor, administra
tor, or guardian, as prescribed in this Code ............................ .. .10 O0
[For every estray horse. mule or ass. for every legal service required .. 2 00
For every bull, ox or cow, for all service required .................... .. . 1 25
For every goat. hog, or sheep .................... .... .. . 30
For retailer's bond ............. .. . 1 O0
For retailer's license .................................. .. . 1 00
For copging and administering oath to retailer . 50
For eac peddler’s license..... . 1 25
For ﬁling and recording each bond the law req . 1 00
For recording marks and brands .............................................................. .. 50
For comparing and testing weights and measures, and stamping and marking
each ............ ..................................................................................... .. 10](b.)
[For the whole service in setting apart a homestead of realty and personalty.
when not litigated ............................................................................... .. 7 00
When objections or demurrer are ﬁled and heard. in addition to the preced
ing .................. .. 3 00](a.)
For euchﬁ. . ssued by him.. ....... .. 60
§3695. ($644.) (3619.) Fees of Clerks 0%‘ Superior Courts. The Clerks
of the Superior Courts of this State s all be entitled to charge and
collect the following fees for oiﬁcial duties performed by them, to-wit :
nw crvn. CASES.
For ﬁling and docketing suit ............................................................................ ..$
For copying and issuing process..
For each copy after ﬁrst cotpy ....................... .. ..
For entering verdict or ju gment on minutes..........
....$l 50
. 1 75
For ﬁling all pleas in any case .......................................................................... ...$ 50
For recording proceedings in civil cases, per hundred words. 15
For issuing ji. fa ................................ .. 50
For entering ji. fa. on execution docket Z5
For each subpoena 1-'5
For writ of partition of land and recording proceedings in the case. . 5 00
For exempliﬁciitioii of record per hundred words ................ ............................ .. 15
For recording articles of pnrtnersliip under law regulating limited partnership, 5 00
For recording incoréporationof "joint stock or any other incorporated company..... 5 (I0
For roccediiigs to orfeit charter ...................... ....................................... .. ...10 00
For uriiishing and certifying any bill or process, order, etc., for publication.
For recording liens and mortgages and deeds per hundred words
For trials of nuisances and recording proceedings
For issuing coniiiiissimis to examine witness.....
For recording any instrument of writingnot np .. .
For recording each homestead of personalty, per one hundred words ................ ..
For recording each etitioii of realty and personalty, per one hundred words .... ..
For recording lat ol) homestead .......................................................... .... ..
For each certi cute of record of homestead .......................... ..
For every foreclosure of mortgage on persoiialty. whole service..
For every foreclosure of mortgage on realty. whole service ...... ..
For every claim case .......................................................... ..
For every illegality case.
For every certmrrmcase .... ..
For docketing each motion...
and ﬁfteen cents per hundred words for recording motions.
For every rule versiu Sheriﬁ‘ or other oﬁlcer, whole service .......... ..
For every appeal case, whole service ................................ .. .
For every appeal case. settled before verdict ...................................................... ..
For recording and copying proceedings in chancery and bills of exceptions to the
Supreme Court,per one hundred words ....................................................... ..
For issuing writ of iii'unction in equit_v....
For issuing writ of su cnna in equity ..... ..
For entering remittitur rom Supreme Court...
For certiﬁcate and seal, each .................... ..
For scirc facial to make parties"
For each copy ....................... ..
For recording order on minute .
For issuing jury scrip, each ................................. ..
For inspection of books. when their aid is required...
For each day's service in attending upon the Court... 3
For change of name, recording proceedings .......... .. . 5
For examination of record and abstract of result .......... .. . 1
For declaration of intention to become a citizen of the United States ................ .. 2
For recording and taking oath to become a citizen upon minutes, including certiﬁ
cate ot naturalization ................................................................................. .. 2 50
Section referred to and construed: 51 Ga , 393. Not entitled to more than six dollars
costs in suit prosecuted to judgment, which includes recording of the proceedin : 53
Ga.,294. Appeal cases consolidated by consent in Superior Court, c erk entit ed to
costs in each case: 61 Ga., 95.
IN cimmui. cases.
For service in docketing and entering bills of indictment or presentments on min
utes in case of nollc pronequi ........................................................................ "$3 00
For service in said cases where defendant is tried or pleads guilty or there is a set
tlement ..................................................................................................... .. 6 (Xi
For transcribing and recording evidence in State cases, per one hundred words..... 15
For recording forfeiture of bond on minutes .................................................... .. 1 00
For issuing scire facias after forfeiture, original. . 1 50
For each co y ................................................ .. .. . 1 00
  
For each su puma....... .............................................................................. 15
Four defendants jointly indicted and tried, clerk of Court only entitled to ﬁve dol
lars cost: 62 Ga., 172.
All laws and parts of laws in conﬂict with this section are hereby re
pealed, but no statute in‘Yoi"ce in this State which provides com iensa~
tion for Clerks of the Superior Court for discharge of a duty not lierein
provided for, is hereby re ealcd.
§3696. 3646.) (3621.) ees of Sherif The Sherilfs of this State shall
. - . .
be entitle to charge and collect the following fees for 0l'ﬁ(‘1tl.l duties
performed by them, to-wit :
IN civii. cases.
For serving copy of a process and returning original, per copy ......................... ..$ 2 00
It suit from another county to be paid in advance ................................... 2 00
  
v-\
8888888
F

 
For summoning each witness .................................................................... .. $ 50
For summoning jury and attending trial to assess damages for right of wa .. 5 00
For services in every case before a jury .................................................. .. 1 25
For each levy on 2 00
For search and return of nuilla bmia ...................................... .. 1 00
For serving summons of garnishment. or rule against garnishee.. . 1 O0
If more than one, for each additional copy........................... .. . 1 00
For summoning jury to try case of nuisance ........... .. . 3 50
For summoning juries at each term of Superior Court.i -- 10 90
For commissions on sales of property on sums of ﬁfty do . or less, 5 per cent-.
On excess above ﬁfty dollars up to ﬁve hundred and ﬁfty dollar, 2% per cent.
For all sums exceeding ﬁve hundred and ﬁfty dollars on excess, 1%. No com-
missions shall be charged unless propertv is actually sold.
For making out and executing titles to land ................................................... .. 3 50
If presented by purchaser ............................................................................... .. 1 00
For executing bill of sale to personal porperty, when demanded by purchaser... 1 00
For forthcoming bonds ............................................................................ .. 1 00
For executing process against tenant holding over or intruder upon land to dis
possess him .............................................................................................. .. 3 50
For taking and returning counter-affidavit when summary process to dispossess
tenant or intruder is resisted ..................................................................... .. 2 00
For settling each execution in his hands, settled without sale 2 00
For settling execution from Justice's Court ...................... .. 1 00
For keeping a horse or mule per day ....... .. 50
For keeping each head of cattle per day.. 15
For keeping each head of sheep, hogs, or goats per day. .. 05
Forlevying an attachment .............................................................................. .. 2 00
For following property out of county with attachment, for every mile going
and returning....................................................................................... 05
For attendance on Superior Courts, not to exceed 20 days per annum, per day .. 5 00
For each day more than twenty ...................................................................... .. 2 00
For attendance on Courts of Ordinary. per day ........ . . 2 00
For attendance at elections as required by law, each day... 2 00
The per diem for attendance on Courts and elections, and service in summonin--g
jurors shall be paid by the county.
Only entitled to regular fees, although brings product of labor of property levied on
into Court: 29Ga.,142. Commissions of Sheriff for levy and sale was regulated by
amount of the execution: 2 Ga., 268. \Vas not by amount of sales: 19 Ga., 165.
Fees for keeping property: 17 Am. R., 213; 4 C. L. J., 598. Sheriffs’ fees, not sub~
ject to contract: 4 C. L. J., 598; R. M. Charl., 23.
IN CRIHINAL CASES.
For recommitting prisoner when hahcrls mrpns is sought for his relief ................ .. $1 25
For removing a prisoner by order of any Court, $2 00 per day and actual neces
sary expenses.
For sum monlng a prisoner under Imbeas corpus when no mileage is paid, per day. 2 00
For attending a person taken by warrant to the Judge's chamber, for each time. 1 25
For ronducting a prisoner before a Judge or Court, to and from jail .................. .. 1 25
For executing and returning a bench warrant ............................ .. 2 O0
For apprehending 9. person suspected, if committed or h Id to bail.. .. 2 O0
For each person not exceeding two, who may be employed to guard a prisoner
to and from jail, per day ........................................................................... .. 1 50
For taking hondsin criminal cases. 1 00
For executinga criminal .............. .. .. 10 00
For exccutinga warrant of escape .................................................................. .. 1 00
Where Sheriﬁ‘ not entitled to costs for taking four appearance bonds in criminal
case: 62 Ga., 172.
Mileage fees, executing criminals and for guards herein provided,
shall be paid by the county, and no criminal cost herein provided for
shall be collectable out of the defendant, until after conviction, except
costs accruing upon forfeited recognizances.
Sheriffs being ea: oﬂicio jailers, shall receive the following fees for oﬁi
cial duties performed by them, to-wit: For turning key on receiving,
discharging or conducting a prisoner before any Court, 60 cents.* For
dieting a prisoner conﬁned in jail on any ground whatever, such fees as
may be ﬁxed by the Ordinary or commissioners of the county who are
invested by law with power to ﬁx said fees. Whenever jail fees are
chargeable to the county, the same shall be paid monthly: Prmzided,
nevertheless, that no local law regulating county jails or ﬁxing salaries
for jailers, or their fees, shall in any way be affected or repealed by this
section.
All laws and parts of laws in conﬂict with this section be, and the
same are hereby, repealed, except that no statute in force in this State
which provides compensation for Sheriffs for discharge of a duty not
herein provided for, shall be hereby repealed, but the same shall con
tinue in force, and_ except that no local law shall be hereby affected:
Provided, that if provisions be made by local or special law for such
special compensation. then the Sheriff shall not be entitled to compen
sation, both under this section and under such local or special law.

$3697. Extra coqnpeozsatirm to Sfﬁeers, how allowed. The Ordinaries of
who by law are veste with the management of the county
this State,
business, and for whom no compensation is now provided, and the
Sheriffs and Clerks of the Superior Courts for public services in relation
to which existing laws provide no compensation, shall be com ensated
as follows, to-wit: Such oﬂicers shall state their res ective c aims in
writing, and make aﬂidavit of the correctness an 'ustice thereof,
which so made out and veriﬁed, shall be submitted to t e grand juries
of the Superior Courts of the respective counties at the spring term,
and said grand juries may, in their discretion, require other proof of
the justice and correctness cf said claims, and when satisﬁed that such
claims are 'ust and correct, may allow the sum claimed, or so much
thereof as t ey may deem right and roper; and when so allowed, the
Ordinary of such county, or other authority levying county taxes, shall
assess so much with the other county taxes as will pay the same, which,
when collected and paid over to the county treasurer of such county,
shall be paid by him to the parties entitled thereto, without further
order, he takinga proper receipt therefor. The compensation rovided
for in this section shall be in full of all compensation of sai officers
for such services.
See 53 Ga., 393.
313698. Superseded by latter part of section 3696.
§3699. (3648) (36'23.) Fees of Justices of the Peace, etc. The following
shall be the fees for Justices of the Peace, and Notaries Public:
  
IN (‘IVIL CASES.
For each original summons ................................................................. .. ..$ 35
For affidavit and bond to obtain at mclunent and issuing the attachment X T0
For entering up judgment in each case... . . . . . .. 35
For trial of case when same is litigated. 35
For issuing each execution...-. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 35
For affidavit to obtain posessory warrant a .. 1 5
For trying same ............................................................................ .. .. 2 0k
For making out interrogatories and certifying same .......... .. . l 25
For making out recognizance and returning same to Court.. . 35
For each subpoena for witness ......................................... .. _. I5
For each search warrant issued ............................ .. . 75
For each affidavit when there is no cause pending ....... .. . . 30
For answering every writ of cm-tinrari to Superior Court ......................... .. .. 50
For presiding at u. trial of forcible entry or detainer, or both—-each trial .. l 00
For presiding at a trial for right of way ............................... ..... . 1 00
For issuing a rule to establish lost papers.... 3-3
For trying the same ................................ .. 36
For presiding at trial of nuisance... 1 (Kl
For witnessing any paper .............................. .. 25
For atiidavit and bond to obtain garnishment.. T5
For issuing suinmon~4 of garnishment ......... .. 30
For each additional copy of garnishment. 10
For settling cases before judgment....... 25
For claim nﬁidavit and bond 50
1-‘or trying the same ............. .. 35
For entering an appeal to the Superior Court .................................................... ..$ 50
For each distress warrant ............................. .. . 75
F»-r taking testimony in criminal cases ..... .. 1 25
For issuing order to sell perishable property..... 25
For each lien foreclosed and placed on docket.. 1 00
For entering appeal ..................................... ..
For drawing jury and making out list..For each case tried by said jury ........................................................................ .. 30
IN CRIMINAL CASES.
For each criminal warrant issued by them ......................................................... ..$l 25
For taking examination of a person charged with a criminal offense... . 1 25
For examining each witness in criminal cases ................................ ..For making out a commitment ......................................................................... .. 35
See 53 Ga., 675; also 28 Ga., 462.
§3700. (3642).) (3624.) Fees of constables. The fees of constables shall A
be as follows: P
For serving a warran t, summons or attachment................................................. ..$ 35
For serving each additional copy ....................... .. 30
For copying and serving each original summons.. 35
For summoning each witness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 30
For attending Court, for each judgment rendered by a Justice of t e Peace or No
  
For attending each trial on a day ditferent from regular Court day.. . 35
For levyingji.fa., and advertising............................................. .. . 35
For settlement of _ﬁ. fa. when property is not sold. . 30
For return of nullu bum: ...................................... .. . 30
For summoning jury on inquest ........... .. . 1 00
For collecting execution issued by coroner. . 75
For keeping a horse, mule. ass or ox, per day . 25
For each head of neat cattle, per day .............. .. . 05
For each head of sheep. goats, or hogs, per day.. .. 04
For all sales madabv im, amount (?) on sales. . 6%
For attending grand jury, per day... 1 00
For serving warrant in criminal case ................. .. . 1 25
For keeping and maintaining prisoner before examin 1 n, not exceeding tw n vy
four hours ................................................................................................. .. 75
For serving rule to establish lost papers. 35
For every additional copy............................. .. 30
For following property with attachments out of county, going and returning, per
mile .......................................................................................................... .. 05
For levying each distress warrant. . 50
For taking bond in civil cases ..... .. 50
For taking bond incriminal cascs.. 1 00
For executing search warrant. 75
For servin rgarnishee ...... .. 35
For each a ditional copy.. 25
For summoning jury ........... .. 50
For attending trial on appeal ............................................................................ .. 30
§37OO (a.) Penalty for demanding or taking ille a-l fees. If any Justice A
of the Peace, Notary Public, or constable, shall emand and receive any 1
larger or other fee for his services than set forth in the foregoing fee 6
bills, he shall be subject to all the pains and penalties laid down in
the Code for the collection of illegal costs. _
§37OO (b.) Fee bill to be posted in oﬂee. Every magistrate, ex oﬂimlo “
Justice of the Peace, or constable, sha l keeps printed or plainly writ— P
ten copy of this fee bill posted in some conspicuous place in his oﬂice,
and u n failure so to do, or upon the violation of any part of this and
prece ing sections, shall be deemed guilt of malpractice, and subject to
the penalties and unishment prescribe therefor.

§3701. (3650.) ( 625.) Fees of coroners. Coroners’ fees are asfollows, to-
mt -
' . C
For summoning an inquest on a dead body and returning an inqulsition .......... ..$10 00
For fnmishing cotfln and burial expenses ..................................................... .. 15 O0
When performing the duties of Sheriff‘, his fees shall be the same as a Sheriﬁ.
Provided, That no coroner in the State of Georgia shall receive out
of the county treasury of any county in this State more than ﬁfteen
hundred dollars per annum, either as fees for holding inquests, or for
burying the dead bodies.
§3702. (36-51.) (3626) Fees of county surveyors.
are as follows, to-wit:
For surveying a town lot and returning a certiﬁcate thereof ...................... ..$
For surveying a tract of land of or under one hundred acres...
For cach hundred acres after theFor nmkinz a plat, recording, advertising, and transmitting the same to the
Secretary of State's oﬁice....
For entering a. caveat, advertising, and giving a certiﬁed copy thereo .
For attending trial of the same ..................................................... ..
County surveyors’ fees


  
For each postponement, to be paid by the postponing pn.rty..
For recondiug judgment and giving certiﬁed copy thereof..... .
Fur entering an appeal and ivingz certiﬁed copy thereof ............... .......... ..
For a l'8!~l\l!‘V8y of land by or er of Court, of or under one hundred acres, for
the ﬁrst one hundred acres ...................................... .......................... ..
For every one hundred acres after the ﬁrst.
For every other rcsurve of the same ............................................ .. ..
For making and certifying a plat thereof and tru-i rnitting the same ......Running line between counties. districts. or makin znew lines per day he furn
ishing the chain-bearer and provisiuns.......
[For each plat of homestead, aﬁiduvit and retu . ..
For each additional plat where more than one lot .............. 3 00](a.)
§3703. (3652) (3627.) Fees of County Treasurers. County Treasurer’s
‘fees are as follows, to-wit:
County Treasurers, in the several counties of this State, are entitled to receive two
and one,_-_half per cent. commission for receiving, and two and one-half per
cent commission for paying out all sums up to ten thousand dollars; and one
and one-fourth per cent. for receiving. and one and one-fourth r cent. for
paying out the excess over ten thousand dollars, for receiving an paying out
county funds.
For makinghis returns to the grand jury .......................................................... ..$l 00
For making his returns to the Ordinary ............................................................ .. 1 00
and 254 for
County Treasurer entitled to 2% per cont. for receiving public fund
by County
paying out the same: 54 Ga., 172. 252. No commissions to be rerained
ressurer for money borrowed without authority of law for it: 60 Ga., 556.
§3704. (-3653.) (3628.) Fees of Notaries Public. The fees of Notaries
Public are as follows, to-wit :
For every protest, oath included.
For noting a protest............................. ..
For registering a protest per co y sheet.. 10
For copy of a protest per copy s eet.... .. 10
For administering an oath in any case .......................................... ........ .... 30
For each attendance on any person, to make proof as a. Notary Public, and certify
. inn: to the same. ................................................. .................................... .. 1 00
For every other certiﬁcate.................................. ...... 50
The cost of registering is likewise a charge against the party noted
and protested, and must be charged in the costs at the same time, and
paid to the Notary by the party for whose beneﬁt the noting and pro
testing was done. All other registering must be paid for by the arty
who has the service performed. The fees for all oﬁicial acts whic the
Notary is allowed to perform are the same as those prescribed for any
other officers who are likewise permitted to perform them.
§3704. (a.) Fees for ad-vert/Ising. The rates to be allowed to publishers
for publishing legal advertisements in this State, shall be as follows:
“For each one hundred words the sum of seventy-ﬁve cents for each in
sertion for the ﬁrst four insertions ; for each subsequent insertion, the
sum of thirty-ﬁve cents er hundred words. In all cases fractional parts
shall be charged for at tlic same rates, and it shall not be lawful for any
Ordinary, Sheriff, Coroner, Clerk, Marshal, or other oiﬁcer, to receive or
collect from parties, pla.intiﬁ' or defendant, other or greater rates than
herein set forth.”
§3704. (b.) (3659.) (3634.) Extortion. Any Ordinary, Sheriff. Coroner,
Clerk, Marshal, or other oﬂicer who shall receive, collect, or demand other
and greater fees for advertising than are provided in the preceding section
S
I-
.-'i.lsL.Qt.
seesassessess
..;.
as
shall be guilty of extortion, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be pun
ished as prescribed in section 4310 of the Revised Code.
§3704. :0.) Oﬁicer to nmke contracts. If the Ordinary, Sheriff, or other
officer, is unable to procure the advertisements at the rates herein pres-
cribed in the newspa er published in the county, then he shall be, and
is hereby, authorize to have said advertisements published in any
newspaper in this State having the largest general circulation'in the
county: Provided, said rates are agreed upon; provided, further, if con
tracts cannot be made with news apers at the rates aforesaid, then the
Sheriff and Ordinarv, or other advertising officers, shall post their ad
vertisements at the Court House and in a public place in each militia
district in the county for the length of time required by law for adver
tising in newspapers.

§3704. (d.) Oﬂicer to have no cmnmissions. No Ordinary, Sheriff, Coro-
ner, Clerk, Marshal, or other officer shall demand or retain any part
of the said rates prescribed in section 3704 (a.) by way of commissions,
either directly or indirectly; and to demand or retain any part of said
rates as commissions, either directly or indirectl shall be held and
deemed extortion, and upon conviction thereof, s all be punished as
prescribed in section 4310 of this Code : Provided, that this and the three
preceding sections shall not apply to any contracts already made by
municipal oﬁicers, nor shall any such oﬁicer be liable to penalties here
in rovlded on account of any contract, but the same shall be controll
ed y ‘the law as it now is.
§3705. (3654.) (3629.) Fees, how charged to State. None of the fees
hereinbefore expressed shall be charged to the State for failure to col
lect out, of the person charged, unless otherwise expressly declared, or
in their- nature must necessarily be so paid.
§37()6. (3655.) (3630) Statement 0 fee-9 to be given, when. Every public
oﬂicer and person herein mentione , their deput , or agent, shall, when
required, give a statement of the fees demande , and a receipt for the
same, to any person paying any lawful or pretendedfeesof ofiice, on pain
of ten dollars for every such neglect or refusal, to be sued for within
twelve months, and recovered by the person paying the fees and mak
ing the demand.
$3707. (36-56.) (3631.) Forfeiture for exressive charges. 'If such 0ﬂlC€1'3A
or person shall take ordemand any greater fee than the law allows, or fee
for services not performed, he forfeits ﬁfty dollars, to be sued for and re
covered as prescribed in the preceding section.
§3708. (3657.) (3632) Table of fees to be kept in oﬂice. Every public
oﬁicer must constantly keep, in a conspicuous place in his office, or place
where he usuall executes the business thereof, a table of his fees, in
fair words and gures, and, on failure to do so, he forfeits one dollar per
day for every day he so neglects, to be recovered at the suit of any in
former, to whom the whole recovery shall go; [Provided, that every pub-
lie oﬂicer who may keep, in a conspicious place in his office, or place
where he usually executes the business thereof, a co y of the Code of
Georgia shall be held and construed to have complied with the re
quirements of this section.] (a.)
§3709. (3658) ($3633.) Treble coats payable, when. When public 0fﬁ-
cers are sued on account of the provisions of this Cha ter, and there is
a verdict in their favor, the persons suing shall pay t ree time the or
dinary costs.
§3'/'10. (3659. (3634.) Penalty for impro er charges. Any public oﬂicer
who shall charge or take fees not allowe by law, or for service not performed,
shall, on conviction or proof thereof, be dismissed from oﬂice.
§3711. 3660:‘ (3635.) Superior Court only can grant.
be grante by t e Superior Courts only.

§3712. (3661.) (3636) Superior Court may correct errors, etc. The sev
eral Superior Courts of this State shall have power to correct errors,
and grant new trials in any cause or collateral issue depending in any
of the said Superior Courts, in such manner and under such rules and
regulations as they may establish according to law and the usages and
customs of Courts.

§3713. (3662) (3637.) When verdict is contrary to evidence. In any case
when the verdict of a jury is found contrary to evidence and the prin
ciples of justice and equity, the presiding Judge may grant a new trial
before another jury.
§3714. (3663.) (3638.) Illegal evidence a ground. The Su erior Courts
may grant new trials in all cases when any material evi ence may be
a
illeg l admitted to, or illegally withheld from, the jury against the
deman of the applicant.

§3715. (3664. (3639) For erroneous charge to jury, etc. A new trial
may be grante in all cases when the presiding Judge may deliver an
erroneous charge to the jury against such applicant on a material point,
or refuse to give a pertinent legal charge in the language requested,
when the charge so requested is submitted in writing. And in the
trial of causes in any of the Courts of this State, either party or his
counsel may make a written request to the Court to charge the jury
at any time before the jury retires, to consider of their verdict, and
without submitting the same to the counsel of the opposite party.
Requests to the Court to charge the jury in writing may be made in
any case, and at any time before beginning the charge.
‘$3716. 3665K (3640.) On account of new evidence. A new trial may
be grante in a 1 cases when any material evidence, not merely cumu
lative in its character, but relating to new and material facts, shall be
discovered by the applicant after the rendition of a. verdict against him,
and shall be brought to the notice of the Court within the time "now
allowed by law for entering a m_otion'_for a new trial.

§3717. (3666) '(3641.) When the verdict is against evidence. The presiding
Judge may exercise a sound discretion in granting or refusing
new trials in cases where the verdict may be decidedly and strongly
against the weight of evidence although there may appear to be sotne
slight evidence 111 favor of the ﬁnding.

§37l8. (3667.) ($3642.) Judge may grant on other grounds. In all appli
cations for a new trial on other grounds, not provided for in this Code,
the presiding Judge must exercise a sound legal discretion in granting
or refusing the same according to the provisions of the common law
and practice of the Courts.
§3719. ( 3668.) (3643.) Applications to be made during term. All applica
tions for a new trial, except in extraordinary cases, must be made uring
the term at which the trial was had, but may be heard, determined,
and returned in vacation.

§3720. (3665).) (3644.) Another Judge may grant new trial. A Judge
may decide a motion for a new trial who did not try the case either
when he is presiding in the Court in which the motion is pending, or
when he is named in the rule.

§3721. (3670.) (364-5.) Motimz made after adjournment oj Court. In case
of a motion for a new trial made after the adjournment of the Court,
some good reason must be shown why the motion was not made during
the term, which shall be judged of b the Court. In all such cases,
twenty days’ notice shallbe given to the opposite party. [And when
ever a motion for a new trial shall have been made at the term of trial
in any criminal case in this State, a.nd overruled, or when amotion for
a new trial has not been made at such term, in either event no motion
for a new trial from the same verdict_ shall ever be made or received
unless the same be an extraordinary motion or case, such as is provided
for in section 3719 of this Code, and there shall be but one such extraordi
nary motion ever made or allowed.] 

§3722. (3671.) (3646) Tim of new trial. When anew trial has been
granted by the Superior Court, the case shall stand on the docket for
trial at the next term as though no trial was had, and if said new trial
is ordered by the Supreme Court, said case shall stand for trial at the
next term of said Superior Court, after the remitter is returned from the
Su reme Court, and shall be subject to the rules for continuances pro
vi ed in this Code.

‘-3723 Q3673.) (3648.) Rules nisi must be served. In all applications
for a new trial the opposite party shall be served with a copy of the
rule mlsi, unless such co "y is waived. The Clerks of the Su erior Courts
of this State shall not e required, except by order of t e presiding
Judge, to enter upon the minutes of said Courts motions for new trials
in cases tried therein, but said motions shall be ﬁled in office as other
papers, and shall be recorded together with the other pleadings in said
cases when the same are ﬁnally disposed of, as now required b-y law.
As to hearing by consent and the twenty days‘ notice : 21 Ga., 216; 30/677. Section
referred to and construed : 51 Ga., 198-9. As to the rule niai : 56 Ga.., 468; 55/458.
§3724. (3674.) (3649.) A aupersedeas, when. A rule nisi for a new trial
shall not operate as a supersedeas, unless so ordered by the Court, in
which case the Court may demand bond and security for the eventual
condemnation money, when the exigency of the case requires it.
§8725. (3675.) (3650.) Claims to be on oath. When any Sheriff or
Ac, 0; 1739, other oﬁicer shall levy an execution or other process on propertv claimed
ii-0:143?’-18,, by a third person not a party to such execution, such person,l1is agent
p. 2.). 'or attorney, shall make oath to such property.

§3726. (3676) (3651.) Bond and security for damages. The person A
claiming such property, or his agent or attorney, shall give bond to the 0
' Sheriff. or such other officer, as the case may be, with good and suﬂicient
security, in a sum [not larger than double the amount of the execu
tion levied, and where the property levied on is of less value than the
execution, the amount of the bond shall be double the value of the
roperty levied upon,] (a) at a reasonable valuation, to be judged by the
evying officer, COI1dli310l'16(l' to pay the plaintiff all damages which the (
jury on the trial of the right of property may assess against him, in 1
casle it should appear that said claim was made for the purpose of delay
on y.

§3727. 3677.) (3652) Sale must be postponed, when. Affidavit and bond
being ma e and delivered as required in the receding section, it shall
be the duty of the Sheriff, or other levying 0 'cer, to postpone the sale
of said property until otherwise ordered.

§3728. (367_8.) (3653.) Forthcoming bond may be given, etc. In all cases
where a. levy is made u on property that is claimed by a third person,
and such person shall esire the possession thereof, it shall be the duty 0
of the Sheriff, or other levyling officer, to take bond with (good security
for a. sum equal to double t e value of the property levie on, to be es
timated by the levying ofﬁcer for the delivery of such (property at the
time and place of sale, provided the property so levie upon shall be
found subject to such execution: [Pr0'vidcd, that it shall not be lawful
to require or take a forthcoming bond for real estate] 

§3729. (3675).) ( 3654.) Bonds made payable, towhom. The claim bond
shall be made payable to the plaintiff in execution, a.n_d the forthcom
ing bond shall be made payable to the Sheriff.
Claim bond was payable to Sheriff under Acts of 1814 and 1821: 5Ga', 576. When
bond payable to plaiiitiffiii execution under Act of 1841, and when to plaintiﬁ‘ in at
tachment, under Act of 1856: 17 Ga., 617.
§3730. (3680.) ($3655.) Brmd recoverable on failure. Bond and security
bcin g given, as provided in the previous section, it shall be the duty of
the Sheriﬂ‘ or other levying officer to leave such property in the pos
session of such claimant, and in case the said claimant or his security
should fail to deliver said property, said bond shall be made recoverable
in any Court having cognizance of the same.

§373l. (368l.) (3656) Partner or joint owner may claim for all. One of
several partners or persons jointly interested may make the aﬁidavit
and execute the bond in the name of the ﬁrm or persons jointly inter
ested, who shall be bound thereby as though each individual had
signed it himself.

§3732. (3682.) (3657.) Tam ﬁ._fa. levied, etc. When any execution may
be issued against any tax collector or tax payer for taxes due the State,
or any county thereof, and the Sheriﬂ or other oﬁicer shall levy the
same on property claimed by a person nota party to such execution,
such claimant shall make oath as herein provided in the case of other
claims, and give bond as provided in section 872,* and the same proceed
ings shall be had thereon as rovided for the trial of the right of prop
erty, except that such trials s all be had in the county wherein the levy
was made.
Section referred to and construed: 60Ga., 77.
§3733. Claims may be made in forma pauperis. .[In all cases where
claimants are unable to give bond and security as required in this Ar
tiele, in claim cases, it shall and may be the privilege of such claimants
to ﬁle, in addition to the oath required in section 3725, an aﬁidavit as
follows: “I, A. B., do swear that I do not interpose this claim for
delay only; that I bona ﬁde claim the right and title to the same; that
I am advised and believe that the claim will be sustained, and that
from poverty I am unable to give bond and security as now required
by law.” And when said afﬁdavit shall have been made and delivered
to the levyin officer, the same shall suspend the sale in the same
manner as if iond and security had been g1ven.] (a.)
§3734. Proporli/, how disposed of. [If the roperty levied on be er
sonal, and the claimant unable to give a fort coming bond, it shal be
the privilege of the pl:iintiﬂ' in ﬁ. fa. to give such bond, and u n
such bond being given, to be approved by the levying oﬁicer, it shxaill
be the duty ofthe levying olﬁcer to dl liver said property to said plain
tiﬁ', but in no event shall the laintiif be allowed any compensation
for kee ing said property] (b.
§373; Disposition. 0 property where no bond is given. [In the event
the claimant is unab e, and the plaintiff neglects or refuses to give said
bond for the forthcoming of the property, the claimant may a pl to
the Ordinary and procure an order for the sale of the same, an when
said order has been granted, it shall be the duty of the levying oﬂieer
to advertise the time and place of sale at not less than three public
places, to be selected in different arts of the county in which
the sale is to take place, for ﬁfteen ays immediately preceding the
time of sale, and on the day of sale between the hours of 10 A. M. and
1 P. M., said property shall be sold, and the money arising from such
sale shall remain in the hands of the levying oﬁicer, subject to the
order of Court upon the ﬁnal hearing of the claim.] (c.)
§3736. (3683.) (3658.) Where claim lo be returned. \Vhen an execu-
tion issued from the Superior Court shall be levied upon personal prop-
erty, and claimed by a person not a. party to such execution, as provided
in this Code, it shall be the duty of the levying ofﬁcer to return the
same, together with the execution, to the next term of the Court from
which said execution issued; but should such execution be levied upon
real pro erty, and the same shall be claimed in the manner aforesaid,
it shall e the duty of the oﬁicer making the levy to return the same,
together with the execution and claim, to the next term of the Supe
rior Court of the county in which the land so levied upon shall lie.

§3737. (3684.) (3660.) Tried by petit jury. The Court to which a claim
shall be returned shall cause the right of property to be decided on
by apetit jury at the ﬁrst term thereof, unless continued as other cases
at common law.

§3738. (3685.) (366l.) Damages for delay only. Every juror on the
trial of the claim of property, either real or (personal, shall be sworn,
in taildititoln to the oath usually administere , to bglive s(pc_h Elaitnagpls,
no ess an en er cen. as may seem reasona e an _]us o e
plaintiff againstt e claimimt, in case it shall be suﬁiciently shown
that such claim was made for delay only, and such jury may give a
verdict in the manner aforesaid, by virtue whereof, judgment may be
entered up against the claimant and his security for the damages so
assessed by thejury and the costs of the trial of the right of property.

§3739. ( 3686.) (3662. Burden 0 roo on plainlzﬁi Upon the trial of
all claims rovided for in this chfolliorf the burden of proof shall lie
upon the aintiﬁ' in execution in all cases where the property levied
on is, at t e time of such levy, not in possession of the defendant in
execution.

§3740. (3687.) 3663.) Claim not to be withdrawn. Whenever a. claim
of pro ert is m e in terms of this Code, and returned to the proper
Court y t e Sheriﬁ", or other levying oﬂicer, the claimant shall not be
permitted to withdraw or discontinue his said claim more than once,
without the consent of the pl-aintiﬁ‘ in execution, or some person duly
authorized to represent such plaintiff ; but such Court shall proceed to
the trial of the claim of such property, and it shall be the duty of the
Jury to assess damages accordingly.

§3741. Damages where claim-is (liscontinued. [Whenever a claim may
be dismissed for insuﬁiciency, or is withdrawn, laintiffs in execution
shall have full power to have a case made up an submitted to thejury,
charging that said claim was ﬁled for the purpose of delay, and upon
proof of the same—defendant and claimant having the same power to
resist the case as in claim cases where damages are claimed—thc jury,
under instructions from the Court, may give damages as in cases where
the claim is not withdrawn, but submitted for trial to the 'ury ; said
cases so submitted shall be tried at the time of the disposal oil the claim
if the parties are ready, but continuances shall be granted as in other
cases]. (a

§3742. (a.) Clainw and illegaldies against fas from Court cg’ Ordinary.
Whenever an execution, issued from a Court of Ordinary, s all be lev
ied upon personal property, and a claim to said property, or an affida
vit of illegality be interposed, it shall be the duty of the Sheriff, or
other levying oﬁicer, to return the same, together with the execution,
and all the other apers, to the next term of the Superior Court of the
county from whic the ji. fa. was issued; but if said levy shall have
bccn made upon realty, then the _ﬁ. fa., with the claim or illegality
papers, shall, by the levying oiﬁcer, be returned to the next term of
the Superior Court of the county where the land lies, and the issue
shall be tried as is now provided for the trial of claim and illegality
cases.
No formal pleading necessary:
§3743. (3690.) ($666.) Claims at e.'recutor’s sale. When an executor,
administrator, guardian, or other trustee, shall advertise that it-is his
intention to apply for leave to sell any real estate, as the property of his
testator, intestate, ward, or cestui que trust, or having obtaine such order,
it may be lawful for any person claiming such real estate, either by
himself, his agent, or attorney, to ﬁle in the Court of Ordinary an aﬁ’i
davit claiming said property, a copy whereof shall be served on such
executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, as the case may be, pre
vious to the day of sale.

§3744. (3691.) (3667.) Tried in county where land lies. Afﬁdavit having
been made and ﬁled, and notice having been given as required in
the preceding section, it shall be the duty of the Ordinary to transmit
such claim afiidavitto the next term of the Superior Court of the count
where the land lies, and the right of property shall be there trie ,
upon ‘an issue, made up in the same manner and under the same
regulations, restrictionsaand penalties as are provided for the trial of
claims to propert levie ‘on by execution.
§3745. (_36_9‘2. £668.) Claim to pcrsonalty, where tried. - When any executor,
administrator, guardlilan, or other trustee, shall advertise to lsell
any rsonal propertv as t e property of his testator, intestate wart or
ceatuzpeque trust, and the same shall be claimed on oath, and the claim
ailiidavit shall have been ﬁled and served, as reqtpired in the ﬁrst scctioﬁ
0 this Chapter, it shall be the duty of the Or inary to transmit suc
claim aﬂidavit to the Superior Court next to be held after such claim is
ﬁled in the county where such executor, administrator, guardian or
trustee resides.
§3746. (3693) (3669.) Claim postpones sale. When a claim has been
interposed, as rovided in the preceding sections, the sale of the prop
erty advertise and claimed shall be postponed until after the termina
tion of the claim case.
§3747. (3694.) ( 3670.) Oiiectqf evirlence. The object of all legal in
vestigation is the discovery of truth. The rules, of evidence framed are
with a view to this prominent end, seeking always for pure sources
and the highest evidence.
Section referred to and construed: 63 Ga., 742; 57/102.
$73748. (369-5.) (3671.) Sundry deﬁnitions. Competent evidence is that
which is admissible. Suﬂinient evidence is that which is satisfactory
for the urpose. Oumulative evidence is that which is additional to
other a ready obtained. Direct evidence is that which immediately
points to the uestion at issue. Indirect, or circunrsmntial evidence, is
that which on yl tends to establish the issue by proof of various facts,
sustaining by t eir consistency, the h pothesis claimed. Presumptive
evidence consists of inferences drawn by human experience from the
connection of cause and effect, and observations of human conduct.
§3749. (3696) (3672) Amount of nwmal conviction. Moraland reason
able certainty is all that can be expected in legal investigation. In all
civil cases‘ the preponderance of testimony is considered suiﬁcieut to
produce mental conviction. In criminal cases“ a greater strength of men-4
tal conviction is held necessary to justify a. verdict of guilty.

§3750. (3697.) (3673.) Same rules in all Courts and cases. Generally,
the rules of evidence are the same in all the Courts of this State, and
upon every trial the exce tions exist only by express statute.
§3751. (3698) ($3674.) Rfatters judicially recognized. The existence and
territorial extent of States, their form of government, and symbols of
nationality, the laws of nations, and general customs of merchants, the;
admiralty and maritime Courts of the world and their seals, the politi-'
cal constitution and history of our own Government, as well as the 10
cal divisions of our own State, the seals of the several departments of
the Government of the United States, and of the several States of the
Union, and all similar matters of public knowledge, are judicially rec
ognized without the introduction of proof.

§3752. (3699) (3675) Presumption of law and fact. Presumptions are
ei her of law or of fact. The former are conclusions and inferences
which the law draws from given facts. The latter are exclusively
questions for the jury, to be decided by the ordinary test of human ex
perience.
§3753. ( 3700.) (3676.) Estoppels. Presumptions of law aresometimes
conclusive, and an averment to the contrary will not be allowed. These
are termed estoppels, and are not generally favored. Among these are
the presumptions 1n favor of it record or judgment‘ unreversed; of the
proper conduct” of Courts and judicial ofiicers acting within their legit
imate sphere; of other oﬁicers° of the law after lapse of time has ren
dered it dangerous to open the investigation of their acts in regard to
mere formalities of the law; of ancient deeds,“ and other instruments
more than thirty years old, when they come from the proper custod ,
and possession has been held in accordance with them; recitals‘ in dee s,
except payment of purchase money,.as against the grantor actin in
his own right, and sui juris and his privics in estate, blood and in aw;
the 1a.ndlord’s title,’ as against his tenant, while tenant in possession ;
solemn admissions“ made in judir.-io, and other admissions, upon which
other parties have acted,“ either to their own injury or the beneﬁt of the
persons making the admissions, and similar cases‘ where it would be
more unjust and productive of more evil to hear the truth than to for
bear the investigation.
§3754. (-3701.) ($677.) Prima facie premmptiom. Other resumptions
of law, such as of innocence,‘ and in some cases of guilt, oi)continuance
of life” for seven years, of a mental state“ once proved to exist, and all
similar presumptions may be rebutted by proof

§3755. (3702) ($5678.) Number of witnesses necessary. The testimony
of a single witness is generally sufiicient to. establish a fact. Exceptions
to this rule are made in s eciﬁed cases ; such as to convict of treason or
pegury, in any case of fe ony where the only witness is an accomplice,‘
an to rebut :1 responsive" statement in an answer in equity—in these
cases (except in treason) corroborating circumstances may dispense
with another witness.
§3756. (3703) (3679) Must be relevant. The evidence must relate to
the questions being tried by the jury, and bear upon them either di
rectly or indirectly. Irrevelant matter should be excluded

§3757. (3704) (3680) Character and conduct of arties. The general
character‘ of the parties, and es ecially their con uct in other transac
tions,“ are irrelevant matter, un ess the nature of the action involves
such character and renders necessary or proper the investigation of
such conduct.
§3758. (370-5.) Q3681.) Burden. of proof. The burden of proof gener
ally lies u on the party asserting or affirming a fact, and to the exis
tence of W ose case or defense the proof of such fact is essential. If a
negation or negative‘ aliirmation be so essential, the proof of such neg
ative lies on the party so affirming it.

§3759. (3706.) (3682) Changing onus. What amount of evidence will
change the onus or burden of proof, is a question to be decided in each
case by the sound discretion of the Court.

§3760. (3707.) (3683) Best evidence. The best evidence which exists
of the fact sought to be proved must be produced, unless its absence is
satisfactorily accounted for. '
§3761. ($3708.) (3684) Primary and secondary evidence. Primary evi
dence is such as in itself does not indicate the existence of other and
better proof. Secomlwry evidence is such as from necessity in some
cases is substituted for stronger and better proof.

§3762. (3709.) (3685.) Written evidence. \/Vritten evidence is consid-
ered of higher proof than oral, and in all cases where the parties have
reduced their contract, agreement, or stipulation to writing, and as
sented thereto, it is the best evidence of the same.


§3763. (3710.) (3686.) Wills and records. Copies of records of judi-
cial proceedings, and wills admitted to probate, are admitted as primary
evidence, when properly authenticated. In all other cases a. copy is sec
ondary evidence.
As to a will: 14 Ga., 188; 25/479; 12/267.
§3T64. (3711.) ($3687.) Oﬁicer de facto. An ofﬁcer de fa/'to may be
proved by his acts, without the production of his commission or ap
pointment.

§3765. (37l2.) (3688.) Imeriptiom on monuments, etc. Inscriptions on
wa ls, monuments and other ﬁxed objects, may be proved by copies es
tablished as such. -

§3766. (3713.) '(3689.) Other 8$C677fi07l8. Other cases of necessity or
manifest convenience, restin on like principles of reason and justice,
may be made exceptions to t e general rule.
§3767. (371-1.) (3690) Secondary evidence, when admitted. In order to;
admit secondary evidence, it must ap ear that the primary evidence,
for some suﬁicient cause, is not acccssiiile to the diligence of the party.
This showing is made to the Court, who will hear the party himself on
the question of diligence and the inaccessibility of the primary evi
dence.
§3768. (37l5.) (3691.)_ Degrees therein. There are degrees in second
ary evidence, and the best should always be produced. Thus, a dupli
cate“ is better than a copy, and an examined copy” than oral evidence.

§3769. (3716) C3692.) Ecistence of or’ inal. The existence of a gen
uine original is essential to the admissi ility of a co y. The amount
of evidence to show such existence, must vary with t e circumstances
of each case. Where no direct issue is made upon the fact, slight evi
dence would be suﬂicient.

§3770. '(3717.) (3693) Hearsay evidence. Hearsay evidence is that
which docs not derive its value solely from the credit of the witness,
but rests mainl on veracity and competency of other persons. The
very nature of the evidence shows its weakness, and it is admitted only
in speciﬁed cases from necessity.

§3771. ( 3718.) (3694) Somtimes original 0vid1»n1:e. Vi/hen, in a legal
investigation, mformation,‘ conversations,” lcttcrs° and replies,‘ and
similar evidence, are facts to explain conduct and ascertain motives,
they are admitted in evidence, not as hearsay, but as original evidence.
When hear
leton’s Ev., 189.
§3772. (-3719.) (3695) Pedigree, how proved. Pedigree, including de
scent, relationship, birth, marriage and death, may be proved either by
the declarations of deceased persons related by blood or marriage, or by
general re ute in the family, or by genealogies, inscriptions, “family
trees,” an similar evidence.

§3773. (3720) (3696.) Res geslae. Declarations accompanying an aet,§
or so nearly connected therewith in tim'e as to be free from all suspicion
of device or afterthought, are admissible in evidence as part of res gestre.

§3774. C3721.) _(i-3697.) Declaratibm of persons in possession. Declara-g
tions of a person in possession of property, in disparagement of his own
title, are admissible in evidence in favor of any one, and against privies.
Declarations in favor of his own title are admissible to prove his adverse
possession.
§3775. (3722) (3698.) Declarations of conspirators. After the fact of
conspiracy is proved, the declarations of any one of the conspirators
during the pendency of the criminal project, are admissible against all.

§3776. (3723.) (3699.) Of deceased pcrso-ns. The declarations‘ and en
tries“ of a person, since deceased, against his interest, and not made
with a view to pending litigation, are admissible in evidence in any
case.
§3777. ( 3724.) (3700.) Books of account. The books of account of any
merchant, sho keeper, physician, blacksmith, or other person
doing a regular usiness and keeping daily entries thereof, may be ad
giitted in evidence as proof of such accounts, upon the following con
itions :'
1. That he kept no clerk, or else the clerk isdead, or otherwise inac
cessible. '
2. Upon proof (the party’s oath being suﬁicient) that the book ten
dered is his book of original entries.
Must be proved by party’s oath to be the original books: 1 Ga., 231. Where tran
scri t from book of accounts refused as evidence: 17 Ga., 66. To recover on shop
boo s from own entries on them, what necessary: 8 Ga., 74.
3. Upon proof (by his customers) that he usually kept correct books.
4. Upon inspection by the Court, to see if the books are free from
any suspicion of fraud.

§3778. (3725) (3701) Matters of public interest. Hearsay evidence as
to declarations of deceased persons as to’ ancient rights, and made be
fore the litigation arose, are admissible to prove matters of public in
terest in which the whole community are supposed to take interest
and to have knowledge.

§3779. ($5726.) (3702.) Ainciem documents. Ancient documents, purporting
to be a art of the transaction to which they relate, are ad
missible in evi ence.

§3780. (3727.) (3703) Ancient boundaries and landmarks. Tradition
ary evidence, as to ancient boundaries and landmarks, is admissible in
evidence, the weight to be determined by the jury, according to the
source whence it comes.
§3782. (3725).) (3705) Testimon of wit1wss0:n_f0r11wr trial. The testi
mony of awitness, since deceased? or disqualiﬁed, or inaccessible for
any cause, given under oath on a former trial, upon substantially the
same issue and between substantially the same parties, may be proved
by any one who heard it, and who professes to remember the sub
stance of the entire testimony, as to the particular matter about which
he-testiﬁes.

§3783. (3'/'30.) (3706.) Deﬁnitimw. Admissions usually refer to civil
cases ; confessions to criminal.
Answers to interrogatories admissible as admissions, although made in a different
§3784. ( 3731.) (3707.) Parties to record. The admission of a party to
the record“ is admissible in evidence when offered by the other side, ex
cept in the following cases:
\‘Vithdrawing admissions when made by
and construed: 53 Ga., 515; 61/336; 58/237.
60 Ga., 243.
1. In case of a mere nominal” party or naked trustee.
2. Where there are several parties with no joint” interest, the admis
sions of one cannot be received, unless the issue is of such a character
that the effect of the admission can be restrained to him alone.
Jointinterest: 12 Ga., 591.
3. The admissions of any trustee“ before he is clothed with the trust.
Of an executor only after he was clothed with the trust: 53 Ga., 283-4. The sayings
of a guardian while he held the legal title to the land : 54 Ga.. 691.
4. Defendants in fi. fa-. in claim cases, after the pendency of litiga
tion.

§3785. (3732) (3708) Real parties in interest. The admission of the
real party in interest is admissible, though he be not of record, subject
to the exceptions stated above.

§3786. (3'/33.) (3'/O9.) Of stmn ers. The admissions of third persons,
strangers to the suit, are receive in evidence:
When not received in evidence: 30 Ga., 55. Of an insurance agent not a party to
the original contract: 51 Ga., 625.
1. When the party refers‘ to such third person for information.
2. Admissionsmade by a third person against his interest as to a fact
collateral to the main issue between the litigants, but essential to the
adjudication of the cause.
3. Statements of an interpreter where from any cause he cannot be
sworn. 
§3787. (-3734.) (3710.) Of agents. The admissions of an agent or at
torney in fact, during the existence and in pursuance of his power, are
evidence against the principal.
$3788. (3T35.) (3711.) Of privies. Theadmissionsof priviesin blood,
privies in estate, and privies in law are admissible as against the par
ties themselves, but declarations of privics in estate, after the title has
passed out of them, cannot be received.

§3789. ( 3736.) (3712) Admissions im roperly obtained. Admissions ob
tained by constraint, or by fraud, or hy drunkenness induced for the
purpose, or admissions or propositions made with "a view to a compro
mise,‘ are not proper evidence.

§3790. ($3737.) (3"/'13.)‘ E_'[fect of sileiwe. Acquiescencc, or silence,
when the circumstances require an answer or denial, or other conduct,
may amount to an admission.

§3791. (3738.) ($3714.) Entire conversation. When an admission is
given in evidence it is the right of the other arty to have the whole
admission and all the conversation connected t erewith.

§3792. (3739.) (3715.) Weight of such evidence. All admissions‘ should
be scanned with care, and confessions of guilt should be received with
great caution. A confession alonc,uncor1-oborated by other evidence,
will not justify a conviction.
§3793. (3740) (3716.) Confession must be voluntary. To make a con
fession admissible, it must have been made voluntarily, without being
induced by another, by the slightest hope of beneﬁt or remotest fear of
injury.

§3794. (3741.) (3717.) Under prmnise of secrecy, etc. The fact that a
confession is made under a spiritual exhortation, or a promise of se
crecy, or a promise of collateral beneﬁt, shall not exclude it. .
§3795. (3742,) (3718.i) Material fcurts discovered. Any material facts
discovered by a confession by a prisoner may be proved, and the fact of
its discovery, by reason of such information, though the confession is
rejected.

§3796 (3743.) (3719.) Confcssirmqf conspirators. The confession of one
joint offender or conspirator, made after the enterprise is ended, is ad
missible only against himself.

§3797. (3744) (3720) C'rmﬁde'ntial conrnmn-icatinm, etc. There are cer
tain admissions and communications excluded from public policy.
Among these arc
1. Communications between husband and wife.‘

2. Between attorney or counsel and client.

3. Among grand jurors.
4. Secrets of State.‘
§3798. (3745) (372l.) Attorney and alien/t. Communications to any
attorney, or his clerk, to be transmitted to the attorney pending his
employment, or in anticipation thereof, shall never be heard by the
Court. So the attorney cannot be compelled to disclose the advice or
counsel he may give to his client, nor to produce or deliver up title
deeds, or other papers, except evidences of debt" left in his possession
by his client. This rule does not exclude the attorney as a witness to
any facts which may transpire in connection with his employment.

§3799. (3746.) (3722) W/zen grand jurors may disclose. Grand jurors
shall disclose everything which occurs in their service whenever it be
comes necessary, in any Court of record in this State.
§3800. (3747.) (3723) General rule. Parol contemporaneous evidence
1S inadmissible generally to contradict or vary the terms of a valid
written instrument.

§3801. (3748.) (3724.) Contempomneous writings.
ous‘ writings are admissible to explain each other, and arol evidence
is admissible to explain all ambiguities,‘ both latent an patent.
§3802. (3749) C3725.) Void imtruments. Parol evidence is admissible
to show that the writing was either originally voidor has subsequently
become so.

§3803. (3750.) ($5726.) Where part only is in tvriting. If the writin
does not purport to containall the stipulations of the contract, paro
evidence is admissible to rove other portlons thereof not inconsistent
with the writing; so col ateral undertakings between parties of the
same part among themselves would not properly be looked for in the
writing.

§3S05. (3752.) (3728.) Usage. In like manner evidence of known and
established usage is admissible for the same purpose as wellas to annex
incidents.‘

§3807. (3754.) (3731).) Receipts. Receipts for money are always only
prima facie evidence of payment and may be denied or explained by
parol.
§3808. (3755.) (3731) Blank indorsements. Blank indorsements of
negotiable paper may always be explained between the parties them
selves, or those taking with notice of dishonor or of the actual facts of
such indorsements.
§3809. (3756.) (3732) Reducing deed to mortgage. A deed or bill of
sale, absolute on its face and accompanied with possession of the prop-C
erty, shall not be proved (at the instance of the parties) by parol evidence
to be a. mortgage only, unless fraud in its procurement is the issue to
be tried.

§3811. ($3758.) (3734.) Just as other witnesses. The party seeking the
discovery may either subpoena the other party as a witness, or else ﬁle
interrogatories, and sue out a commission, as in cases provided forother
witnesses. In the latter event the right of cross-examination exists
as in other cases.
§38l2. (3759.) (373-5.) Who shall see to execution and return of commis
sion-. When interrogatories are ﬁled in oﬂice, and notice given thereof,
it shall be the duty of the party sought to be examined, to see to the
execution and return of the same before the return term thereof.
Filing interrogatories for discovery : 6 Ga., 262; 55/209, 215.
%3813. (3760.) (3736) Failing to answer, or answering euasively. A part
fai ing to appear, without suiﬁcient excuse, when properly subprrnaet ,
or failing or refusing to answer, either orally or to the interrogatories
ﬁled, or answering evasively, shall be subject to attachment for con
tempt, and the Court may also dismiss his case, if he be plaintiff, or
strike out his pleas, if he be defendant, or give such other direction to
the cause as is consistent with justice and equity.

§3814. (3761.) (3737.) Privileged matters. No party shall be required
to testify as to any matter which may criminate or tend to criminate
himself, or which shall tend to work a forfeiture of his estate, or which
shall tend to bring infamy, or disgrace, or public contempt upon him
self or any member of his family.

§3815. (3762.) (3738.) Laws and resolutions. All laws and resolutions
of the General Assembly, as ublished by authority, shall be held,
deemed, and considered public aws, and recognized judicially without
proof. The ‘our-nals of each branch of the General Assembly, as pub
ished, shall e in like manner recognized without proof.
§3816. ( 3763.) (3739.) Exempliﬁcations. The certiﬁcate,or attestation
of any public oﬂicer, either of this State, or any county thereof, shall§'ci
give suﬁicient validity or authenticity to any copy or transcript of any
record, document, paper or ﬁle, or other matter or thing in their respec-
tive oﬂices, or pertaining thereto, to admit the same in evidence in any
Court of this State.
§3817. (3764.) (3740.) When primary evidence. Such exempliﬁcations
shall be primary evidence as to all records, or other things required b
law to remain in such oﬁices, but only secondary evidence as to suc
documents as by law properly remain in the possession of the party.


§3817. (a.) Letters of ad*ministratz'on,etc. Copies of letters testamen-
tary and of administration and guardianshi ,shall be _ rimary evi-'
dence of the fact of administration and guar ianship to t e same ex
tent as the original letters: Provided, such copy-letters are duly certi
ﬁed to from the proper record of the proper oﬂicer.
§38l8. (3765.) (3741.) Records lost or destroyed. When a record has
been burned, or otherwise destroyed, its contents may be proved bv sec-
_ _ _ _ .
ondary evidence which does not disclose the existence of other and bet-
ter evidence.

§3819. (3766) (3742) Proof‘ of registry. The official entry of the
pro er oiﬁcer on a paper shal be sufficient evidence of itsiregistry.
§§820. (3767.) (37/13.) Certiﬁed copy. If the original of an paper,
properly registered, is lost or destroyed, a certiﬁed copy from the regis
try shall be deemed good secondary evidence.

§3821. ($3768.) (-3744.) If re¥l1Lstr1/ is destroyed. If the re istry has also
been destroyed before a copy as been made and certiﬁe , any second
ary evidence is admissible to prove the original and its registry, which
does not disclose the existence of other and better evidence.

§3822. (3769.) (3745.) Presumption of proper probate. If the original
is found to have been recorded, and it does not appear whether it was
done on proper probate, the Court shall presume,until the contrary ap
pears, that the same was done on proper probate.
Presumption of proper probate: 19 Ga., 8; 57/157.
§§-3823. (3770.) (3746) Former Acts continued in force. All the Acts
heretofore passed, allowin papers improperly registered, and their
copies, when lost, to be a mitted in evidence, shall be continued in
force.
§3824. (3771.) (3747.) Laws of United States and several States. The
public laws of the United States, and of the several States thereof, as
published by authority, shall be judicially recognized without proof.

§3825. ($772.) ($3748.) Foreign laws. Foreign laws and judgments
must be authenticated under the great seal of their respective States.
§3826. (3773.) (3T~19.) E_ﬁ"ect of judgments as evidence. A judgment is
admissible between any parties to show the fact of the rendition thereof:
between parties‘ and privies it is conclusive as to the matter directly in
issue, until reversed or set aside.

§3827. (3774.] (37-50.) Judgments in rem. A judgment in rem is con
clusive upon everybody.
§3828. (3776) (3752) How attacked. A" judgment that is void may
be attacked in any Court, and b anybody. In all other cases judgments
cannot be impeached collateral y, but must be set aside by the Court
rendering them.

§3829. (3777.) ( 3753.) Notarial acts. All notarial acts of Notaries
Pu lio in relation to bills of exchange, drafts and proinissorv notes, re-
quired to be done by the laws of this State, ma 1 be proved by the certiﬁcate
of such Notary under his hand and seal: Provided, such certif
icate is ﬁled in the Court at its ﬁrst term, and permitted there to re
main until the trial.


§3830. Extracts from books of -incorporated companies. [When an p01‘-
tion of the contents of the books or records of any incorporate com-1
pany (located in this State) shall be material and competent evidence
in an ' cause pending on the civil side of any Court in this State, it
shall e lawful for the party desiring to use the same in evidence, upon
procuring a correct transcript from said books, certiﬁed under the hand
of the chief oﬁicer in charge of the office where said books may be,
that said extract is a true and complete transcri t of all that appears
upon the books in said oﬁice relative to that su 'ect matter, to lace
said extract in evidence at the trial, in lieu of t e books themse ves:
Provided, he shall have ﬁrst served the opposite party with a copy of
such extract, with a notice that the same will be offered in evidence,
twenty days before Court: And provided, farther, that nothing in this
section shall be construed to impair or diminish the right of either
party to compel the production of books and papers, by notice, where
111 the hands of the opposite party, or by subpoena duces tecum, where in
the hands of third persons]. (a.)
§383l. (3778.) (375-1.) Production of proof. Generally, the original
writing must be produced and its execution proved. The excepted
cases are prescribed by law.

§3832. ( 3779.) (3755.) In case of loss. If the paper is lost or destro ed,5
proof of the fact to the Court will admit secondary evidence. he
party is a competent witness to this point. The question of diligence
is one of soun discretion in the Court.

§3833. ( 3780.) ($3756.) Production in Court. The production of such
private writing is provided for in anoth_er part of t is Code.
§3834. (3781.) (3757.-) When notice unnecessary. Notice to produce is
not necessary when the action is brought to recover the paper or set it
aside.
§3835. (3782.) (3758.) Explaining alteration. If the paper appears to
have been materially altered, unless it is the cause of action, and no
plea of mm estfactum is ﬁled, the party offering it in evidence must ex
plain the alteration, unless the paper comes from the custody of the
opposite party.

§3836. (3783) (3759) Producing dis enses with__prooj. The production
of the paper by the opposite party (i he claims any beneﬁt under it)
dispenses with necessity of proof, and the notice to produce dispenses
with proof as against the party giving the notice. 

§3837. (3784) (3760) Subscribing witness, mceptiom. The subscribing
witness must be produced in all cases, except the following: 1st. An
cient writings which prove themselves. 2d. If from any cause the
witness cannot be produced or sworn. 3d. Oﬁice bonds required by
law to be a proved or tested by a particular functionary. 4th. If the
paper is on y incidentally or collaterally material to the case.

§3838. (3785) (3761.) Other proof. If the witness is not produced,
or, being produced, cannot recollect the transaction, the Court may hear
any other evidence to prove its execution.
§3839. (3786.) ($3762.) Handwriting. Proof of handwriting may be
resorted to in the absence of direct evidence of execution. In such
case, any witness is competent to testify as to his belief, who will swear
that he knows or would recognize the handwriting. The source of his
knowledge is a question for investigation, and goes entirely to the
credit and weight of his evidence.

§3840. (3787 .) (3763.) Comparison of hands. Other writings, roved
or acknowledged to be genuine, may be admitted in evidence or the
pur ose of comparison by the 'ury.' Such other new papers, when in
ten ed to be introduced, shall e submitted to the opposite party before
he announces himself ready for trial.
§3841. ($3788.) (3764) Subpoena. \Vhen the attendance of any per-
son resident in the county is required as a. witness in any Court, the
clerk of such Court (or if there be no clerk, the presiding Judge or
Justice) shall, on application, issue a writ of subpdana, directed to such
person, requiring him to appear and testify in the case stated, and at
the time stated. Such subpoena, shall be served on the witness person
ally, by any person capable of proving the same, at least [one day be
fore the trial of the cause]. (a.) The witness so summoned shall at
tend the Court from term to term until the case is tried. And if there
be an appeal or new trial, notice of the fact, without a new subpoena,
shall be sufficient to require the attendance of the witness. The wit
ness fee shall be seventy-ﬁve cents per driem.
1 Whart. Ev., @377; 1 Gr. Ev.. @306.
§3842. (3789.) (3765.) Payment ofjees. The pavment of the feesof a.
witness shall not be demanded asa condition precedent to an attendance.
But at the close of each term, or any term, the witness may make a.ﬂi
davit before any Justice of the Peace, or clerk of the Court, of the
number of days he has attended on such subpoena for which his fees
are due, which affidavit, when countcrsigned by the clerk (or if no
clerk, the Judge) and attached to the subpoena, shall have the force
and effect of an execution against the property of the party at whose
instance he was subpoenaed (unless in behalf of the State).

§3813. (3T90.) (3766) Excessive claim. A witness who shall claim
more than is due to him forfeits all his fees, and shall pay to the
injuredi party, in addition thereto, four times the amount so unjustly
claime .
§3844. (379l.) (3767.) Failure to attend. The Court may proceed by
attachment to compel the attendance of a witness who fails to obey
the precept, and also to unish him by a ﬁne not exceeding three hun
dred dollars. In addition thereto such a witness shall be liable in
damages to the person causing him to be subpoenaed for his failure to
atten .

§3845. ($5792.) (3768.) Slate’s witnesses from other counties,howpaid. Wit
nesses for the State in criminal prosecution in the Superior Courts at
tending in adifferent county from that of their residence, shall receive,
each, two dollars per day during their attendance, and two dollars for
each thirty miles traveled in going and returning, veriﬁed on said wit
nesses’ subpoena, which said veriﬁcation shall distinctly set forth the days
of the month on which the attendance and service were performed and
the number of miles traveled, which said attendance, service and mile
age shall be certiﬁed to by the Solicitor-General of the circuit after the
case has been tried or disposed of for the term, and after this is done,
the amount so proved to be due, shall be paid out ot the county funds.
In case of conviction, the amount chargeable against the county shall
be taxed in the'bill of costs. But no subpoena for a non-resident wit
ness for the State shall be issued unless the same shall be signed by‘the
Clerk of the Court, and the Solicitor-General of the circuit : Provided, that
non-resident witnesses for the State, who have been subpoenaed as such
in more than one case, shall receive mileage on going to and returning
from the Court, from which subpoena or subpoenas issued,as though
subpoenaed in one case only, but shall receive the per diem pay now al
lowed by law for each da is attendance on the Court, as a witness for
the State, in any crimina case pending in said Court: provided, j_'urther,
that in those counties where the law requires that the county commis
sioners of the county shall approve its accounts, this section shall not
alter the same: provided, further, that this section shall not be construed
to repeal any local law on the sub'ect of payin witnesses. The forego
ing provisions of said section shall a ply to de endants’ witnesses, when
in tllie discretion of the presiding udge the ends of justice may de
man it.
§3846. Attendance of witnesses before grand jury [When any rson(
accusedof a criminal offense before a Court of inquiry,and then is ound
over, or committed for trial in the Su rior Court, the oﬁicer holding the
Court of inquiry shall, at the time 0 the preliminary trial, give a sub
poena to all material witnesses examined for the State, to appear and
testify before the grand jury at the term to which the defendant is com
mitted or bound to appear; and after such preliminary trial, and com
mitment or binding over, the prosecutor may apply to the Clerk of the
Superior Court and obtain a subpoena for any person deemed by him to
be a material witness for the State before the grand jury, and the sub
pcranas issued under this section shall be effectual in com elling the at
tendance of the witnesses to appear and give evidence be ore said grand
jury; and the said officer holding the Court of inquiry, and the said Clerk
of the Superior Court shall, at the term of the Court to which the ac
cused is committed or bound to a pear, furnish, on the ﬁrst da of the
term, the )rosecuting officers of t e State with acomplete list o all per
sons so su oenaed.] (a.)
§3847. itnesses for the accused. [The party accused ma also, upon
application to the committing oﬁicers, or to the Clerk of t e Superior
Court to which he is committed or bound to appear for trial, obtain sub
poenas for such witnesses as he may deem material for his defense, which
subpoenas said officers shall issue requiring the witnes to appear at the
term of the Court to which the accused is committed or bound to ap
pear, and until his case is ended, and the subpoenas so issued shall have
(power and authority to compel the attendance of the witnesses at said
ourt: Provided, that such subpoenas shall not extend to witnesses for
the defendant, out of the county, until a true bill is found against the
defendant. (b.)
§3848. ontin-uance refused, when. [N 0 party failing to use the means
provided in the preceding section, when within his power, shall be
entitled to a continuance because said witnesses are not in attendance
at the term of the Court when his case is called for trial, if he is prose
cuted for the same criminal act.] (c.)
§3849. ($3793.) ($3769.) Witnesses in 'impr'is0n/ment. The writ of habeas
ad testiﬁcandum may be issued by the Superior Court to cause
the production in Court of any witness under legal imprisonment.

§3850. (379-4.) (37'/'0.) Freedom from arrest. Witnesses are protected
from arrest on any civil process while going to or returning from and
attending on any Court, and the officer who shall hold him im risonedE4
after seeing his subpoena, or being satisﬁed of the fact, shall e liable
for a false imprisonment.

§3851. (3795.) ($3771.) No fees in certain cases. A witness shall not re
ceive any fees whatever for attendance on a subpoena if the cause at
any time is continued for his absence, or if he is absent at the trial:
Providerl, such absence in neither case arose from providential causes;
nor shall any witness receive fees from both parties in the same case,
but shall be paid equally by each, unless one shall be cast in all the
cost. A prosecutor shall in no case receive fees as a witness.
§3852. (3796) (3772.) Court decides compaency. The competency of
a witness must be decided by the Court.

§38-53. ($797.) (3772) Re.'ig£ou,s belief. Religious belief goes only to
‘the credit.
§3854. ($3798.) Who are competent to testm/. [No person oifered as a
shall be excluded by reason of incapacity for crime or interest,
or from being a party, from giving evidence, either in person or by
deposition, according to the practice of the Court, on the trial of any
issue joined, or of any matter or question, or on any inquiry arising in
any suit, action, or proceeding, civil or criminal, in any Court or before
any Judge, jury, Sheriff, coroner, magistrate, oiﬁcer, or part , having,
by law or consent of parties, authority to hear, receive, an examine
evidence; but every person so offered shall be competent, and compella»
ble to give evidence on behalf of either or any of the parties to the said
suit, action, or other proceeding, except as follows:
1. Where one of the original parties to the contract or cause of action
in issue or on trial, is dead, or is shown to the Court to be insane, or
where an executor or administrator is a party in any suit on a con
tract of his testator or intestate, the other party shall not be admitted
to testify in his own favor.
2. No person, who in any criminal proceeding is charged with the
commission of any indictable offense, or any offense punishable on
summary conviction, is competent or compellable to give evidence for
or against himself or herself.
3. N0 person shall be com ellable to answer any question tending
to criminate himself or herse f.
Note to @3870. Cannot refuse if offense is barred: 10 C. L. J., 239.
4. No husband shall be competent or com ellable to give evidence
for or against his wife in any criminal procee ing, nor shall any wife, in
any criminal proceeding, be competent or com ellable to give evidence
for or against her husband. But the wife sha 1 be competent, but not
compeilable, to testify against her husband, upon his trial for an crim
inal offense committed, or attempted to have been committe ,upon
the person of the wife.
5. No attorney shall be compellable to give evidence for or against
his client.] 
§3855. (-3799.) In cases of adultery and breach of marriage contract.
[Nothing contained in the preceding section shall apply to any action,
suit, or proceeding, or bill, in any Court of law or e uity, instituted
in consequence of adultery,‘ or to any action for breac of promise of
marriage] (a.)
§3836. (3800.) Idiots, etc. [Persons who have not the use of reason
as idiots, lunatics during lunacy, and children who do not understan
the nature of an oath, are incompetent witnesses.

§3857. (3801.) (3775.) Dmnkards. Drunkenness, which dethrones
reason and memory, inca acitates during its continuance.
§3858. ($3802.) (3774.) E.‘-vidence through interpreter. No physical de
fects in any of the senses incapacitates a witness. An interpreter may
explain his evidence.

§3859. (3803.) (3776) Decision by -ins tion. The Court must. by ex
amination, decide upon the capacity o one alleged to be incompetent
from idiocy, lunacy or insanity, or drunkenness, or childhood.

§3860. (3804.) (3784.) Objertzkm to rompetemy, when taken. The objec
tion" to competency, if known, must be taken before the witness is ex
amined at all. It may be roved by the witness himself, or by other
testimony; if proved by ot or testimony, the witness is incompetent
to explain it away. _ _ _
$3.861. (3805) (3785) Competency, how restored. Any act Wl'll0ll, in
the Judgment of the Court, removes the ground of incompetency, will
restore the competency of the witness.

§3862. (3806.) ($3786.) Oath or aﬂirmation. The sanction of an oath,
or aiﬁrmation e uivalent thereto, is necessary to the reception of any
oral evidence. he Court may frame such afﬁrmation according to the
religious faith of the witness. ‘
§3863. (3807.) (3787) Separate ezamiml/tion.
has the right -to have the witnesses of the other party examined out of
In all cases either party‘
the hearing of each other. The Court will take proper care to effect
this object as far as practicable and convenient, but any mere irregu
larity shall not exclude the witness.
the witnesses called against him. If several parties to the same case
have distinct interests, each may exercise this right.

§3865. (3805).) (3789) Leading questions. Leading questions are gen
erally allowed in cross~examinations, and only in these; but the Court
may exercise a discretion in granting the right to the party calling
the witness, and in refusing it to the opposite party when, from the
conduct of the witness, or other reason, justice requires it.

§3866. (3810.) ($3790.) Memorandum in aid of witness’ memory. A wit
ness may refresh and assist his memory by the use of any written in
strument, or memorandum, provided he ﬁnally speaks from his recol
lection thus refreshed, or is willing to swear positively from the paper.

§3867. (3811) (3791.) Opinions of witness. Where the question un
der examination, and to be decided b the jury, is one of opinion, any
witness may swear to his opinion or elief, giving his reasons therefor ;
but if the issue- is as to the existence of a fact, the opinions of wit
nesses, generally, are inadmissible.
§3868. (3812) ($3792.) Enrgerts. The opinions of experts on any
question of science. skill, tra e, or like questions, are always admissi
ble; and such opinions may be given on the facts as proved by other
witnesses.

§3869. ( 3813.) (37_93.) Impvaching 0ne’s own -witness. A party may not
impeach a witness voluntarily called by him, except where he can
show to the Court that he has been entrapped by the witness by a pre
vious‘ contradictory statement.
§3870. (3814.) (379-1.) Privilege of ﬂvitmsses. A witness is relieved
from testifying as to the same matters hereinbefore speciﬁed in rela
tion to a party making discovery.

§3871. (3815) (3795.)'Impca.ching a witness. A witness may be im
peached—
Section cited : 64 Ga., 348.
1. By disproving the facts testiﬁed to by him.
2. By proof of contradictory statements previously made by him as
to matters relevant to his testimon and to the case.
3. By evidence as to his general ad character.

§3872. (3816.) (3796.) Laying the foundation. Before contradictory
statements of the witness can be proved against him, (unless the are
written statements, made under oath in connection with some ju icial
proceedings,) the mind of the witness himself should be called with as
much certainty as possible to the time, place, person, and circum
stances attending the former statement; and if in writing, the same
should be shown to the witness, or read in his hearing if in existence;
and to lay this foundation the witness may bc recalled at any time.

§3873. (3817.) Q3797.) General character. To rove general bad char
acter, the impeaching witness should be ﬁrst as ed as to his knowledge
of the general character of the witness, and next as to what that char
acter is, and lastly, he may be asked if, from that character, he would
believe him on his oath.

§3874. (3818) (3798.) Sustaining witness. The witness may be sus
tained by similar proof of character. But the particular transactions,
or the opinions of single individuals, cannot be in uired of on either
side, except u on cross-examination in seeking or the extent and
foundation of t e witness’ knowledge.
§3875. (3819.) (3799. If impeached by contmd2'/story statenwnts. A wit
ness impeached by proof of contradictory statements may be sustained
by proof of general good character-—the effect of the evidence to be
determined by the jury.
§3876. (3820) (3800) State of feeling and relationship. The State of
the witness’ feelings to the parties, and his relationship, may always be
proved for the consideration of the jury.

§3877. 3821.) ( 3801.) Who may be e.i:a_miiied on inter_rog_ato1~i'es. A w_it
ness may e examined on interrogatories, by commission, at the in
stance of either partv, in any civil cause pending in any Court in this
State, when either oi the fol owing state of facts exists:
Does not apply tocriminal cases: 4 Ga., 335. May examine witness twice by same
party in same case: 24 Ga., 518. Interrogatories should show on what grounds the
commission sought: 4 Ga., 360.
1. \Vhere the witness resides out of the county.
Stated: 26Ga., 293. But not on this ground where witness in the county where
suit is, and his attendance be compelled by subpoena: 6 Ga., 178.
2. Where, from the condition of his health, from age or otherwise, he
cannot attend the Court, or, from the nature of his business or occupa-
tion, it is not possible to secure his personal attendance without man1-
fest inconvenience to the public, or to third persons—such as postmas-
ters, public carriers, physicians, school-teachers, etc.
Stated: 26 Ga., 292. Where not within terms of this law on ground of sickness:
9 Ga., 301. Where Court required thesgoresence of the witness, although interroga
tories taken under this section: 53 Ga., .
3. \Vhere the witness is about to remove from the county, or is about
to leave home on business, for a sojourn or a tour, which will extend
beyond the term of the Court.
Not when liable to a subpcena when trial comes on : 6 Ga., 178.
4. All female witnesses.
See: 41 Ga.. 672.
5. Where he is the only witness to a material point in the case.

§3878 (3822.) (3802.) I the facts cease to exist, sitvlom excluded. If
the state of facts on whic the commission issu ceases to exist be
fore the trial of the cause, and the witness is then accessible by sub
poena, the testimony taken on interrogatories cannot be used.
Stated in : 6 Ga., 178.
§3879. (3823.) (3803.) Mode of obtaining commisazbn. The party seek-
ing to examine a witness by commission, must prepare written interrogatories
sufficiently explicit to inform the other art of the nature
of the testimony sought and expected, and yet not iab e to the objec
tion of being leading questions, which must also state the residence of
the witness, and must serve a co y of such interrogatories on the ow
site party, or his attorney, wit a notice of the time of ﬁling. e
original interrogatories shall then be ﬁled in oﬁice and there remain
for ten days,‘ during which time cross-interrogatories may be ﬁled.
At the expiration of ten days a commission shall issue by the clerk
(or presiding Judge, if no clerk,) for the examination of such witness
upon the interrogatories.

§3880. (38‘24.) (3804.) Without servirre. If, in any case, the op site
party is beyond the jurisdiction of the Court, or cannot be foun , and
is not re resented bv attorney, a notice at the Court House door for ten
days of t e ﬁling of” the interrogatories, shall authorize a commission
to issue.
§3881. (3825.) (3805. If there are several parties. If there are more
than one party opposing, and they have not a joint interest, but sev
eral independent interests are re resented by different attorneys, copies
must be served upon each, and t e right to ﬁle cross-interrogatories be
lon s to each. in everv case the Court should see that the party
real _y to be affected by the evidence has an opportunity of cross-exam
iuation.

§3882. 3826. 3806. A ointnwnt 0 cmnmissimzers. Commissions
shall issue generally in blan ,allowing the party to select his commis
sioners; but, in any case, the opposite party shall have the rivilege
of naming two competent commissioners, w ose names shall e iiiser
ted in the commission, and one of whom shall act in the execution
thereof, unless a good and sufﬁcient reason be shown for his failure.

§3883. (3827.) ($3807.) W72-0 may act. No person is competent to act
as commissioner who would be incompetent as a juror on account of
relationship, or as a witness on account of interest, nor will the attor
ney of the party, or his clerk, or an agent paid to discharge this duty
be a com etent commissioner. A commissioner, like a udge, shou (l
stand pe ectly impartial between the parties. [Reasonab e com ensa
tion may be paid to the commissioners, but not more than two ollars
er da ' shall be taxed as costs a ainst the art ‘cast in the suit. 

§3884. ( 3828.) (3808.) How executed. No arty, or his counsel, or his
apent, or other person on his behalf, should e present at the execution
0 the commission, and everything attendin the execution should
show a perfect impartiality and freedom from ias.

§3885. ($829.) ( 3809.) Compelling witmsses to answer. If a witness re
fuses to appear. before the commissioners, or to answer the interroga
tories, upon the certiﬁcate of one of the commissioners, or the aﬂidavit
of the part or his attorne to the fact, iresented to a Judge of the
Superior ourt or the Or inary, it shall _>e his duty to issue an order
to the Sheriff, his deputy, or any constable, to arrest the witness and
bring him before such Judge, or Ordinary, and, after hearing his excuse
and examining the interrogatories, to see that the same are legal, he
shall order the said witness to be lodged in jail until he answers the
same. This provision shall extend to commissions sent from the
Courts of other States or the United States.
§3886. (3830.) (38l0.) Where to be examined. No female witness shall
-be required to leave her home to ap ear before commissioners, nor shall
any witness be required togo out 0 the count ,or more than ten miles
from his residence ; and any witness leaving his home to be examined
shall have the fees of a witness sub oenaed and attending the Court.
§3887. (3831.) (38]1.) Writing autt eir own answers. \Vitnesses may
write out their own answersin the presence of the commissioners, and
b their consent, butrin no other way shall they prepare the same; and
iiy the witnesses answer from written memoranda, such memoranda
shall be sent with the commission, and the fact certiﬁed by the com
missioners. 

§3888. (3832) (3812) Duty of commissioners. The answers should be
made under oath, and certiﬁed to be so taken. They should be written out
plainly, and be full and explicit to all the direct and cross-interrogato~
ries; they should be signed by the witness, and attested oﬁioially by
the commissioners named in the commission, and the lace of execu-A
tion should also ap ear. The interrogatories, answers an commissions
should be then sea ed up in an envelo e, with the names of the com
missioners written across the seal, an directed to the oﬂicer of the
Court whence the commmission issued. The package can be sent by
mail or intrusted to the party, or some private hand. In the former
case, the postmaster receiving it from the commissioner must certify
to the fact, and the stmaster delivering it to the Court must certify
to its reception by ue course of mail. In the latter case, the person.
receiving and delivering it in Court must make affidavit of the fact,
and of its freedom from alteration.

§3889. (3833) (3813.) How received and disposed of. The package thus.
forwarded must be received in o en Court, and o ened only by its leave
or the consent of arties, and w en thus receive shall become an oﬂice
a er to be used either art under the direction of the Court.

§3890. (3834.) (3814.) Failing to return, a contempt. A commission
once executed must be returned, and a party failing to return, or will
fully abstracting such, shall be attached for contempt, and otherwise
dealt with until the same is produced.
§3891. Depositions without commission. W‘here any party to a suit in
any Court of this State shall desire to ta e the testimony of a witness
by written interrogatories and depositions, and the opposite party, or
his attorney, shall, in writing, waive commission, the answer 0 the
witness, or witnesses, may be taken in virtue of such agreement, which
shall operate in lieu of a commission, and the ersons acting as coni
missioners thereunder shall be authorized to minister the usual oath
to the witness, or witnesses, upon which perjury may be assigned and
punished as under the penal laws of this State governing the same.
A caption in substance as follows shall be a sufficient return under
said agreement, to-wit :
STATE OF GEoRGrA,— CQUNTY:
By virtue of an agreement between the parties or counsel in the case
of i vs. ——, pending in the i Court of ——, county or district
(as the case may be,) the undersi ned,acting as commissioners, have
caused A. B————, a witness in sai case, to come before us, who, being
duly sworn true answers to make to the annexed interrogatories,
de ses and answers as follows :
0 ﬁrst interrogatory, he answers, etc.
To second-interrogatory, he answers, etc.
To ﬁrst cross-interrogatory, he answers etc.
To second cross-interrogatory, he answers, etc.
sétnswered, subscribed and sworn to before us, this — day of ——,
1 —.
E. F., Commissioner.
J . K., Witness. G. H., Commissioner. Seal.
And asubstantial compliance with the same shall be sufficient to let
the answers go to the jury, if legal, oniother rounds, and to give legal
sanction to the oath administered as aforesai .

§3892. (3835.) (3815.) Exceptimw, when taken. All exceptions to the
execution and return of commissions must be made in writing, and
notice thereof given to the opposite party before the case is submitted
to the jury : Provided, the same has been in the clerk's oﬁice for twenty
four hours prior to the trial. Depositions read on the ﬁrst trial shall
not be subject to formal exceptions on subsequent trial.

§3R93. Depositions may be taken in certain counties. [In all counties in
this State, where there is, or may be, a city of ten thousand inhabi
.tants and upwards, either party litigant in any Court of record in
any such county may, without any order or commission, take the
deposition of any witness or witnesses in said case, whether resident
Seal.
in the county or not, upon giving the opposite partv ﬁve days’ notice
of the time and place, with names of the witnesses] (a.)
Practice of oral examinations before commissioner : \Veeks Dep., @239 et seq.
§3894. Depositionaby whom taken. [Such depositions to be taken be-
fore any commissioner appointed bv the Judge of the Superior Court
of said county, for the purpose of taking such depositions, and the ap
pointment entered on the minutes] (b.)
§3895. Form of caption, certtﬁcate, etc. [The caption and certiﬁcate o
tthe return of such cases may be substantially as follows:
A. B.
vs. In the —— Court of i county, Georgia.
C. D. _
Depositions of i and Z, witness (or witnesses for the plaintiﬁ‘
-(or defendant,) in the above case, taken upon notice, eginnin on the
day of —-, 18-, at i, in the presence of the ainti and de
fendant, either or both, in person or by attorney, as t e case may be;
‘the said witness or witnesses, being ﬁrst duly sworn, deposed as fol
lows: (here stating each question, both direct and cross, with the answer
as delivered by the witness immediately after it, and concluding as
follows :) “The foregoing depositions were taken before me, as stated
in the caption, and the answer reduced to writing by me, or by the
witness in my presence, and l certify that I am not interested in the
cause, nor of kin or counsel to either of the parties,” and signed by
the commissioner.] (c.)
§3896. Motion-s and objections, how made and returned. [All motions or
applications to postpone or adjourn the proceedings, and all objections
to the witnesses or proceedings, shall be made to the commissioner, and
if in writing, ﬁled with the return, and if not in writing, noted in and
become part of the return, with the ruling of the commissioner thereon,
and the answer of the witnesses, whether the objection be sustained or
not. (d.)
§g897. Order and so e nf examination. [The order and scope of the ex-
amination shall be h in conformity to the rules of the Superior Court
governin the examination of witnesses in trials at law.] (e.)
§-3898. epositirms, how returned. [When the return shall have been
made up, and signed, as provided in the precedin sections, the same
shall be, together with evidence of the service of t e notice, sealed up
and directed to the clerk of the Court where the case is pending, and
may be delivered either by the commissioner to such clerk in person,
or sent by the hand of any other person; and the clerk is hereby au
thorized, whether the Court be in session or not, to administer the usual
oath, and enter the-same on the package, with leave to open, as prac
ticed in this State (as to interrogatories,) and the package may be
thereu n opened and published without further delay.] ( f.)
§-3898? Power and eea o commissioner. [The commissioner shall have
the same power an ant ority to summon witnesses, and compel their
attendance to testify before him, as are now conferred upon Justices of
the Peace in this State, to compel witnesses to a pear and testify in
Justices’ Courts; and the said commissioners shal receive from the
arty seeking the testimony of the witnesses examined before him, the
ollowing fees, to-wit: For the examination of each witness, two dol
lars; for certifyin and returning the testimony taken before him for
the plaintiff or efendant, in each case, ﬁfty cents ; for issuing each
sub na, twenty cents] (g.)
§ 900. C’ommissio'ner’s orders, how executed. [The attachments or orders,
or other process issued by said commissioners, for the purpose of com-“
pelling witnesses to appear and testify, shall be directed to, and may
be ]executed by, the Sheriﬂ, his deputy, or any constable of the coun
ty. ( h.)
§3901. ( 3836.) (3816.) Application and order. If any person desires to
perpetuate the testimony of a witness, in anticipation of 1itigati0n,,C\'c
not yet pending, and which it is not in his wer to commence, he may
make written application to the Judge oixthe Superior Court of the§
County where the witness resides, or, if a non-resident, where he may
be temporarily, stating the facts, the proof expected, and the parties
probably interested on the other side, accompanyin such application
with the written interrogatories to be propounde to the witness;
whereupon the Judge shall pass an order requiring some disinterested
attorney of the Court to act as commissioner and take such testimony,
providing in such order for the most eﬂectual notice to the opposite
parties, and for any cross-interrogatories which may be ﬁled.
§3902. (3837 .) (38l7.) Dtposition and ﬁling. Such commissioner, after
executing the commission 1n thesamemanner as in ordinary cases,‘
shall ﬁle the package with the Clerk of the Superior Court, with his
indorsement of the fact thereon, which package shall be safely kept,
until roduced by him for publication, under the order of the Court
3 3. (3838) (3818.) Application recorded. The application for the
or er, and the order, shall be entered on the minutes before delivery to
the commissioner for execution.
§3904. (3839.) (3819.) Eﬂectoftestimong/. Testimony thus taken shall
be used de bene ease if, at the time the litigation arises, no more satisfac
tory examination of the witness may be had.
G Wléetre it must appear by the record that the testimony was taken de bene ease : 15
a., 4 .
§3905. (3840) (3820) Fees. The Court granting the order shall pre-
scribe the fees to be paid to the commissioner.
§3906. (3841.) ($3821.) Qual1ficatio'ns of grand jurors. All male citizens
of this State, above the age of twenty-one years, and under the age
. . . . . . .
of sixty years, being neither idiots, lunatics, nor insane, who have re
sided in the county for six months precedin the time of serving, and
who are deemed [upright and intelligent} and experienced (a.) persons,
as hereinafter provided, are hereby dec ared qualiﬁed and liable to
serve as grand Jurors, unless exempted 'oy law.

§3910. (a.) Jury cmnmissioners. From and after the ﬁrst day of J unnary,
1880, there shall be a board of jury commissioners, com ed of
six discreet persons, who are not county oﬂicers, who shall ho d their
appointment for six years, and who shall be appointed by the Judge
of the Su erior Court. That on the ﬁrst appointment two shall be
alppointe for two years, two for four years, and two for six years, and
t eir successors shall be appointed for six years.
§3910. (b.) Oath and dut of commissioners. The commissioners shall
take the oath now require by law; and on the ﬁrst Monday in August,
or within thirt days thereafter, and bienniall thereafter, at the
same time they shal revise the 'ury lists, as rovi ed in this Article,
and shall receive two dollars eacli for every ay’s service in making
such revision, to be paid from the county treasury.
§3910. (0.) Clerk 0 the board. The Clerk of the Su erior Court shall
be the ‘clerk of the ard of commissioners, and shal perform all the
clerical duties now re uired by law to be performed, for which he shall
receive three dollars or each day’s service, to be paid from the county
treasur .
§391(i., (d. Grand and traverse -'uries,h0w selected. Commissionersin each
county in t is State, appointec by the presiding Jud e of the Superior‘
Court, and constituting the jury commissioners, sha 1 revise the jury
list, and shall select from the books of the tax receiver upright and
intelligent men to serve as jurors, and shall write the names of the
persons so selected on tickets, as required by law. It shall be the duty
of said jury commissioners to select from these a sufficient number,
not exceeding two-ﬁfths of the whole number, of the most experienced,
intelligent and upright men, to serve as grand jurors, and the jurors
left after such second selection shall constitute traverse jurors.
§3910. (e.) Jury b0:res,h0w made up. Said jury commissioners shall
place the tickets containing the names of grand jurors in a box to be
provided at the public expense, which box sha l contain apartments
marked number one and two, from which grand jurors shall be drawn
as now provided by law,,and said jury commissioners shall place the
tickets containing the names of travers jurors in a separate box, to-wit;
the jurv box now in use, or other similar box, from which traverse
jurors shall be drawn as now provided b law.
§3910. (f.) Book lists to be made, etc. T e Clerk of the Superior Court
shall make out in a book lists of the names respgctively contained in
the grand jury box and in _the traverse jury x, alp abeticall ar
ranged, and lace said book in his oﬂice, after the lists therein ave
been certiﬁe by the Ordinary, Clerk and Commissioners to contain,
respectively, all the names placed in said jur boxes.
§3910. ( .) Juries, how drawn, when Judgefai to draw. Whenever the
presiding gud e of the Superior Court shall fail to draw 'u1-ies at any
regular term o said Court, the jury commissioners may raw traverse
jurors at the same time, and in the same manner as grand jurors are
drawn in such cases under existing laws.
§3911. Grand jurors, how drawn. [The Judges of the Superior Courts
at the close of each term, in o en Court, shall unlock said box, and
break the seal, and cause to be rawn from apartment number “one,"
not less than eighteen, nor more than thirty names to serve as grand
jurors at the next term of the Court; all of which names, as well as
the names drawn to serve as petit jurors, as hereafter provided for,
shall be deposited in apartment number “tu"o;” and when all the
names shall have been drawn out of" apartment number “one,” then
the drawing shall commence from apartment number “two” and the
tickets be returned to number “one,” and so on alternately; and no
name, so deposited as aforesaid in said box, shall, on any pretense
whatever, be thrown out of said box, or destroyed, except when it is
satisfactorily shown to the J udgc that the juror is dead, removed out of
the county, or otherwise disqualiﬁed by law.] (d.)
§3911. (a.) Judge may order revision, when. On failure of conimissioners
of any county to revise the jury list as hereinbefore provided, the
Judge of the Superior Court of such county, either in term time or at
-chambers, shall order the revision made at such time as he may direct.
$3912. Grand jury, how drawn in vcwation. [Whenever from any cause
the Judge shall fail to draw a 'ury as rovided in the preceding section,
it shall be the duty of the Or inary 0 the county in which such failure
may have occurred, together with the commissioners and clerk of said
county, to meet at the Court House at least twenty days previous to the
next ensuing term of the Court, whether such term be a regular or ad
journed term, and then and there draw grand jurors to serve at that
term; all of which shall be duly entered by said clerk on the minutes
of the Court, and signed by the Ordinary.] (e.)
See: 57 Ga., 428-9.
§3913. Grand jurors, how summoned. [Within thirty days after said
jurors shall have been drawn by a Judge of the Superior Court, and
within ﬁve days after they may have been drawn by the Ordinary and
-commissioners, as provided in the preceding section, the Clerk of the
Superior Court shall issue and deliver to the Sheriff, or his deputy, a
precept containing the names of the persons drawn as grand jurors;
.and upon the receipt of said precept, the Sheriff, or his deputy, shall
~cause the persons whose names are therein written to be served per
sonally, or by leaving the summons at their most notorious places of
residence, at least ten da is prior to the term of the Court the jurors
were drawn to attendél (fl) -
§391-4. Number and uty of grand jurors. [A grand jury shall consist of
not less than eighteen nor more than twenty-three persons, and the‘
-duties of a grand jury shall be conﬁned to such matters and things
as gy the laws and statutes of this State a grand jury are required to
pe orm.

§39l5. (38-17.) (3827.) Oath of the grand jury. The following oath
shall be administered to the foreman of all grand juries, viz.: “ You,
as foreman of the grand jury for the county of , shall diligently
inquire and true presentments make of all such matters and things as
shall be given you in charge, or shall come to your knowledge, touch
ing the resent service; the State’s counsel, your fellows’ and your own,
you sha l kee secret, unless called upon to give evidence thereof in
-some Court o law in this State ; you shall present no one from envy,
hatred or malice, nor shall you leave any one unpresented from fear,
favor, affection, reward or the hope thereof, but you shall present all
things truly, and as they come to your knowledge. So help you God.”
And the same oath thus taken by the foreman shall be taken by each
and every member of any and all grand juries in this State.
§3916. (3848. (510-5.) Oath of bailzf to the grand jury. The following
oath shall be a ministered to all bailiffs attending grand 'uries, to-wit :
“You do solemnly swear that you will diligently attend t e grand jur
during the present term, and carefully deliver to that body all suc
bills of indictment, or other things, as shall be sent to them by the
Court, without alteration, and as carefully return all such as shall be
sent by that body to the Court. So help you God.”
§3917. ($3849.) (3828) When bound to notice ojfenses. Whilst rand ju
rors are bound only to notice or make presentments of such 0 enses as
may or shall come to their knowledge or observation after they shall
have been sworn, yet, they have the right and powers, and it is their
duty as jurors, to make presentments of any violation of the laws which
they may know to have been committed at any previous time, which
are not barred by the statute of limitations.
To present an oﬁlcer for malpractice in ofﬁce: 54 Ga., 654.
§3918. ($850.) (3829.) Foreman ‘may swear witnesses. The foreman of
each grand jury in this State may administer the oath prescribed by
law to all witnesses required to testify before such grand jury, and may
also examine such witnesses.
Section referred to and construed: 50 Ga., 587.
§3919. (3851.) ($3830.) Mistake of ma: receiver. Whenever it shall satis
factorily a pear to the rand jury of any county in this State that the
receiver 0 tax returns as committed an error in making an entry in
his digest, of either quantity or quality of property returned in such
digest, or in the amount of taxes assessed, such grand jury may recom
mend the Ordinary of their count ' and the Comptroller-General of the
Statedto cause such error (particularly specifying the same) to be cor
recte .
§3920. Q3852.) ($831.) Duties in relation to county ajfa-irs. In addition
to the duties of the grand jury, as indicated in the oath administered to
them, and as required by law, it shall be their special duty, from
term to term of the Superior Court, to inspect and examine the oﬂices,
papers, books, and records of the Clerks of the Superior Courts and Ordi
nary, and also the books, papers, records, accounts, and vouchers of the
countv treasurer, and cause any such clerk or county treasurer who
shall have failed or neglected to do his duty as required by law to be
presented for non-performance of oﬁicial duty.
§3921. Grand jury may appoint citizens to examine records, etc. [The
grand juries of the counties of this State shall be authorized and em
powered, when they deem it necessary, to appoint any one or more of
the citizens of the county to inspect and examine, durin vacation, the
oﬁices, papers, books, records, accounts and vouchers 0 the Court of
Ordinary, Court of Ordinary for county purposes, Clerk of the Superior
Court, and county treasury; and to make a full and com lete report of
the ﬁnances, disbursements, and condition of the severa oﬁices, to the
grand jury at the succeeding term of the Superior C0urt.] (a.) _
§3922. Power of the appointees. [The person or persons so 8PpOlIlt8d to
inspect and examme, shall have power to take full control 0 the oﬂices,
pa ers, books, records, accounts and vouchers of the several different
0 ces, to compel the attendance of witnesses, hear evidence in regard
to fraud, and the non-performance of ofﬁcial duty, and the improper
disbursement of the county funds] (b.)
§3923. Oﬂicers compelled to produce b0oks,‘etc. [In case of refusal of anv
one or more of the different officers to produce the pa ers, books, records,
accounts and vouchers, it shall be the duty of the udge of the Su
rior Court of the county, upon evidence being adduced, to enforce t e
provisions of this and the two sectians that precede it by mcmdalmus or
attachment, as the case may require] (0.)
§3924. (38»53.) (3832) Shall emnzine a list of the voters. It shall also
be the duty of the grand jury of the several counties in this State to
carefully examine the list of voters required by law to be laid before
them, and if there be found on such list any voter not entitled to vote
according to the provisions of this Code, to present such voter for such
violation of law.

§3925. Special juries may be selected. [The Judge may,_ in his discretion,
have special 'uries selected from the grand jury, 1n the man-18
ner prescribed in the ollowing section, for the purpose "of trying issues
in civil cases] (a.)
Section cited : 57 Ga., 325.
§3926. (3854.) (3833.) How selected and su'o'm. All special juries shall
be taken from the rand jury, and shall be stricken H1 the presence oft“,
the Court in the following manner: The clerk shall furnish a list ofc
the grand jurors present and then impannelled, from which the arties
or their attorneys may strike out one alternately, until there s all be
but twelve left, who shall be forthwith impannelled and sworn as
special jurors; in cases of ap eal by consent, the plaintiff shall strike
ﬁrst, and in all other cases t e appellant shall strlke ﬁrst, and should
either party fail or refuse to strike such special jury after being notiﬁed
or reqired so to do, the presiding Judge shall, 1n behalf of the party so
failing or refusing to strike, proceed in the same way and manner as if
the party failing or refusing were striking said special jury in person
or consenting to the same.

§3927. (38-55.) (3834.) The oath of a special jury. The following shall
be the oath of all special jurors, to-wit: “You shall well and truly try
each cause submitted to you during the present term, and a true ver-
dict give, according to the law as iven you in charge, and the opinion
you entertain of the evidence proc uced to you, to the best of your skill
and knowledge, without favor or affection to either party, provided
you are not discharged from the consideration of the case submitted.
So help you God.”
As to the oath : 11 Ga., 461. Section cited: 57 Ga., 325.
§3928. 3856.) (383-5%) No additional oath in divorce cases. No addi
tional oat shall herea ter be necessary in cases of divorce.
3929. (3857) (5106.) Oath of ba-ili s taking charge of petit juries. The
fol owing oath shall be administere to all bailiffs sworn to take charge
of special and etit juries in the Superior Courts of this State, to-wit:
“You shall ta e this jury, and all others committed to your charge
during the present term, to the jury room, or some other private and
convenient place, where you sha 1 keep them without meat, drink, or
ﬁre, candle-light and water only excepted (unless otherwise directed
by the Court). You shall not speak to them yourself, nor suffer others
to speak to them, unless it be by leave of the Court to ask them if they
have agreed on a verdict, or are likely to agree. All this you shall do
to the best of your skill and power. So help you God.”

§3930. ( 3858.) (3836.) Qualiﬁcations of petit jurors. [There shall be no
distinction between the classes of persons who compose grand and petit
jurors, and hence the qualiﬁcations of petit jiurors are the same as those
prescribed in section 3906 for grand jurors.


§3931. (3859.) (3837.) Petcit jurors, how selected, drawn and summoned.
[Petit jurors are selected in the manner and by the authority, and their
names are placed in a box, as provided in section 3910 (d.), and at the
same time, and in the same manner that grand juries are drawn, the
Judge shall draw out of the jury-box thirty-six names to serve as petit
jurors for the trial of civil and criminal cases, and such petit jurors are
summoned in the same manner as is provided in this Code for summoning
grand jurors] (a.)
§3932. Panels of petit jurors, how made. [The Judges of the Superior
Courts of this State, at each term, shall, from the petit 'urors, have (
made up two panels of twelve 'urors each, which shall be kno\\'n1*~‘4‘
and distinguished as panels num er one and number two; all equity
cases, collateral issues, and issuable leas, etc., in said Courts, shall be
tried by one or the other of said ane s : Provided, the parties can agree
upon a panel to tr the same. ut in the event the parties cannot
agree upon a pane , then it shall be the duty of the clerk to furnish
the arties or their attorneys with a list of both panels, from which
said ist the parties or their attorneys may strike alternately until
there shall be hut twelve left, which shall constitute the special jury
to try the case. In all cases the plaintiﬁ‘ shall have the ﬁrst strike]
(b.) Andin all civil cases and cases of misdemeanor hereafter tried in
the Superior Courts of this State, any party shall have the right to de- A
mand a full anel of twenty-four competent and im artial jurors from which
to stri ea jury, and where any one or more o the regular panel
of traverse jurors is absent, or, for any reason, disqualiﬁed, it shall be
the duty of the presiding Judge, at the request of counsel for any party,
to cause said panel to be ﬁlled up by the tales jurors to the full num-'
ber of twenty~four before requiring the parties, or their counsel, to
strike a jury in such cases.
Section referred to and construed: 63 Ga.. 463.
§3933. (3860) (3838. Oath of petit jurors. [Each panel of the petitrv
jury shall take the oat prescribed for special juries in section 3927 of
this Code} (e.)
'3934. arias, how made up to try misdemeanors. [On the trial of crin1i-
na offenses less than felonies, the solicitor and the accused may select
either panel of the petit jury to try the case; but in the event the so
licitor and the accused cannot agree u on a panel, then the Court shall
have a panel made up of the twenty- our petit 'urors in attendance, of
which the accused shall have the right to challenge seven perempto
rily, :El1.I1((ii the State ﬁve. The remaining twelve shall constitute the
'ur '. .)
J Jury to try felonzl/as, how made up. [When any person shall stand
in icted for any offense which upon conviction may subject him to the
punishment of death, or to imprisonment in the penitentiary, it shall
e the duty of the Court to have impannelled forty-eight jurors, t\ventyfour
of whom shall be taken from the two anels of petit jurors, from
which to select the jur for the trial of sue offense; and in the event
the jury cannot be ma e up of said panel of forty-ei ht, the Court shall
continue to furnish panels, consisting of such numier of jurors as the
Court in its discretion, may think proper, until a. jur is obtained:
Provided, nevertheless, that the Judge presiding in the tria of any crimi
nal case in this State may, when at any time the regular panels of
petit jurors, or either of them cannot be furnished, either to make up
panels of forty-eight for the trial of felonies, or panels of twenty-four
rom which to take juries in misdemeanors, because of the absence of
any of such anels, where said panels or any (part of them are engaged
in the consi eration of anv case, to cause sai panels, not full, for the
reasons aforesaid, to be ﬁlled by summoning such number of persons,
who are competent jurors, as may be necessary to make full the said
panels; and_such anels of twenty-four shall be used as the regular
panels of twenty-fidur are, under this and the preceding section.] (e.)
And whenever panels of forty-ei ht jurors, or successive panels of jurors
of any number, are required by aw to be made up for the trial of any
person charged with an‘ offense punishable by death, or imprisonment
in the penitentiary, the presiding Judge may in his discretion draw
the tales jurors from the jury-boxes of the county, and order the Sheriff
to summon the jurors so drawn, or he may order the Sheriff to summon
tales jurors as now provided by law. And tales jurors impaneled in
criminal cases shall be paid as other jurors for the time of actual ser
vice.

§3936. Juries to be drawn for each week of Court. [It shall be the duty
of the presiding Judge of the Superior Court in any county of this
State, when such Court is held for longer than one week, to draw sepa
rate panels of both grand and petit jurors for each week of such Supe
rior Court.] (a.)
Section referred to and construed: 51 Ga., 375.
3937. Tales jurors, when summoned. [When from challenge, or from
any other cause, there is not a suﬁicient number of persons in attend
to complete the panel of grand 'urors, or either panel of petit
jurors, the Court may order the Sheri , or his deputy, to summon ‘per
sons qualiﬁed as required in this Code, siiﬁicient to complete the panel;
and when the Sheriff or his deputy is disqualiﬁed to summon talesmen,
as aforesaid, they may be summoned by the coroner, or such other per
son as the Court may appoint.] (a.)
§3938. Delinquent juror-s, how dealt with. [If any person shall be drawn
as a juror and duly summoned to appear as such at Court, or if any
person shall be summoned as a tales juror and shall neglect or refuse to
a pear, or if any juror shall absent himself without leave of the Court,
tllien, and in that event, it shall be lawful for the Court to ﬁne such
person in a sum of not more than forty dollars, unless such delinquent
juror shall show good and sniﬁcient cause of excuse, to be made on oath,
and ﬁled in the clerk’s oﬁice of such Court within thirty days after the
opening of said Court; the merits of which excuse shall be determined by
t e next succeeding Court: Provided, that no citizen shall be compella
ble to serve on the grand or petit jury of the Superior Court, or on any
jury in other Courts exceeding four weeks in any year: Provided, no
citizen shall be allowed to serve on the petit jury of the Superior
Courts, or as tales juror in any criminal cause, or on any jury"in other
Courts, exceeding four weeks in an one year, unless actually engaged
upon the trial of a cause when sai four weeks expire, in which case
said 'uror shall be discharged as soon as the cause is decided.] (b.j
3g)39. 3865.) ($3845.) Persons exempt from jury duty. [All regu arly
licensed p ysicians and apothecarics who are actually engaged in thei
practice of their profession; and all ordained ministers of the gospel,
who are en aged in regularly discharging ministerial duties, are exempt
from jury uty. The following number of active ﬁremen from each
and every company in this State, including oﬁicers of said companies,
are exempt from any jury duty whatsoever, whether civil or criminal :
Engine companies, whether steam or hand, including hose, sixty mem-r
hers; independent hose companies, forty members hook and ladder
companies, ﬁfty members. The oﬂicers of each ﬁre department in this
State, not to exceed one chief, two assistant chiefs, one secretary and
one treasurer of any ﬁre brigade, or other organization into which the
ﬁre companies of any town or city may be aggregated, are also exempt
from jury duty. The exemption of ﬁremen as herein provided for shall
be made effectual in the following manner, to-wit: On the second
Wednesday in January in each and every year, the secretary of each
and every ﬁre company in this State shall re rt in writing to the
clerks of the various Courts of the county in whic his company exists,
the full names of the members, with that of the company to which they
belong, whom said company desires to have exempt fr om jury duty, as
active members of said organization, which mem ers shall be exempt
from jury duty; and in case of the death or resignation of any mem
-ber whose name is entered on the lists referred to, before the second
\Vednesday in January of the ensuing year, his place on said list may
be supplied by the name of any ﬁreman selected by the company, and
reported to the clerks of the various Courts by the secretary of said
company. The lists of ﬁremen exempted from jur duty, reported by
the secretaries of the respective companies to the c erks of the various
Courts, shall be posted in a conspicuous lace in the oflices of said
clerks. The rovisions of this section shal ap ly to all ﬁre companies
now organizec : Provided, that the total num er exem ted shall not
exceed the following, to-wit: In any town or city of ess than ten
thousand inahitants, two hundred; in towns or cities of not more than
ﬁfteen thousand nor less than ten thousand inhabitants, three hun
dred; in towns or cities of not more than twenty thousand nor less
than ﬁfteen thousand, four hundred; and in towns and cities of more
than twenty thousand inhabitants, six hundred: and provided, further,
that companies organized on or before the 5th of December, 1871, shall
be entitled to ﬁll up their companies to the full number allowed by this
section.] (c.)
The following persons are also exempt:
All clerks connected with the several State departments at the Capi
tal shall be exempt from jury duty.
All persons in this State, over the age of sixty years, shall be exempt
from service as jurors: Provided, this section shall not disqualify such
persons from serving as jurors when they are willing to serve.
All millers actually en aged in running any merchant or corn mill
which grinds for the pub ic shall be exempt from jury duty: Provided,
that no erson shall be entitled to the beneﬁts of this section who is
not regu arly employed as miller in a. mill which grinds for toll.
All telegraph o erators actually employed in sending and receiving
telegraph dis atciies shall be relieve , so long as they continue so en
gaged, from a lliability to jury duty in this State.
All locomotive engineers,and railroad conductors and station a ents,
actually employed in the service of any railroad company in this State,
shall be exempt from jury duty: Provided, they shall not be disqualiﬁed
'from being jurors by this section.
The certiﬁcate of the superintendent of the railroad in whose em
ployment the engineer may be, that he is actually on duty in the ser
vice of said road, shall be suiﬁcient evidence of such employment.
All ersons employed at the State Lunatic Asylum shall be exempt
from tilie performance of all jury, patrol, road, and militia duty, and from
all pains and penalties for the neglect thereof.
All ministers of the Gospel engaged regularly in discharging minis
terial duties, all physicians and a otliecarics in the practice of their
profession, school teachers engage in teaching school, millers and fer
rymen engaged in their occu ation, all railroad employees whom the
superintendent of a railroad s all certify to the Judge are necessarv
and are actually engaged in the work of running railroad trains, all
male persons over sixty years old, all telegraph operators, and oﬁicers
and members of each ﬁre company in this State to the number of twenty
ﬁve, doin active duty as ﬁremen, whose names shall be ﬁled in the
ofﬁce of t e Clerk of the Superior Court by the secretar of such coni
pany, on or before the ﬁrst day of January of each year, s all be exempt
rom all jury dut , civil and criminal ; but nothing herein contained
shall be construe to work a disqualiﬁcation of any of the classes herein
named-, or to exclude them from the jury-box.
All the dentists in the actual practice of their profession in this State,
be, and the same are hereby, exempted from jury duty : Provided, that
this exemption shall not operate to disqualify those dentists who may
desire to serve.
All regularl licensed pilots in this State, together with one boat-H
kee er for eac pilot boat actually en (aged in the regular management
of t eir boats, shall be exem t from a ljury duty; but nothing herein
contained shall be construe to work a disqualiﬁcation of any of the
class of citizens herein named, or exclude their names from the jury
box.
§3940. (3866.) ( 3846.) Compensation of jurors. Commencing with the
year 1879, and then for every year thereafter, it shall be the duty of
the ﬁrst grand jury empaneled at the fall term of the Superior Courts
of the several counties of this State, to ﬁx the compensation of jurors
and Court bailiffs in the Superior Courts of such county for the next
succeeding year, such compensation not to exceed the sum of two dollars
per diem. And all laws, whether eneral or local, in conﬂict with the
provisions of this section be, and t e same are hereby, repealed.
The provisions of this section shall be given in charge by the Judges
of the several Superior Courts to the ﬁrst grand jury empaneled at the
fall terms of said Courts each ear.

§394l. (3864.) (384-4.) Jury 2;, bow supplied when destroyed. When
from any cause the jury list and jury-box, or either, shall, in any
county in this State, be lost or destroyed between the time of drawing
juries and the beginning of the term for which such drawing was
made, or before the service of the precepts on the persons named therein,
it shall be the duty of the Judge of the Circuit in which such loss or
destruction occurs, immediately on being informed thereof, to issue an
order to the jury commissioners of the county, to meet at the county
site and prepare a list of citizens eligible to serve as jurors under the
Constitution of this State, which list shall contain the names of not less
than two-thirds of the “upright and intelligent” citizens of the colinty;
and from this list they shall select a suﬁicient number, not exceeding
two-ﬁfths of the whole, taking for this purpose the names of the most
upright, intelligent and experienced citizens, and from the list so se
lected shall at once proceed to draw thirty names of persons to serve as
grand 'urors at the next term of the Court; and from the remaining
three-fifths of the names on such list shall then proceed to draw, in the
same manner, not less than thirty-six to serve as traverse jurors at the
next term of the Court; and when such drawings have been completed
the commissioners shall immediately make out and deliver to the
Clerk of the Superior Court correct lists of the grand and traverse ju
rors so drawn, and the clerk shall at once deliver to the Sheriﬂ, or to
the coroner in case the Slieriﬂ‘ be disqualiﬁed, proper precepts con
taining the names of persons drawn to serve as grand and traverse
jurors, respectively, to be served rsonally, as required by law; and
the persons so drawn and served s all, if otherwise eligible, be compe
tent to serve as jurors during the term for which they were drawn,
without regard to the time of the preparation of the list, the drawing
of the jurors or the date of the service of the oenire on the persons
whose names are contained therein.
§3941. (a.) Precept, when lost or destroyed, how supplied. In case the
recepts containing the names of the grand and traverse jurors drawn
or any term of the Superior Court, or either of such prece ts, shall be
lost or destroyed before the persons named in them, or eitlier of them,
shall have been served, and and there shall be no record or official list
of the names contained in the original precept so lost or destroyed, it
shall be the duty of the jury commissioners of the county to meet im
mediately on being informed of such loss or destruction, and to draw
and deliver to the Clerk of the Su erior Court, as now provided by law
lists of the 'urors so drawn, and t e clerk shall forthwith pre are an
deliver to t e proper oﬂicer new recepts, to be served persona ly; and
the persons so drawn, listed and) served shall, if otherwise competent
under the Constitution of this State, be competent and compellable to
serve as jurors for the term for which they were drawn, without regard
to the date of the drawing and delivery of the lists to the clerk, or the
date of the issuing or service of the precepts.
§3941. (b.) Judge may adjourn Court, and have jurors drawn, when. If
from any cause juries shall not have been drawn for any regular term
of the Superior Court, and there is not time sufficient for drawing and
summoning jurors to serve at such regular term, the Judge of the Supe
rior Coiirt for the county in which such failure or omission to draw
and summons jurors has occurred, may, by order passed at chambers,
adjourn such Court to another day, and require the requisite number
of grand and traverse jurors to be summoned, and may enforce their
attendance at such adjourned term.
Section (3865.) Superseded by the new law of this Chapter.]
3942. Juries in ecial e1nergenc'£es. [Whenever the session of any
Court of record in t is State shall be rolonged beyond the week or pe
riod for which 'uries were drawn at t e close of the preceding term, as
by law provide , or the Judge anticipates that the same is about to be
so prolonged, or from any other cause such Court has convened, or is
about to convene, and there have been no juries drawn for the same,it
shall and may be lawful for such Judge to draw juries, so many as ma '
be necessary for such Court, and cause them to be summoned acco -
ingly, in the manner rescribed for drawing juries at the close of the
regular terms of such Courts respectively.] (b.)
Section referred to and construed : 57 Ga., 431. .
§3943. (3866.) ($3846.) Grand jury may recom.nu>nd an ezvtru. tax. Upon
the recommendation of the grand jury, the Ordinaries of the several
counties in this State may assess and raise a tax for the com ensation
'of grand and petit jurors—the jury and confession fees pai into the
county treasury being, in such case, a part of the fund for that purpose;
and when such tax is raised,the Clerk of the Superior Court shall issue
to the jurors, whose compensation is provided for as aforesaid, a certiﬁ
cate, which shall be deemed and held a warrant on the county treasury
for the amount of the money due such juror, according to the diem
pay ﬁxed b Ythe Ordinary, and the County Treasurer shall pay t e same
out of the und so raised by taxation as aforesaid, and the tax collector
shall collect the tax and pay it over as county tax.
On this law: 34 Ga., 370. i
§3944. (3867. (3847.) Oath Qf the jury in claim cases. The following
oath shall be a ministered to all juries impaneled to tr claim cases,
whether at common law or on the appeal, to-wit : “ In a dition to the
oath you have already taken, you do further swear that you will give
such damages, not less than ten per cent, as may seem reasonable and
just to the plaintiff against the claimant in case it shall be suﬁiciently
E§1(:iW;’I1 to you that such claim was made for delay only. So help you

§3915. (3868.) C3848.) On failure of the Court. Whenever there shall
be a failure of the Superior Court, in consequence of the non-attend
ance of the Judge, or other cause, the jurors summoned for such Court
shall stand over to the next succeeding term, in the same manner as
suitors and witnesses do.

§3946. (3870.) (3850.) May be ﬁned or contem t. If any jury shall
commit a contempt of Court, or shall reak up efore giving in their
verdict in any civil case, without leave of the Court, the Court may de
clare a mistrial in the case, and shall ﬁne each of the offending jurors
in a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars.

§3917. (3871.) (3851.) May have refreahnwnts. When an ' jury is con
ﬁned in the investigation of a case for a length of time, which exposes
them to hunger and cold, the Court may, on a plication from such jury,
‘direct them to be furnished with such refres ments as the residin
Judge may deem meet and proper ; and the said Judge shall ave fu
power to draw his warrant on the County Treasurer of the count
where the investigation is had for the payment of the same, whic
the said treasurer shall pay out of any funds on hand. The Judge may
also allow the jury ﬁre, if the circumstances require it.

§3948. (3872) (3852) Qﬁ'i<rers of Court liable orauits, etc. All Sheriffs,
under Sheriffs, coroners, jailers and constab es, and other oﬁicers of
Court. shall be liable to all actions, suits, and disabilities whatever,
which they, or either of them, may or shall incur for or on account of
the escape of prisoners, or for or in respect of any other matter or thing
whatever relating to or concerning their respective oiiices.
§3949. (3873.) (3853.') Liability of Sheriffs. The Sheriffs of this State
shall be liable to an action on the case, or an attachment for contempt
of Court, at the option of the party, whenever it appears that such
Sheriffs have injured such party, either by a false return, or b neglect
ing to arrest a defendant, or to levy on the property of the efendant,
or to pay over to the plaintiff, or his attorney, any moneys collected by
such Sheriﬂs by virtue of any fi. fa. or other legal process, or to make
a proper return of any writ, execution, or other process put into the
hands of such Sheriff. 


§3950. (3874) (3854.) Money collected by qﬁicers may be demanded, etc.
If any Sheriff, coroner, Justice of the Peace, constable, Clerk of the
Superior Court, or attorne at law, shall fail, upon application, to pay
to the pro er erson, or is attornev, any money t ey may have in
their han s, w ich they may have collected by virtue of their oﬁice,
the party entitled thereto, or his attorney, may serve said officer with
a written demand for the same, and if not then paid, for such neglect
or refusal the said oﬁicer shall be compelled to ay at the rate of twenty
per cent." per annum upon the sum he has in is hands, from the date
of such demand, unless good cause be shown to the contrary.

§3931. (3875.) ( 3855.) Service of demand, how proved. A copy of said
demand produced in Court, veriﬁed by affidavit, stating when and where
the original was served upon the oﬂicer, shall be primafacie evidence
of the date and service thereof.
§3952. (3876.) (3856) Oﬁicers may be ruled aﬂer going out of
o e.
Sheriffs, deputy Sheriffs, coroners, Clerks of the Superior Courts, {fias
tices of the Peace, and constables, shall at any and all times be subject
to the rule and order of the Courts after they have retired from their
respective offices, in such cases and in like manner as they would have
been had they remained in ofﬁce.

§3953. (3877.) (3857.) Rules nisi against oﬂicers. The Judges of the
Superior Court, Ordinarics, and Justices of the Peace, respectively, upon
application, may grant rules niai against ll officers subject thereto, in
vacation, or in term time, which rule isi shall contain a full state
ment of the case in which the oiﬁcer 1S called upon to show cause, and
also the time and plaice of hearing, and, 1f granted in vacatlon, the
ofﬁcer called on shall be served with a. copy thereof before the sitting
of the Court to which it is made returnable, and if granted in term
time, such service shall be perfected before the case is called for hearing.

§3954. (3878.) (38~58.) Answer to rule nisi, and subsequent proceedings.
The ofﬁcer called on by rule mlsi, as (provided in the preceding section,
shall fully respond in writing to sai rule, which answer shall be under
oath, taken at the time the answer is ﬁled; and if the answer is not
denied, the rule shall be discharged, or made absolute, according as
the Court may deem the answer sufficient or not. The movant of the
rule, however, may traverse the truth of such answer, in which case an
issue sh-all be inade up and tried by a jury at the same term, unless
good cause of continuance be shown, which may be done once only by
either party. Upon the trial of such issue the Court shall discharge
the rule, or make the same a.bsolute,according as the verdict of the jury
may be for or against the oﬂicer.

§3955. (3879.) ( 3859.) When oﬂicer may be ruled without notlre. If a
Sheriff, or other oﬂicer, shall designedly absent himself from his Court,
the presiding Judge or Justices, in all such instances, when required by
plaintiffs in execution, or their attorneys, shall grant a rule absolute
against such Sheriff, without the notice aforesaid,unless it is proven at
such term of the Court that the said Sheriif, from sickness, is not able
to attend said Court.
§3956. (3880) (3860.) I/icn of rule absolute. When a rule absolute has
been obtained against any officer for the payment of money, as provided
in this Chapter, such rule shall have the same lien upon the property,
both real and personal, of such officer as an ordinary judgment at law,
and if not punctually paid, such demand shall thereafter draw an in
terest at the rate of twenty per cent. per annum, and the plaintiff may
have either an attachment or an execution issued from said rule abso
lute, and may have either of said processes returned, and the other
issued at pleasure.

§3956. (3881) (3861) Df 1» f pa , h p bed If y Sh if,
or coroner, shall fail to make a proper return of all writs, execut1ons
and other processes put into his hands, or shall fail to (pay over all
moneys received on such executions, on his being require so to do by
the Court, he shall be liable to an action as for contempt, and _may be
ﬁned, imprisoned, or removed from office, in the manner prescribed by
the Constitution and laws.

§3958. (3882) 3862.) Delinquent attorney to be str"lclcenfrom the roll. If
any attorney shal retain in his hands any money received by him for
any client, after being ordered by the Court to pay over the same to the
principal, he shall be stricken from the list of attorneys.

§3959. (3883.) (3863) Deputy Sherqfs subject to rule, etc. All deputy
Sheriffs shall be liable to be ruled and attached in the same way and
manner as Sheriffs; but the liability of the Sheriffshall not be affected
py any such proceeding against his deputy, when the same is not ef
ective.

§3960. (-3884.) (3864) Rule against Sherry and deputy, by whom served.
Whenever the Sheriff, or his deputy, is a art to said rule or interested
therein, and there be no coroner or othcrliaw ul oﬂicer of said county to
execute the same, it shall be the duty of the Judge, or Justice, of said
Court to appoint pro tem' ore a special oﬁicer to carry out and effectuate
the order of said Court, w ich said ofﬁcer, so appointed, shall be allowed
the usual fees of Sheriffs for like service.

§3961. $3885.) (3865) Justices of the Peace and constables, where ruled.
J usticeso the Peace and constables shall be so far considered ofﬁcers of
the Superior Court, as to be sub'ect to be ruled under similar regula-0
tions as are herein provided in relation to any other ofﬁcer of said Court,
and shall be sub'ect to all the pains and enalties as are herein pro
vided, in case o a rule absolute against S eriffs and other officers of
said Court, when they, or either of them, shall refuse or neglect to col
lect or to pay over any money which they may have received or collec
ted in their ofﬁcial capacity.
§3962. (3886.) (3866.) Foreclosure of mortgage on realty. Mortgages on
real estate in Georgia shall be foreclosed in the following manner, to-
wit: Any erson applying and entitled to foreclose such mortgage shall
by himsel or his attorney, petition to the Superior Court of the county
wherein the mortgaged property may be, which petition shall contain
a statement of the case, the amount of the petitioner’s demand, and a
description of the proplerty mortgaged ; whereupon the Court shall
rant a rule directing t e princi al, interests and costs to be paid into
Court on or before the ﬁrst day o the next term immcdiatel succeed
in the one at which such rule is granted; which rule shal be pub
Yslied once a month for four months, or served on the mortgager, or his
special agent or attorney. at least three months previous to the time at
which the money is directed to be paid into Court, as aforesaid: Provided,
that where the land covered by a mortgage consists of a single tract of
land divided b a county line or county lines, such mortgage may be
foreclosed on t e entire tract in either of the counties in which part of
it lies: Provided, further, if the mortgagor resides upon the land, the
mortgage shall be foreclosed in the county of his residence.
§3963. (3887) ($3867.) By representative of deceased mortgagee. If the
person entitled to forec ose the mortgage on real estate be dead, the ap
plication and proceeding to foreclose may be made and prosecuted by
is executor or administra.tor.

§3964. (388-8.) (3868) Defense against foreclosure of mortgage On. realty.
When a rule nisi to foreclose a mortgage on real estate has been granted,
and the same has been published or served, as hereinbefore required,
the mortgagor, or his special agent or attorney, may ap ear at the term
of the Court at which the mone is directed to be pait , and ﬁle his ob
'ections to the foreclosure of suc mortgage, and may set up and avail
imself of any defense which he might lawfully set up in an ordinary
suit instituted on the debt or demand secured by such mortgage, and
which goes to show that the applicant is not entitled to the foreclosure
sought, or that the amount claimed is not due: Provided, that the facts
of such defense are veriﬁed by the affidavit of such mortgagor, or special
agent, or attorney, at the time of ﬁling the same.

§3965. (3889) ($3869.) Third persons cannot defend. If the mortgagor,
or his special agent, or attorney, fail to set up the defense provided for
in the preceding section, it is not competent for any third person to
interpose ; neither will the Court itself, of its own motion, do so.
§3966. (3890) (3870. Proceedings to foreclose when mortgager dead.
When the mortgagor is cad, the proceedings to foreclose the mortgage
on real estate may be instituted against his executor or administrator.

§3967. (3891.) (3871.) Issue, how tried. When proceedings to fore
close a mortgage are instituted, and a defense is set u thereto, as here
inbefore provi ed, the issue shall be submitted toan tried by aspecial
Jllfy.
§3968. (3892) (3872.) Judgment and sale of mortgaged pr y. \Vhen
the mortgagor, after being directed so to do, fails to pay t e principal,
interest an cost, as hereinbefore required, and also fails to set u and
sustain his defense a ainst the foreclosure of the mortgage, the ourt
shall give judgment or the amount which may be due on such mort
gage, and shall order the mortgaged property to be sold in the manner
and under the same regulations which govern Sheriff ’s sales under ex
ecution. '[And the provisions of section 3979 of this Code shall apply
as well to mortgages upon real property as to mortgages upon personal
property.] (a.)
§3968. (a.) Foreclosure by building and loan associations, how made. N0
of foreclosure shall be given in favor of any building and
loan association, upon any mortgage executed to them, unless they
shall have served u on the mortgagor, at least thirty days before the
Court at which such) judgment shall be taken, a complete statement of
the amount for which they claim judgment, fully setting out the
amount claimed for principal, interest and ﬁnes, or penalties; and also
setting out the credit allowed for stock transferred to them as collateral,
and any other credit to which the mortgager may be entitled.

§3969. (3893) (3873.) Disposition oé ])T0iI1€€dt8. The I(!il0T1:IY arisipg
roug o sa e un er ie regu a
tions hereinbefore prescribed, shall be paid to the person foreclosing
the mort age, unless claimed by some other lien in the hands of the
ofiicer, w ich in law has priority of payment over the mortgage; and
and when there shall be any surplus after paying off such mortgage,
or other liens, the same shal be paid to the mortgagor, or his agent.

§3970. (3894.) (3874.) When proceeds may be retained by the Chart. If
the mortgage is given to secure a debt due by installments,and is fore
closed before any one of the installments falls due,and there isa surplus
of funds, as above stated, the Court may retain the funds, or order the
same invested to meet the installments still unpaid.
§3971. ( 3895.) (3875.) Mortgmes on persomlty, how foreclosed. [Mort-
gages on personal property shal be foreclosed in the following manner,to-wit: Any person holding mort age on personal ro erty, and wish-
ing to foreclose the same, shall, eit er in person, or by his agent, or at-
torney in fact, or at law, go before some officer of this State who is authorized
by law to administer oaths, or a commissioner for this State residing
in some other State, and make aﬂiclavit of the amount of principal and
interest due on such mortgage, which affidavit shall be annexed to such
mortgage, and when such mort age with such aﬂidavit annexed thereto
shall be ﬁled in the ofﬁce of t e Clerk of the Superior Court of the
count wherein the mortgagor resides at the date of the foreclosure, if
a resi ent of this State, or where he resided at the date of the mortgage
if not a resident of this State, it shall be the dut of such clerk to issue
an execution directed to all and singular, the S criifs and coroners of
this State, commanding the sale of the mortgaged property to satisfy
the principal and interest, together with the costs of the proceedings
to foreclose the said mortgage. 

§3972. 3897.) ($3876.) Levy and sale of roperty. \Vhen the execution
mentione in the preceding section shal be delivered tothe Sheriff or
coroner, as the case may be, it shall be his duty to lev on the mort-
gaged property wheresover the same may be found, an after advertismg
the same in one or more public gazettes of this State weekl ' for
four weeks before the day of sale, the said Sheriff, or coroner, shal put
up and expose said property to sale at the time and place and in same
manner as govern in case of Sheriﬂ"s sales.
§3973 (3897.) (3877.) Mortgageﬁ. fa. may claim money, when. If other
ﬁ. fas are levied on the mortgaged property, and the same is sold after
an advertisement of only thirty‘ days, the mortgage fi. fa. may, never
theless, claim the proceeds of t e sale if its lien is superior.
§3974. (3898) ( 878.) Mortgaged property, when sold without foreclosure.
If a mortgage on realty or ersonalty 1s not foreclosed, and the equity
of redemption is levied on y other fi. fas, by consent of the mortgager
and mortgagee, and the plaintiff in the ji. fa. levied, the entire estate
may be sold, and the mortgagee claim under his lien, in the same man
ner as if his mortgage was foreclosed.

§3974. (a.) Foreclosure before Justice of the Peace. b Any person having
mortga e on personal roperty to secure a de t not exceeding one
hundred dollars principal: and desiring to foreclose the same, mayd1im
self, his agent, or attorne , make aﬁidavit of the amount otf; principal
and interest due on suc _mortga e which aﬁidavit shall e annexed
to such mortga e-A; and when suc ’mortgage, with such aﬁidavit an
nexed thereto, s all be ﬁled with any Justice of the Peace, or Notary
Public, who is exoﬂieio Justice of the Peace in the county where the
mortgagor resides, if a resident of this State, or, not a resident of
this State then in the county where such mortgage property may be
it shall be, the duty of such magistrate to issue an execution, directed
to all and singular the constables of this State, commanding the sale '
of the mortgaged property to satisfy the principal and interest, to
gether with the costs of the proceedings to foreclose said mortgage.
§3974. b.) Levy and sale of mortgaged ﬁaroperty. When the execution
mentione in the preceding section s al be delivered to a constable,
it shall be his duty to levy on the mortgaged property wherever it may
be found, and after advertising the same, giving full description of the
property to be sold, and the process under which he is proceeding, by
written advertisement at three or more public places in the district in
which the property may be found, for thirty days next preceding such
sale, he shall put up and ex ose to sale said pro erty as herein pro
vided: Provided such sale shal be had within the e al hours of sale
on a regular Court day, and at the usual place 0 holding Justice
Courts for said district; the said constable shall put up and expose
said property to sale at the time and place, and in t c same manner as
now govern at constable’s sales.
§39T4. (10.3 Defenses by mortgager. Such mortgager may avail him
self of any efense he may have to such foreclosure, in the same man
ner and upon the‘ same conditions as now allowed by law in case of
foreclosure of chattel mortgages in the Superior Courts; and when
ever any such defense is ﬁled by such mortgager, the magistrate issu
ing such execution shall have power and jurisdiction to hear and de
termine the issues made thereon as in other cases at law.
§3974. (d.) Mortgager to have notice. It shall be the duty of the Jus
tice of the Peace, or Notary Public, with whom the aﬂidavit and mort
gage mentioned in section 3974 (a.) are ﬁled, to give notice to the
mortgage!‘ of said proceedings at the time of issuing execution as pro
vided in said section.
$3974. (e.) lrs of Ju.~tire and constables. In all foreclosures of chat
tle mortgages before Justices of the Peace, as rovided b the four re
ceding sections, the fees of the Justice in eac 1 case shal be one do lar
for the entire proceeding, whether litigated or not; and the fees of the
constable in each case shall be the same as in proceedings with a com
mon law _ﬁ. fa.
§3975. Q3899.) 3879.) Aﬁdavit of illegality to vrwrtgage fi. fa. \Vhen
an execution shal issue u n the foreclosure of a mortgage on personal C
property, as hereinbefore irected, the mortgager, or his special agent,
may ﬁle his aﬂidavit of illegality to such execution, in which affida
vit he may set up and avail himself of any defense which he might
have set u , according to law, in an ordinary suit u on the demand se
cured by t e mortgage, and which goes to show that t e amount claimed
is not due.

legality shall be ﬁled, as in the preceding section rovided for, and
the rnortgager, or his special agent or attorney, shal give bond, with
good and suﬂicient security, in double the amount of such execution,
conditioned for the return of the property when called for by the levy
ing oﬂicer, which bond shall be made payable to the plaintiff, who
may sue thereon for condition broken, the levying ofﬁcer shall post
pone the sale of said property, and return all the proceedings and papers
in the case to the Court from which the execution issued, when the
issue shall be tried as other cases of illegality; and the jur shall be
sworn to give at least twenty-ﬁve er cent. damages to the plraintiff on
the rincipal sum, in case it shallpappear that the aﬁidavit was made
for elay only, and where the mortgager is unable from poverty to ive
the required bond and security, and will make affidavit of the act,
stating also in said aflidavit that he has been advised and believes that
his grounds of illegality will be sustained, such aﬁidavit shall be ac
cepted by the levying ofﬁcer in lieu of the bond and security hereinbe
fore provided for, but the property shall remain in the hands of the
levying officer, unless sold under special order of Court, under section
3648 of this Code. . '
Section referred to and construed: 47 Ga., 646, 650. When aﬁidavit of illegality to
mortgagejtlfa. prepared for return to Court: 61 Ga., 391.
§3977. ($3901.) (3881.) Sale of mortgaged roperlg and disposition 0fproweds.
If the mortgaver fails to set up an sustain his defense as here-
inbefore authorized, tche mortgaged property shall be sold, and the pro
ceeds of the sale shall be ap lied to the 'udgment of said mortgage
execution, unless such procee s are claimed by some other lien in the
hands of the oflicer, entitled in law to priority of payment; and if,
after the satisfaction of such _ﬁ.fa. or other lien, there may be any sur
plus, the same shall be paid to the mortgager or his agent.
As to disposition of proceeds of sale of mortgage property: 57 Ga., 55.
§3978. ($5902.) (3882.) Rqresenlaﬂve of deceased mortgagee may foreclose.
When the holder of a mortga e on personal property is dead, the atti
davit and proceedings to forec ose may be made and rosecuted by his
executor or administrator; and if the mortgager be dead, his legal re
presentative may set up the same defenses which he could do if livin .
§39T9. ($3903.) (3883.) How third erson ma contest mortgage lien.
any creditor of the mortgagor, whet er his de t be in judgment or not,
desires to contest the validity or fairness of the mortgage lien or debt,
he may make an afﬁdavit of the grounds upon which he relies to defeat
such mort age, and upon ﬁling the same with the levying oﬁicer, to
gether wit a bond and good security, payable to the mort agee, and
conditioned to pay all costs and damages incurred by the de ay, if the
issue be found against the contestant, it shall be the duty of such ofﬁcer
to return the same to the Court to which the mortgage _ﬁ. fa. is made
returnable, to be tried iu the manner prescribed above for an aﬂidavit
of illegality by the mortgagor.
Third person could not ordinarily contest unless made a party by 'udgment of the
Court: 3 Ga., 1-74. In'unction refused if any adequate remedy un er this section:
49 Ga., 45. Section re erred to and construed: 60 Ga., 396-8.
§3979. (a.) Foreclosure inequity. The holder of anv mortgage of real
personal property, or both, whether as original mortgagee or as
executor, administrator or assignee of the original mortgagee, shall be
at liberty to foreclose such mortgage in equity according to the practice
of Courts of equity, as well as by the methods prescribed in the Code.
§3980. (3904.) 3§84.) _O_ﬁce papers may beestablis_hed_i'rwtanter. ‘Upon
the loss of any original bill in equity, answer, replication, declaration,
plea, bill of indictment, special presentment, or other ofiice paper, a
copy may be established instanter on motion.

§3981. (3905.) (3885.% Papers sued on are Qﬁice papers, when. The in
strument sued on sha l be deemed an office ‘pa er, after the case of
which it is the foundation has gone to the appea .

§3982. (3906.) (3886.) How other papers are established. The owner ofa aper, (other than an oﬂice paper, and which cannot be sued on and
co lected in aJustice’s Court,) lost or destroyed, desiring to establish
the same, shall present to the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county
where the maker of the paper resides, if a resident of this State, a peti
tion in writing, together with a copy, in substance, of the paper lost
or destroyed, as near as he can recollect, which copy shall be sworn to
by the petitioner, his agent, or attorney; whereupon the clerk shall
issue a rule m'ei in the name of the Judge of the Superior Court, calling
upon the opposite party to show cause, if any he has, why the copy
sworn to should not be established in lieu of the lost or destroyed origi
nal; which rule shall be served by the Sheriff, his de uty or any con
stable of this State, personally, upon the party, if to e found in this
State, twenty days before the sitting of the Court to which the rule nisi
is made returnable; and if the party cannot be found in this State,
then the. rule shall be published in some public gazette of this State
for the space of three months before the ﬁnal hearing of the rule.

§3983. (3907.) (3887.) Continuance, when granted. In a_ proceeding to
establish lost pa ers under the provisions of the preceding section, no
continuance sha l be granted, unless it appear reasonable and just to
the Court; nor shall a continuance be allowed to the same party more
than once, except for providential cause.

§3984. (-3908.) ($3888.) Rule absolute. When the rule nisi has been
duly served as hereinbefore provided, the Court shall grant a rule abso
lute establishing the copy of the lost or destroyed paper sworn to, unless
good and sufﬁcient cause be shown why such rule absolute should not
be granted.
(3909) (3889.) Certiﬁed indorsement of copy. When the cop
is established, the clerk of the Court in which it is done shall furnish
the copy to the iarty who had it established, with a certiﬁed indors£~
ment thereon o the day and term of the Court when the rule absolute
was granted: Provided, all costs of the proceeding are paid.
§3986. (3910.) (3890) Suit on lost paper. If the paper lost or des
troyedbe a note, bill, bond, or other mstrument u n which suit may
be brought, the owner thereof may institute suit t ereon so soon as the
rule nisi has been issued, as hereinbefore provided for, and it shall be
set forth in the declaration that the paper sued on is lost or destroyed
and in no case shall there be a judgment had in such suit until it shall
be determined whether the application to establish the paper be granted
or not; and if granted, then judgment shall be had as in other cases.

§3987. ($911.) (3891) O3/er of lost paper shall not be demanded. In a
suit, such as provided for in the preceding section, oyer of the paper
sued on shall not be demanded until at the time of the rendition of
judgment in such suit; and then if the plaintiif produce a copy of the
paper, with a certiﬁed indorsement thereon by the clerk of the Court
1n which it was established, as hereinbefore directed, it shall be taken
and considered as the original.
§3988. (3912.) (3892.) When execution is lost, alias may issue. W'hen
any execution which shall have been regularly issued from the Su
rior Courts of this State shall be lost or destroyed, the Judge of t e
Court from which the same issued may at any time, either in open
Court or vacation, upon pro er application being made and the facts
proven by the arﬂidavit of t e a up icant, his a ent or his attorney, or
any other satisfactory proo , grant an or er for the issuing of an
aiias execution in lieu of the lost original execution.
§3989. (39l3.) (3893) Papers belonging to suits may be established. \Vhen
any bond, bill, note or other evidence of debt, or any summons exccu-'
tion, or any other paper belonging or appertaining to anv suit dr other
proceeding in an J ustice’s Court of this State, shall be lost, destroyed
gr mislaid froén te har;_d}s_of iél-118 J usticbel _oil'1tl_1e Peace. such usticte,tmay,
y reason an v1r ue 0 iso ce, es a IS mstanler a copy ]l'l su s ance
of such paper in lieu of the original so lost; and if any such paper be
lost, destroyed or inislaid from the hands of any erson other than the
Justice of the Peace, the party, plaintiff or defen ant, or any one inter
ested, wishing to use such lost paper, shall be permitted to establish
and use in lieu of the original a substantial copy of the same, by mak
ing aﬁidavit of the loss 0 the original, and that the copy proposed to
be used is a copy in substance of the lost original._ 

§3990. (39l4.) (3894) Other papers, how established. The owner of a
lost paper, which may, according to law, be sued on and collected in a
Just1ce’s Court, who wishes to establish the same, may present to one
of the Justices of the Peace of the district in which the maker resides,
ifa resident of this State, a copy in substance of the paper lost, as
nearly as he can recollect, which copy shall be sworn to by the a pli
cant, his agent or attorney, or be roved by other evidence; w ere
upon such Justice f the Peace shali)issue a rule nlsi, calling upon the
opposite party to s ow cause, if any he has, why the co y should not
be established in lieu of the‘ original, so lost or destroyed); which rule
shall be served u on the party personally, if t) be found, ten days be
fore the sitting 0 the Court to which he is called upon to show cause,
by any constable of the State; and if the party is not to be found, then
the rule may be published in a. ublic azette of this State for one
month before the ﬁnal hearing o the ru e, and if no sufficient cause
be shown, the Justice shall give judgment establishing the copy in
lieu of the original, so lost or destroyed, and the copy so established
shall be certiﬁed to by the Justice of the Court in which it was estab
lished, and shall have all the force and effect of the original.
§3991. (3915.) (389-5.) Alias executions from Justices’ Courts. Execu
tions issued from the Justices’ Courts of this State, when lost or de
stroyed, ma be supplied by an alias execution, to be issued by the
Justice of the Peace under the same rules and regulations as those
which prevail in the SuperiorCourt on the subject of issuing alias exe
cutions.

§3990. (3916) Who may be party. [In all cases pending on the 15th
December, 1866, or commenced after that time, for the purpose of estab-1
lishing any lost or destroyed paper (other than an office paper), ar y
person whose interest is to be affected by the establishing of such lost
apers shall, upon motion, by order of the Court, be made a party
defendant to such proceeding, and be allowed all the rights of defense
against the saine as fully as if he was the maker of said lost paper.] 

§3995. (a.) Summary establishment, how made. The owner,or agent of said
owner, or legal representative of the owner of an Y bond, bill, note, draft,
check, or other evidence of indebtedness whie has been lost or de
stroyed, may establish a copy of the same in the following summar
manner: Said owner, agent, or representative shall ﬁle a petition wit
the Ordinary of the county of the residence of the alleged debtor, or
maker, if he is a resident of this State (said Ordinary being hereby
created judicial officer for the purpose herein), which petition must be
sworn to by the part aptplying, and shall contain as full and accurate
description as possib e 0 said lost paper, and of the loss and mode of
loss, and of the inability to ﬁnd the same, and wherefore, and a prayer
for the establishment of a co y, setting forth the copy desired to be es
tablished. Thereupon said rdinary shall issue a citation, or notice,
to said alleged debtor or maker, requiring him to appear at a day not
more than ten days distant, and show cause, if any he has and can
show, why said copy should not be established in lieu of the lost origi
nal. This citation or notice must be personally served by an officer,
either Sheriff or bailiff, or person s ecially appointedb said Ordinary
for the pur ose, at least ﬁve days efore the time of earin . If no
successful efense is made at the time and place appointed, the Ordinary
shall proceed to establish, by an order entered on the petition, the copy
so prayed to be established, which shall have all the effect of said ori
ginal. Said petition, notice, and order shall be entered in a book of
record specially prepared for the purpose. If the debtor or maker so
served shall ﬁle a defense under oath to the effect that such original
never existed as claimed, then said Ordinary shall decide, after givin
the parties time for preparation and hearing, said time not to excee
twenty days, upon the case so made, and if in favor of the ap licant,
and no appeal is entered as hereinafter provided, said decree s all be
entered on the petition, and then the copy so established shall have the
same effect as an original. If the Ordinary’s decision is in favor of the
alleged debtor or maker, then the Ordinary shall also enter his decision
on said petition. In all cases all the proceedings shall be recorded as
ahove provided. If either party to the aforesaid roceedings shall be
dissatisﬁed, and claim an appeal, the Ordinary s all grant the same
upon the applicant’s giving the usual bond, and security for costs, as
in eases of appeal from the Court of Ordinary, to the Superior Court.
Said appeal shall be tried in the Superior Court and returned to the
next term after such decision, with all the pleadings and proceedings
had before the Ordinary. In the Superior Court, said case shall be tried
and determined as provided in section 3982, and the following sections
of the Code.
\
§3995. (b.) Non-residents, how served. When the person alleged tobe a
debtor or maker of the lost or destroyed pa er set forth in the receding
section, shall not reside in this State, t _en such alleged _de tor or
malkler may be made a party, tg the progeledlngfi z(1)?1v+-. mentioned, b
u ication in a azette to e esi nate sai inar oncea wee
lbr six weeks, and when so made E party (zvhich shall beyaccording to
the form in cases in chancery), then all the provisions of this Chapter
shall apply in this case, and all the provisions thereof shall apply
throughout, except as herein excepted.
§3995. (c.) Co'_mpe'rtaatio'n of Ordinari/. The compensation of the Ordinary
for all services 111 such cases sha l e the sum of ﬁve dollars.
§3996. (3920) (3896.) Proceedings to partition. In all cases where
two or more persons are common owners of lands and tenements in this
State, whether by descent, purchase _or otherwise, and no provision is
made by Will or otherwise, as to how such lands and tenements arc to
be divided, any one of such common owners may apply to the Superior
Court of the county in which such lands and tenements are situated
for a. writ of partitlon, which application shall be by petition, setting
forth plainly and distinctly the facts and circumstances of the case,
describing t e premises to be partitioned and deﬁning the share and
interest of each of the parties therein.

§3997. ($3921.) (3897.) Application, by whom made. If the arty de
siring the writ of wartition be of full age, and free from disa ility, he
ma make the app ication either in person or by his agent, or attorney
in act, or at law, and if the application is for the beneﬁt of a minor,
a lunatic, feme covert or cestui que trust, it may be made by the guardian
of such minor or lunatic, by the husband of such feme covert, or the
trustee of such eestui que trust, as the case may be.

§3998. (3922) ( 3898.) Twenty (la s’ notice. The party appl in for
the writ of partition shall give to t e other parties concernedyat least
twenty days’ notice of his intention to make application, and if any
such other parties concerned be a minor, a lunatic, a cestui que trust or
feme covert, said twenty days’ notice may be served on the guardian of
such minor or lunatic, or on the trustee of such cestui qua tmst, or on
the husband of such feme covert, and if any of the parties reside with~
out the limits of this State, the Cour't may order service by publica~
tion, as in its judgment is right in each case.
§3999. @923.) ($3899.) Five rtitioners. When the application for
pﬁrtition 1s made, and when ue proof is made that the notice herein-
fore required has been given, the Court shall examine the petitioner’s
title, and part or share of the premises to be partitioned, and shall
thereupon pass an order directing the clerk of such Court to issue a
writ of partition, framed according to the nature of the case, directed
to ﬁve freeholders of the county in which the lands are situated, who
shall execute and return the writ as hereinafter rovided.
§4000. (3924.) (3900.) Surveyor to be selected. T e partitioners, or per-
sons to whom the writ is directed, shall have power to select a surveyorto aid them in the discharge of their duties, and after giving all the
parties, if possible, at least eight days’ notice of the time of executing
the writ, and after being sworn before some oﬂicer authorized by law to
administer such oath, duly and impartiall to execute such writ, the
said partitioners, or a majority of them, s all (proceed to make a just
and equal partition and division of all such lan s and tenements, either
in entire tracts or arcels as they shall judge to be in proportion to the
shares claimed, and most beneﬁcial to the several common owners of
said lands and tenements, according to the best of their skill, ability
and knowledge, and thev shall return said writ, with their acting and
doings thereon, under their hands and seals, to the said Superior Court
within three months after the issuing of said writ, which return shall
'be ﬁled and ke t by the said clerk until the next term of said Court af
ter the ﬁling o the same. 

§4001. (3925.) (3901.) Defenses, when, by whom and how made. At the
term of the Court when the application is made, or at the term next
after the said partitioners have made their return, any of the defend
ants or persons concerned, against whom or whose right or title a judg
ment is sought, may ﬁle objections to the right of the applicant, and
the writ of partition, or to the return of the partitioners, and may, by
way of defense, show any good and robable matter in bar of the parti
tion asked for, or may show that t e demandant has not title to so
much as is allowed and awarded to him by the said partitioners, or to
any part of the land; whereu n an issue shall be made up and tried
by a special jury, as in appea cases.

$4002. 3926.) 3902.) When return shall be made the judgment. If no
y any of the parties to the return of the partitioners,
or if, being ﬁled, the 'urv on the trial, shall ﬁnd a verdict against the
part setting up suc objections, the said return of the partitioners
shal be made the judgment of the Court, and shall be ﬁnal and conclu
sive as to all the parties concerned who were notiﬁed of the ap lication
for partition, and of the time of executing the writ, as herein efore re
quired, and awrit of possession shall issue accordingly; but if objec
tions to said returns be ﬁled and sustained by the jury trying the case,
or if it shall appear to the Court that there is injustice or inequality
in the division made by the partitioners, said Court shall award a new
partition, to be made in the presence of the parties concerned (if they
will appear ;) which second partition, when returned, shall be ﬁrm,
good an conclusive forever against all parties notiﬁed as aforesaid.

§-1003. ( 3927.) (39022 If lands can/rwt be divided t must be sold. \Vhen
ever application is m e for partition of lands an tenements, as here
inbefore provided for, and either of the parties in interest shall make
it satisfactorily appear to the Court that a fair and equitable division
of the lands and tenements cannot be made by means of metes and
bounds, by reason of improvements made thereon, or by reason of the
premises ‘being valuable for mining purposes, or for the erection of
mills or other machinery, or that the value of the entire lands and
tenements will be depreciated by the partition applied for, then and
in that case the Court shall order a sale of such lands and tenements,
and shall appoint three discreet persons to conduct such sale under
such regulations and upon such just and equitable terms as said Court
may rescribe ; which sale shall take place on the ﬁrst Tuesday in the
mont , at the Court House of the county in which the land is situated,
after an advertisement of such sale in some public gazette of this State
for at least thirty dggp.
§-/1004. (3928.) (3. .) Proceeds of sale, how disposed of. After the sale
of any lands and tenements, as provided for in the preceding section,
the commissioners conducting the sale shall return their proceedings to
to the next term of the Court ordering such sale, at which term the
said Court shall order the proceeds of the sale to be divided among the
several claimants ratably in roportion to their respective interests af
ter deductin the ex enses oi) the proceedings. [Such commissioners
shall be liab e to ru e by the Superior Court, as Sheriﬂs are liable,
for all moneys which they have or may receive for the lands sold by(
them, and which they are re uired by law to return to the Court for dis- 1
tribution; and in case they ail to pay the money into Court in obedi
ence to a rule against them, the shall be attached as for a contempt
instamer' and imprisoned without ail or mainprize until such payment
is made, as Sheriffs are liable for money col ected by them and not
paid over, in obedience to a rule.] (a.)
§4005. (3929) (3905.) Title to properly sold. Upon the sale of lands A
and tenements as aforesaid, the parties in interest shall execute a title 9
to the purchaser, and if any of them fail or refuse to do so, the said
commissioners, so appointed as aforesaid, or any two of them, shall ex
ecute a deed of conve ance to said lands and tenements to the purchaser
at such sale, which eed shall be valid and binding in law and equity
as if made by the arties themselves.
§4006. (3930.) ( 906.) Cases not provided for. In any extraordinary
case, not covered by the foregoing provisions, the Court may frame its
roceeding and order so as to meet the exigency of the case without
orcing the parties intoa Court of equity, and the Court may deny a
sale or partition alto ether, if it is manifest that the interest of each
party will not be ful y protected.

§4007. (3931.) (3907.) When motion to vacate may be made. \Vhen.4<
proceedings have been instituted, and judgment of partition had C
thereon, according to the regulations prescribed in this Code, and any
one of the parties in interest is a minor, or a lunatic who has no guar
dian, or is absent from the State during such proceeding, or has not
been notiﬁed thereof, such minor or lunatic may, within twelve months
after coming of age, or restoration of mind, or having a guardian ap
pointed, and such absent or unnotiﬁed arty may, at any time within
twelve months after rendition of the judp ment, move the Court to set
aside such judgment on any of the groun s u n which a party notiﬁed
and free from isabilities might have resiste the 'udgment upon the
hearing, as hereinbefore authorized, and the issue s all be tried, and the
subsequent roceedings shall be the same as pointed out in cases of ob
jections ﬁle to the return of the partitioners before judgment ; and if
such motion to set aside the 'udgment be not made within the time
aforesaid, such judgment shail be as binding and conclusive upon such
minor, lunatic, absent, or unnotiﬁed party, as if he had been notiﬁed,
present, or free from disability. But in no event shall such subsequent
proceedings aﬂ'ect the title of a bona ﬁde purchaser under a sale ordered
y the Court.

§4008. (3932.) (3908.) Personal property may be partitioned. App1ica-
tion may be made, and partition of personal property may be obtained,
in the same manner and under the same regulations as are prescribed
in this Code for obtaining partition of lands and tenements

§4009. (3933) (3909.) When writ of lwabaas corpus may isszte. Any per
son restrained of his liberty under an ' pretext whatever in this State,or
any person alleging that another in w om for any cause he is interested
is restrained of his liberty, or kept illegally from the custody of the
a plicant, may sue out ti. writ of habeas cor us, to inquire into thelcgality
oi)such restraint. And this right shall e suspended or denied only in
times of existing war, and then only as to such persons as shall be in
military conﬁnement.

§4010. ($934.) ($910.) Ap Zication, how made M what to contain. The
application for the writ sha l be by petition .in writing, signed by the
applicant, his attorney, or agent, or some other person in his behalf,
an shall state——
1. The name or description of the person whose liberty is restrained.
2. The person restraining, the mode of restraint, and the place of
detention, as nearly as practicable.
3. The cause or pretence of such restraint, and if under pretext of
legal process, a copy of such process, if within the power of the appli
cant, must be annexed to the petition.
4. A distinct averment of the alleged illegalit in the restraint, or
other reason why the writ of habeas corpus is soug t.
5. A prayer for the writ of habeas corpus.
§-4011. ($5935.) (3911.) Petition, how verified and to whom presented. Such
petition must be veriﬁed by the oath of the applicant, or some other
person in his behalf, and may be presented to the [Ordinary] (a.) of
the county where the alleged illegal detention exists, or to t e Judge
of the Superior Court of the circuit, who may order the party restrained
of his liberty to be brought before him from an Y county in his circuit:
[Prov-ided, that the Ordinaries of this State shall have no right to grant
or determine writs of habeas corpus, in cases of parties charged with cap
ital felonies] (b.)

§-1012. (393-6.) (3912.) When the writ must be granted. If upon exami
nation of such petition it shall not appear to such Judge that such re
straint of liberty is legal, he shall grant the writ of habeas corpus, re
guiring the person thus restraining the liberty of another, or il egally
etaining another in his custody, to bring such erson before him, at
a time and place to be speciﬁed in the writ, for t e purpose of an ex
amination lnto the cause of such detention.
Section referred to and construed: 62 Ga., 604.
§4013. (3937.) ( 3913.) Form of the writ. The writ of habeas corpus
may be substantially as follows, that is to say:
H
STATE or G1-zonom,
T .:
i-Courrrr, O A1 B
“You are hereby commanded to produce the body of C. D., alleged
to be illegally detained by you, together with the cause of such deten
tion, before me, on the day of , at , then and there to
be disposed of as the law directs.
 
“Given under my hand and oﬁicial signature, this the —'— day of
(Signed) E. F.”
§4014. ($938.) (3914.) Return day of the writ. The return day of such
writ shall always be within twenty days after the presentation of the
petition therefor. s _
§_4015. (3939.) (3915.) How amt by whom the wrttmay be served. Such
writ shall be served, by delivering a copy of the same, by any officer
authorized to make a return of any process, or b any other citizen;
and the entry of such oiﬁcer, or the affidavit o such citizen, shall
be suﬁicient evidence of such service. The person serving the writ
shall exhibit the original if required so to do. If personal service can
not be effected, the writ may be served by leaving a cotpy at the house,
_]:ai(li, or otlzier place, in which the party in whose behal the writ issues
is etaine .
§4016. ( 3940.) (3916.) Arrest of party detained. If with the petition
there shall be ﬁled the affidavit of the a plicant, that he has reason to
apprehend that the party detaining or holding the other in custody
will remove him beyond the limits of the county, or conceal him from
the oﬂicers of the law, such Judge granting the writ shall at the same
time issue his prece t, directed to the Sheriff, de uty Sheriff, coroner,
or any lawful consta le of the county, re uiring t em to search for and
arrtestdthe bo<(i1y of tl')§l31p81'S0n((1lGt3,lI'1ed, an bring him before such Judge,
to e is ose 0 as e ma irect.
§4017.p(3941.) (3917.) Rleyturn of writ, etc. The return of the party
served with the writ shall be made at the time and place speciﬁed:
Provided, two days from the time of service shall be allowed for every
twenty miles which such arty has to travel from the place of deten
tion to the place appointe for the hearing; and if the service has not
been made a suﬂicient time before the hearing to cover the time al
lowed in this section to reach the place of hearing, such return shall
be made within the time so allowed, immediately after the service.
§4018. (3942.) (3918.) Return to be under oath, etc. Every return to a
writ of habeas corpus shall be under oath ; and if the custody or deten
tion of the party in whose behalf the writ issues be admitted, his body
shaallbbe produced, unless revented by providential cause, or prohib
ite y t me law of the lan .
§4019. (3943) (-3919.) Justiﬁcation. In every case where the deten
tion is justiﬁed under le al process, such legal process shall be produced
and submitted to the Juigi e at the hearing of the return.
§4020_. (3944.) ( 3920.) %em'al of custody, what it must contain. If the
return denies the custody or detention of the party, it shall further
state, distinctly, the latest date at which the custody was had, and
when and to whom transferred; and if it shall a pear that such trans
fer of custody was made to avoid the writ of h eas corpus, the arty
making the return may be imprisoned, in the discretion of the udge
gearigg thg same, until the body of the party kept or detained shall
e r uce .
§I¢iO21. (3945.) (3922.) Return may be traversed. If the return denies
any of the material facts stated in the petition, or alleges others upon
which issue is taken, the Judge hearing the return may, in a summary
manner, hear testimony as to such issue, and to that end may compel
the attendance of witnesses, the production of papers, or may adjourn
the examination of the question. or exercise any other power of a
Court which the principles of justice may require.
§4022. (3946.) (3923) Disobedience of the writ. Any person disregard
ing the writ of habeas corpus in an manner whatever, shall be liable
to attachment for contempt, issue by the Judge granting the writ, un
der which attachment such person ma be imprisoned until he shall
comply with the legal re uirements 0 the writ.
§4023. (3947.) ( 3924.) hen a party cannot be discharged. No person
shall be discharged upon the hearing of a writ of habeas corpus in the
following cases, to-wit:
1. Where he is imprisoned under lawful process, issued from a Court
of com etent jurisdiction, unless in cases where bail is allowed and
proper ail is tendered.
When Ordinary could not interfere by habcas corpus with the sentence of the Supe
rior Court: 60 Ga., 390-391.
[Items 2 and 3 of section (3947,) re ealed—the former by section 16,
Article V. of the Constitution of 186 ; and the latter by section 18 of
Article I. of said Constitution]
4. By reason of an irregularity in the warrant or commitment, where
the same substantia ly conforms to the requirements of this Code, nor
for want of bond to prosecute. <
5. Vhere the party is imprisoned under a bench warrant regular
upon its face.
6. By reason of any misnomer in the warrant of commitment, where
the Court is satisﬁed that the party detained is the party charged with
the offense.
7. Where the party is in custody for a contempt of Court, and the
Court has not exceeded its jurisdiction in the length of the imprison
ment imposed.
8. In no other case where it appears that the detention is authorized
by law.
Referred to: 57 Ga., 409.
§4024. (3948) ( 3925.) How wife or child may be disposed of. In all writs
of habeas corpus sued out on account of the detention of a wife or child,
the Court, on hearing all the facts, may exercise its discretion as toi
whom the custody of such wife or child shall be given, and shall have
power to give such custody of a child to a third person.

§4025. (3949) (3926) No discharge for defect in proceedings. If the
party is detained upon a criminal charge, and it ap ears to the Court
that there is probable cause for his detention, he sha l not be discharged
for anv defect in the aﬁidavit, warrant, or commitment, until a reason
able time has been given to the prosecutor to remedy the defect by a
new proceeding; if the charge is for an offense committed in another
State, and he is arrested on suspicion, he shall not be discharged, if the
suspicion is reasonable, until a sufﬁcient time be given for a demand
to be made on the Governor for his rendition.
§4026. (3950.) (3927.) Power of the Court in other cases. In all other
cases the Judge hearing the return shall discharge, remand, or admit
the party to bail, or deliver him to the custody of the oﬂicer or person
entitled thereto, as the principles of law and justice may require.
§4027. (3951) (3928.) How imprisoned witness may be brought up. Any
Judge of the Superior Court may issue his order, to any oﬁicer having
an person in his custody lawfully imprisoned, to produce such person
beiibre his Court for the purpose of giving evidence in any criminal
cause pending therein, without any orma application or writ of habeas
corpus for that pur se.
§40‘28. (3952.) ( 929.) Costs. The Judge hearing the return to awrit
of habeae corpus may, in his discretion, award the cost of the proceeding
agailpst either party, and may order execution to issue therefor by the
c er .

§4029. (3953) (3930.) Proceedings must be recorded-. The proceedings
in all cases of habeas corpus shall be returned to the Clerk of the Supe
rior Court of the county whose Judge may have heard the same, or
Court of Ordinar , if heard by the Ordinary, and shall be by such oﬁicer
recorded, as in ot er cases, for which he shall receive the like fees as
in other cases recorded by him.
§4030. @3954.) (3931.) Notice of the hear-inq. If the person is detained
upon a criminal charge, and the Solicitor-General is in the county, he
shall be notiﬁed of the hearing ; if he is not the notice shall be given
to the rosecutor.
§403 . (3955.)_ Penalty for refusin writ. When any person shall apply
for a writ of habeas corpus to any udge w ose duty it is to grant said
writ, and the same is refused, the Judge so refusing to grant said writ
shall forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of twenty-ﬁve hundred
dollars, to be recoveredin any Court of law in this State having juris
diction of the same

§1032. (39-56.) (3932) Possesaory warrant, by whom and on ifhlll grounds
issiurl. Upon complaint being made on oath by the party iniured, his
agent or attorney in fact, or at law, to any Jud e of the Superior Court,
J udgc of the County Court, or Justice of the Peace of the county in
which the property in controversy may be, that an personal chattel
has been taken, enticed, or carried away, either by raud, violence, se
duction or other means, from the possession of the party complaining,
or that such personal chattel, having recently been in the quiet, peace
able and legally acquired possession of such complaining party, has
disappeared without his consent, and, as he believes, has been received
or taken possession of bv the party complained against, under some
pretended claim, and without lawful warrant or authority, and that the
party complaining does in good faith claim a title to or interest in the
rsonal chattel, or the possession thereof, it shall be the duty of such
udge or J ustce to issue a warrant, as well for the ap rehension of the
party against whom the com laint is made as for t e seizure of the
property in controversy, whic warrant shall be directed to the Sheriff,
is deputy, or any lawful constable of the county aforesaid.

§4033. (3957) (3933) Warrant, how executed. The officer in whose
hands the possessory warrant is placed shall forthwith proceed to appre
hend and arrest the bod of the defendant, or party against whom the
warrant is issued, and a so to seize the property described in the w.1r
rant if the same are to be found in his county, and carr the said de
fendant and said property, together with the warrant, be ore the Judge
or Justice issuing the same, or before any other Judge or Justice of said
county.
§4034. (3958.) (3934.) Trial. The Judge or Justice before whom a
warrant for the restoration of(personal property may be returned, shall, if
the parties are ready, procee with the hearing forthwith; but if either
of the parties are not ready, the hearing shall be postponed to some sub
sequent time, to be ﬁxed by the said Judge or Justice, so as to allow the
parties a reasonable opportunity to rocure their testimony, and at the
same time to insure a trial with as ittle delay as possible.
Stated in, and as to giving reasonable time to prepare testimony: 15 Ga., 25.
§4035. (3959.) (3935._) Possession the onl isszw to be tried. When the
day set a art for the trial arrives, the J u ge or Justice shall proceed to
hear evi ence as to the question of possession in a summary way, with
out investigating the title to the property, and shall cause the property
to be delivered to the party from _whose possession the same was vio
lently or fraudulently taken or enticed away, or from whom the same
absconded,or in whose peaceable and lawful possession it last was: Provi
ded such party shall then and there enter intoarecognizance, with good
an suﬁicient security, in double the amount of the value of such prop
erty, and the hire claimed (if any), to cause the said property to be pro
duced and forthcoming to answer any judgment, execution or decree
.that -may be had, issued or made upon such suit or action, at law or in
equity, as the opposite party may commence or prosecute within the
inext four years touching the same: Provided, also, that when the party
ctaking out the warrant shall refuse or fail to gi_ve such security, then
ithe J udgp or Justice may, in his discretion, deliver over over the prop
erty to t e opposite party upon his entering into a like recognizance,
with security of the same nature and effect.

§4036. Notice of certiorari is supersedeas. [A notice of intention to
certtorari the decision of the Court, when served upon the opposite party,
or his agent or attorney, shall operate as a szcperscdeas for ten days, dur
ing which time the oﬁicer shall retain possession of the property, and
if, after the expiration of the ten days, no certirrrari has been granted,
then, and in that event. the oﬁicer shall proceed to deliver the prop
erty, as directed by the Court at the time of tri:1l.] (a.)
§4037. ($3960.) (3936) Bond, where returned. The Judge or Justice
,shall return any recognizance taken as provided in the preceding sec
tion to the next Superior Court of the county where the same is taken,
to be transmitted to the Court where any suit or action may be com
menced touching said property, and the securities on such recogni
zance shall be bound and liable for the eventual condemnation money
in such suit or action, and execution shall issue against them in the
same manner as against security on appeals.
§4038. (3961.) (3937.) Defenda'n/t may be imprisoned, when. Upon i;l16
return of a possessory warrant, if it shall appear that the officer cannot
ﬁnd, or was unable to seize, the property described in the warrant,
and that such property is in the possession, power, custody or control
of the defendant, or any agent or friend of his, or any one acting for
or intrusted with the same for him, and the said defendant doth not
produce or cause said property to be forthcoming, to be dealt with as
the law directs, and as the judgment of the said Judge or Justice
awards, the said defendant shall be committed to jail, there to remain
in safe and close custody without bail or mainprise until such roperty
shall be produced or forthcoming, to be disposed of as aforesaid : Provi
ded, always, that no person shall be so committed to jail for such failure
to produce property if he can satisfactorily prove to the Judge or Jus
tice trying the case, that such property has been in his quiet and peace
able possession for four years next immediately preceding the issuing
of said warrant, but u on such proof being made the warrant shall be
dismissed; and prov' ed, further, that no person shall be imprisoned
as aforesaid pending an ap lication for a certiorari before the Superior
Court, who shall give bon and security to abide by the ﬁnal decision
of the cause.

§4039. (3962.) ($5938.) Certiorari lies to judgment on a possessory warrant.
The writ of certiorari lies to every decision of a Court upon a possessory
warrant, to be sued out as in other cases ; and upon the hearin of such
writ in the Superior Court, if the liberty of the party is en angered
by the decision of the Court below, he may demand a trial before a
jury inipaneled as in criminal cases, upon the issue of fact as to the
alleged ' roperty being in his possession, power, custody, or control, or
that of is agent, friend, or any other person for him , and the verdict
of such jury shall be conclusive on_ the question. 

§4040. ($963.) (3939.) Judgment on the certiorari. Upon hearing the
certiorari, the Judge may remand the case or give ﬁnal judgment and
direction therein, as he may see ﬁt

§4041. (3969.) Appointment of covnmissinners. _ [The Superior (‘ourts of
this State shall have power and authority, upon the written applica
tion of any person entitled to dower in any lands and tenements in this
State, to appoint ﬁve ﬁt and discreet freeholdcrs of the county in which
the application is made, and cause the clerk of the Court to issue a
writ for that purpose, directing said freeholders, or a majority of them,
to enter upon such lands and tenements, and to admeasure, layoff, and
assign the dower to which the a plicant is entitled by law in such lands,
having regard to the shape an valuation of the same: Provided such
lands shall be without the limits of any city, town, village, or place of
public business; and of all lands within a city, town, village, or place of
public business, said freeholders, or amajority of them, ma lay off and
assign one-third art of the lands and tenements to which t e applicant
is entitled according _to quantity and valuation, as they may think
proper, Just, and equitable] (a.)
An assignment of dower not a nullity because only four of the ﬁve commissioners
acted: 64 Ga., 761-4.
§4042. ( 3970.) Application, when made. The application for dower
shall not be made until after the expiration of three months from the
death of the person to whom said lands and tenements belonged.
§4043. (3971.) Notice in writing. The applicant shall give written
notice to the representative of such estate, or if she be the representa
tive, then to the rson or persons interested, ten days, if they reside in
‘this State, or if t ey reside without the State, two months’ notice in
some public gazette of this State, of such intended application for such
assignment of dower.

§4044. (3972) Oath of c0m,mi.ssioners. The persons a pointed to lay
off dower as aforesaid, shall take the following oath, to e administered
by an oﬂicer authorized to administer oaths, or before one of their num
ber, he ﬁrst swearing before the rest: “ I do solemnly swear that I will
duly and impartially execute the laws, to the best of my understand
ing. So help me God.” _ _ _
§4045. (3973.) May employ surveyor. The commissioners so appointed
shall have power to procure the aid of the county surveyor of the
county, or other competent surveyor in making the survey and admeas
urement of dower, w 0 shall be required to make a careful plat of such
survey of dower, which shall be recorded with the return of the
commissioners. The commissioners shall make return of their pro
ceeding to the succeeding term of the Court after their appointment.
If the representative of the estate, or any person or persons interested,
object to the widow's right under the law to dower, he or they shall
make their objections in writing at the term of the Court to which the
commissioners’ return is made, and said objections shall be tried or
heard in the same manner as provided in section 4046 of this Code,
for the trial of a traverse to return of commissioners.
§4046. C3974.) Traverse of return, etc. [When the return of the com-Ac
missioners is made, it shall be the right of every person interested to
enter a traverse in writing, plainly stating the grounds upon which it
is made; in which case it shall be the duty of the Court to cause an
issue to be made up, which shall be tried by a special jury at the same
term of the Court, unless good cause be shown for a continuance, which
shall be granted for one term, and no 1onger.] 

§4047. (3975.) Finding and its ejfect. [If such issue be formed, and
the jury ﬁnd in favor of the return, then the return of the cominissioners
shall be conﬁrmed and made the Judgment of the Court; but if
the issue be found against the return of the commissioners, then the
Court shall order a new writ to be issued to other commissioners named,
requiring them to make the admeasurement and assignment, and make
return thereof to the next term of the Court.] (a.)
§4048. (39'/'6.) Return of contznis-ed/iners. [When the return of the commissioners
is made the ﬁnal judgment of the Court, it shall be conclu-
sive between all parties interested, and the clerk shall issue writs of
possession in favor of the applicant, and ud ment shall be entered
against the representative of the estate of t e eceased husband for all
costs, including two dollars per day each for the commissioners] (a.)
$4049. $3977.) (3957.) When a certiorari will lie. The writ of certiorari
or the correction of errors committed by Justices of the
Peace, Corporation Courts or Councils, or any inferior 'udicatory, or
Wldl lie
any person exercising judicial powers, including the Or inary, except
in cases touching the probate of wills, granting letters testamentary
and of administration.
§405_O. (-3978.) (3958) From the Court of Ordinary. When _ either
party in an cause in any Court of Ordinary shall take exceptions to
any procec ing or decision in any cause, affecting the real merits of
such cause, the party making the same shall offer such exceptions in
writing, w-hicli shall be signed by himself or his attorney, and if the
same shall be overruled by the Court, such party may petition the
Judge of the Superior Court for a writ of certiorari, in which petition
he shall plainly, fully, and distinctly set forth the errors complained
of ; and if such Judge shall deem the objections to be sufficient, he shall
forthwith issue a writ of certiorari, directed to the Ordinary, requiring
him to certify and send up to the Superior Court, at the time speciﬁed
in Sllld writ, all the proceedings in said cause.

§4051. (-3979.) (3959) When Judge may grant out of his circuit. NoA
Judge of the Superior Court shall grant or issue any writ of certiorari out
of his judicial circuit, unless there shall be a vacanc in any of the
other circuits, or the Judge thereof be indisposed, or be absent there
firom, so that the business of granting certioraries cannot be speedily
one.
§4052. (3980) ($960.) For Justices and other inferior judicatories. VVhen
either party, in any cause in a J ustice’s Court, Corporation Court,
Council, or any inferior 'iidicatory, or before any person exercising
judicial powers, shall be issatisﬁed with the decision or judgment in
such cause, such party may apply for and obtain a writ of certiorari by
petition to the Superior Court, in which petition he shall plainly and
istinctly set forth the errors complained of. And on such petition be
ing ﬁled in the oﬁice of the Clerk of the Su erior Court, [with the sanc-
tion of the Judge of the circuit, or the Ju ge of some other circuit, as
provided for in section 3979, indorsed thereon,] (a.) together with the
ond or affidavit, as hereinafter provided, it shall be the duty of
such clerk to issue a writ of certiorari, directed to the Justice of the
Peace of the district where the decision complained of was made, or
other tribunal or person whose decision or judgment is the subject
matter of complaint, requiring such Justice of the Peace, or other tri
bunal, or person, to certify and send up all the proceedings in said cause
to the Superior Court, as directed in said writ of certiorari.
§4053. $398k) (396l.) Aﬂidavit to be TR/tdé. No writ of certiomri shall
be grante
or issued, except to the Court of Ordinary, unless the party
applying for the same. his agent or attorney, shall make and ﬁle with
his petition the following afﬁdavit, to-wit:
GEORGIA, ‘
--——COUNTY,
I, A. B., do solemnly swear that the petition for certiorari is not
ﬁled in the case for the purpose of dela .' only; and I verily believe I
have good cause for certiomri, and that th 2 facts stated in the foregoing
petition. so far as they come within my own knowledge, are true, and,
so far as derived froin the knowledge of others, I believe them to be
true. .
 
Sworn to and subscribed before me, this day of , 18-

§4054. (39811) (3962.) Bond and security to be given. Before any
of certiorari shall issue, except as hereinafter provided, the party ap
plying for the same, his agent or attorney, shall give bond and good
security, conditioned to pay the adverse party in the cause the eventual
condemnation money, together with all future costs, and shall also pro
duce a certiﬁcate from the oﬁicer whose decision or judgment is the
subject matter of com laint, that all costs which may have accrued on
the trial below have een paid; which bond and certiﬁcate shall be
ﬁled with the petition for certiorari, and the security on said bond shall
be liable as securities on apppeal.

§4055. (3983.) (3963.) Security may be made to ju-stiff . The party au~
th
orized to take said bond and security may compeil/the security ten
dered to justify upon oath, and such justiﬁcation shall exonerate the
party taking the same from any liability.
§4056. (3984.) (3964.) Aﬂirlavit in lieu of bond. If the party applying
for the writ of certiorari will make and ﬁle with his petition an aili
davit, in writing, that he is advised, and believes that he has good
cause for certioraring the proceedings to the Superior Court, and that
owing to his poverty, heis unable to ay the cost and give securit_v,as re
quired in the receding section, suc affidavit shall, in every respect,
answer instea of the certiﬁcate and bond above mentioned.

§4057. (3985.) (3965.) Must be applied for in three months. All writs of
certiorari shall be applied for within three months after the ﬁnal deter
mination of the case in which the error is alleged to have been commit~
ted, and not after; and shall be made returnable to the next Superior
writ
Court after the issuing of the same, unless said Superior Court shall
sit within twenty days after the issuing of said writ, in which case
said writ shall be made returnable to the. next succeeding Court.


§4058. (3986) (3966.) Must be served ﬁfteen days. When the forego
ing provisions have been com lied with, and the writ of certiorari shall
have been issued, the Clerk 0 the Superior Court shall place the same
on the certiorari docket; which writ, together with the petition, shall
be delivered to the party to whom it is directed by the party applying
for the certiarari, his agent or attorney, or the Sheriff, deputy Sheriff,
or any constable, at least ﬁfteen days previous to the Court to which the
return is to be made.

§4059. (3987.) ( 3967.) Ton days’ notice to the adverse party. The plain-
tiff in cev-tiorari shall cause written notice to be given to the opposite
party in intgrest, his agent or (pttorney, of the sanction of thedwritbofc
certzorari an also the time an place of hearing at least ten ays e
fore the’sitting of the Court to which the same shall be returnable,
and in default of such notice (Sunless prevented by unavoidable cause)
the cerliorari shall be dismisse .
§4061. (3989.) (3969) Answer ﬁled on ﬁrst day of term. The answer
to the writ of certiorari shall be ﬁled on the ﬁrst day of the term to
which it is returnable, unless further time be given, and shall reply
speciﬁcally to the allegations in the petition.

§4062. (3990.) (3970.) Eareeptions to answer. Exceptionsto the answer
shall be ﬁled in writing, specifying the defects, and notice thereof given
to the opposite party before the case is called in its order for a hearing;
and if such exceptions be sustained, the answer shall be perfected, as
directed by the Court.

§4063. (3991.) (3971.) Must not be written bi party interested. The an
swer shall not be written or dictated by eit er of the parties, or their
attorneys, or any other person interested in the cause, and if made after
the party making the same has retired from oﬁice, it shall be veriﬁed
by affidavit.

§4064. (3992) (3972) Stands for trzlal at ﬁrst term. Ccrtiorari causes
shall stand for trial at the return term, and the Judge shall take up
the docket and dispose of the same in its order unless continued for
good cause.
§4065. (3993) (3973.) Errors must be set forth. No ground of error
shall be insisted upon, on the hearing, which is not distinctly set forth
in the petition.

$4066. (399-1.) (3974.) Answer may be traversedat ﬁrst term. The plain-
ti or defendant in certibrari may, at the ﬁrst term, and before the
hearing, traverse the truth of the answer or return, which traverse
shall be in writing, specifying the portion of the answer or return
intended to be controverted, and veriﬁed by aﬁidavit, and the issue
formed upon such traverse shall be tried by a special jury at the same
term unless good cause be shown for a continuance, and their verdict
ihall be ﬁnal as to the facts, upon which the Court shall pronounce the
aw.
§4067. (3995.) (3975).) Ccrtiorari may be dismissed or returned. Upon
the hearin of a writ of certiorari the Superior Court may order the
same to be dismissed, or return the same to the Court from which it came
with instructions, and in all cases when the error complained of is an
error in law, which must ﬁnally govern the case, and the Court shall
be satisﬁed there is no question of fact involved, which makes it neces
sary to send the case back for a new hearing before the tribunal be
low, it shall be the duty of the said Judge to make a ﬁnal decision in
said case, without sending it back to the tribunal below.

§406_8. (3996) Certiorari when Justice dies. [In all cases now pending,
or which may be hereafter pending, in the Superior Courts of this
State, u >n certiorar-i from any J ustice’s Court, and the Justice or Jus
tices be ore whom the case was tried, may have died before answering
the writ of certiorari served, then it shall be the duty of the presiding
-Judge forthwith to order a new trial to be had upon the case in the
Court below.] (a.)
§4069. (3997.) (3976.) Damage may be awarded. The presiding Judge
before whom any writ of certiorari may be heard, on motion of the op
posite party, may order that damages, not more than twenty per cent.,
e recovered by the defendant against the plaintiff in 1.-ertiorari and his
security, in case it shall be made to a pear that the said certiorari was
frivolous, and ap lied for without go cause, or for the purpose of de
laydonly, and ju gment may be entered up and execution issued ac
cor ingly.
§4070. (3998) (3977.) If the certiorariis sustained, judgment for plaintiﬂl
If, on the hearing, the certim-ari shall be sustained, and a. ﬁnal decision
thereon shall be made by the Superior Court, the plaintiff may sign
up judgment for the amount by him recovered in the Court below, and
the costs paid to obtain the certiorari, and also the costs in said Supe
rior Court; but if the certiorari shall be returned to the Court below
for a new hearing, the la.intiﬁ' shall sign up judgment for the costs in
said Superior Court on y, leaving the costs paid to obtain the certiorari
to abide the ﬁnal trial below. -
§-1071. (3999) (3978.) If the certiorari is dismissed, judgment for the de
fendant.
If the certiorari shall be dismissed, and a ﬁnal decision made
in the cause by the Superior Court, the defendant in certiomri may sign
up judgment in said Superior Court against the plaintiff and his secu
rity for the sum recovered by him, together with the costs in said Su
erior Court; and if said case be sent back to the Court below, and there
e a judgment in said case in favor of said defendant in the Court be
low, the security on the certiorari bond shall then be included as in case
of security on appeal.
§4072. (4000.) (Z-3979.) Intruders, how ejected. Intruders maybe ejected
from the ssession of lands and tenements in the following manner,
to-wit: Vhen any person, either by himself, his agent, or attorney in
fact, shall take and subscribe an aﬂidavit in writing, before any oﬂicer
authorized to administer an oath, setting forth that he does in good
faith claim the right of possession to any land or tenement (describ
ing the same), and that such land or tenement is in the hands of
another person (naming the person), who does not in good faith claim
a right to such possession, and yet refuses to abandon the same; and
when such aﬁidavit shall be placed in the hands of the Sheriff of the
county where the land or tenement is situated, it shall be the duty of
such Sheriff, at the earliest practicable day, to exhibit such aﬂidavit
to the person described as being in possession of such land or tenement,
and to turn such person out of possession, unless the person so in
ossession shall tender to the Sheriff’ a counter-aﬁidavit, stating that
e does in good faith claim a legal right to the possession of said land
or tenement.
§4073. (4001) (3980.) Sbertf must administer oath. The Sheriff shall
be a. com etent officer to administer the oath to the erson in sses
. . P . . . P°
sion, in case he tenders the counter-affidavit provide for in the pre
ceding section.
§~l07-1. (-1002.) 833981.) Return of aﬁtdavit and trial. If a counter-afﬁ
davit be tender , as hereinbefore provided for, the Sheriff shall nlpt
turn the party out of possession but the contending parties shall e
remitted to their respective righ,ts, and the Sheriff shall return both
aﬁidavits, and deposit them in the oﬁice of the Clerk of the Superior
Court of the county in which the land lies, upon which an issue shall
begmade up and tried byna jury, according to the lam oflghis Sgatg.
-1075. (4003) ($3982.) "rit of possession may issue w . the n of
the jury u n the trial of the issue provided for in the reced
ing section, shall e for the laintiﬁ‘, or inovant, the clerk sha issue
ppon tihe jﬁdginqnt a writ 0 haberefacias possessiorwm, including a
acias or e cos s.
§'-1076. (-3004.) Intrusions on camp grounds. The trustees, commis
sioners an other owners of camp grounds in t is State shall have the
right to prevent intruders and squatters from bccu_pyi_iig any
land within the boundaries of_ said camp rounds, and for instituting
proceedings against any such intruders an squatters, in the same man
ner a_s is now authorized by law against intruders and trespassers upon
land in this State.

§4077. (4005.) (3983.) Tenant holding over. In all cases where a ten
ant shall hold possession of lands or tenements over and beyond the
term for which the same were rented or leased to him, [or shall fail to
ay the rent when the same shall become due] (a.)), and in all cases where
ands or tenements shall be held and occupied y any tenant at will
or sufferance, whether under contract of rent or not, and the owner of
the lands or tenements shall desire possession of the same, such owner
may, by himself, his agent, or attorney in fact, or attorney at law, de
0 .
mand the ossession of the property so rented, leased, held, or oc
cupied; andpif the tenant refuses or omits to deliver possession when
so demanded, the owner, his agent, or attorney at law, or attorney in
fact, may go before the Jud e of the Superior Court, or any Justice of
the Peace, and make oath 0 the facts.
§4078. (3984.) Warrant for the tenam’s removal. When the af- A
ﬁdavit provide for in the receding section shall be made, the oﬂicer °
before whom it was made s all grant and issue a warrant, or rocess, di- (
rect-ed to the Sheriff or his deputy, or any lawful constab e] (b.) of 1
the county where t e land lies, commanding and requiring him
to deliver to the owner, or his representative, full and quiet possession
of the lands or tenements mentioned in the aflidavit, removing the
tenant, with his pro erty found thereon, away from. the premises.
§-1079. (4007.) (39 .) Tenant may arrest proceedings. The tenant may A
arrest the proceedings and prevent the removal of himself and goods 9
from the land b declaring on oath that his lease or term of rent has
not expired, an that he is not holding ossession of the remises over
and beyond his term [or that the rent c aimed is not dueﬁ (b.), or that
he does not hold the premises, either by lease, or rent, or at will, or by
sufferance, or otherwise, from the person who made the aﬂidavit on
which the warrant issued, or from any one under whom he" claims the
premises, or from any one claiming the remises under him: [Provided,
such tenant shall at the same time ten er a bond with good security,
payable to the landlord, for the payment of such sum with costs as may
e recovered against him on the trial of the case.

§4080. (4008.) (39S6.)_ Issue tried in Superior Court. If the counteraffidavit
and bond, provided in the preceding section, be made and deliv-
ered to the Sheriff or deputy Sheriff, or constable, the tenant shall not
be removed; but the oﬂicer shall return the proceedings to the next
Superior Court of the county where the land lies, and the fact in issue
shall be there tried by a special jury'as in case of appeal.

§4081. (4009,) (3987) Double rent and posseestlon, when-. If the
issue speciﬁed in the preceding section shal e determined against the
tenant, judgment sha l go against him for double the rent reserved or
stipulated to be paid; or, if he be a tenant at will or sufferance, then
for double what the rent of the premises is shown to be worth, and the
movant or plaintiff shall have a writ of possesion, and be by the Sheriff,
deputy or constable, placed in full possession of the premises.

§4082. 4010.) (-1011.) (5101.) (5102.) Distress warrant, how isszted (lnrl
executed. Any person who may have rent due, ma , by himself, l1i;
agent or attorney, make application to any Justice o the Peace within
the county where his debtor may reside, or where his property may be
found, and obtain from such Justice a distress warrant for the sum
claimed to be due, on the oath of the principal, his agent or attorney
in writing for the said rent, which may be levied by any constable,
duly qualiﬁed, on any property belonging to said debtor, whether found
on the premises or elsewhere, who shall advertise and sell the same, as
in case of levy and sale under execution : Provided, if the sum claimed
to be due exceeds one hundred dollars, and said warrant shall be levied
by a constable, it shall be his duty to deliver the warrant with a return
oi the property levied upon, to the Sheriff of said county or his deputy,
who shall advertise and sell as now provided by law for Sheriﬂ"s sales.

§4083. S4012.) (5103.) Property, how replevied. The party distrained
may in al cases replevy the property so distrained by making oath
that the sum, or some part thereof, distrained for is not due, and'give
security for the eventual condemnation money; and in such case the
levying oﬁicer shall return the same to the Court having cognizance
thereof, which shall be tried by a jury as provided for in the trial of
claims.

§4084. (4013.) (5104.) Claims, how huerposed and tried. When rop
erty distrained may be claimed by a third erson, the same shal be
claimed on oath, and bond given as require in cases of other claims,
which shall be returned and tried as provided by law for the trial of
the right of property levied upon by execution.
§4084. (a.) Intruder or tenant holding over. Whenever a warrant shall
be sued out, under existing laws, for the eviction of any person as an
intruder, or as a tenant holding over, it shall be the duty of the officer
in whose hands such warrant may be placed, to exhibit the same at
once to the defendant, and to give him notice that after the expiration
of three days (not counting Sundays or public holida s) said officer
will proceed with the execution of such warrant, and un ess a counter
afﬁdavit, as provided by law, is ﬁled with said ofﬁcer within that time,
and in case of tenants holding over, unless bond with good secu
rity, payable to the landlord, for the payment of such sum, with costs,
as may be recovered against him on the trial of the case, shall at the
same time be given by the tenant, as now required by law, it shall
then be his duty to proceed forthwith to execute said warrant.
§408-4. (b.) ()ﬁ£ce1- fail-itngin duty. Any ofﬁcer violating the provisions
of the preceding section by failing to give the notice therein required,
or by executing any such warrant as is therein named before the expi
ration of three days from the time of said notice, shall be deemed guilt
of a trespass and liable, together with the sureties on his official bon ,
in damages to the defendant.

§4085. ( 4014.) Q3988.) Justiccsto try the fact by a jury, etc. Any one or
more Justices of the Peace, upon complaint made on oath of any entr
into lands or tenements, or of any forcible detainer of the same, sha 1
have power to draw a 'ury of twelve men from the jury-box of the dis
trict in which the lands and tenements so alleged to be forcibly entered
or detained are situated, and_ cause the Sheriff of the count ,or the
constable of the district, to summon them to be and appear at t e usual
place of holding Court in the said district, on a certain day, to be ap
pointed by the said Justice or Justices, for the purpose of trying the
tact of such forcible entry or detainer. And the said Justice or Jus
tices shall also issue a summons, to be directed to the person or persons
charged with such forcible entry or detainer, and cause the same to be
served on him by the Sheriifor constable at leastﬁve days before the
time appointed for trial, requiring him to appear and defend the
charge alleged against him.

§4085. (a.) (4014.) 3988.) How jurieslah/rll be obtained in forcible entry
and detaincr. It shall e the duty of the several Justices.of the Peace
of this State to provide a jury-box, in which the names of all persons
in their respective districts liable to serve on juries shall be laced,
and in the trial of all cases of forcible entry and detainer, or orcible
detainer, it shall be the duty of said Justices to draw from said box the
jury that is now provided by law for the trial of such cases.
§-1086. (4015.) (3989.) If all the jurors do not attend. If all the jurors
should not attend, or if there should bea legal objection to any of them,
then the Justice or Justices may cause the jurv to be completed by tales
jurors ; [and if a jury cannot be obtained in the district, the Justice or
Justices may draw a jury from an adjoining district (in the county) to
try said case.] (a.)
§4087. (40l6.) (3990.) Possession and force only to be submitted. Upon
the trial, the only facts which the 'ur -' shall inquire into shall be the
possession and the force, but they s al have no power to inquire into
the merits of the title on either side.

§4088. (401.7.) (3991.) Oath of jury. The following oath shall be ad
ministered to the jurors, viz.: “You shall well and truly inquire
whether A. B. has made any forcible entr into the lands or tenements
of C. D., and him ejected therefrom, or orcibly detained the lands or
tenements of the said C. D., and a true verdict ive according to the
facts, as the may appear to you in evidence. Soghelp you God.”
§4089. (4618) ($3992.) Restitution to be made. If u n the trial of such
case the jury shall ﬁnd such forcible entry or forcib e detainer, or both,
then the said Justice or Justices shall give judgment accordingly, and
cause the Sheriff to make restitution of possession of the premises to
the arty aggrieved: Provided, that if the erson charged with such
forcible entry or detainer, or those under wliom he claims, shall have
been in peaceable_ possession of the premises for the space of three
years or more, as aforesaid, immediately receding the date of such war
rant, then no restitution of possession s all be made.

§4090. (4019.) Time given for certiomri. [In all cases of forcible
entry and detainer, the enforcement of the 'udgment shall be suspen
ded for ten days, to allow the party dissatis ed with the same, time to
make out his writ of certiorari: Provided, that the party complaining of
said decision shall, at the time it is made, ive the op site party
written notice of his intention to take said case to tlig Superior
Court.

§4091. (4020.) (3993) Service on non-residents. If the defendant
(clhargedhwith aiforcible entry or detaineg) is nota riesiillent of the county
w iere t e _ an or tenement is situate service 0 t e summons may,
nevertheless, be perfected on him or his tenant by the Sheriff or con
stabl , as thou h he resided in the count .
§4892. (4021?) Non-residents to ive boa in certain cases. All non-resi
dept defeingatnts v(vhodmay_ foiécibhy entertor forc‘ibbly_ dettiint, <()1r lforpli]b1_y
-en er an e ain an agains w om sui may e ins 1 u e y eir
tenants) any lot or arcel of land in an county in this State, shall be
compelled to give bond and security or all costs and damages which
may be recovered against him for such forcible entry or detainer, or
forcible entry and detainer: Provided, that such defendant shall not be
compelled to_give such bond until after the commencement of an action
for such oﬂ'ence, as provided by law. Said bond shall be made payable
to the plaintiff in such action, subject to be recovered as in cases of
bond given on appeal in this State, and, on failure to give such bond,
the jury trying said cause shall award possession of the premises in dis
pute to the plaintiff. (b.)
§4093. (4022) (3994.) N0 bar to indictment. No proceedings under A
the provisions of this Chapter shall exempt any person guilty of a for- c
cible entry or dctainer from indictment and punishment, under and by E
virtue of the provisions of this Code.

§4094. (-1023.) (3995.) May be renwvcd, and how. Any nuisance which A
tends to the immediate annoyance of the citizens in general, 15 '[Ii£1I1l-C
festly injurious to the public health and safety, or tends greatly to cor
rupt the manners and morals of the people, may be abated and sup
sressed by the order of any two or more Justices of the Peace of the
ounty, founded upon the opinion of twelve freeholders of the same
county, who shall be summoned, sworn, and impaneled for that purpose ;
which order shall be directed to and served by the Sheriif of the county,
or his deputy.

§4095. (4024.) (3996.) l’Vlum -in town or city. If the nuisance complained
of exists in a town or city, under the government of a mayor,
lntendant, aldermen, wardens, or a common council, or commissioners,
such nuisance, by and with the advice of said a1dermen,wardens,coun
cil, or commissioners, may be abated and removed by order of said
ma or, intendant, or commissioners; which order shall be directed to
an executed by the Sheriff or the marshal of said town or city, or their
eputy.

§4096. (4025).) (3997) Notice. Reasonable notice shall be given to
the parties interested of the time and place of the meeting of such
Justices and freeholders, or of such mayor, intendant, aldermen, wardens,
council, or commissioners.
§4097. (4026) (3998) Grist or saw-mill, or other water mach<i'ne'ry. If
the nuisance complained of isa grist or-saw mill, or other water ma
of valuable consideration, the same shall not be destroyed or
abated except upon the aiﬁdavit of two or more freeholders. before the
Ordinary of the count in which the nuisance complained of may exist,
testifying that the hea th of the neighborhood,according to their opinion
and belief, is materially injured by such mill-dam, or other obstruction
to a water-course by other machinery, as may be complained of ; where
upon, it shall be the duty of such Ordinary, as soon as practicable, to
cause a jury of twelve men to be summoned by the Sheriﬂ', or his
deputy, for the trial of the cause, who, together with the said Court,
shall attend at the Court House of said county to adjudge the case of
nuisance complained of; and all parties shall have a reasonable time al
lowed them to summon their witnesses and procure their attendance.

§4097. (a.) (4026.) ($3998.) How jury obtained in certain eases of nuisance.
In all cases of nuisance, when the nuisance complained of is a rist or
saw-mill, or other water machinery of ‘valuable consideration, an a pli
cation has been made to have such nuisance abated, as is provide for
in section 4097, it shall be the duty of the Ordinary of the county to
take from the jury list of ﬁle in the clerk?s office of the Superior Court
of said county, one hundred names, to be written on separate pieces of
paper, and placed by him in a box; and from said box he shall draw
twelve jurors, and make out a list of the jurors so drawn, and deliver
a copy thereof to the Sheriff, or his deputy, who shall summon said
jurors at least two days before the time set for the hearing of said case,
in the same manner that jurors are now summoned in the Superior
Court. Said 'urors so summoned shall attend at the Court House of said
county at t e time speciﬁed in said summons; and if any of said
'urors should be dis ualiﬁed from serving, for any legal cause, it shall
e the duty of the S eriff, or his deputy, under direction of said Ordi
nary, to summons a sufficient number of tales jurors to complete the
jury for the trial of said nuisance. And the jurors serving under the
preceding section shall be entitled to the same per diem allowed jurors
1n the Superior Court of the county where such trial is had.
§4098. (4()27.) (3999) By whom the application may be made. A pub~
lic nuisance may be abated on the application of any citizen of the
district, and a private nuisance on the application of the party injured.

§4099. (4028.) (4000.) Fees of the clerk, witnesses and jury. When it
may become necessary for the Ordinary,or other tribunal authorized by
this Code so to do, to cause a jury to be summoned and impaneled to
try a cause of nuisance arising from water machinery. mill-dam,
or otherwise, the Ordinar ', witnesses, and jurors, shall be allowed such
fees in said causes as are allowed by law in like eases in Superior Courts.
§4100. (4022).) (4001.) Fees for mmvnoning jury. The Sheriﬂ', or other
oﬂicer, for summoning such jury, shall receive the sum of three dollars;
and when acting under the order of said Ordinary, or other tribunal,
shall remove any nuisance, machinery, or mill-dams, for which he shall
be allowed such [compensation as is prescribed in section 3696 of this
Code_] (a_)
§4101. ( 4030.) (4002. Jury, how summoned, etc. Wheneveracoroner of
any county in this State shall have notice or be certiﬁed of the death of
any person within the limits of the county of which he is coroner, oc
curring under circumstances which make it his duty, under the laws
of this State, to hold an inquest, he shall make out a precept, directed
to any constable of the county where the dead body is found or lving,
requiring him to summon a jury of inquest composed of good and law
ful men of such county, to appear before such coroner at the time and
place mentioned in the precept ; which precept may be in the form fol
owing—that is to say:
“STATE OF GEORGIA,
—— Coonry.
j To any Lawful Constable of said County, Greeting:
“ You are required immediately to summon eighteen good and lawful
men of said county to be and appear before me, the undersigned, coro
ner of the county aforesaid, ati, in said county, on theiday of
—-, at — o‘clock of that same day, then and there to inquire of, do and
execute,all such things as in behalf of the State shall be given themin
charge touching thedeath of , (or a person unknown, as the case may
be,) and be you then and there with this precept to certiﬁy what you
have done in the premises, and further to do whatsoever else may in
behalf of the State be enjoined upon you.
“Given under may hand and seal this the —~ day of ———, in the
year of our Lord . —— CORONER. [L. s.]”
Which precept shall be forthwith executed b the constable, in whose
hands it may be placed; and if the services 0 a constable cannot be
conveniently obtained, the coroner may summon the jury himself.
No law for remuneration to be paid jurors in such cases: 60 Ga., 612.
§4102. (4031) (4003.) Defaulting jurors may be ﬁned. Any juror fail-
ing to attend and serve on such coroner’s inquest, after being dul ' sum-
moned, ma be ﬁned by the coroner in a sum not exceeding ten ollars,
to be levie and collected by execution issued by the coroner, unless
such defaulting juror shall ﬁle in the oﬁice of the Ordinary a good and
sufficient excuse for the default, to be judged of by the next Court
of Ordinary held thereafter.
§4103. (-1032.) (4004.) Number of jury, etc. Every coroner’s jury shall
be composed of twelve jurors, seven of whom shall be competent to
return a verdict. [Except when the deceased body upon which an in'(
quest is to be held is found lying without the corporate limits of any
city or town in this State: then, and in that case,a jury of six persons
shall be competent to hold the inquest and return a verdict, a. majority
of them concurring therein.] (a.) '
§4104. (4033.) (4005) Oath of foreman and jur . The following oath
shall be administered to the foreman of the jury y the coroner, to-wit:
“You, as foreman of the inquest, shall diligently inquire, and true
presentment make, on behalf of the State of Georgia, how and in what
manner C. D. (or a person deceased unknown, as the case may be), now
here lying dead, came to his death, and of such other matters relating
to the same as shall be lawfully required of you according to evidence.”
And the remainder of the jury, in convenient numbers at a time, shall
be sworn by the coroner as follows, towit: “ The same oath which the
foreman of this inquest has taken on his part, you, and each of you,
shall observe and keep u on your part. So help you God.”
§4105. (4034) (-1006.) ha-roe of coroner and powers of The coroner
shall charge the jurors to declare of the death of the person upon whose
body the inquest is held, whether such person died by murder, man
slaughter, misadventure, misfortune, accidcnt, or otherwise ; and who,
and when, and by what means, and in what manncr; and if by murder,
who were principals and who were accessories ; and if by manslaughter,
who were the per etrators, and with what instrument the stroke or
wound was in eit er case given; and so of all the revailin circum
stances which may come from presumption. And ifpby misa venture,
misfortune, accident, or otherwise. whether by the act of God or by man ;
and whether by hurt, fall, stroke, drowning, or in any other way; also,
what person was present at the death; also, from whence the deceased
came, and who he was, and who are his parents, relations and neigh
bors; also, who were the ﬁnders of the bodv; also, whether he died in
the same place the body was found, or elsewhere; and if elsewhere, who
moved the body; and, also, of all the circumstances relating to said
death; and if the deceased died in prison, the coroner shall further
charge the jury to inquire whether he died by hard usa e there or not,
and if so by whom; and if the deceased put an end to is life, to in
quire of the manner, means used, or instrument employed, and of the
circumstances concerning it; and the jury shall have full and unre
stricted powers to inquire and pass u on all the matters and things
thus given them in charge, and they s all have this power even if the
whole or a part of the charge be omitted.
§-1106. ( 4035.) (4007.) _Wit'nessea, how summoned and sivorn. The coroner
shall have full power to issue sub oenas to, or otherwise to compel the
attendance of, witnesses upon sucii inquests, to declare their knowledge
touching the matters of inquiry before the inquest, and the coroner
shall administer to such witnesses the following oath, to-wit: “The
evidence that you shall give this inquest on behalf of the State touch
ing the death of C. D. (or a erson unknown, as the case mag be), shall
bqxghe truth, the whole trut , and nothing but the truth. 0 help you
G . ’
§4107. (4036.) (4008.) Witnesses to be recognized. If the inquest dis
. Person
closes facts which lead or may‘ lead to the prosecution of anv
for the homicide of the person upon whose body the inquest is held, it
shall be the duty of the coroner to. require all witnesses who testify to
facts material to the issues involved in such prosecution to enter into
a recognizance to appear and give evidence in the Superior Court of
the county in which the inquest is taken, against the defendant in
such prosecution ; and shall also issue a. warrant for the arrest of the
person suspected of the homicide, returnable as other warrants.
§4lO8. (4037.) (-4009.) Inquisitio-n to be returned to Superior Court. The
coroner shall commit to writing the substance of the -testimony deliv
ered before the inquest, and shall return all the papers and proceedings
touching the inquisition to the Superior Court of the county in which
it is taken, held next after such inquest.
§4109. (4038) (4010.) May analyze stomach, etc., for ' on. If the
verdict of the jury suggest that the death was caused y poison, the
coroner shall have power to cause an accurate examination of the “ viscera”
and the contents of the stomach and intestines b skillful chem-
ists, and the reasonable expenses of such examination s all be paid out
of the county treasury. In any case, if the coroner and a majorit ' of
the jury shall believe that the ends of justice can only be attaine by
a thorough post-mortem examination, the coroner may employ a com
petent and impartial physician to make such examination, and the
physician so employed shall be paid out of the county treasur such
sum as may be agreed to by the coroner and jury: Provided, t at the
amount shall not exceed twenty dollars.

§4111. (4040.) (4011.) When held. The several Courts of Ordinary
slﬁalji be l11&ld(i1n each coplnty id} this State, by the Ordinary thereof, on
t e rst ’on ay in eac mont .
§4l 1h2.l 1(‘l1(O41.)h§40%.) ($.31, where liept,_¢€nd when Thlc said Ordi-
narys a ee IS o ce a e coun ysi e or suc 0 ier p ace as maybe
authorized y law; which oﬁice shall be, 0 en for the transaction of
all business at all times, except Sundays and olidays ; but no will shall
be admitted to record, or letters testamentary, or of administration, or
gualrdianshtip, or lettciars dismissory, no? shal any orclprc for the sale of
rea estate e grante , exce t at a regu ar term of sai ourt.
§4113._ (4042.) (4013.)_ ay be adjo_ur'ned. If, from any circumstance,
the Ordinary should fall to hold said Court at the regular term, or at
any adjourned term, or the business of the Court requires it, said Ordi
nary, or his deputy clerk, may adjourn said Court to such times as he
may think proper : Hovidcd, such adjournment shall be entered on the
minutes of the Court.

§4114. (4043.) (4014.) Application, not-ice and proceedings. Everv ap
lication made to the Ordinary for the granting of any order shall be
y petition in writing, stating the ground of such application and the
order sought. If notice of such applieation,other than by published
citation, is necessary under the law or in the judgment of the Ordinary,
he shall cause a cop of such application, together with a notice of the
time of hearing, to e served bv the Sheriff, or somelawful ofiicer, upon
the party or parties tobe notified, at least ten days before the hearing,
and an entry of such service made on the original. In extraordinary
cases, where it is necessary to act before such notice can be given, the
Ordinary shall so direct the proceedings as to make no ﬁnal order until
such notice has been given.

§4115. (-1044.) (4015).) Order, what it must contain. The order of the
Ordinary shall always recite the names of the persons so notiﬁed, and
the compliance with the provisions required.

§4116. (4045.) (4016.) Objections must be in writing. All objections or
caveats to an order sought shall also be in writin ,setting forth the
grounds of such caveat. The petition and caveat sha l be amendable at
all times and in every particular.

§4117. (4046) (4017.) Proceedings must be ﬁled and recorded. The pro
ceedings sh Lll always be kept of ﬁle, and whenever the order is granted
the proceedings shall be recorded in a book to be kept for that purpose,
for which the Ordinary shall receive the same fees as are allowed Clerks
of the Superior Court for similar services.
§4118. (4047.) (4018.) Minutes of proceedings. The Ordinary shall
_keep a regular book of minutes of the proceedings of his Court, on
whichdhe shall enter all the applications refused as well as those
rante .
g §4119. (4048) (4019. Docket of applications. He shall keep a docket
of all applications an causes pending in his Court, which shall be
rplgulaply continued from term to term until the ﬁnal disposition
t ereo.
§4120. (4045).) (4020. Docket of returns. He shall also keep a docket
of all the executors, a ministrators, guardians, and trustees who are
liable to make returns in his Court, with regular entries of their re
turns, and of such as have failed to make returns as required by law
and the order of the Court.
§4121. ( 4050.) (4021.) Illay attach or contempt. The Ordinary shalls
have power to enforce obedience to a l lawful orders of his Court, by
attachment for contempt, in the same manner as a Court of equity
may do.
Section referred to: 45 Ga., 462.
§4122. (4051.) May have Court opened by appointee. [The Ordinary may
appoint some ﬁt and proper person to open and adjourn his Court, in
the absence of an ofﬁcer to do so.

§4123. (4058.) ( 4028.) Applications and objections must be in writing.
All applications for proceedings before the Ordinary, sitting for county
purposes, shall be by petition in writing, which shall plainly and dis
tinctly set forth the grounds of the proceedings desired, and in like
manner, all objections to said roceedings shall be in writing, which
shall fully set forth the groun s of objection.
124. (4039) (-4029.) Docket must be kept. Said Ordinary shall cause
a ocket to be kc t in which shall be entered all motions and applica
tions, which shali) be called and disposed of in the order in which they
stand upon the docket, unless the ends of justice require a diﬂerent
course.
§4125. (4060) (4030) Notice of proceedings. When individuals are to
be affected by any order or judgment of said Ordinary, such individuals
shall have reasonable notice of the time and place of hearing.
§4126. (4061.) (4_031.) Minutes of proceedings. Said Ordinary shall
cause to be kept a minute of the proceedings. _
§4l2T. (4062) (4032.) Jury fees, how collected, etc. For each decree or
verdict in the Superior Court, the jury fee shall be three dollars, and
for each confession of judgment or judgment rendered by the Court,
one dollar, to be taxed in the bill of cost, and when collected shall be
paid into the county treasuries respectively, and added to the fund for
the payment of jurors.
§412s. docs.) (40339 Uontewnpts, how punished. The said Ordinar
shall have power to punish for contempt, under the same rules an
regulations as are provided for other Courts.
Not against guardian for failure to pav money due ward: 58 Ga., 70.
§4129. ( 4064.) (4034.) Avnendments. Amendments shall be allowed as
provided in other Courts.
§4130. (4035.) Jurisdiction and sessions. Justices of the Peace and No
taries Public who are er oﬂirrio Justices of the Peace in this State, shall
jurisdiction in all civil cases arising ea: contractu-, and in cases of
injuries or damages to personal propert , when the rincipal sum does
not exceed one hundred dollars, and t ey shall ho d their res ective
Courts monthly at ﬁxed times and places. All continuances s all be
from term to term.
§4130. (a.) No criminal jurisdiction. The Justices of the Peace and
Notaries Public who are ex oﬂicio Justices of the Peace, shall have no
criminal jurisdiction except to hold Courts of inquiry to examine into
accusations against any person or persons legally arrested and brou ht
before them. All laws and parts of laws, general or local, in conllict
with this and the preceding section be, and the same are hereby, re
pealed.
§4131. (4066.) (4036.) Court, where held. The J ustice’s Court shall be
held at a place in each militia district as nearly centralas convenience
will admit.
§4132. (4067.) (4039.) Justices’ jurisdiction. [The Justices of the
Peace shall have jurisdiction in all civil cases where the principal sum
claimed does not exceed one hundred dollars] 

ices’ Courts shall have jurisdiction of all suits brought on two or more
promissory notes, or other evidences of debt not exceeding one hundred
dollars principal each although given between the same parties for one
and the same debt or’consideration.
[Section (4065).) Superseded by Constitution of 1868, Article V., section
6.]
. §4134. (4070.) (4040.) Ten days’ residence gives jurisdiction. Ten days’
residence of a party within a militia district shall be sufficient to
ive the J ustice’s Court of such district jurisdiction of suits against
1m.
§413-5. (4OT1.) (40-'11.) 0'0-obligora sued in either district. When a bond,
note, bill, open account, or other evidence of debt, shall be against sev
eral ersons, residing in different counties or districts, the plaintiﬁ’
shall ave hiis option to bring suit on such demand in either of such
counties or istricts.
§4136. (4072.) (4042.) If Justice of the Peace is a party. In all cases in
which a Justice of the Peace is a party, the suit mav be brought in
the Justice's Court nearest to the residence of the defendant 1n the
count , or in the district where the defendant resides, at the option of
the p aintiff.
§4137. (4073.) (4043.) When adjoini district has 'urisd1'ction. In
cases provided for in section 4136, the ustice of the eace in the ad
joining district may issue summons, and proceed against the defendant
in the same manner as if the defendant were a resident of such ad
joining district.
§4138. (407-1.) (4044.) Suit against maker and indorser, where brought.;
The makerand indorser of a promissory note, or other evidence of debt,
not exceeding one hundred dollars principal, may be sued in the
district of the maker’s residence, and the indorser may be served with
process in the same manner as that prescribed in the case of joint con
tractors.
§4139. (4075, 4076.) (4045.) Suits, how commemred. All suits before
Justices of the Peace and Notaries Public, who are ea: oﬂiv,-£0 Justices of
the Peace shall be commenced by written-summons which shall be
_ 1 _ _ _ Y _
issued and signed by the Justice of the Peace or i\otary Public of the
district in which the suit is brought, and shall be directed to any law
ful constable of the county in which the suit is commenced, co_mma_.nd
ing the defendant to appear at the time and place of trial, which time
and place shall be s ciﬁed in said summons, and such Justice of the
Peace or Notary Pub ic shall attach a copy of the note, account or cause
of action sued on, to said summons at the time the same is issued.


§4140. What is com'mem'e1nent Qf suit. [The date of the issuing of the
summons shall be considered the commencement of the action.] (a.)
§4141. (4077.) Summons, how dated and served. All summonses shall
bear date ﬁfteen days before the time of the trial of the cause, and shall
be served upon the defendant either by giving him a co y of the same
in person, or b leaving such copy at his usual an most notori
ous place of abo e, at least ten days efore the trial.

§4142. (4078.) (4048.) Summons, by whom served. The summons may
served by the constable of the district in which the suit is com
or if there be no such constable, or if he be a party to, or in
terested in, the case, such summons may be served b any constable of
the county, and it shall be lawful for any consta le of the several
counties of t is State to execute and return any process issued by a
Justice of the Peace or Notary Public of said counties, but he shall_r_e
turn the said process to a Justice of the Peace residing in the militia
district where the defendant or defendants resided at the time of issu
ing said process.

§-1142. (a.) (-1079.) Q4049.) In case of co-obligors. In case where suit
is brought against joint obligors or joint promissors, or other joint
debtors, and in cases where the Justice of the Peace is a party, and in
cases where there is no Justice in the district of the defendant’s resi
dence—~in all these and like cases, the constable of the district in which
suit is brought may serve all processes, on all the arties, and do all
other legal acts required of him in the progress of sue suit, in any dis
trict of the county.
3'41-12. ( b.) Where defendants reside in dzgﬂferent counties. In suits in the
Justices’ Courts of this State against joint obligors, joint contractors,
copartners, joint tres assers, makers and indorsers of promissory notes,
drawers, acceptors an indorsers of foreign and inland ills of exchan e,
or other like instruments,‘if any of the defendants reside out of t e
county, the Justice of the Peace shall issue a second original and copy
for such other county or counties, and forward the same to any consta
ble of the county where such defendant_ may reside, who shall serve
the copy and return the second original with his entry thereon to the
Justice of the Peace before whom the suit is brought.
§-1143. (4080.) (4050) Summons must be ﬁled and kept. The officer
serving the summons shall return the original, with his entry of service
thereon, to the Justice of the Peace before whose Court the suit is pend
ing, and the Justice shall ﬁle and preserve the said original summons
with the other papers appertaining to his oﬁice.
§-1144. (4081.) (4051.) Proceedings to be uniform. The proceedings of
the Justices’ Courts shall be uniform throughout the State, unless
otherwise provided for, and each Justice of the Peace shall keep a
fair and legible book of entry of all civil proceedings had before him
for the recovery of debts.
[Section (-1082.) Repealed by the Constitutionof 1868, Article V.,
section 6.]
§-1145. (4083.) (4053.) Bail in Justices’ Courts. The Justices’ Courts
shall have power and authority to hold to bail for all debts within
their jurisdiction and to enforce the liability of bail under the same
rules and regulations as those which prevail on that sub'ect in the Su
perior Courts; and when a bail process is placed in the ands of a con
stable against one who is moving about from one district to another, such
constable may follow such itinerant defendant, and serve the process
in any district in the county.
§4116. (408~1.) (4054.) Parties may settle cases. Any case in the J ustice’s
Court may be settled at any time by the parties, upon the payment of
the costs which have accrued up to the time of such settlement.
§447. (408-5.) (4055.) Justice must receipt for claims. VVhenever an
claim is given to a Justice of the Peace or constable for collection, suc
J ustice or constable shall give a receipt therefor, and when the money
is collected, such Justice or constable shall pay the same to the plain
tiff, his agent, or attorney, unless there be conﬂicting claims for the
money, in which case the question shall be decided at the ﬁrst Court,
unless a continuance be had according to law.

§4148. (4086) (4056.) Defendant ma plead as in-Superior Court. The
de endant may appear at the time an place speciﬁed in the summons
served upon him, and plead any matter of defense to the action, which
would be allowed to suits in the Superior Courts.
§4149. (4087.) (-4057.) Dilatorg/pleas, and non est fat-tum. All dilatory
pleas must be ﬁled in the ﬁrst instance, unless the failure to do so is
shown to be the result of unavoidable cause; and all dilatory pleas, and
pleas of -non. est fcwtum, must be veriﬁed by the afﬁdavit of the defendant
at the time of ﬁling the same.

§4150. (4088) (4()58.) Best evidence required. In all cases in the Jus
tices’ Courts of this State, the best evidence the nature of the case will
admit of shall be required. '
§4151. (4089.) (4060.) Accounts against nor»-'res1ldents,h0ivproven. \Vhere
suit is brought upon an open account against a party who has removed
from the county in which the debt was contracted, or who resides out
of the county in which the debt was contracted, such account must be
‘proved by the written aﬂidavit of the pla.intiﬁ'; and when so roved
shall be received in evidence as if it was proved in o en Court. fever
theless, if the defendant will ﬁle his written aﬁi avit denying the
justice and fairness of the whole or any part of such account, the Court
shallnot give judgment in favor of the plaintiff for that part of the
account so denied and controverted, unless supported by other proof.


§4155. (4096. Continua-nce-9. [If either party is not ready for trial
at the time an place designated in the summ0n=, the Justice or com-<b>
missioned Notar Public may continue the case, upon a_ sulﬁcient‘8“
legal showing. ut neither party shall be entitled to more than one
continuance, unless it be for providential cause

§4156. (4097.) (4068) Justke to give judgment. W'hen cases are tried,
the Justices of the Peace shall render judgment therein according to
the law and the facts of each case, and such judgment shall be enforced
by execution, unless prevented by appeal or other lawful means.

§4l57. (4098.) Appeals, when and how entered. [Either party being a
dissatisﬁed with the judgment of the Justice of the Peace or Notarv°'
Public, and u n al confessions of judgment, provided the a1nourit§§j
claimed 1n sai suit is over ﬁfty dollars, may, as a matter of right, enter
an appeal from said judgment, within four days (exclusive of Sundays)
after the rendition of such judgment under the same rules, regulations,
restrictions and liabilities as are provided on the subject of appeals in
Part III., Title V., of this Code] 

§4157. (a.) (4098.) ( 069.) Appeals in Ju-*tz'c'e-2’ Courts. In anycivilcasc
in a Justice’s Court, either party dissatisﬁed with the judgment of the
Justice, may, as of right, enter an appeal to a jury in said Court, under
the same rules as now regulate appeals to the Superior Court: Provided,
that by consent of parties, such a case may be passed to the appeal, be
fore judgment of the Justice, without giving bond for the eventual
condemnation money.

§4157. éb.) A ale to the Su '1‘ Court. \Vhere the sum claimed
exceeds ﬁ ty do lars, the law o appeals from the Justice Court to the
Superior Court shall be the same as contained in this Code: Provixied,
that in any case referred to in this and the preceding section, appeals
in forma auperis may take place under such regulation as now exist
for appea s in forma pauperis, and subject to such law as may be passed
concerning proceedings in forma pauperis.
All ap
§4157. (C. ; (4099. £40701) Trial, and how juries are made up.
peals shall be tried e ore the Justice of the Peace or Notary Public, or
both, and ﬁve jurors drawn, impaneled and sworn as follows, to-wit:
The Justice of the Peace, in each district, shall once in every t\vo years,
make out a list of all persons liable to serve as jurors in the Superior
Court, who may reside in their respective districts, and shall write
their names on separate pieces of paper and deposit them in a box,
marked No. 1. Said Justices, or one of them, in ublic, on aCourt day,
in conjunction with a constable, shall, if an ap ea is pending, or notice
thereof given, draw, after shakin the box we 1, ﬁve names therefrom,
which names after being recorde on a book, shall be deposited in abox,
marked No. 2. After all the names are drawn from box No. 1, then the
drawing shall commence from box No. 2, and so on alternatel . The
jurors so drawn shall trv the causes pending in the appeal in sai Courts,
and shall be summoned by the constable of the district or other lawful
officer, at least ﬁve days before the Court at which they are called upon
to serve, and if there should be a deﬁciency of jurors at the trial, the
constable, by direction of the Court, shall complete the jury by tales
man.
§4157. (d.) (4099.) (4070.) Oath of 'ury. The following oath shall be
to the jury, to-wit: “
ou shall well and truly try the
causes depending between the parties at variance, and true verdict give
according to equity and the opinion you entertain of the evidence pro
duced to you, to the best of your skil and knowledge, without favor or
affection to either of the parties, provided the case or cases -submitted
shall not be withdrawn from your consideration. So help you God.”
§-11-57. (e.) Jury drawn in vacation, when. In all cases where the Jus
tice of the Peace, at the regular term of the Court, shall, from any cause
fail to draw a jury, it shall be lawful for said Justice in conjunction
with the constable, or any two freeholders at any time, to draw a jury
who shall serve on being summoned as aforesaid.
§~l1-57. (f.) (-1111.) (-1082.) Dqfaulting jurors, how dealt with. Said J us~
ticcs of the Peace shall have power to impose ﬁnes and issue executions
against all defaulting _]l1l'Ol‘B who refuse to obey the summons without
Said ﬁne shall not exceed ﬁve dollars, and shall
a good legal excuse.
next Court ﬁlesbe collected by the constable, unless the absentee b
his excuse undei' oath, or makes it in open court, to . passed upon in
either case by the Justice of the Peace.
§-L157. (g.) Right of vertiorari. In all cases tried in the Justice Court,
either party shall have the right of review in the Superior Court by
writ of 1'/_'rtim'ari.
§41-37. (h.') Second apieal jorbidden. In no case where an appeal
shall have been enteret from the decision of a Justice of the Peace to a
jury in the Justice Court, shall there be an appeal from the verdict of
such jury to the Superior Court.
§4l57. (i.) Compen-Ration of jurors. The compensation of jurors for
services in Justice Courts shall be as follows: For each verdict, the
jury making and returning the same, shall be entitled to the sum of
one dollar and twenty-ﬁve cents, to be paid by the party in whose
favor the verdict is rendered, and divided equally among the jurors,
and taxed in the bill of costs, and said jurors shall not receive further
compensation.
§-1157. (j.) Certiorari in appeals from Justice to Superior Courts. \Vhen
either party is dissatisﬁed with the verdict of a. jury in any a peal'
case, tried in the Justice Courts, such arty may apply for and obtain
a writ of certiorari, by petition to the udge of the Superior Court in
whose circuit the said Justice Court was held, in which etition he
shall plainly and distinctly set forth the errors complaine of, and all
after-proceedings shall be under the samerules and regulations as are
now established by law for the granting of writs of ce1't*io1-an‘ from Jus
tice Courts in this State.

§4158. (4lOO.) ( 4071.) Claims, when and how interposed. PVhen an
execution rendered by a Justice of the Peace or Notary Pub ic, who is
ex qﬂicio Justice of the Peace, shall be levied upon personal property
which is] (a.) claimed by any person not a arty to the execution, the
claimant, his agent, or attorney, shall ma e oath that the property
levied on is the right and ro erty of the claimant. and shall also give
bond and security in doub e t e amount of the execution ; which bond
the levying oﬁicer is empowered to take, payable to the plaintiff or as
signee of the execution, as the case may be, with condition to pay all
costs and damages which the said plaintiff or assignee may sustain, in
case it shall a pear that such claim was frivolous and intended for delay
only; which ‘bond, on breach of the condition thereof, shall be re
coverable in any Court having cognizance of the same.

§4159. (410l.) (4072.) C'la'i'ms, when, where and how tried. When the
claim aﬂidavit is made and the bond given, as directed in the preced-
ing section, the constable shall postpone the sale of the property, and
return the papers to the Justice of the Peace or Notary Public who
issued the execution; an it shall be the duty of such Justice or No-
tary Public to cause an issue to be made up, and try the right of rop-
erty accordin to law, at the next re ular term of the Justice ourt
held by said ustice of the Peace or otary Public, occurring after tcn
days from the ﬁling of said claim.] (b.')
§4160. 4102.) Continuance. U n good cause shown, on oath, a claim
case may e continued one time y each arty, and no longer.
§4161. Garni-shes must amrwer, when. W en a process of garnishment
is issued out, returnable to any J ustice’s Court and served upon the garnishee,
it shall be the duty of the garnishee to answer at the term to
which the garnishment is made returnable. And in case of failure so
boanswer, the Justice of the Peace shall entera default against the gar
nishee, and shall enter up judgment in favor of the plaintiff against
the garnishee, for such an amount as may have been obtained by judg
ment against the defendant, or for such amount as may thereafter be
recovered in the pending suit. After judgment obtained, and when
the garnishee ap ears and answers that he is indebted to, or has effects
in his hands be onging to, the defendant, the Court shall proceed as
prescribed in section 330-5 of this Code.

§4l61. (a.) Persons in another militia district, how garnished. When
any person or persons, sought to be arnished, resides in a militia dis
trict in the same county, different rom the_ militia district in which
suit is pending, or judgment was obtained, the plaintiff, his agent, or
attorne at law, may make affidavit and give bond in the militia dis
trict w ere the person or persons sought to be garnished, resides, be
fore any oﬂicer ofsaid district, authorized to issue an attachment under
the laws of this State, and it shall be the duty of the officer taking
such afﬁdavit and bond to make out a copy thereof, and certify the same
to be true, and to issue summons of garnishment for such person or per
sons as he may be directed by the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney at
law, requiring such person or persons to ap ear at ‘the next Notary
Public’s or J ustice’s Court, of the district of t e garnishee’s residence,
according as such suit was pending, or judgment was obtained, in the
Notary Public’s or Justicc’s Court, then and there, on or before the time
fixed in said summons of garnishment, to depose and answer according
to law. And it shall be the duty of the oﬁicer serving such summons,
to return or transmit the certiﬁed affidavit and bond, tovether with his
actings and doings thereon, to the Notary Public’s or Justice’s Court,
of the district in which suit is pending or judgment was obtained, and
to return the original aﬂidavit and bond to the Court of the district of
the garnishee’s residence, when such person so summoned shall ap wear,
with his actings and doings thereon, and all subsequent procee ings
shall be the same as are now provided for cases where the arnishee re
sides in a different county from the one where suit is pent ing, or judg
ment was obtained.
§162. Traverse of answer, and proceedings thereon. [If the laintiff in
such suit desires to traverse the answer of the» garnishee, e shall do
so within ten days after the' same is ﬁled and not after, and if such
traverse is ﬁled, it shall be the duty of the partv ﬁling the same, within
ﬁve days thereafter, to give written notice to the opposite party in in
terest, or his attorney, of the time of hearing the issue formed upon
the same, which shall be appointed by the presiding Justice, and shall
not be less than ten days after the ﬁling of such traverse] (b.)*
§163. Illegality, how tried. [When an issue is made by an aﬁidavit
of illegality, as now provided for by law, and returned to any Justice’s
Court in this State, it shall be the duty of the Justice of the Peace to
assigna day for the trial of the issue, which shall be within ten days
from the date of the return of the papers, and if the parties are not
ready for trial at the time assigned, the Justice of the ’eace may, for
good cause shown, continue the cause to some other day, not exceeding
ten days] (c.)*
§416-1. (4lO3.) (407-'1.) Digniti and l-fen of judgments. All judgments
that may be obtained in, an executions issued from, the Justices’
Courts shall bear equal dignity with judgments obtained in. and exe
cutions issued from, the Superior Courts, and shall bind all the prop
erty of the defendant, and his securities, if any (except such as is ex
empthbg law), from the date of such judgment until the same is fully
satis e .

§416-5. (4104.) (4075.) Judgment and exemilion against securities. \Vhere
suit is brought against joint obligors and joint promissors, and any one
or more of them shall make it satisfactoriall y appear to the Court that
he signed the contract sued on as security only, and was not interested
in the consideration thereof, the Court shall enter up judgment and
award execution against such party as security, and when the execu
tion shall be satisﬁed by such security out of his own money or prop
erty, he shall have the right to control such judgment and execution
for the purpose of remunerating himself out of the roperty of the
rincipa in the same manner that securities on stay o execution may
0: Provided, the judgment and execution shall also be against such
principal.
§4l66. ( 4105.) (4076.) Judgments in cases of set-Qﬂ’. When the defend-
ant pleads and establishes a set-oﬂ greater than the demand of the
‘plaintiff, the Court shall render judgment in favor of the defendant
against the plaintiff for the excess or balance over and above the de-,",
mands of the plaintiff, unless such balance exceeds the sum of one
hundred dollars principal, in which event the set-off of the defendant
shall be, by the judgment of the Court, credited with the amount of the
demand established and proven by the plaintiff, and the plaintiff in
such case shall pay the costs.
§4167. (-1106.) (4077.) Haw eznecuhlon may be stayed. When ﬁnal judg-
ment is rendered in the J ustice’s Court, the (party against whom the
judgment is rendered,~at any time within four ays after the judgment,
shall have the right, by paying all the costs which have accrued, and
giving good and sufficient security for the principal and interest in-
volve in the case, to sta the execution for sixty days, if the judgment
is for more than thirty ollars principal; and if the judgment be for
thirty dollars principal, or under t at sum, the execution shall be
stayed for forty days, and when the time for which the execution is so
stayed has expired, execution shall issue against the party and his se
curitv on stay for the amount of the judgment. In case any person,
after being summoned on any complaint for debt in a Justice’s Court,
shall, before the sitting of such Court, remove out of the district, such
-Court may, nevertheless, give judgment against him; and if any per
son shall, after judgment of such court, remove out of the district or
county, or holds property in a different district or county, before satis
faction is made, such Justice may, in either case, issue execution against
such person; which execution, being backed by any Justice of the
county where such person resides, or where his property may be found,
may be levied by any constable of said county, and the after-proceed
ings shall be the same as , rovided in other cases of levy and sale, by
virtue of executions from ustices’ Courts.
§4168. (4107.) (-1078.) When plaintiﬁ" liable for costs. \Vhen an execu
issued from a J ustice's Court shall be returned by the pro er offi
cer, with an entry thereon that there is no propert of the de endant
out of which satisfaction of the execution can be ma e, the plaintiff in
execution shall be bound and liable for the costs due thereon; and if
the plaintiff, upon being notiﬁed of the return and the costs being de
manded of him, shall fail or refuse to pay such costs, execution there
for may issue against such plaintiff.
§4169. (4108.) (4079.) I/iability of ronstable for misconduct.
If any con
stable shall fail to execute and return any process placed in his hands,
or shall fail to account with and ay over to the person entitled thereto
any money which he has received on any note, execution, or other pa
per, placed in his hands as such constable, within ten days after the
money is received, the person injured by such failure may apply to the
Justice of the Peace of the district in which the defaulting constable
is acting as such, or in which he did act as such, if he has gone out of
oﬁice (and if there be no Justice in such district, the party injured
may apply to the Justice of any adjacent district), and obtain a war
rant against such constable; and upon satisfactory proofs of the facts,
the Justice to whom the application is made may, either in term time
or vacation, award judgment and execution against the constable for
the full amount of mone collected and withheld, or which might have
been collected, and the ustice may also ﬁne the constable for such de
fault in a sum not exceeding ten per cent. on the amount of said money
so collected, or which might have been collected.
4170. (4l09.) (-1080.) Constables may be ruled. Constables may be
ruled by their respective Justices’ Courts and compelled to give an ac
count of their actings and doings, or to pay over money received or
collected by them in their official capacity, under the same rules and
regulations as are pursued in the Superior Court in relation to officers
of said Superior Court.
§-1171. (-1110.) (4081.) Witnesses failing to attend. Any witness fail
to attend the J ustices’ Court, after being duly served with a sub
na, shall be subject to a. ﬁne not exceeding ten dollars, which may
e collected by execution, unless good excuse be shown for such failure
at or before the next Court day after the default; and such witness
shall also be liable to a suit-for damages at the instance of the party
in'ured' by his default, in any Court having cognizance of the same.
lSection (4111.) Repealed by Constitution of 1868, Article V., sec
tion 6, clause 3.]
§4172. (-1112.) Executions, levies and sales. [In all cases when no l1p
peal lies or none is entered, a Justice of the Peace, or commissioned
'otar Public, shall issue execution after the expiration of four days
(Sun ays excepted), and the levy shall be advertised ten days, in case
of personal property, before the day of sale, which advertisement shall
designate the time and place of sale, and shall give a reasonable descrip
tion of the property to be sold, and shall be posted in three public
places in the county, and the sale shall be at the place of holding Jus
tice’s Court in his district, and between the hours of ten o’clock, A. 11.,
and four o’clock, P. M. In case the levy is upon real estate, it shall be
Eurped over)to the Sheriif of the county and disposed of as now directed
y aw. (a.
§4172:l (a.) (4112, 4083. Time and place of constables’ sales. Constables
and bailiffs in the State s all be required to sell the property of defcndants
in execution on the regular monthly Court days of their respect-
ive districts at the place of holding such Courts, after advertising the
said property for ten days prior to such sale, and any other sales on any
other days shall be absolutely null and void, and vest no title to the
property in the urchaser: Provided, nevertheless, that the provisions of
this section sha l not be construed so as to prevent the sale of property
ordered to be sold by the Justice of the Peace, as live stock or perisha
ble property, and likelv to deteriorate in value; such sales, when made,
shall be valid and binding.
§4l72. (b.) (-1113.) (4084.) Land may be levied on, when. No constable
shall levy on any land unless there is no personal property to be found
suﬂicient to satisfy the debt, which fact must appear by an entry on the
execution, to be levied by aconstable of the county where such execution
was issued, or where the propert to be levied upon may be found: Pro
vided, that the defendant shall have the right in all cases to point out
any ortion of his property in his possession he may think proper, and
shou d he point out land to be levied upon, the above entry of no per
sonal property may be omitted.

§-1173. (41 14.) (408-5.) Bank and other stock, how levied upon. VVlien
any constable shall have any execution placed in his hands against any
person who is the owner of any shares or stock in any bank, or other
cor ration, or 'oint stock com an in this State, he shall, on the a li
P0 J _ _ P Y: _ _ PP
cation of the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, indorse a levy on said exe
cution ofthe number of shares belonging to the defendant, and make a re
turn of the same to the Sheriff of the county in which he lives, which
said Sheriff shall proceed to advertise and sell the same as required by
law. When the constable levies an execution in which the Sheriff is a
party, or in which he is interested, he may proceed to sell the property
as a Sheriﬂ' is authorized to do.
§4174. (4l15.) (4086.) Compensation of constables. A reasonable com-
pensation shall be allowed to constables for carrying property levied
upon to the place of sale, where there appears to be an absolute neces
sity for doing so, to be judged of by the Justices of the district.
§4175. (4116.) (4087.) Proceedings by bill.‘ The ordinary proceeding
in chancery shall be a bill, which shall be addressed to the Superior
Court, or the Judge presiding therein, and shall plainly setforth the
ground of complaint, and the persons against whom a‘ subpoena is
prayed.

§4176. (4117.) (4088.) Discovery, interrogatories. If discovery is sought
of one or more of the defendants it shall‘ be specially prayed, and in
terrogatories regularly numbered shall be embodied in the bill, as to
every point on which discovery is sought, and the names of the de
fendants from whom answers under oath or aiﬁrmation are required.

§4177. (4118.) (4089.) Formality and amendment. No mere formality,
or omission of a formality, shall vitiate or delay a proceeding in equity,
but the same liberality as to amendment shall be allowed therein as
in a proceeding at law.
§4178. (4119.) (-1090.) Who may sue. Any person who cannot sue at
law, may complain in equity, and every person who is remediless else
where, may claim the protection and assistance of a Court of equity
to enforce any right recognized by the law.

§4178. (4120.) (4091.) Persons under disabilities. Persons not sui juris
may appear, either by guardian or next friend, or guardian ad-lilem- ap
pointed by the Court. In the latter two cases the Court may require
such bond‘ as shall protect the interest of the person under disability.
§4180. (4121.) (4092) Pwriies. Generally, all persons interested in
the litigation should be parties to a bill, but legatees, distributees, and
wards suing executors, administrators, and guardians need not join
others interested in such estate as parties, complainant or defendant,
unless some special adverse claim 1s set up as against such co-distribu
tees or legatees.
§4181. (4122) (-4093.) Divisirm and deﬁnition o bills. A bill is either
original or in the nature of original. Every bil is original which com
mences a proceeding for relief or discovery, or both. Bills for the review,
or avoidance, or injunction, or execution of a former decree, are in the
nature of original bills. A cross-bill need not be ﬁled in this State. The
defendant in every case may set up any matter in his answer, which
under the English practice should be the subject of a cross-bill, and may
require therein any discover from the complainant he may desire. No
supplemental bill need be ﬁ ed in this State. All such matter shall be
allowed by way of amendment. If new parties are necessary, by reason
of any matter thus set up in the answer or by way of amendment, the
Court shall give such direction to the cause, to secure a hearing to such
parties, as if a cross-bill or supplemental bill had been ﬁled. Bills of re
vivor are abolished. 

§4182. (4123.) ( 4094.) Discovery and perpetuati
discovery merely, or to perpetuate testimony, sha l not be sustained un
§4183. (412-1.) (4095) Venue. All bills shall be ﬁled in the county of
the residence of one of the defendants, against whom asubstantial re
lief is prayed, except in cases of injunctions to stay pending proceed
ings,' when the bil may be ﬁled in the county where the proceedings
are pending, provided no relief is prayed as to matters not included in
such litigation.

§418-1. (-1125.) (4096.) Mode and time of ﬁling. No bill shall require
the sanction of the Judge before its ﬁling unless it prays some extraor
dinary remedy. Each bill shall be ﬁled in the clerk's oﬁice, at least
"thirty days before the term to which it is returnable, and shall be served
on the defendant at least twenty-ﬁve days before such term.
See Equity rule No. 1, and Acts of 1878-9, p. 139. ‘
§4185. (4126) (4097.) Subpzena. It shall be the duty of the clerk to
annex to each bill asubpoenadirected to the defendant, and requiring his
appearance at the term of the Court to which the bill is returnable;
and, also, to make out and hand to the Sheriff, or his deputy, a copy of
the bill and subpoena to be served on the defendant in like manner as
petitions at common law. Service on defendants residing in another
county, may be made by the Sheriff of such countv, or any person, who
after examination of the original and copy, will ﬁle an afiidavit (su
ject to be traversed) as to the fact of service. If the defendant does
not reside in the State, service of the bill or any order of Court may be
made by publication‘ in any public gazette of this State (under the di
rection of the Court) once a month for four months. If the non-resident
defendant is represented in Court by an attorney at law or in fact, ser
vice on such attorney shall be suﬂicient. And in all cases not embraced
§4186. (4127.) (4098.) Sarwtion of Judge to extra writs. If an extraor-
dinary process or remedy is prayed, the sanction of the Judge of Court,
or of some Judge of the Superior Courts of this State, must be ﬁrst ob
tained before such process is issued or such remedy granted. The appli
cation may be ea: arte, and granted without a hearin , in cases of man
ifest necessit . n all other cases the Judge should e careful to allow
a hearing be ore passing the order. In all cases, on ten days’ previous
notice and the ﬁling of defendant’s answer, a motion may be made at
Ehambers to set aside or dissolve the order granting the sanction of the
ourt.
§4187. (4128.) (4099.) Duty of ‘clerk. When such extraordinary pro
ess is granted, the clerk shall annex the same, together with the ordi
nary subpoena, to the original bill, and also a co iy thereof to the copy
bill. Such bills and processes can be served on y by a Sheriff, or his
deputy, or a coroner, and must be personal.
§4188. (4129.) Service of bills to mar-sha-l assets. [When a bill in equity
to marshal the assets of the estate of a deceased erson is brought, service
of the same may be effected by serving the efendants, or either of
them, with a copy of the sub oena, of the injunction, and of the ﬁat of
the Judge sanctioning the bi 1, without a cop of the bill, or any of the
exhibits attached thereto, and service so e ected shall be sufficient;
but the defendants, or any of them, shall be entitled to a copy or co ies
of the bill and exhibits, or any art thereof, on appl ing to the cler of
the Court for the same, the clerﬁ charging to the p aintiif such fees as
the existing laws now authorize the clerk to charge: .P!‘O(/‘idéd, such de
fendants, as may be designated by the Judge sanctioning the bill, shall
be served as required by existing laws.] 

§4189. (4130.) Parties defendant may be added and served. [It shall be-(
lawful on application of any of the complainants, for the clerk, at any
time, to insert in such bill, subpoena and in'unction, the name of any
defendant that may have been omitted; an service, perfected in the
manner speciﬁed in the preceding section, shall be of the same effect
and operate in the same manner as though such defendant’s name ha
been inserted in the original bill. (a.)
§4190. (4131.) (4100.) Dismissa of bill. A complainant may dismiss
his bill at an time, either in term or vacation, so that he does not
thereb ' preju ice any right of the defendant. If equitable claims by
way 0 set-oﬂ' or otherwrse have been set up by the answer, the dis
missal of the bill shall not interfere with the defendant’s right to a.
hearing and trial on such claims in that proceeding.
§4191. (4132) (4101.) Modes of defense. A defendant may either de
mur, plead, or answer to a causein equity, or may ﬁle two or all of these
defenses at once, without waiving the beneﬁt of either; or, mav ﬁle
two or more pleas to the same action, in like manner as at law.‘ In all
cases, demurrer, less, and answer shall be disposed of in the order
named; and all emurrers and pleas shall be ﬁled and determined at
the ﬁrst term, unless continued by the Court or by consent of parties.

§4192. (41.33) (4102.) Demurrer, grounds qf. A demurrer denies the
right to the discovery of relief, in whole or in part, admitting the
allegations of the bill to be true, and is founded either upon a want of
jurisdiction in the Court, or of equitable right in the complainant, or
upon a nonjoinder or misjoinder of parties or causes of action, or the
a sence of liability by the defendant to the complainant.
§4193. (4134) (4103.) Pure and im ure pleas, veriﬁcation. A pure plea
sets u some additional fact or facts w rich, taken with the facts stated in
the bi l, show that the complainant is not entitled to relief. An impure
or anomalous plea is ﬁled when the complainant, anticipating the de
fendant’s plea, alleges facts to impeach or annul its effect. In such
case the plea must negative the impeaching allegations, and must be
accompanied by an answer discovering all the facts within defendant’s
power as to such allegations. A pure lea need not be veriﬁed. The
answer accompanying an anomalous p ea must be under oath or affir
mation.

§4194. (41-35.) (410-'1.) Answer and era tiorts. The answer of defendant
(unless further time be given), shal be ﬁled within thirty days
after the ﬁrst term of the Court, exce t when a demurrer or plea, or
both, shall have been ﬁled but not etermined at the ﬁrst term; in
which case the answer need not be ﬁled until the determination of the
demurrer or plea, or both, against the defendant, and then the answer
shall be ﬁled within such reasonable time as the Court shall, under the
circumstances of the case, think pro er to prescribe ; and the order pre
scribing such time may be made y the Judge in vacation, as well
as in Court, during a term, and shall be entered on the minutes,
and the case shall stand for trial u on the issues made by the bill and
answer at the ﬁrst term after the ling of the answer unless otherwise
directed by the Court, and in all cases the demurrer and plea shall _be
determined before the trial u on bill and answer. If the answer is not
full (where discovery is song t). exceptions may be ﬁled at once, and,
on ten days’ notice,.shall be argued and decided at chambers. If sus
tained, the Judge shall require additional answer, on such terms as he
may direct. Exceptions must be ﬁled before the hour for jury business,
on the second day of the second term.

§4195. 34136.) (-1105.) Veriﬁcation of answer. If discovery is speciallv
disclaims , the defendant need not verify his answer; but the defend
ant shall always have the privilege of putting in an answer under oath
for the purpose of using the same as evidence on any motion to dissolve
an injunction, or to set aside any extraordinary process or remedy
ranted. A sworn answer is subject to amendment‘ at any time, bv
eave of the Court, as other leaduivs; but an admission” made in such
answer shall always be evi ence, when offered by the other party.
When amendment to sworn answer: 5 Ga., 390. As to application for suppleme

§4196. (4137.) (-4106.) Effect of amendment. An amendment to a bill
which materially changes the case opens the bill, as amended, to demur
rer or plea. The defendant shall be allowed reasonable time for answer
ing such an amendment. An immaterial amendment does not so open
the bill, and need not be answered at all, or shall be answered inslanter.
§4197. (4138) (4107.) How defendant must answer. When discovery
is sought, the defendant must answer to the best of his knowledge, in-3
formation and belief. lf the defendant knows nothing, but answers only
to his belief from the information of others, such an answer does not
require the testimony of two witnesses to overcome it.

§4196. (4l39.) ( 4108.) Verifying answer of non-resident. When a bill,
or answer, or other proceeding in equity, is required to be veriﬁed by
a complainant or defendant who resides beyond the limits of this State,
an affidavit, made before any commissioner of this State, or any com
missioner, or Master, or Chancellor of a Court of equity, or Judge of
any Court of the State where made, authorized to administer an oath,
shall be a suﬁicient veriﬁcation.

§4199. (41/10.) (4109) Replication and order for trial. No replication
shall be ﬁled, and no order setting down the case for trial; but the par-
ties may commence to take testimony as soon as the bill is ﬁled.
As to replication: 7 Ga., 186; 16/416. Section cited: 54 Ga., 166.
§4200. (4141.) (4110.) Notke of ﬁling of demurrer or plea. If a de
murrer or plea is ﬁled, notice of such ﬁling must be given to the coni
plainant, or his solicitor, a reasonable time before the end of the ﬁrst
term.
§4201. (41-42.) (4111.) Interlocutory decrees and orders. At any st. e
in the progress of an equity cause, if any portion of the same is rea y
for or requires a decree, the Court may hear and determine such mat
ters, and pass such interlocutory decree or order as may advance the
cause and expedite a ﬁnal hearing. If no issue of fact is involved, the
verdict of a jury is unnecessary.

§4201. 4143. 4112. Master or auditor. Ever Chaucer ' Court in
_ _ Y J
this State may appoint a master, to whom it ma ' refer such matters of
account as are com licated in their nature; or, y consent of parties,
may appoint an au itor to investigate and re ort upon similar matter
in dispute. Such master or auditor may su poena witnesses, admin
ister oaths, and hear testimony on any disputed fact, always giving
due notice of his sittings to the parties or their solicitors.

§4203. (41-44.) (4113.) Report and ercceptions. The report of the iiias
ter or auditor, when returned to Court, shall be subject to exce itions
for such time as the Court may allow ; and the exceptions so ﬁle shall
be the only issues of fact submitted to a 'ury, so far as the matters re
ferred are concerned. When submitted, t e jury shall return a verdict
on each exception seriatim.

§4121. (41-15.) (4114.) Hisfee-s. The fees of the master or auditor
shall be determined by the Court, unless agreed on by the parties. And
all cases whether in equity or common law, where an auditor has
been iippointecl, his compensation shall be determined by the Court
unless ﬁxed by an agreement of the parties. ln the event of such
agreement the Court shall enter a judgment in conformity thereto, in
favor of the auditor; where no such agreement is made, the Court shall
render a judgment in favor of the auditor ﬁxing his compensation i1I1
determining, according to its discretion, in what proportion it shall be
paid by-the respective parties, or whether the whole shall be paid by
one of the parties. Judgments-rendered in pui‘suance of this may be
enforced by separate executions issuing in the name of the auditor.

§4205. M146.) (4115.) Trial term. The trial term of all equity causes
shall be the second term after service has been perfected on all the
parties. [But parties to bills in equity may, by consent, dispose of all
equity causes at the ﬁrst term, if service has been properly perfected.

§4206. (41-17.) (4116.) Jury £1-ia.l,when necessary. When any question
of fact is involved, the same shall be decided by a special jury, selected
as in cases of ap eals. If there be no such question, or the m:tster’s re
sort, unexcepte to, covers all such questions, the Judge may render a
ecree without the verdict ofa jury. And in the trial of any chancery
cause in this State, upon the request of either party to said cause, made
after the same is called for trial, and before the beginiiing of the intro
duction of evidence in the same, the presiding Judge shall. when
charging the jury, instruct and re uire them to ﬁnd a‘ special verdict
of the facts only in said cause, and s all inform the jury what issues of
fact are made by the pleadings in said cause. Upon the special verdict
of facts so rendered, the presiding Jud e shall make a written judg
ment and decree in said cause under the aw applicable to the same.
§4208. (4149.) (4118.) -Bill taken pro confcsso. If at the trial term no
answer has been ﬁled, and the complainant has not in his bill dis
claimed discovery, and no suﬁicient excuse IS rendered for the neglect
of defendant, the facts charged _1n the bill shall _be taken as confessed,
so far as the complainant (or his sol1citor_1n his absence) will swear
that the same are true, or, according to his information and belief, must
have been admitted to be true by the defendant in an honest answer;
and the Court may proceed_to decree thereon. The same rule shall be
enforced against a complainant who fails or refuses _to respond as to
any matter set u _1n defendant’s answer and of which discovery is
sought from comp ainant. In proper cases the Court may compel an
answer by attachment for contempt.

§42()9. ( 4150.) (4119.) Decree for wecizﬁc per ormaiwe. A decree for
speciﬁc performance shall operate as a dee to convey land or other
property without an conveyance being executed by the vendor. Such
~decrce, certiﬁed by t e clerk shall be recorded in the registry of deeds
iin the county where the land lies, and shall stand in the place of a. deed.

§4210. (4151.) (4120.) Special verdicts and costs. Special verdicts may
be found by the jury, and they may recommend to the Court t-he asses
nient of costs upon the respective parties. It is the province of the
Chancellor, however, to determine upon whom the costs shall fall.
§4211. (4152.) (4121.) New trials. New_trials may be granted from
the verdicts of juries in equity cases in like manner as in cases at law.
But there shall be no appeal from the verdict of the jury.
§‘4212. (4153.) (4122.) Whatia a decree. A decree in chancery is the
judgment of the Chancellor upon the facts ascertained, and should be
signed by him and entered on the minutes of the Court.
§4213. Q1154.) (4123.) Decrees and remedies. A Court of equity has
full power to mould its decrees so as to meet the exigencies of each case ;
and shall have full power to enforce its decrees when rendered.
§4214. (4155.) Decrees during vacation. [When for any reasonalready
isting, or to exist, it becomes impossible to carry out any last will
and testament. in whole or in part, the Judges of the Superior Courts
shall have power to render at chambers during vacation any decree
that may be necessary and legal in the premises: Pr0vidcd,ai1 piii-ties
in interest consent thereto in writing, and there is no issue as to the
facts; or if there is such an issue, there is a like consent in writing
that the Judge presiding may hear and determine such facts, subject
to a revision by the Supreme Court, as in other cases: Provided, that
in all cases where minors are interested, the consent of the guardian
gt lgév, or guardian ad litcni, shall be obtained before such decree is ren
er . (a.) r
§42 5. (/1156.) (4124.) Execution of m0'ne_1/ decrees. A decree in favor
of any part for a speciﬁc sum of money, or for regular installments of
money. sha l be enforced by execution against propert as at law. The
plaintiff in such execution shall be the person actual y entitled with
out regard to his relative osition in the cause. The defendant in such
execution shall be entitle to all the privileges and defenses allowed to.
executions from a judgment at law.

§4216. (4157.) (4125.) Attachments or contcm t. Every decree or order
of a Court of equity may be enforce by attac ment against the person
for contempt, and if a decree be partly for money and partly for the
performance of a duty, the former may be enforced by execution, and
the latter by attachment or other process.
§4217. (4158.) ( 4126.) Transfer, lien. A decree in equity is transfer
able like other judgments, and when for money, shall have alike lien.
Lieu as to money: 57 Ga., 73. Section cited: 64 Ga., 674.
§4218. (4159.) (4127) Ertforring z'njunctL0'n.a. Injunctions, 'ne esccat,
prohibition, and other extraordinary remedies may be enforced also by
attachment.
/Injunctions may be enforced by attachments: 54 Ga., 257~258; 56/98; 53/203:
51 214.
§4219. (4160.) (-4128.) Dormant decrees, revival. Decrees in uity for
the payment of mone shall become dormant like other ju gments
when not enforced, an may be revived upon petition and notice, with
out a bill or \vrit of scirefacias.
Stated: 8 Ga., 32. Not decree for performance of a duty merely : 33 Ga., 148. When
does not apply to decree for property: 62 Ga., 725. Section cited : 64 Ga., 674.
$71220. (4161.) (41.29.) Limitation on bills of revimu. Bills of review
shall be brought within three years from the date of the decree ren
dered, or from the time of the removal of the disability of infancy,
coverture, imprisonment, or insanity, from the person complaining.
§4221. (4162) (4130.) Proceedings by petition. All proceedings ea: parte,
or in the execution of the protective powers of chancery over trust estates,
or the estates of the wards of chancery, may be presented to the
Court by petition only, and such other proceedings be ha/d therein as
the necessity of each cause shall demand. 

§4222. (4l63.) (4131.) What may be done at chambers. A Court of
equity is always open, and hence the Judge in vacation and at cham-
bers, may receive and act upon such petitions, always transmitting the
entire proceedings to the clerk to be entered on the minutes or other
records of the Court.

§4223. (4164.) (4132) N0tice,w/wn necessary. In all cases of applica
tions for the removal of trustees, or the sale of trust property, or the
investment of trust funds, or similar cases where any person is inter
ested besides the applicant, notice to such ersons must be shown, or
its absence accounted for before the Court siiall proceed in the cause.
§42‘24. (4165.) (4133.) To minors. If minors are interested, and they
have no guardians, guardians ad litcm must be appointed and notiﬁed
before the cause proceeds.

§4225. (4166.) (4134.) Controversy submitted to arln'tration.. All per
having matters of ‘controversy, whether in suit or otheryvise, may
submit the same to arbitration, and any personal representative of any
or uardian of any infant, idiot, lunatic, or any trustee, may
submit to ar itration any matter of controversy touchin the estate or
proglert of such decedent, idiot, lunatic, infant, or of sue trust estate, '
in t e ollowing manner.

§4226. (4167.) (4135) Submission to be in writing. All such submis
sions to arbitration shall be in writing, and shall contain a clear and
accurate statement of the matters in controversy submitted, and any
other matter that may be pertinent to said submission, and also the
names of the arbitrators chosen by the parties. Said submission shall
be signed by the parties or their agents, and, when so signed, shall be
delivered to one of the arbitrators chosen by the parties; and when
this is done, said submission shall be irrevocable, except by consent of
all parties.
§4227. (4168.) (4136.) To consist of three. Ever arbitration under
this provision of this Code shall be composed of t ree arbitrators, one
of whom shall be chosen by each of the parties, and one by the arbitrators
chosen by the parties.
§4'228. (4169.) (-1137.) How chosen. When the submission is delivered
to the arbitrators chosen by the parties, or either, such arbitrators shall
then_choose another arbitrator, whose name shall be inserted in the sub
mission.
§-L229. (-1170.) (4138) Tiirieand place of meeting. The arbitrators so
chosen shall then appoint their time and place of meeting, which shall
be as soon as practicable, consistent with a proper preparation of the
case, and the parties shall have ten days’ notice of such time and place
of meeting.
§4230. (417l.) (4139) I/ist of witnesses to be furnished. At the time
the submission is made, or so soon thereafter as may be done, the par--6
ties shall furnish the arbitrators so chosen, or one of them, with a list
of the witnesses whose testimony they desire to be before said arbitra
tors; and any party neglecting to do this for ten days after said sub
mission is made, shall not be entitled to delay or continuance for the
absence of his t)estimo)ri or witnlesses.
§4'23l. (4172. (414 . One 0 t e arbitrators ailin to attend. If an
one of the arbitrators selecte by the partiesf shogld fail to attend altthe time and place of meeting, or be disqualiﬁed, the party whose arbi
trator is absent or disqualiﬁed shall then choose another in his lace;
and if the arbitrator chosen by the arbitrators is absent or disqua iﬁed,
the arbitrators chosen by the parties shall choose another in his place,
and the arbitrator so chosen shall have all the powers of the arbitrators
ﬁrst chosen.
§4232. (4173.) ( 4141.) Arbitrators must be sworn. Before the arbitra-
tors enter upon a hearing of said cause, to make up their award, they
shall be sworn impartially to determine the matters submitted to them
according to law and the justice and e uity of the case, without favor
orhaﬁbctioii to either party; which oat they may administer to each
ot er.
§4233. (4174.) (4142) Parties not ready, case postponed. When, upon
meeting of the arbitrators, if either party shall not be ready for
trial, the arbitrators may post one the hearing of the case to a future
day, which day shall be as ear y as may be consistent with the ends of
justice, considering all the circumstances of the case. But there shall
not be more than two adjournments of the case except for providential
cause.
§423-L (417-5.) (4143.) May adjourn from day to day. After the arbi
trators shall have commenced their investigations, they may adjourn
from day to day, or for a longer time, if the ends of justice require it,
until their investigations are completed, and they have made up their
award.
§423-5. (4l76.) (4144.) Testimony may be taken by colnmalssion. Testi
may be taken by commission, under the same circumstances, in
the same manner, and subject to the same rules and regulations, as are
now or may be prescribed by law for the taking of testimony by com
mission in the Superior Courts, saving only that the original interrog
atories shall be ﬁled with one of the arbitrators, and the commission
issue by one of the arbitrators, and the testimony when taken, shall be
directed to the arbitrator who issued the commission.
§4236. (4177.) (-1145.) Cmnpetency of witnesses. All persons who have
arrived at sufiicient age to understand the obligations of an oath, and
are not idiots or lunatics, including also the parties to said submission,
shall be competent as witnesses in all cases before said arbitrators, sav
ing only that the wife shall not be a witness for or against the husband,
nor the husband for or against the wife, except in cases where the
same is allowed by law.
May examine the party to the arbitration as a witness for himself: 26 Ga., 451.
§4237. (4178.) (4146.) Examination of witnesses, admission of evidence.
The examination of witnesses and the admission of testimony shall
bedgolverned by the rules of the Superior Courts, except as herein pro
v1 e .
§4238. (4179.) f 4147.) Powers of arbitrators. The arbitrators shall be
clothed with all the powers of the Su erior Courts to compel the a.ttend-
ance of witnesses before them, and a so to compel them to testify, and
any one of said arbitrators shall have power to issue sub cenas requiring
the attendance of witnesses at the time and place 0 their meeting,
which subpoenas shall be served in the manner pointed out by law for
the service of sub xxenas in cases pending in the Superior Courts, and
witnesses so atten ing shall be entitled to the same compensation as
witnesses attending Superior Courts, and it may be collected in the
same manner.
§4239. (4180.) (4148.) May compel the production of books, etc. Said ar-
bitrators shall be clothed with all the wers of the Su erior Courts to
compel parties to produce books and a l other papers W ich they may
deem necessary and pro er for the investigation of the matters submit
ted to them, giving to t e party, his agent, or attorney, from whom the
roduction is required, such notice as is required in the Superior Courts
or the production of papers.
§4240. ( 4181.) (4149.) May administer oaths. Said arbitrators shall
have power to administer oaths to witnesses, and all other oaths that
may be necessary for carrying the provisions of this Chapter into full
eﬂ"ect.
§4241. (4182.) ( 4150.) Two can make an award. If the arbitrators so
chosen shall fail to agree u n an award, then any two of them may
make an award, which shailohave the same force and eﬁ'e-ct as if made
by all three of them.

§4242. (4183.) (4151.) Cop to be given to the parties, original returned to
Superior Court. After the ar itrators shall have made up their award,
they shall furnish each of the parties with a copy thereof, and return
the original award, as provided in the next section, and said award
shall be entered on the minutes of said Court, and shall have all the
force and effect of a judgment or decree of said Court, and may be en
forced in the same manner at any time after the adjournment of said
Court, and shall be ﬁnal and conclusive between the arties as to all
matters submitted to the arbitrators, unless objection s ould be pleaded
to the same, as provided in section 4263 of this Code.
§4212. (a.) Award, where returned." Whenever a case of any kind,
pending in any Court in this State, shall be referred to arbitration, the
award made u on the same shall be entered on the minutes of the Su
perior Court w ere said suit is pending; and in all cases where a mat
ter of dispute, not involved in litigation, is referred to arbitration under
section 4225 of the Code, the award upon the same shall be entered on
the minutes of the Superior Court of the counties where the parties re
side against whoin the award is rendered, if residents of the State, and
if not such resident, in the counties where the award was made.

§4243. (4181) (4152) Frauds may be suggested at the return term. \\'hen
said award shall have been returned to said Court and entered upon
its minutes, as provided in the previous section of this Code, either of
the parties may suggest, on oath, at the term to which said award is
returned, that the award was the result of accident, or mistake, or the
fraud of some one or all of the arbitrators or parties, or is otherwise
illegal. Whereupon the Court shall cause an issue to be made u , which
issue shall be tried b a special jury under the same rules an regula
tions as are prescribe for the trial of_ appeals; which trial shall be had
at the same term of the Court at which the suggestion is made, unless
good cause be shown for a continuance, when the same may be con
tinued for one term only, except for providential causes.
§4244. (-4185.) (4153.) Verdict of jury. If upon the trial of such issue
the jury shall return a verdict ﬁnding against said award on the speci-'
ﬁcations made in the issue submitted, the Court shall forthwith pass
an order vacating and setting aside said award; but if the jury shall
not so ﬁnd, said award shall remain in full force as provided in the
previous section of this Code, and shall be ﬁnal and conclusive unless
the jud ment of the Superior Court on the trial of such issue be re
versed y the Supreme Court.

§4245. (4186) (-1154.) Cler-k’s fees. For each award entered upon the
minutes of the Superior Court, the clerk shall be entitled to the same
pa now allowed by law for the entering of judgment in other cases,
to e paid by the parties as directed in said award.
§4246. (41871) (4155.) Costs, how taxed. The arbitrators shall return
1n their award the costs of the case, which they may tax against either
party, or a part against one and a part against the other, according as
they may think just and right.
§4247. (4188.) (4l56.) C’ompen.sation of arbitrators, how ﬁred and collected.
The arbitrators shall have such compensation for their services as may
be agreed upon by themselves and the parties, which shall be paid
qua ly by the parties, or included in the judgment or decree of the
Court, to which said award is returned as part of the costs in said case;
and if the parties fail to agree on the amount so to be paid, the Court
to which said award is returned shall direct an issue (as to the amount
of the fee) to be formed between the parties and the arbitrators, which
shall be tried by a special jury, whose verdict shall be ﬁnal and con
clusive, unless reversed, and the subsequent proceedings thereon shall
be the same as in cases of appeal.

§4248. (418!).) (4157.) Any number of arbitrators. Nothing in the pre
ce ing Chapter contained shall prevent any of the parties named in
the ﬁrst section thereof from submitting any and all matters of contro
versy to the arbitrarnent and award of any number of arbitrators, as
provided by this Code, whether the same be in suit or otherwise; and
I
when so submitted, the proceedings shall be governed by the provisions
of this Code and the common law.

§4249. $4190.) (4158) Submission when suit is pending. In all matters
su mitte
to reference by parties in a suit, under a rule of Court, or
other agreement in writm ,sigued by the parties (except as hereinbe
fore provided), judgment s all be entered up by the party in whose
favor the award IS given, and execution shall issue for the sums
awarded to be paid as they respectively become due. and to be levied
on the property of the party against whom the judgment shall have
been entered up, and such other proceedings shall be had thereon by
the Court as in cases of judgments entered upon verdicts of juries.
§4250. (4191.) (4159.) When a writ of error lies. No cause shall be
carried to the Supreme Court upon any bill of exceptions, so long as
the same is pendin in the Court below, unless the decision or judg
ment complained 0?, if it had been rendered as claimed by the lain
tiif in error, would have been a ﬁnal disposition of the cause. ut, at
any stage of the cause,.either party may ﬁle his exceptions to any de
cision, sentence, or decree of the Superior Court; and if the same is
certiﬁed and allowed, it shall be entered of record in the cause ;
and should the case, at its ﬁnal termination, be carried, by writ of
error, to the Supreme Court by either arty,error may be assigned upon
such bills of exception, and a reversa and new trial may be allowed
thereon, when it 1s manifest that such erroneous decision of the Court
has or may have affected the ﬁnal result of the case.

§4231. ($4192.) (4160.) BilLs of e.rcept'tons. Either party in any civil
cause, an the defendant in any criminal" proceeding in the Superior
Courts of this State,may except to any sentence, judgment, or decision,
or decree, of such Court, or of the Judge thereof, in any matter heard at
Chambers. Such bill of exce tions shall specify plainly the decision
complained of, and the allege error, and shall be signed by the party,
or his attorney, or solicitor. And when the successful party to any
cause tried in any of the Superior or City Courts of this State, which is
carried to the Supreme Court by the unsuccessful litigant, ﬁles a cross
bill of exceptions complaining of errors in rulings made upon the
trial, adverse to him, it shall be the duty of the Supreme Court to hear
argument u on such cross-bill of exce tions and to decide the guestions
e
therein ma e, if a reversal of the ju gment of the Court b ow is or
dered.

§4252. (41939 4161.) Bill of ermeption-3, 1Dh6'nt0 be temdcred. Such bill
of exceptions sha l be tendered to the Judge who presided in the cause,
within thirty days from the adjournment of the Court, or the date of
'the decision at Chambers, and in the event that the Court shall not ad—
journ within thirty days from the date of the organization and opening
of the Court, then such bill of exceptions shall be tendered to the Jud e
who presided in the cause within sixty days from the date of the e
cision, judgment, verdict or decree rendered; and if the same is true,
and contains, in connection with the transcript of the record, all the
facts necessary to the understanding and adjudication of the alleged
error, the said Judge shall sign and certify the same substarltially as
follows:
“I do certify that the foregoing bill of exceptions is true, and con
tains all the evidence material to a clear understanding of the errors
complained of; and the Clerk of the Superior Court ofpthe county of
is hereby required and ordered to make out a. complete copy of
the record of said case, and certify the same as such, and cause the same
to be transmitted to the i— term of the Supreme Court, that the
errors alleged to have been committed may be considered and cor
rected.”
This certiﬁcate shall be the writ of error.

§4253. Brief of evidence is part of the record. [The brief of evidence,
on motion for new trial, ﬁled and approved according to law, is hereby
declared to be a part of the record of the case to which it applies, and
need not, except by reference thereto, be embodied in the bill of ex
ceptions

§4254. (4194.) (4162.) Exceptions pendenta lite. Exceptions tendered be~
fore the ﬁnal hearing of the judgment, for the mere pur ose of being
made a part of the record, shall be certiﬁed to be true y the Judge,
and ordered to be placed on the record.- Such exceptions must be ten
dered during the term. "
§4255. ( 4195.) (4163.) When the Judge is dead or absent. If the Judge
trying the cause resigns, or otherwise ceases to hold his oﬁice as Judge,
when the bill of exceptions is tendered, he may nevertheless sign and
certify as above; and if he should die before certifying the same, or
' - - - - -
otherwise becomes incapable of acting, then the party may verify his
of exceptions by his own oath, or that of his attorney, together
with the oath of at least one disinterested member of the bar who was
present at the trial ; and such veriﬁcations shall operate in the same
manner as the certiﬁcate of the Judge. If the Judge is absent from
home, or by other casualty fails to certify the bill of exceptions within
the time speciﬁed gand without fault of the arty tendering), he may
still sign and certi y as soon as possible, whic shall be held and deemed
valid.

§4256. (4196. 4164.) Where parties die. If either partv dies between
the hearing an t e tendering of the bill of exceptions, the Judge shall
nevertheless sign and certify the same, and parties shall be made in
the Supreme Court as in other cases. The notices required in such cases
to be given and received may be given and received by the attorneys
of the respective parties, though such parties be dead.

§4257. (4197.) 4165.) Judge rqfusiiig to certify. If the Judge shall de
termine that the ill of exceptions is not true, or does not contain all
the necessary facts, he shall return the same, within ten days, to the
party, or his attorney, with his objections to the same in writing. If
these objections are met and removed, the Judge may then certify,
specifying in his certiﬁcate the cause of the delay. If the Judge sees
proper, he mav order notice to the opposite party of the fact and time
of tendering the except-ions, and may hear evidence as to the truth
thereof.

§4258. (4198.) (4l66.) Judge failing to sign, how compelled. If, from
cause, the bill of exceptions is not certiﬁed by the Jud e without
fault of the party tendering, such party, or his attorney, s all appl
at the next term of the Supreme Court, wherever it may be, an ,
on etition, obtain from said Court a manda_1nus nisi, directed to such
J u< ge. Such petition must set out substantially the bill of exceptions
tendered, and shall be veriﬁed by the attorney as to the truth of the
bill as tendered, and by the party, or his attorney, as to the other facts
stated therein. The mandamus nisi shall be served by some Sheriff of
this State, and his return made to the Clerk of the Supreme Court. It
shall be returnable at some term of the Supreme Court, at which term
the Court shall consider and determine the validity of the reasons given
by the Judge for his failure or refusal ; but in no case shall a traverse
as to the truth of such return of the Judge be allowed. If the reasons
be insuﬂicicnt, or the Judge fails or refuses to make any return to the
mandamus nisi, the Supreme Court shall_ issue a mandamus absolute,
commanding the Judge to sign and certify the bill of exceptions. If
he still refuses so to do, the cause shall be heard by the Supreme Court,
on the exceptions as veriﬁed in the petition for mandamus.

§4259. (4199.) (4167.) Service of copy on defendants. Within ten days
after the bill of exceptions is signed and certiﬁed, the party plaintiﬁ'§
therein shall serve a copy thereof upon the opposite party or his attor~
ney, and if there be several parties with different attorneys, upon each,
with a return of such service (or acknowledgement of service) indorsed
upon or annexed to such bill of exceptions, and they alone are parties
defendant in the Supreme Court who are thus served. In cases where
such opposite party is the State, or where such opposite party does not
reside in the county where such bill of exceptions is sued out, and such
bill of exceptions cannot be served personally upon the attorney of
such opposite party by reason of his absence from the countv of his
residence, service may be perfected by leavin acopy of such bill of ex
ceptions at the residence of such attorney. o case shall be dismissed
by the Supreme Court for want of service, when the party beneﬁtted
by a failure to serve, shall——if the bill of exceptions and a copy of the
record in any case shall be in the hands of the Clerk of the Supreme
Court—waive service, and agree thatsaid case may be heard.

§4260. (4200.) (4168.) Ezpartc proceedings. If the proceedings in the
Court below be ea: parte, and there is no opposite party, notice to no one
is necessary. In cases of interpleader or otherwise, where the real con
testant is iiot the opposite arty on the record, notice shall be given to
such real contestant in ad ition to the copy served as above.
§4261. (4201.) (-1169.) In criminal cases. In a criminal case the copy
bill of exceptions shall be served upon the Attorney or Solicitor-Gen
eral, as the case may be, or upon a Solicitor-General pro tem., who tried
the cause, if he is still acting under the appointment.

§4260. (4202.) (4170.) Filin. in cZerk’s qﬂice. Within ﬁfteen days from
the date of the certiﬁcate of t e Judge, the bill of exceptions shall be
ﬁled in the oﬁice of the clerk of the Court where the case was tried; and
in ten days from the date of such ﬁling, it shall be the duty of the
clerk to make out a copy of such bill, together with a complete trans
script of the record in such cause. Such transcript, together with the
original bill of exceptions, the clerk shall transmit, together with a cer
tiﬁcate that the same is the true original bill of exceptions, and a true
and complete transcript of the record in such case, to the next term
of the Supreme Court, as required in the Judgc’s certiﬁcate, directing
the same to the clerk of the said Court. The copy bill of exceptions
shall be retained in the ofﬁce of the Clerk of the Superior Court.

§4263. (4203.) (4171.) Supcrsedeas, how obtained. The bill of excep
tions thus ﬁled shall operate as a supersedcas upon the plziintiﬂ‘ in
error complyin with the following terms: In a civil cause, the party
shall, on or be ore ﬁling the bill of exceptions, pay all costs, and by
himself, his agent or attorney in fact or at law, ive bond with good
security, ayable to the opposite party, and con itioned for the pay
ment of t e eventual condemnation money, and all subsequent costs,
which bond shall be attested and approved by the said clerk; and if
the judgment of the Court below is aﬁirmed, it shall and may e law
ful for the party gaining said case in the Supreme Court to enter up
judgment against the principal and his securities on said bond, in the
same way and manner that judgment is entered up on appeal bonds,
or bonds given for the stay of execution.] (a.) Or he may ﬁle an
afﬁdavit with the said clerk, stating that he is unable, from his pov
erty, to pay the costs and give the securit for the eventual condemna
tion money, and that his counsel has a vised him that he has good
cause for a writ of error, which aﬂidavit shall operate as if the costs
were paid and bond given. In a criminal cause, where the offense is
bailable, the defendant shall enter into a recognizance before the said.
clerk, with security to be approved by him, in a sum to be ﬁxed by the
presiding J udge,conditi0ne for the personal appearance of such defend
ant, to abide the ﬁnal order, judgment, or sentence of said Court. If the
offense is not bailable, the Judge shall order a supersedeas at the time of
ﬁling the bill of exceptions. If the party is unable, from his poverty,
to give the recognizance, the Judge shall order a su ersedeas upon the
ﬁling of an affidavit as provided in civil cases, but t e defendant shall
not be set at liberty without the recognizance. If a pauper oath be
made for the purpose of carrying any case to the Supreme Court of this
State, without payment of costs, such oath shall state that the plaintiff
in error, because of poverty, is unable to pay the costs in said case,
without stating conjunctively the inability of the plaintiff in error to
give bond for the eventual condemnation money.


§4263. (4204) (4172,) Mandamus vs. clerk or Sherzf If any Sheriﬁ‘,
or clerk, or other oﬂicer shall fail to discharge any _duty required of
him in connection with the foregoing provisions, upon petition the
Supreme Court, or the Judge of the Superior Court, may compel the
performance of such duty by mandamus, and no suitor s _all lose any
right by reason of the failure of such oiﬁcers to discharge their duties,
where he has been guilty of no fault himself, and has exercised ordi
nary diligence to secure their discharge of duty.

§4265. @1205.) (4173.) Tm of ﬁling bill of ea:c_e tions. All bills <ri‘
exceptions, taking up cases for review before sai Court, s all be ﬁled
in the clerk’s ofﬁce at least twenty days before the commencement of
the term at which the same is to be heard. Otherwise, the case shall
be docketed for the term held next after ﬁling the same.

§4266. (4206) Mode Qf carrying cases to Supreme Court. [The mode
now prescribed by law for carrying cases from the Superior Courts to
the Supreme Court, shall obtain in, and apply to, the City Courts of
the cities of Savannah and Augusta, and such other like Courts as
ma be hereafter established; and the Judges, clerks, and Sheriffs of
suc inferior judicatories are hereby authorized and required to do and
erform all the acts in relation to carrying cases from their respective
ourts, which are now performed or required of like oﬁicers of the Su—
perior Courts where cases are carried from the Superior Courts. (a.)
§4267. (4207.) Changes made shall apply to City Courts. [Any change
or modiﬁcation in the mode of carrying cases from the Superior Courts
to the Supreme Court, which may hereafter be made, shall a ply to
and govern such inferior judicatories mutatis mutanclis althoug they
may not be specially named

§4268. (4208.) (4174.) Order Qf cases by circuit to be lielwd. [It shall
be the duty of the Judges of the Supreme Court to x, and cause to be
published on the ﬁrst of January, 1867, for twenty days, in one news
paper in Augusta, Savannah, Atlanta, Macon and Columbus, and in
the Southern Recorder and Federal Union. at Milledgeville, the order in
which the cases from the respective judicial circuits will be heard,
which shall not be changed, except by an order of the Court, published
in the same manner at least sixty da s before the term of the Court at
which the alteration is to take effect. (b.)
§4269. (4209.) Number of cases from each circuit to be published. [It
shall be the duty of the Clerk of the Supreme Court to cause to be ub
lished in the manner speciﬁed in the preceding section, for ﬁfteen ays
immediately preceding each session of said Court, the number of cases
docketed from each Court in each circuit, for the information of all per
sons having business in said Court.] (b.)
§-1270. (4210) Mode of announcing decisiorw. [No decision shall be
delivered ore tenus; but the same shall be announced bv a. written sy
nopsis of the oints decided, which shall be delivered during the term
at which the ecision was made. And no decision shall be ublished
in the reports until the said decisions shall have been revise by each
of the Judges presidin in the case.] (a.)
§4271. (4211) (4176. Decisions at ﬁrst term. The Supreme Court shall
proceed to hear at the ﬁrst term (unless rcvented by providential cause)
all cases properly docketed, and with t e records made u ready for a
hearing. ['1 he Court shall decide all questions presente in the record
of each case carried up to it for review.] (a..) And no continuance shall
be allowed except for providential cause.
§4‘271. (a.) Where the cases cannot be disposed of. \Vhenever the SL1-
preme Court of this State may, from any cause, be unable to dispose
of all cases on its docket for any term before the time ﬁxed by law for
the succeeding term to begin, it shall be lawful for said Court to pass
an order requiring counsel in all such cases to ﬁle their abstracts and
briefs in the olerk’s oﬂice of said Court on or before a certain day, prior
to the succeeding term.
§4271. (b.) Cases dimmed heard, when. All cases in which briefs may
be ﬁled as provided in the preceding section, shall be considered as
heard at the term of said Court to which returned, and shall be deter
mined and the decisions therein announced by said Court, so soon after
said briefs are ﬁled as may be practicable.
§-1271. (c.) Additional argument. Should said Court desire to hear
additional argument to that submitted in said briefs, then, and in that
event, it shall be lawful for said Court to pass an order requiring coun
sel to submit further argument by brief or in open Court, and at such
time as may be prescribed in such order.
§4'.Z71. (d.) Cases dismissed, when. Should counsel for laintiff in
error in any case fail to comply with any such order of sai Court, and
no sutﬁcient excuse be shown for noncompliance, such case shall be
dismissed for want of prosecution.
§4272. Dismissal of cases for want of certificate forbidden. No case
shall be dismissed in said Court for want of the certiﬁcate of t e Clerk
of the Superior Court to, or the time of, the transmission of the re.-ord
within the time heretofore prescribed by law: Provided, said record
arrives at said Supreme Court in time to be heard at the term to which
it is by law returnable] (a.)
Section referred to and construed : 59 Ga., 377; 58/598.
§-1272. (a.) Cases not to be dismissed, when. No writ of error shall be
dismissed in the Supreme Court of this State because the Clerk of the
Superior or City Court, Sheriff of said Superior or City Court, Judge of
said Su erior or City Court, or attorney at law of said Superior or City
Court, s all have failed to affix a date to any ofiicial signature, unless
it is aﬁirmativelv made to appear by affidavit or other proof, in the
Supreme Court, that such ofﬁcial signature was made after the time
required b -law.
§4272. (b.) Dismal-sal avoided by amendment. No writ of error shall be
dismissed in the Supreme Court of this State, when, by an amendment
to the bill of exceptions, which is hereb declared to be lawful and
allowable, any imperfection or omission o necessary and proper allega
tions could be corrected from the record in the case.
§-1272. (c.) No dismissal when ground can be removed. No writ of error
shall be dismissed in the Supreme Court of this State on any ground
whatever which Jan be removed durin the term of the Court to which
the said writ of error is returnable, an said Supreme Court shall give
such time, during said term, even to the end of the same, as mav be
necessary to remove said ground, if it can be removed during the said
term.
§-1272. ( d.) No dismissal in other cases. No case shall be dismissed _by
the Supreme Court, or the hearing thereof postponed, by reason of av
failure of the Clerk of the Superior Court in transmitting the bill of
exce tions and copy of the record, or either of them, in any case, to
the ‘lerk of the Supreme Court: Provided, the bill of exceptions and
copy of the record in such cases shall reach the Clerk of the Supreme
Court before said Court shall have ﬁnished the circuit to which said
case belongs; but said case must be entered by said Clerk of the Su
preme Court on the docket of cases from the circuit to which it belongs,
and be heard by the Supreme Court at the term to which it should have
been returned, after all the cases on the entire docket for that term have
been heard; and upon entering said case on the docket aforesaid, said
Clerk of the Supreme Court must give notice, in writing, at once to the
attorney of the defendant in error of the entry and time of hearing.
1n case the bill of exce tions and co y of the record shall not reach the
Clerk of the Supreme ourt before t e cases from the circuit to which
it belongs shall have been disposed of, said case shall not be dismissed
on account of a failure to return or send up the same at the proper time,
but shall be placed by the.Clerk’of the Supreme Court on the docket
for the next term of said Court, and then heard with the cases from
the circuit to which said case belongs, and the clerk shall give a notice,
in writing, to the attorne of defendant in error, at once, of the entry
and time of hearing. W enever, under this section. notice in writing
is to be given b_v the Clerk of the Su reme Court, it will be suﬂicient
toﬂiaddress a letter to the attorney o defendant in error at his post
o ce.
§4272. (e.) Beneﬁts lost by negligence. No person shall be entitled to the
beneﬁt of the provisions of the preceding section who, b his own act,
or that of his counsel, has been the cause of the delay or ailure to send
up said bill of exceptions or a copy of (the) record, by consent, direc
tion or procurement of any kind. -
§-1272. f.) Mistakes of Clerk of Superior Court, how corrected. If any
mistake s all be made by any Clerk of the Su erior Court in his entry
of ﬁling the bill of exceptions in any case, and) it has been made so to
appear to‘ the Supreme Court, said Court shall take anv necessary and
proper constitutional order to secure the correction of such mistake,
and a hearing of the case
§4272. (g.) Incomplete record, how corrected. If, at any time, when a
case is called for trial, or during the trial, or afterwards, while the Su
preme Court may have the same under consideration, it is discovered
that the record 1S so incomplete that 'ustice requires the case to be
postponed or continued until the recor can be made complete, the Su
preme Court shall take such control and give such order and direction
as may be proper in the premises and constitutional.

§4273. Cases may be heard, though not arrivin in tinie.
been transmitted in time to reach the Cler of the Supreme Court
twenty days before the ﬁrst day of the term, but does not, either party
may, on the ﬁrst day of the term, if the record has arrived, move the
Court to have it entered and heard in its order at that term, and if the
Court shall be satisﬁed it was so transmitted in time, or if not trans
mitted in time, it was by reason of the act of the defendant in error
to produce delay, or tending to produce delay, the motion shall be
granted] (b.) \
Section cited and construed: 59 Ga., 377.
§-1274. N0 case dismissed as a penalty. [No rule of said Supreme
Court shall have the effect to dismiss any case as a penalty, upon coun
sel or client, for non-compliance with any rule or rules of said Court,
where there has been a substantial compliance with the laws rescrib
ing the method of bringing cases to said Court; but the 76113. ty for a
violation of such rules shall be as for a, contempt under t e provisions
of this Code.] (c.)
A case defective under the rules of Court, cured by the Act of 1870 passed after the
cause sent to the Supreme Court: 43 Ga , 168.
[If a case has
§4275. Third arties in interest may be heard. [When a cause shall be
for _a hearing, cfore said Court, and there are parties besides the
plaintiffs and defendants, whether shown by the record or not, who
have a direct interest in its result, the Court shall allow such other
arties to appear by counsel on equal terms with the parties directly
Before the Court: Provided, said interest is made to appear.] (d.)
§4276. Timefor argmnent extended. [When the counsel on either side
shall apply to the Court for an extension of time in argument beyond
the time prescribed by the rules, and said counsel shall state in his
place, or on oath, in the discretionof the Court, that he, or they, cannot
0 the question or questions involved justice within the prescribed
time, and that, for said purpose, it will require additional time, stating
how much, in his judgment, it will so require, the Court shall grant
such request.] (e.)
O Extra time must be asked for before argument: 41 Ga., 430. Rule 5 of Supreme
ourt.
§4'27T. (4'212.) Attorneys may argue in writing. [Attorneys and solicitors
who have or may have causes pending in the Su reme Court, may
argue the same in writing as hereinafter set forth.] ( .)
§4278. (4'213.) Written arguments. [When any attorney or solicitor
shall from any cause desire to make his argument in writing, he shall
prepare the same, and address the package containing it to the Clerk
of the Supreme Court of Georgia, which said written argument shall be
ﬁled in the clerk’s oiﬁce of said Court, b or before the commencement
of the term to which it is made returnable] (b.)
See Rules 12 to 15 of the Supreme Court.
§-1279. (4214.) Duty of clerk. [It shall be the duty of said clerk when
the cause is sounded to furnish the Court with said argument; which
argument it shall be the duty of the Court to read, or cause the same
to be done. (b.)
§4280. ( 215.) Costs.‘ [It shall be the duty of the attorney or solicitor
for the plaintiif in error, when forwarding his argument in writing, to
furnish a sum sufficient to pay the costs of said suit, and in default
thereof, his cause shall be liable to be dismissed]. (b.)
§4281. (4216.) (4177.) Making parties. Shou d anv arty die after
the bill of exceptions has been signed and certiﬁed, tlie death being
suggested of record in the Supreme Court, parties shall be made by
scire facias, in the manner heretofore prescribed by the rules of said
Court.

§4282. (4217.) (4178.) Incomplete record. If the transcript of the recor
is incomplete in a material point, the fact being suggested on the
oath of the party or his counsel, the cause shall be postponed, and a
mandamus issued requiring the clerk to complete the transcri t. If, how
ever. the other party will admit the existence and effect oft e omitted
record, such admission in writinv shall constitute a part of the record,
and the cause shall proceed to at-hearing. If the clerk refuses to send
up any of the apers, the laintiif in error, or his counsel, ma apply
to any one of tlie Judges oi) the Supreme Court in vacation an obtain
a mandamus nisi against said clerk, and returnable to the term of the
Court where the case should be tried; and for a continued failure or re
fusal, the Supreme Court may attach the clerk for contempt.
§4283. (4218.) 4179.) Rule when the Judges d§ﬁ"er. If the Court is not
unanimous in its ecisions, the Judges shall deliver the opinions seriatim,
but they shall not be required to write them out. The opinion of the
majority shall decide each question. If but two Judges preside, and
they are divided in opinion, the cause shall be re-argued before the re
maining Judge, with a full bench, ere the term closes, if possible. If
not possible, the judgment of the Court below shall stand aﬂirmed, ugon
the certiﬁcate of the fact of the division of the Court, unless the Ju ge
is absent from providential cause, in which event the cause shall stand
continued.
§4284. 4219.) 4180.) Decision shall be entered on mi-nuites. The decis
ion in eac case s all be entered on the minutes, and it shall be within
the power of the Supreme Court to award such order and direction to
the cause in the Court below as may be consistent with the law and
justice of the case.

§4285. (4220. (4181.) Remitter. The decision of the Court, and any
direction awar ed in the case, shall be certiﬁed b the clerk to the Court
below, under the seal of the Supreme Court, an shall be respected, and
in good faith carried into full effect, by the Superior Court. The re
mitter shall contain nothing more, except the costs paid in the Supreme
Court.
§4286. (4221.) (4182. Damages in cases qf aﬂirmance. Ten per cent.
damages may be awar ed by t e Supreme Court upon any judgment
for a sum certain, which has been carried to the said Court, and there
aiﬁrmed: Provided, in their opinion. the cause was taken up for delay
only, and it shall be so entered in the remitter.

§4287. (4222.) (4183.) Judgment aﬁinned, execution atonce. If the judg
ment below is aﬂirmed, upon ﬁling the remitter with the Clerk of the
Superior Court in vacation, the superseded? shall cease, and execution
shall issue at once for the amount of the original judgment.
§4288. (4223.) (4184.) Bill of e.vcept1'0ns amendable. The bill of ex
ceptions may be amcnded in the Supreme Court, so as to conform to
the record in the cause.
§4289 (4224) (4185) Transcripts to be ﬁled. The transcript of tl'19
record shall not be recorded by the Clerk of the Supreme Court, but
shall be carefully labeled and ﬁled, so as to be easily found when needed.
§4290. (4225) (-1186.) Attorney liable for costs. The attorney repre
senting the plaintiﬁ"s cause shall, in all cases, be responsible for the
costs in the Supreme Court. If there is a judgment of reversal, the
plaintiff in error shall be entitled to a judgment for the amount of such
costs against the defendant in error, so soon as the remitter is returned
to the Court below.
§4291. (4226) (4187.) Taxing costs. At the close of each judgment
on the minutes, the clerk shall tax his costs, subject to revision by the
Judges of the Supreme Court, and the costs so taxed shall be entered
as a. part of the remitter.










