C A P. LXXVI.
An Act to amend the Process, Practice, and Mode
of Pleading in the Superior Courts of Common
Law at TI/estminster, and in the Superior Courts
of the Counties Palatine of Lancaster and Durham.
[30th June 1852.]
HEREAS the Process, Practice, and Mode of Pleading in the
Superior Courts of Common Law at Westminster may be
rendered more simple and speedy : Be it enacted by the
Queen's most Excellent Majesty, by and with the Advice and
Consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in
this present Parliament assembled, and by the Authority of the same,
as follows :
SEC. 1. The Provisions of this Act shall come into operation on the Twenty-fourth Day of October in the Year of our Lord One thousand eight hundred and fifty-two.
And with respect to the Writs for the Commencement of Personal Actions in the said Courts against Defendants whether in or out of ' the Jurisdiction of the Courts, be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 2. All Personal Actions brought in Her Majesty's Superior Courts Common Law, where the Defendant iys residing or supposed
ride
tdoe
reside within the Jurisdiction of the said Courts, shall be commenced
by Writ of Summons in the Form contained in the Schedule (A.)
this Act annexed, marked No. 1., and in every such Writ and
Copy thereof the Place and County of the Residence or supposed
Residence of the Party Defendant, or wherein the Defendant shall
be or shall be supposed to be, shall be mentioned ; and such Writ
shall be issued by any One of the `Officers of the said Courts respectively
by whom like Process hath been heretofore issued from such
Court, or by such other Officer as the Court shall direct.
SEC. 3. It shall not be necessary to mention any Form or Cause of
Action in any Writ of Summons, or in any Notice of Writ of Summons,
issued under the Authority of this Act. 

SEC. 4. Every Writ of Summons shall contain the Names of all the
Defendants, and shall not contain the Name or Names of any Defenand
dant or Defendants in more Actions than One.
SEC. 5. Every Writ of Summons shall bear Date on the 'Day on which
the same shall be issued, and shall be tested in the Name of the
Lord Chief Justice or Lord Chief Baron of the Court from which the
same shall issue, or in case of a Vacancy of such Office, then in
the Name of a Senior Puisne Judge of the said Court.
SEC. 6. Every Writ of Summons shall be indorsed with the Name and
Place of -Abode of the Attorney actually suing out the same, and in
case such Attorney shall not be an Attorney of the Court in which
the same is sued out, then also with the Name and Place of Abode
of the Attorney of such Court in whose Name such Writ shall be
taken out ; and when the Attorney actually suing out any Writ shall
sue out the same as Agent for an Attorney in the Country, the Name
and Place of Abode of such Attorney in the Country shall also be
indorsed upon the said Writ ; and in case no Attorney shall be
employed to issue the Writ, then it shall be indorsed with a
Memorandum expressing that the same has been sued out by the
Plaintiff in person, mentioning the City, Town, or Parish, and also
the Name of the Hamlet, Street, and Number of the House of such
Plaintiff's Residence, if any such there be.
SEC. 7. Every Attorney whose Name shall be indorsed on any Writ
ssued by Authority of this Act shall, on Demand in Writing, made
by or on behalf of any Defendant, declare forthwith whether such
Writ has been issued by him or with his Authority or Privity ; and if he shall answer in the Affirmative, then he shall also, in case the
Court or a Judge shall so order and direct, declare in Writing, within
a Time to be allowed by Ouch Court or Judge, the Profession, Occuordered.
pation, or Quality, and Place of Abode of the Plaintiff, on pain of
being guilty of a Contempt of the Court from which such Writ
shall appear to have been issued; and if such Attorney shall declare the Writ was not issued by y him, or with his Authority or Privit y all Proceedings upon the same shall be stayed, and no further Proceedings shall be taken thereupon without Leave of the Court or a Judge.
SEC. 8. Upon the Writ and Copy of any Writ served for the Payment of any Debt the Amount of the Debt shall be stated, and the Amount of what the Plaintiff's Attorney claims for the Costs of such Writ, Copy, and Service, and Attendance to receive Debt and Costs, and it shall be further stated that upon Payment thereof within Four Days- to the Plaintiff or his Attorney, further Proceedings will be stayed; which Indorsement shall be written or printed in the following Form or to the like Effect :
The Plaintiff claims ' for Debt, and for Costs, and if the Amount thereof
` be paid to the Plaintiff or to his Attorney within Four Days
` from the Service hereof further Proceedings will be stayed.'
But the Defendant shall be at liberty, notwithstanding such Payment,
to have the Costs taxed, and if more than One Sixth shall be disallowed,
the Plaintiff's Attorney shall pay the Costs of Taxation.
SEC. 9. The Plaintiff in any such Action may, at any Time during Six
Months from the issuing of the original Writ of Summons, issue One or
more concurrent Writ or Writs, each concurrent Writ to bear Teste of
the same Day as the original Writ, and to be marked with a Seal bearing
the Word " concurrent," and the Date of issuing the concurrent Writ;
and such Seal shall be provided and kept for that Purpose at the
Offices of the Masters of the said Courts, and shall be impressed
upon the Writ by the proper Officer of the Court out of which the,
original Writ issued : Provided always, that such concurrent Writ or..
Writs shall only be in force for the Period during which the original
Writ in such Action shall be in force.
SEC. 10. From the Time when this Act shall commence and take effect,
so much of a certain Act of Parliament passed in the Second Year of
the Reign of His late Majesty King William the Fourth, intituled
An Act for Uniformity of Process in Personal Actions in His
Majesty's Courts of Law at Westminster, as relates to the Duration
of Writs, and to alias and pluries Writs, and to the Proceedings
necessary for making the First Writ in any Action available to prevent
the operation of any Statute whereby the Time for the Commence.
ment of any Action may be limited, shall be repealed, except so far as
may be necessary for supporting any Writs that have been issued
before the Commencement of this Act, and any Proceedings taken or
to be taken thereon.
SEC. 11. No original Writ of Summons shall be in force for more than
Six Months from the Day of the Date thereof, including the Day of
such Date ; but if any Defendant therein named may not have been
served therewith, the original or concurrent Writ of Summons may be
renewed at any Time before its Expiration, for Six Months from the
Date of such Renewal, and so from Time to Time during the
Currency of the renewed Writ, by being marked with a Seal, bearing
the Date of the Day, Month, and Year of such Renewal, such Seal to
be provided and kept for that Purpose at the Offices of the Masters
of the said Superior Courts, and to be impressed upon the Writ by
the proper Officer of the Court out of which such Writ issued, upon
Delivery to him by the Plaintiff or his Attorney of a Pr ecipe in such
Form as has heretofore been required to be delivered upon the obtaining
of an alias Writ ; and a Writ of Summons so renewed shall remain
in force and be available to prevent the Operation of any Statute
whereby the Time for the Commencement of the Action may be
limited, and for all other Purposes, from the Date of the issuing of the
original Writ of Summons.
SEC. 12. Where any Writ of Summons in any such Action shall have
been issued before, and shall be in force at, the Commencement of this
Act, such Writ may at any Time before the Expiration thereof be
renewed under the Provisions of and in the Manner directed by this
Act ; and where any Writ, issued in continuation of a preceding Writ
according to the Provisions of the said Act of His late Majesty King
William the Fourth, shall be in force and unexpired, or where One
Month next after the Expiration thereof shall not have elapsed at the
Commencement of this Act, such continuing Writ may, without being
returned non est inventus, or entered of Record. according to the
Provisions of the said Act of His late Majesty King William the
Fourth, be filed in the Of ice of the Court within One Month next
after the Expiration of such Writ, or within Twenty Days after the
Commencement of this Act; and the original Writ of Summons in
such Action may thereupon, but within the same Period of One
Month next after the Expiration of the continuing Writ, or within
Twenty Days after the Commencement of this Act, be renewed under
the Provisions of and in the Manner directed by this Act ; and every
such Writ shall after such Renewal have the same Duration and
Effect for all Purposes, and shall, if necessary, be subsequently
renewed, in the same Manner as if it had originally issued under the
Authority of this Act.
sEC. 13. The Production of a Writ of Summons purporting to be marked with the Seal of the Court, showing the same to have been renewed according to this Act, shall be sufficient Evidence of its been so renewed, and of the Commencement of the Action as the First Date of such renewed Writ for all Purposes. XIV. The Writ of Summons in any Action may be served in any County. XV. The Person serving the Writ of Summons shall and he is hereby within Three Days at least after such Service, to indorse on the Writ the Day of the Month and Week of the Service thereof, otherwise the Plaintiff shall not be at liberty, in case of Nonappearance,
to proceed under this Act ; and every Affidavit of Service of
such Writ shall mention the Day on which such Indorsement was made.
SEC. 14. Every such Writ of Summons issued against a Corporation A re ate may be served on the Mayor or other Head Officer, or on Aggregga te y Town Clerk, Clerk, Treasurer, or Secretary of such Corporation ; and every such Writ issued against the Inhabitants of a Hundred or other like District may be served on the High Constable thereof, or any One of the High Constables thereof ; and every such Writ issued
against the Inhabitants of any County of any City or Town, or the
Inhabitants of any Franchise, Liberty, City, Town, or Place not
being Part of a Hundred or other like District, on some Peace Officer
thereof.
SEC. 17. The Service of the Writ of Summons, wherever it may be
practicable, shall, as heretofore, be personal ; but it shall be lawful for
the Plaintiff to apply from Time to Time, on Affidavit, to the Court
out of which the Writ of Summons issued, or to a Judge ; and in case it
shall appear to such Court or Judge that reasonable Efforts have been
made to effect personal Service, and either that the Writ has come to
the Knowledge of the Defendant, or that he wilfully evades Service
of the same, and has not appeared thereto, it shall be lawful for such
Court or Judge to order that the Plaintiff be at liberty to proceed as
if personal Service had been effected, subject to such Conditions as to
the Court or Judge may seem fit.
SEC. 18. In case any Defendant, being a British Subject, is
residing out of the Jurisdiction of the said Superior Courts, in
any Place except in Scotland or Ireland, it shall be lawful for
the Plaintiff to issue a Writ of Summons in the Form contained
in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed, marked No. 2., which
Writ shall bear the Indorsement contained in the said Form, purporting
that such Writ is for Service out of the Jurisdiction of the said
Superior Courts; and the Time for Appearance by the Defendant to
such Writ shall be regulated by the Distance from England of ' the
'lace where the Defendant is residing ; and it shall be lawful for the
Court or Judge, upon being satisfied by Affidavit that there is a Cause
of Action, which arose within the Jurisdiction, or in respect of the Breach
of a Contract made within the Jurisdiction, and that the Writ was
personally served, upon the Defendant, or that reasonable Efforts were
made to effect personal Service thereof upon the Defendant, and that
it came to his Knowledge, and either that the Defendant wilfully
neglects to appear to such Writ, or that he is living out" of the Jurisdiction
of the said Courts, in order to defeat and delay his Creditors,
to direct from Time to Time that the Plaintiff shall be at liberty to
proceed in the Action in such Manner and subject to such Conditions
as to such Court or Judge may seem fit, having regard to the
Time allowed for the Defendant to appear being reasonable, and to
the other Circumstances of the Case : Provided always, that the
Plaintiff shall and he is hereby required to prove the Amount of the
Debt or Damages claimed by him in such Action, either before a Jury'
upon a Writ of Inquiry, or before One of the Masters of the said
Superior Courts in the Manner herein-after provided, according to the
Nature of the Case, as such Court or Judge may direct ; and the
making such Proof shall be a Condition precedent, to his obtaining
Judgment.
SEC. 19. In any Action against a Person residing out of the Jurisdiction
of the said Courts, and not being a British Subject, the like
Proceedings may be taken as against a British Subject resident out
of the Jurisdiction, save, that in lieu of the Form of Writ of Summons
in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed marked No. 2., the
Plaintiff shall issue a Writ of Summons according to the Form contained
in the said Schedule (A.) marked No. 3., and shall in manner
aforesaid serve a Notice of such last-mentioned Writ upon the Defendant
therein mentioned, which Notice shall be in the Form contained
in the said Schedule also marked No. 3. ; and such Service shall be
of the same Force and Effect as the Service of the Writ of Summons
in any Action against a British Subject resident abroad, and by Leave
of the Court or a Judge, upon their or his being satisfied by Affidavit
as aforesaid, the like Proceedings may be had and taken thereupon.
SEC. 20. If the Plaintiff or his Attorney shall omit to insert in or
indorse on any Writ or Copy thereof any of the Matters required by
this Act to be inserted therein or indorsed thereon, such Writ or
Copy thereof shall not on that Account be held void, but it may be
set aside as irregular, or amended, upon Application to be made to
the Court out of which the same shall issue, or to a Judge ; and such
Amendment may be made, upon any Application to, set aside the
Writ, upon such Terms as to the Court or Judge may seem fit.
SEC. 21. If either of the Forms of Writ of Summons contained in the
Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed, and marked respectively Nos. 1,
2, and 3, shall by Mistake or Inadvertence be substituted for any
other of them, such Mistake or Inadvertence shall not be an Objection
to the Writ or any other Proceeding in such Action, but the Writ
may, upon an ex parte Application to a Judge, whether before or
after any Application to set aside such Writ or any Proceeding thereon,
and whether the same or Notice thereof shall have been served or
not, be amended by such Judge Without Costs.
SEC. 22. A Writ for Service within the Jurisdiction may be issued
and marked as a concurrent Writ with One for Service out of the
Jurisdiction; and a Writ for Service out of the Jurisdiction may be
issued and marked as a concurrent Writ with One for Service within
the Jurisdiction.
SEC. 22. Any Affidavit for the Purpose of enabling the Court or a
Judge to direct Proceedings to be taken against a Defendant residing
out of the Jurisdiction of the said Courts may be sworn before any
Consul General, Consul, Vice-Consul, or Consular Agent for the
Time being, appointed by Her Majesty at any Foreign Port or Place ;
and every Affidavit so sworn by virtue of this Act may be used and
shall be admitted in Evidence, saving all just Exceptions, provided it
purport to be signed by such Consul General, Consul, Vice-Consul,
or Consular Agent, upon Proof of the official Character and Signature
of the Person appearing to have signed the same : Provided always;
that if any Person shall forge the Signature of any such Affidavit,
or shall use or tender in Evidence any such Affidavit with a false
or counterfeit Signature thereto, knowing the same to be false or
counterfeit, he shall be guilty of Felony, and shall upon Conviction
be liable to Transportation for Seven Years, or to Imprisonment for
any Term not exceeding Three Years, nor less than One Year, with
Hard Labour ; and every Person who shall be charged with committing
any Felony under this Act may be dealt with, indicted, tried,
and, if convicted, sentenced, and his Offence may be laid and charged
to have been committed in the County or Place in which he shall be
apprehended or be in Custody ; and every Accessory before or after
the Fact to any such Offence may be dealt with, indicted, tried, and,
if convicted, sentenced, and his Offence may be laid and charged to
have been committed, in any County or Place in which the principal
Offender may be tried : Provided also, that if any Person shall wilfully
and corruptly make a false Affidavit before such Consul General,
Consul, Vice-Consul., or Consular Agent, every Person so offending
shall be deemed and taken to be guilty of Perjury, in like
Manner as if such false Affidavit had been made in England before
competent Authority, and shall and maybe dealt with, indicted, tried,
and, if convicted, sentenced, and his Offence may be laid and charged
to have been committed, in any County or Place in which he shall be
apprehended or be in Custody, as if his Offence had been actually
committed in that County or Place.
SEC. 24. From the Time when this Act shall commence and take
effect, so much of the said Act of His late Majesty King William
the Fourth as relates to the Writ of Distringas, and the proceeding
thereon, whether for the Purpose of compelling Appearance or for
Proceedings to Outlawry, shall be repealed, except so far as may be
necessary for the Purpose of giving Effect to Proceedings already
taken, or to be taken after the Commencement of this Act, under or
by reason of any Writ of Distringas issued before the Commencement
of this Act, or under any Rule or Order authorizing the issuing of such
Writ, and made before the Commencement of this Act.
SEC. 25. In all Cases where the Defendant resides within the Jurisdiction
of the Court, and the Claim is for a Debt or liquidated
Demand in Money, with or without Interest, arising upon a Contract,
express or implied, as, for instance, on a Bill of Exchange, Promissory
Note, or Cheque, or other Simple Contract Debt, or on a Bond or
Contract under Seal for Payment of a liquidated Amount of Money,
or on a Statute where the Sum sought to be recovered is a fixed Sum
of Money, or in the Nature of a Debt, or on a Guarantee, whether
under Seal or not, where the Claim against the Principal is in respect
of such Debt or liquidated Demand, Bill, Cheque, or Note, the
Plaintiff shall be at liberty to make upon the Writ of Summons and
Copy thereof a special Indorsement of the Particulars of his Claim,
in the Form contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed,
marked No. 4., or to the like Effect ; and when a Writ of Summons
has been indorsed in the special Form herein-before mentioned, the
Indorsement shall be considered as Particulars of Demand, and no
further or other Particulars of Demand need be delivered, unless
ordered by the Court or a Judge.
And with respect to the Appearance of the Defendant, and Proand
ceedings of the Plaintiff in default of Appearance, be it enacted as
follows
SEC. 26. From the Time when this Act shall commence and take
effect, so much of a certain Act of Parliament passed in the Twelfth
Year of the Reign of His late Majesty King George the First, inti- tuled An Act to prevent frivolous and vexatious Arrests, and so much of the said Act of His late Majesty King William the Fourth as relates to the entering an Appearance for the Defendant by the Plaintiff in any Action in any of the said Superior Courts, shall be
repealed, except so far as may be necessary to support Proceedings
heretofore taken, and no Appearance need be entered by the Plaintiff
for the Defendant.
SEC. 27. In case of Nonappearance by the Defendant, where the Writ of Summons is indorsed in the special Form herein-before pro-
it shall and may be lawful for the Plaintiff, on filing an Affidavit of personal Service of the Writ of Summons or a Judges > Order for Leave to proceed under the Provisions of this Act, and a Copy of the Writ of Summons, at once to sign final Judgment
in the Form contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed,
marked No. 5., (on which Judgment no Proceeding in Error shall
lie,) for any Sum not exceeding the Sum indorsed on the-Writ, together
with Interest at the Rate specified, if any, to the Date of the Judgment,
and a Sum for Costs, (to be fixed by the Masters of the said Superior
Courts, or any Three of them, subject to the Approval of the Judges
thereof,- or any Eight of them, of whom the Lord Chief Justices and
the Lord Chief Baron shall be Three,) unless the Plaintiff claim more
than such fixed Sum, in which Case the Costs shall be taxed in the
ordinary Way ; and the Plaintiff may upon such Judgment issue
Execution at the Expiration of Eight Days from the last Day Ifor
Appearance, and not before : Provided always, that it shall be
lawful for the Court or a Judge, either before or after final Judgment,
to let in the Defendant to defend upon an Application, supported by
satisfactory Affidavits accounting for the Nonappearance, and disclosing
a Defence upon the Merits.
SEC. 28. In case of such Nonappearance, where the Writ of
Summons is not indorsed in the special Form herein-before provided,
it shall and may be lawful for the Plaintiff, on filing an
Affidavit of personal Service of the Writ of Summons, or a Judge's
Order for Leave to proceed under the Provisions of this Act, and
a Copy of the Writ of Summons, to file a Declaration indorsed with
a Notice to plead in Eight Days, and to sign Judgment by Default
at the Expiration of the Time to plead, so indorsed as aforesaid and in the event of no Plea being delivered, where the Cause of
Action mentioned in the Declaration is for any of the Claims which
might have been inserted in the special Indorsement on the Writ of
Summons herein-before provided, and the Amount claimed is indorsed
on the Writ of Summons, the Judgment shall be final, and Execu-
Judgment.
tion may issue for an Amount not exceeding the Amount indorsed
on the Writ of Summons, with Interest at the Rate specified, if
any, and the Sum fixed by the Masters for Costs, as herein-before
mentioned, unless the Plaintiff claim more, in which Case the Costs
shall be taxed in the ordinary Way : Provided always, that in
such Case the Plaintiff shall not be entitled to more Costs than if
he had made such special Indorsement, and signed Judgment upon
Nonappearance.
SEC. 29. The Defendant may appear at any Time before Judgment,
and if he appear after the Time specified either in the Writ of Summons,
or in any Rule or Order to proceed as if personal Service had been
effected, he shall, after Notice of such Appearance to the Plaintiff
or his Attorney, as the Case may be, be in the same Position as to
Pleadings and other Proceedings in the Action as if he had appeared
in Time : Provided always, that a Defendant appearing after the
Time appointed by the Writ shall not be entitled to any further
Time for pleading or any other Proceeding than if he had appeared
within such appointed Time.
SEC. 30. Every Appearance by the Defendant in Person shall give
an Address, at which it shall be sufficient to leave all Pleadings
and other Proceedings not requiring personal Service ; and if such
Address be not given the Appearance shall not be received ; and if an
Address so given shall be illusory or fictitious, the Appearance shall be
irregular, and may be set aside by the Court or a Judge, and the
Plaintiff may be permitted to proceed by sticking up the Proceedings
in the Master's Office without further Service.
sEC. 31. The Mode of Appearance to every such Writ of Summons,,
or under the Authority of this Act, shall be by delivering a Memo-
randum in Writing according to the following Form, or to the like
Effect :
A., Plaintiff, against C.D. The Defendant C.D. apor
pears in Person.
against C.D. and another, E.F.. Attorney for. C.D.,
appears for him.
against C.D. and others.
[If the Defendant appears in Person here give his Address.]
Entered the Day of is ."
Such Memorandum to be delivered to the proper Officer or Person in
that Behalf, and to be dated on the Day of the Delivery thereof.
SEC. 32. All such Proceedings as are mentioned in any Writ
or Notice issued under this Act shall and may be had and taken in
default of a Defendant's Appearance.
SEC. 33. In any Action brought against Two or more Defendants,
where the Writ of Summons is indorsed in the special Form hereinbefore
provided, if One or more of such Defendants only shall appear,
and another or others of them shall not appear, it shall and may be
lawful for the Plaintiff to sign Judgment against such Defendant or
Defendants only as shall not have appeared, and, before Declaration
against the other Defendant or Defendants, to issue Execution there.
upon, in which Case he shall be taken to have abandoned his Action
against the Defendant or Defendants who shall have appeared ; or the
Plaintiff may, before issuing such Execution, declare against such
Defendant or Defendants as shall have appeared, stating, by way of
Suggestion, the Judgment obtained against the other Defendant or
Defendants who shall not have appeared, in which Case the Judgment
so obtained against the Defendant or Defendants who shall not have
appeared shall operate and take effect in like Manner as a Judgment
by Default obtained before the Commencement of this Act against
One or more of the several Defendants in an Action of D r 'T,t before the
Commencement of this Act.
And with respect to the Joinder of Parties to Actions, be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 34. It shall and may be lawful for the Court or a Judge, at an Time before the Trial of an Cause, to order that an Person or 3' any any Persons, not joined as Plaintiff or Plaintiffs in such Cause, shall be so joined; or that any Person or Persons, originally joined as Plaintiff or Plaintiffs, shall be struck out from such Cause, if it shall appear to such Court or Judge that Injustice will not be done by such Amendment,
and that the Person or Persons, to be added as aforesaid, consent,
either in Person or by Writing, under his, her, or their Hands,
to be so joined, or that the Person or Persons, to be struck out as
aforesaid, were originally introduced without his, her, or their Consent,
or that such Person or Persons consent in Manner aforesaid to be so
struck out ; and such Amendment shall be made upon such Terms as
to the Amendment of the Pleadings (if any), Postponement of the
Trial, and otherwise, as the Court or Judge by whom such Amendment
is made shall think proper ; and when any such Amendment
shall have been made, the Liability of any Person or Persons, who
shall have been added as Co-plaintiff or Co-plaintiffs, shall, subject to
any Terms imposed as aforesaid, be the same as if such Person or
Persons had been originally joined in such Cause.
SEC. 35. In case it shall appear at the Trial of any Action that there has been a Misjoinder of Plaintiffs, or that some Person or Persons, not joined as Plaintiff or Plaintiffs, ought to have been so
joined, and the Defendant shall not, at or before the Time of pleading,
have given Notice in Writing that he objects to such Nonjoinder,
specifying therein the Name or Names of such Person or Persons,
such Misjoinder or Nonjoinder may be amended, as a Variance,
at the Trial by any Court of Record holding Plea in Civil Actions,
and by any Judge sitting at Nisi Prius, or other presiding Officer, in
like Manner as to the Mode of Amendment, and Proceedings consequent
thereon, or as near thereto as the Circumstances of the Case will
admit, as in the Case of Amendments of Variances under an Act of
Parliament passed in the Session of Parliament, held in the Third and
Fourth Years of the Reign of His late Majesty King William the
Fourth, intituled An Act for the further Amendment of the Law,
and the better Advancement of Justice, if it shall appear to such
Court, or Judge, or other presiding Officer, that such Misjoinder or
Nonjoinder was not for the Purpose of obtaining an undue Advantage,
and that Injustice will not be done by such Amendment, and that the
Person or Persons, to be added as aforesaid, consent, either in Person
or by Writing, under his, her, or their Hands, to be so joined, or that
the Person or Persons, to be struck out as aforesaid, were originally
introduced without his, her, or their Consent, or that such Person or
Persons consent, in manner aforesaid, to be so struck out ; and such
Amendment shall be made upon such Terms as the Court, or Judge,
or other presiding Officer, by whom such Amendment is made, shall
think proper ; and when any such Amendment shall have been made,
the Liability of any Person or Persons, who shall have been added as
Co-plaintiff or Co-plaintiffs, shall., subject to any Terms imposed as
aforesaid, be the same as if such Person or Persons had been originally
joined in such Action.
SEC. 36. In case such Notice be given, or any Plea in Abatement
of Nonjoinder of a Person or Persons as Co-plaintiff or Co-plaintiffs,
in Cases where such Plea in Abatement may be pleaded, be pleaded
by the Defendant, the Plaintiff shall be at liberty, without any Order,
to amend the Writ and other Proceedings before Plea, by adding the
Name or Names of the Person or Persons named in such Notice or
Plea in Abatement, and to proceed in the Action without any further
Appearance, on Payment of the Costs of, and occasioned by such
Amendment only, and in such Case the Defendant shall be at liberty
to plead de novo.
SEC. 37. It shall and may be lawful, for the Court or a Judge in
the Case of the Joinder of too many Defendants in any Action on Contract, at any Time before the Trial of such Cause, to order that
the Name or Names of One or more of such Defendants be struck
out, if it shall appear to such Court or Judge that Injustice will not
be done by such Amendment ; and the Amendment shall be made
upon such Terms as the Court or Judge, by whom such Amendment
is made, shall think proper ; and in case it shall appear at the Trial
of any Action on Contract that there has been a Misjoinder of
Defendants, such Misjoinder may be amended, as a Variance, at the
Trial, in like Manner as the Misjoinder of Plaintiffs has been hereinbefore
directed to be amended, and upon such Terms as the Court,
or Judge, or other presiding Officer, by whom such Amendment is
made, shall think proper.
SEC. 38. In any Action on Contract where the Nonjoinder of any Person or Persons as a Co-Defendant or Co-Defendants has been Pleaded in Abatement, the Plaintiff shall be at liberty, without any Order, to amend the Writ of Summons and the Declaration, by adding the Name or Names of the Person or Persons named in such Plea in Abatement as Joint Contractors, and to serve the amended Writ upon the Person or Persons so named in such Plea in Abatement,
and to proceed against the original Defendant or Defendants,
and the Person or Persons so named in such Plea in Abatement :
Provided that the Date of such Amendment shall, as between the
Person or Persons so named in such Plea in Abatement and the
Plaintiff, be considered for all Purposes as the Commencement of
the Action.
SEC. 39. In all Cases after such Plea in Abatement and Amend- ment, if it shall appear upon the Trial of the Action that the Person or Persons so named in such Plea in Abatement was or were jointly liable with the original Defendant or Defendants, the original Defen- dant or Defendants shall be entitled as against the Plaintiff to the Costs of such Plea in Abatement and Amendment ; but if at such Trial it shall appear that the original Defendant or any of the original Defendants is or are liable, but that One or more of the Persons named in such Plea in Abatement is or are not liable as a contracting
Party or Parties, the Plaintiff shall nevertheless be entitled to Judgment
against the other Defendant or Defendants who shall appear to
be liable ; and every Defendant who is not so liable shall have Judgment,
and shall be entitled to his Costs as against the Plaintiff, who
shall be allowed the same, together with the Costs of the Plea in
Abatement and Amendment, as Costs in the Cause against the origina
Defendant or Defendants who shall have so pleaded in Abatement
the Nonjoinder of such Person : Provided that any such Defendant
who shall have so pleaded in Abatement shall be at liberty on the
Trial to adduce Evidence of the Liability of the Defendants named
by him in such Plea in Abatement.
SEC. 40. In any Action brought by a Man and his Wife for an Injury done to the Wife, in respect of which she is necessarily joined
as Co-Plaintiff, it shall be lawful for the Husband to add thereto
.Claims in his own Right, and separate Actions brought in respect of
such Claims may be consolidated, if the Court or a Judge shall think
fit: Provided that in the Case of the Death of either Plaintiff such
Suit, so far only as relates to the Causes of Action, if any, which do
not survive, shall abate.
And with respect to Joinder of Causes of Action, be it enacted as
follows :
SEC. 41. Causes of Action, of whatever kind, provided they be by
and against the same Parties and in the same Rights, may be joined in the same Suit ; but this shall not extend to Replevin or Ejectment ;
and where Two or more of the Causes of Action so joined are local, and arise in different Counties, the Venue may be laid in either of
such Counties ; but the Court or a Judge shall have Power to
.prevent the Trial of different Causes of Action together, if such Trial
would be inexpedient, and in such Case such Court or Judge may
order separate Records to be made up, and separate Trials to be had.
And for the Determination of Questions raised by Consent of the
Parties without pleading, be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 42. Where the Parties to an Action are agreed as to the Ques-
tion or Questions of Fact to be decided between them, they may, after
Writ issued, and before Judgment, by Consent, and Order of a Judge,
(which Order any Judge shall have Power to make, upon being satis-
fled that the Parties have a bond fide Interest in the Decision of such
Question or Questions, and that the same is or are fit to be tried ,
proceed to the Trial of any Question or Questions of Fact without
formal Pleadings ; and such Question or Questions may be stated for
Trial in an Issue in the Form contained in the Schedule (A.) to this
Act annexed, marked No. 6., and such Issue may be entered for Trial
and tried accordingly in the same Manner as any Issue joined in an
ordinary Action ; and the Proceedings in such Action and Issue shall
be under and subject to the ordinary Control and Jurisdiction of the
Court, as in other Actions.
SEC. 43. The Parties may, if they think fit, enter into an Agreement
in Writing, which shall not be subject to any Stamp Duty, and which
shall be embodied in the said or any subsequent Order, that upon the
Finding of the Jury in the affirmative or negative of such Issue or
Issues, a Sum of Money fixed by the Parties, or to be ascertained by
the Jury upon a Question inserted in the Issue for that Purpose,
shall be paid by One of such Parties to the other of them, either
with or without the Costs of the Action.
SEc. 44. Upon the Finding of the Jury in any such Issue, Judg- ment may be entered for such Sum as shall be so agreed or aster;
tained as aforesaid, with or without Costs, as the Case may be,, and Execution may issue upon such Judgment forthwith, unless
otherwise agreed, or unless the Court or a Judge shall otherwise for the Purpose of giving either Party an Opportunity for moving to set aside the Verdict, or for a new Trial.
SEC. 45. The Proceedings upon such Issue may be recorded at the Instance of either Party; and the Judgment, whether actually recorded or not, shall have the same Effect as any other Judgment in a contested Action.
SEC. 46. The Parties may, after Writ issued, and before Judgment, b Consent, and Order of a Judge state any Question or Questions y = of Law in a Special Case for the Opinion of the Court, without any Pleadings. XLVIL The Parties may, if they think fit, enter into an Agreement
in Writing, which shall not be subject to any Stamp Duty, and which
shall be embodied in the said or any subsequent Order, that upon the
Judgment of the Court being given in the affirmative or negative of
,the Question or Questions of Law raised by such Special Case, a Sum
of Money, fixed by the Parties, or to be ascertained by the Court, or in
such Manner as the Court may direct, shall be paid by One of such
Parties to the other of them, either with or without Costs of the
Action ; and the Judgment of the Court may be entered for such
Sum as shall be so agreed or ascertained, with or without Costs, as
the Case may be, and Execution may issue upon such Judgment
forthwith, unless otherwise agreed, or unless stayed by Proceedings
in Error.
SEC. 47. In case no Agreement shall be entered into as to the Costs of such Action, the Costs shall follow the Event, and be recovered by the successful Party. And with respect to the Language and Form of Pleadings in general, be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 49. All Statements which need not be proved, such as the ,Statement of Time, Quantity, Quality, and Value, where these are immaterial ; the Statement of losing and finding, and Bailment, in Actions for Goods or their Value ; the Statement of Acts of 'Trespass having been committed with Force and Arms, and against,
the Peace of our Lady the Queen ; the Statement of Promises
which need not be proved, as Promises in Indebitatus Counts, and
mutual Promises to perform Agreements ; and all Statements of a
like kind, shall be omitted.
SEC. 50. Either Party may object by Demurrer to the Pleading of
the opposite Party, on the Ground that such Pleading does not set
forth sufficient Ground of Action, Defence, or Reply, as the Case
may be; and where Issue is joined on such Demurrer, the Court shall
proceed and give Judgment according as the very Right of the Cause
and Matter in Law shall appear unto them, without regarding any
Imperfection, Omission, Defect in or Lack of Form ; and no Judgment
shall be arrested, stayed, or reversed for any such Imperfection,
Omission, Defect in or Lack of Form.
SEC. 51. No Pleading shall be deemed insufficient for any Defect
which could heretofore only be objected to by Special Demurrer.
SEC. 52. If any Pleading be so framed as to prejudice, embarrass,
or delay the fair Trial of the Action, the opposite Party may apply
to the Court or a Judge to strike out or amend such Pleading,
and the Court or any Judge shall make such Order respecting the
same, and also respecting the Costs of the Application, as such Court
or Judge shall see fit.
SEC. 53. Rules to declare, or declare peremptorily, and Rules to
reply, and plead subsequent Pleadings, shall not be necessary, and
instead thereof a Notice shall be substituted requiring the opposite
Party to declare, reply, rejoin, or as the Case may be, within Four
Days, otherwise Judgment, such Notice to be delivered separately or
indorsed on any Pleading to which the opposite Party is required to
reply, rejoin, or as the Case may be.
SEC. 54. Every Declaration and other Pleading shall be entitled
of the proper Court, and of the Day of the Month and the Year
when the same was pleaded, and shall bear no other Time or Date,
and every Declaration and other Pleading shall also be entered on the
Record made up for Trial and on the Judgment Roll under the
Date of the Day of the Month and Year when the same respectively
took place, and without Reference to any other Time or Date, unless
otherwise specially ordered by the Court or a Judge.
SEC. 55. It shall not be necessary to make Profert of any Deed
or other Document mentioned or relied on in any Pleading ; and if
Profert shall be made it shall not entitle the opposite Party to crave
Oyer of or set out upon Oyer such Deed or other Document.
SEc. 56. A Party pleading in answer to any Pleading in which
any Document is mentioned or referred to shall be at liberty to set
out the whole or such Part thereof as may be material, and the
Matter so set out shall be deemed and taken to be Part of the Pleading
in which it is set out.
SEC. 57. It shall be lawful for the Plaintiff or Defendant in any
Action to aver Performance of Conditions precedent generally, and
the opposite Party shall not deny such Averment generally, but shall
specify in his Pleading the Condition or Conditions precedent the
Performance of which he intends to contest.
And with regard to the Time and Manner of declaring, and to
Particulars of Demand, be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 58. A Plaintiff shall be deemed out of Court, unless he
declare within One Year after the Writ of Summons is returnable.
SEC. 59. Every Declaration shall commence as follows, or to the
like Effect :
[Venue.] " A.B. by E.F., his Attorney [or in Person, as the Case
" may be], sues C. D. for [here state the Cause of Action] ;"
And shall conclude as follows, or to the like Effect :
"And the Plaintiff claims £ , [or, if the Action is
" brought to recover specfic Goods, the Plaintiff claims a Return
" of the said Goods or their Value, and £ for their
11 Detention.] "
SEC. 60. In all Cases in which, after a Plea in Abatement of the
Nonjoinder of another Person as Defendant, the Plaintiff shall,
without having proceeded to Trial on an Issue thereon, commence
another Action against the Defendant or Defendants in the Action
in which such Plea in Abatement shall have been pleaded, and the
Person or Persons named in such Plea in Abatement as joint Contractors,
or shall amend by adding the omitted Defendant or Defendants,
the Commencement of the Declaration shall be in the following
Form, or to the like Effect:
[Venue.] " A.B. by E.F., his Attorney [or in his own proper
" Person, ic.], sues C.D. and G.H., which said C.D. has heretofore
pleaded in Abatement the Nonjoinder of the said G.H.
for," 4c.
SEC. 61. In Actions of Libel and Slander the Plaintiff shall oe at
liberty to aver that the Words or Matter complained of were used in
a defamatory Sense, specifying such defamatory Sense without any
prefatory Averment to show how such Words or Matter were used
in that Sense, and such Averment shall be put in issue by the
Denial of the alleged Libel or Slander ; and where the Words or
Matter set forth, with or without the alleged Meaning, show a
Cause of Action, the Declaration shall be sufficient.
And as to Pleas and subsequent Pleadings, be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 62. No Rule to plead or Demand of Plea shall be necessary,
and the Notice to plead indorsed on the Declaration or delivered
separately shall be sufficient.
SEC. 63. In Cases where the Defendant is within the Jurisdiction,
the Time for pleading in Bar, unless extended by the Court or a
Judge, shall be Eight Days ; and a Notice requiring the Defendant
to plead thereto in Eight Days, otherwise Judgment, may, whether
the Declaration be delivered or filed, be indorsed upon the Declaration,
or delivered separately.
SEC. 64. Express Colour shall no longer be necessary in any Pleading.
SEC. 65. Special Traverses shall not be necessary in any Pleading.
SEC. 66. In a Plea or subsequent Pleading it shall not be necessary
to use any Allegation of Actionem non, or Actionem ulterius non, or to
the like Effect, or any Prayer of Judgment, nor shall it be necessary
in any Replication or subsequent Pleading, to use any Allegation of
Precludi non, or to the like Effect, or any Prayer of Judgment.
SEC. 67. No formal Defence shall be required in a Plea, or Avowry,
or Cognizance, and it shall commence as follows, or to the like Effect :
" The Defendant by his Attorney [or in Person,
" or as the Case may be,] says that [here state First Defence] "
and it shall not be necessary to state in a Second or other Plea, or
Avowry, or Cognizance, that it is pleaded by Leave of the Court or a
Judge, or according to the Form of the Statute, or to that Effect ; but
every such Plea, Avowry, or Cognizance shall be written in a separate
Paragraph, and numbered, and shall commence as follows, or to the
like Effect :
And for a Second [cc.] Plea the Defendant says, that [here
" state Second, cc. Defence] ;"
or if pleaded to Part only, then as follows, or to the like Effect :
LG
II And for a Second [6-c.] Plea to [stating to what it is pleaded],
" the Defendant says that," yc.
and no formal Conclusion shall be necessary to any Plea, Avowry,
Cognizance, or subsequent Pleading.
SEC. 68. Any Defence arising after the Commencement of any
Action shall be pleaded according to the Fact, without any formal
Commencement or Conclusion; and any Plea which does not state
whether the Defence therein set up arose before or after Action shall
be deemed to be a Plea of Matter arising before Action.
SEC. 69. In Cases in which a Plea Puis darrein Continuance has heretofore
been pleadable in Bane or at Nisi Prius, the same Defence may
be pleaded, with an Allegation that the Matter arose after the last
.Pleading; and such Plea may, when necessary, be pleaded at Nisi
Prius, between the Tenth of August and Twenty-fourth of October ;
but no such Plea shall be allowed unless accompanied by an Affidavit
that the Matter thereof arose within Eight Days next before the
pleading of such Plea, or unless the Court or a Judge shall otherwise
order. '
SEC. 70. It shall be lawful for the Defendant in all Actions, (except
Actions for Assault and Battery, false Imprisonment, Libel, Slander,
Malicious Arrest or Prosecution, Criminal Conversation, or debauching
of the Plaintiff's Daughter or Servant,) and, by Leave of the
Court or a Judge, upon such Terms as they or he may think fit,
for One or more of several Defendants to pay into Court a Sum of
Money by way of Compensation or Amends : Provided that nothing
herein contained shall be taken to affect the Provisions of a certain
Act of Parliament passed in the Session of Parliament holden in the
Sixth and Seventh Years of the Reign of Her present Majesty,
intituled An Act to amend the Law respecting defamatory Words
,and Libel.
SEC. 71. When Money is paid into Court, such Payment shall be
pleaded in all Cases, as near as may be, in the following Form, mutatis
mutandis :
" The Defendant by his Attorney [or in Person, ic.]
" [if pleaded to part say, as to . Parcel of the
Money claimed], brings into Court the Sum of £
" and says that the said Sum is enough to satisfy the Claim
of the Plaintiff in respect of the Matter herein pleaded to."
SEC. 72. No Rule or Judge's Order to pay Money into Court shall be necessary, except in the Case of One or more of several Defendants, but the Money shall be paid to the proper Officer of each Court, who
shall give a Receipt for the Amount in the Margin of the Plea, and
the said Sum shall be paid out to the Plaintiff or to his Attorney,
upon a written Authority from the Plaintiff, on Demand.
SEC. 73. The Plaintiff, after the Delivery of a Plea of Payment of Money into Court, shall be at liberty to reply to the same by the Sum so paid into Court in full Satisfaction and Discharge- of the Cause of Action in respect of which it has been paid in, and he shall be at liberty in that Case to tax his Costs of
Suit, and, in case of Nonpayment thereof within Forty-eight Hours,,
to sign Judgment for his Costs of Suit so taxed, or the Plaintiff may
reply that the Sum paid into Court is not enough to satisfy the
Claim of the Plaintiff in respect of the Matter to which the Plea is
pleaded ; and, in the event of an Issue thereon being found for the
Defendant, the Defendant shall be entitled to Judgment and his
Costs of Suit.
SEC. 74. Whereas certain Causes of Action may be considered to
partake of the Character both of Breaches of Contract and of Wrongs, and Doubts may arise as to the Form of Pleas in such
Actions, and it is expedient to preclude such Doubts : Any Plea, which
shall be good in Substance, shall not be objectionable on the Ground
of its treating the Declaration either as framed for a Breach of Contract,
or for a Wrong.
SEC. 75. Pleas of Payment and Set-off, and all other Pleadings
capable of being construed distributively, shall be taken distributively, and if Issue is taken thereon, and so much thereof as shall be sufficient
Answer to Part of the Causes of Action proved shall be found true
by the Jury, a Verdict shall pass for the Defendant in respect of
so much of the Causes of Action as shall be answered, and for the
Plaintiff in respect of so much of the Causes of Action as shall not
be so answered.
SEC. 76. A Defendant may either traverse generally such of the
Facts contained in the Declaration as might have been denied by One
Plea, or may select and traverse separately any material Allegation
in the Declaration, although it might have been included in a
general Traverse.
SEC. 77. A Plaintiff shall be at liberty to traverse the whole of
any Plea or subsequent Pleading of the Defendant by, a general
Denial, or, admitting some Part or Parts thereof, to deny all the rest,
or to deny any One or more Allegations.
SEC. 78. A Defendant shall be at liberty in like Manner to deny
the whole or Part of a Replication or subsequent Pleading of the Plaintiff.
SEC. 79. Either Party may plead, in answer to the Plea or sub- sequent Pleading of his Adversary, that he joins Issue thereon, which
Joinder of Issue may be as follows, or to the like Effect :
" The Plaintiff joins Issue upon the Defendant's 1st [8c., specifying
" what or what Part] Plea :"
" The Defendant joins Issue upon the Plaintiff's Replication to the
1st. [44c., specifying what] Plea ;"
and such Form of Joinder of Issue shall be deemed to be a Denial of
the Substance of the Plea or other subsequent Pleading, and an Issue
thereon ; and in all Cases where the Plaintiff's Pleading is in Denial of
the Pleading of the Defendant, or some Part of it, the Plaintiff may
add a Joinder of Issue for the Defendant.
SEC. 80. Either Party may, by Leave of the Court or a Judge, plead demur to the same Pleading at the same Time, upon an Affidavit such Party, or his Attorney, if required by the Court or Judge, to the Effect, that he is advised and believes that he has just Ground
to traverse the several Matters proposed to be traversed by him, and
that the several Matters sought to be pleaded as aforesaid by way
of Confession and Avoidance are respectively true in Substance and
in Fact, and that he is further advised and believes that the Objections
raised by such Demurrer are good and valid Objections in
Law, and it shall be in the Discretion of the Court or a Judge to
direct which Issue shall be first disposed of.
SEC. 81. The Plaintiff in any Action may, by Leave of the Court or a Judge, Plead. in answer to the Plea, or the subsequent Pleadingg of the Defendant, as many several Matters as he shall think necessary to sustain his Action ; and the Defendant in any Action may, by Leave of the Court or a Judge, plead in answer to the Declaration,
or other subsequent Pleading of the Plaintiff, as many several Matters
as he shall think necessary for his Defence, upon an Affidavit of the
Party making such Application, or his Attorney, if required by the
Court or Judge, to the Effect that he is advised and believes that he
has just Ground to traverse the several Matters proposed to be
traversed by him, and that the several Matters sought to be pleaded
as aforesaid by way of Confession and Avoidance are respectively
true in Substance and in Fact ; provided that the Costs of any Issue,
either of Fact or Law, shall follow the Finding or Judgment upon
such Issue, and be adjudged to the successful Party, whatever may
be the Result of the other Issue or Issues.
SEC. 82. No Rule of Court for Leave to plead several Matters shall be necessary where a Judge's Order has been made for the same Purpose. 

SEC. 83. All Objections to the pleading of several Pleas, Re- plications, or subsequent Pleadings, or several Avowries or Cogni- zances, on the Ground that they are founded on the same Ground of Answer or Defence, shall be heard upon the Summons to plead several Matters.
SEc. 84. The following Pleas, or any Two or more of them, may
be pleaded together as of course, without Leave of the Court or a
Judge ; that is to say, a Plea denying any Contract or Debt alleged in
the Declaration ; a Plea of Tender as to Part ; a Plea of the Statute
of Limitations, Set-off, Bankruptcy of the Defendant, Discharge under
an Insolvent Act, Plene administravit, Plene administravit praeter,
Infancy, Coverture, Payment, Accord and Satisfaction, Release, Not
guilty, a Denial that the Property an Injury to which is complained
of is the Plaintiff's, Leave and Licence, Son assault demesne, and
any other Pleas which the Judges of the said Superior Courts, or any
Eight or more of them, of whom the Chief Judges of the said Courts
shall be Three, shall by any Rule or Order, to be from Time to Time
by them made in Term or Vacation, order or direct.
SEC. 85. The Signature of Counsel shall not be required to any
Pleading.
SEC. 86. Except in the Cases herein specifically provided for, if
either Party plead several Pleas, Replications, Avowries, Cognizances,
or other Pleadings, without Leave of the Court or a Judge, the
opposite Party shall be at liberty to sign Judgment ; provided that
such Judgment may be set aside by the Court or a Judge, upon an
Affidavit of Merits, and such Terms as to Costs and otherwise as they
or he may think fit.
SEC. 87. One new Assignment only shall be pleaded to any
Number of Pleas to the same Cause of Action; and such new Assign
ment shall be consistent with and confined by the Particulars delivered
in the Action, if any, and shall state that the Plaintiff proceeds for
Causes of Action different from all those which the Pleas profess to
justify, or for an Excess over and above what all the Defences set up
in such Pleas justify, or both.
SEC. 88. No Plea, which has already been pleaded to the
Declaration, shall be pleaded to such new Assignment, except' a
Plea in Denial, unless by Leave of the Court or a Judge ; and
such Leave shall only be granted upon satisfactory Proof that the
Repetition of such Plea is essential to a Trial on the Merits.
SEC. 89. The Form of a Demurrer, except in the Cases herein
specifically provided for, shall be as follows, or to the like Effect :
" The Defendant, by his Attorney [or, in Person, 4'c., or,
Plaintiff] says, that the Declaration [or Plea, 4c.] is bad in
Substance ;"
and in the Margin thereof some substantial Matter of Law intended
to be argued shall be stated ; and if any Demurrer shall be delivered
without. such Statement, or with a frivolous Statement, it may be set
aside by the Court or a Judge, and Leave may be given to sign
Judgment as for Want of a Plea ; and the Form of a Joinder in
Demurrer shall be as follows, or to the like Effect :
" The Plaintiff [or, Defendant] says that the Declaration [or,
" Plea, 4c.,] is good in Substance."
SEC. 90. Where an Amendment of any Pleading is allowed, no new Notice to plead thereto shall be necessary ; but the opposite be bound to plead to the amended Pleading within the Time specified in the original Notice to plead, or within Two Days
after Amendment, whichever shall last expire, unless otherwise ordered
by the Court or a Judge ; and in case the amended Pleading has
been pleaded to before Amendment, and is not pleaded to de novo
within Two Days after Amendment, or within such other Time as the
Court or a Judge shall allow, the Pleadings originally pleaded thereto
shall stand and be considered as pleaded in answer to such amended
Pleading.
And whereas it is desirable that Examples should be given of the Statements of Causes of Action, and of Forms of Pleading : Be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 91. The Forms contained in the Schedule (B.) to this Act annexed shall be sufficient, and those and the like Forms ma y be used, with such Modifications as may be necessary to meet the Facts of the Case ; but nothing herein contained shall render it
erroneous or irregular to depart from the Letter of such Forms, so
long as the Substance is expressed without Prolixity.
And with respect to Judgment by Default, and the Mode of ascertaining
the Amount to be recovered thereupon, be it enacted as
follows :
SEC. 92. No Rule to compute shall be necessary or used ; but nothing in this Act contained shall invalidate any Proceedings already taken or to be taken by reason of any Rule to compute made, or
applied for, before the Commencement of this Act.
SEC. 93. In Actions where the Plaintiff seeks to recover a Debt or liquidated Demand in Money, Judgment by Default shall be
final. 
SEC. 94. In Actions in which it shall appear to the Court or a Judge that the Amount of Damages sought to be recovered by the Plaintiff
is substantially a Matter of Calculation, it shall not be necessary to
issue a Writ of Inquiry, but the Court or a Judge may direct that
the Amount, for which final Judgment is to be signed, shall be ascertained
by One of the Masters of the said Court; and the Attendance
of Witnesses and the Production of Documents before such Master
may be compelled by Subpoena, in the same Manner as before a
Jury upon a Writ of Inquiry ; and it shall be lawful for such Master
to adjourn the Inquiry from Time to Time, as Occasion may require;
and the Master shall indorse upon the Rule or Order for referring the
Amount of Damages to him, the Amount found by him, and shall
deliver the Rule or Order, with such Indorsement, to the Plaintiff; and
such and the like Proceedings may thereupon be had as to Taxation
of Costs, signing Judgment, and otherwise, as upon the Finding
of a Jury upon a Writ of Inquiry.
SEC. 95. In all Actions where the Plaintiff recovers a Sum of
Money, the Amount to which he is entitled may be awarded to him
by the Judgment generally, without any Distinction being therein
made as to whether such Sum is recovered by way of a Debt or
Damages.
SEC. 96. Nothing in this Act contained shall in any way affect the
Provisions of a certain Act of Parliament passed in the Session of
Parliament holden in the Eighth and Ninth Years of the Reign of His
Majesty King William the Third, intituled An Act for the better
preventing frivolous and vexatious Suits, as to the Assignment or
Suggestion of Breaches, or as to Judgment for a Penalty as a Security
for Damages in respect of further Breaches.
And with respect to Notice of Trial and Inquiry, and Countermand
thereof, be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 97. Ten Days Notice of Trial or Inquiry shall be given, and
shall be sufficient in all Cases, whether at Bar or Nisi Prius, in Town
or Country, unless otherwise ordered by the Court or a Judge.
SEC. 98. A Countermand of Notice of Trial shall be given Four
Days before the Time mentioned in the Notice of Trial, unless Short
Notice of Trial has been given, and then Two Days before the Time
mentioned in the Notice of Trial, unless otherwise ordered by the
Court or a Judge, or by Consent.
SEC. 99. A Rule for Costs of the Day for not proceeding to Trial
pursuant to Notice, or not countermanding in sufficient Time, may
be drawn up on Affidavit, without Motion.
And with respect to Judgment for Default in not proceeding to
Trial, be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 100. The Act passed in the Fourteenth Year of the Reign of His
Majesty King George the Second, intituled An Act to prevent
Inconveniences arising from Delays of Causes after Issue joined,
so far as the same relates to Judgment as in the Case of a Nonsuit,
shall be and the same is hereby repealed, except as to Proceedings
taken or commenced thereupon before the Commencement of this
Act.
SEC. 101. Where any Issue is or shall be joined in any Cause,, and
the Plaintiff has neglected or shall neglect to bring such Issue on to
be tried, that is to say, in Town Causes where Issue has been or
shall be joined in, or in the Vacation before, any Term, for instance;
Hilary Term, and the Plaintiff has neglected or shall neglect to
bring the Issue on to be tried during or before the following Term
and Vacation, for instance, Easter Term and Vacation, and in Country
Causes where Issue, has been or shall be joined in, or in the Vacation
before, Hilary or Trinity Term, and the Plaintiff has neglected or
shall neglect to bring the Issue on to be tried at or before the Second
Assizes following such Term, or if Issue has been or shall be joined
in, or in the Vacation before, Easter or Michaelmas Term, then, if the
Plaintiff has neglected or shall neglect to bring the Issue on to
be tried at or before the First Assizes after such Term, whether
the Plaintiff shall in the meantime have given Notice of Trial or
not, the Defendant may give Twenty Days Notice to the Plaintiff to
bring the Issue on to be tried at the Sittings or Assizes, as the Case
may be, next after the Expiration of the Notice ; and if the Plaintiff
afterwards neglects to give Notice of Trial for such Sittings or
Assizes, or to proceed to Trial in pursuance of the said Notice
given by the Defendant, the Defendant may suggest on the Record
that the Plaintiff has failed to proceed to Trial, although duly required
so to do, (which Suggestion shall not be traversable, but only
be subject to be set aside if untrue,) and may sign Judgment for
his Costs ; provided that the Court or a Judge shall have Power to
extend the Time for proceeding to Trial, with or without Terms.
And with respect to the Nisi Prius Record, be it enacted as
follows :
SEC. 102. The Record of Nisi Prius shall not be sealed or passed, but
may be delivered to the proper Officer of the Court in which the
Cause is to be tried, to be by him entered as at present, and remain
until disposed of.
SEC. 103. Records of the Superior Courts of Common Law shall be
brought to Trial and entered and disposed of in the Counties Palatine
in the same Manner as in other Counties.
And with respec , to Juries and Jury Process, be it enacted as
follows
SEC. 104. The several Writs of Venire facias juratores, and Distringas
juratores, or Habeas Corpora juratorum, and the Entry Jurata
ponitur in respectu, shall no longer be necessary or used.
SEC. 105. The Precept issued by the Judges of Assize to the
Sheriff to summon Jurors for the Assizes shall direct that the
Jurors be summoned for the Trial of all Issues, whether civil
or criminal, which may come on for Trial at the Assizes ; and
the Jurors shall thereupon be summoned in like Manner as at
present.
SEC. 106. A printed Panel of the Jurors summoned4 shall, Seven Days
before the Commission Day, be made by the Sheriff, and kept in, the
Office for Inspection ; and a printed Copy of such Panel shall be
delivered by the Sheriff to any Party requiring the same, on Payment
of One Shilling ; and such Copy shall be annexed to the Nisi Prius
Record.
SEC. 107. The Sheriffs of London and Middlesex respectively shall,
pursuant to a Precept under the Hand of a Judge of any of the said
Superior Courts, and without any other Authority, summon a sufficient
Number of Common Jurors for the Trial of all Issues in the
Superior Courts of Common Law, in like Manner as before this Act ;
and Seven Days before the First Day of each Sittings a printed Panel
of the Jurors so summoned for the Trial of Causes at such Sittings
shall be made by such Sheriffs, and kept in their Offices for public
Inspection; and a printed Copy of such Panel shall be delivered by
the said Sheriffs to any Party requiring the same, on Payment of One
Shilling ; and such Copy shall be annexed to the Nisi Prius Record ;
and the said Precept shall and may be in like Form as the Precept
issued by the Judges of Assize, and One thereof shall suffice for each
Term, and for all the Superior Courts ; and it shall be the Duty of
the Sheriffs respectively to apply for and procure such Precept to be
issued in sufficient Time before each Term to enable them to summon
the Jurors in manner aforesaid ; and it shall be lawful for the several
Courts, or any Judge thereof, at any Time to issue such Precept
or Precepts to summon Jurors for disposing of the Business pending in
such Courts, and to direct the Time and Place for which such Jurors
shall be summoned, and, all such other Matters as to such Judge
shall seem requisite.
SEC. 108. The Precept issued by the Judges of Assize as afore- said shall direct the Sheriff to summon .a sufficient Number of Special
Jurymen, to be mentioned therein, not exceeding Forty-eight in all, to try the Special Jury Causes at the Assizes; and the Persons sum- moned in pursuance of such Precept shall be the Jury for trying the
Special Jury Causes at the Assizes, subject to such Right of Challenge as the Parties are now b Law entitled to ; and a printed Panel of y p the Special Jurors so summoned shall be made, kept, delivered, and
annexed to the Nisi Prius Record, in like Time and Manner and
upon the same Terms as herein-before provided with reference to the
Panel of Common Jurors ; and upon the Trial the Special Jury shall
be ballotted for, and called in the Order in which they shall be drawn
from the Box, in the same Manner as Common Jurors : Provided that
the Court or a Judge, in such Case as they or he may think fit, may
order that a Special Jury be struck according to the present Practice,
and such Order shall be a sufficient Warrant for striking such Special
Jury, and making a Panel thereof for the Trial of the particular
Cause.
SEC. 109. In any County, except London and Middlesex the Plaintiff
in any Action, except Replevin, shall be entitled to have the Cause
tried by a Special Jury, upon giving Notice in Writing to the Defendant,
at such Time as would be necessary for a Notice of Trial, of his
Intention that the Cause shall be so tried ; and the Defendant, or
Plaintiff in Replevin, shall be so entitled, on giving the like Notice
within the Time now limited for obtaining a Rule for a Special Jury :
Provided that the Court or a Judge may at any Time order that a
Cause shall be tried by a Special Jury, upon such Terms as they or
he shall think fit.
SEC. 110. In London and Middlesex Special Jurors shall be nominated
and reduced by and before the Under Sheriff and Secondary respectively,
in like Manner as by the Master before this Act, upon the
Application of either Party entitled to a Special Jury, and his obtaining
a Rule for such Purpose ; and the Names of the Jurors so struck shall
be placed upon a Panel, which shall be delivered and annexed to the
Nisi Prius Record, in like Manner and upon the same Terms as hereinbefore
provided with reference to the Panel of Common Jurors ; and
upon the Trial the Special Jury shall be ballotted for, and called in
the Order in which they shall be drawn from the Box, in the same
Manner as Common Jurors.
SEC. 111. Where the Defendant in any Case, or Plaintiff in Replevin,
gives Notice of his Intention to try the Cause by a Special Jury,
and the Venue is in London or Middlesex, the Court or a Judge,
if satisfied that such Notice is given for the Purpose of Delay, may
order that the Cause be tried by a Common Jury, or make such
other Order as to the Trial of the Cause as such Court or Judge
shall think fit.
SEC. 112. Where Notice has been given to try by Special Jury,
either Party may, Six Days before the First Day of the Sittings in
London or Middlesex, or Adjournment Day in London, or Commission
Day of the Assizes, give Notice to the Sheriff that such Cause
is to be tried by a Special Jury ; and in case no such Notice be given
no Special Jury need be summoned or attend, and the Cause may
be tried by a Common Jury, unless otherwise ordered by the Court or
a Judge.
SEC. 113. In all Cases -where Notice is not given to the Sheriff
that the Cause is to be tried by a Special Jury, and by reason thereof
a Special Jury is not summoned or does not attend, the Cause may be
tried by a Common Jury, to be taken from the Panel of Common
Jurors, in like Manner as if no Proceedings had been had to try the
Cause by a Special Jury.
SEC. 114. A Writ of View shall not be necessary or used, but,
whether the View is to be had by a Common or Special Jury, it
shall be sufficient to.obtain a Rule of the Court or Judge's Order,
directing a View to be had ; and the Proceedings upon the Rule for a
View shall be the same as the Proceedings heretofore had under a
Writ of View ; and the Sheriff, upon Request, shall deliver to either
Party the Names of the Viewers, and shall also return their Names
to the Associate for the Purpose of their being called as Jurymen
upon the Trial.
SEC. 115. The Jurors contained in such Panels as aforesaid shall be
the Jurors to try the Causes at the Assizes and Sittings for which
they shall be summoned respectively ; and all such Proceedings may
be had and taken before such Juries in like Manner, and with the like
Consequences in all respects, as before any Jury summoned in pursuance
of any Writ or Writs of Venire facias juratores, Distringas
juratores, or Habeas corpora juratorum, before this Act.
SEC. 116. Nothing herein contained shall affect the Right of a
Defendant to take down a Cause for Trial, after Default by the
Plaintiff to proceed to Trial, according to the Course and Practice of the Court ; and if Records are entered for Trial both by the Plaintiff the Defendant, the Defendant's Record shall be treated as standing
next in order after the Plaintiff's Record in the List of Causes,
and the Trial of the Cause shall take place accordingly.
And with respect to the Admission of Documents, be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 117. Either Party may call on the other Party by Notice to admit any Document, saving all just Exceptions ; and in case of Refusal or Neglect .to admit, the Costs of proving the Document shall
be paid by the Party so neglecting or refusing, whatever the Result
of the Cause may be, unless at the Trial the Judge shall certify that
the Refusal to admit was reasonable ; and no Costs of proving any
Document shall be allowed unless such Notice be given, except in
Cases where the Omission to give the Notice is in the Opinion of the
Master a Saving of Expense.
SEC. 118. An Affidavit of the Attorney in the Cause, or his Clerk, of the due Signature of any Admissions made in pursuance of such Notice, and annexed to the Affidavit, shall be in all Cases sufficient
Evidence of such Admissions.
SEC. 119. An Affidavit of the Attorney in the Cause, or his Clerk, of the Service of any Notice to produce, in respect of which Notice to admit shall have been given, and of the Time when it was served, with
a Copy of such Notice to produce annexed to such Affidavit, shall be
sufficient Evidence of the Service of the Original of such Notice, and
of the Time when it was served.
And with respect to Execution, be it enacted as follows : 

SEC. 120. A Plaintiff or Defendant, having obtained a Verdict in a Cause tried out of Term, shall be entitled to issue Execution in Four- teen Days, unless the Judge who tries the Cause, or some other Judge,
or the Court, shall order Execution to issue at an earlier or later
Period, with or without Terms.
SEC. 121. It shall not be necessary to issue any Writ directed to the Sheriff of the County in which the Venue is laid, but Writs of Execution may issue at once into any County, and be directed to and
executed by the Sheriff of any County, whether a County Palatine
or not, without Reference to the County in which the Venue is laid,
and without any Suggestion of the issuing of a prior Writ into such
County.
SEc. 122. All Writs of every Description issuing out of the Supe-
rior Courts of Common Law at Westminster, to be executed in the Counties Palatine, shall be directed and delivered to the Sheriffs of
such Counties, and executed and returned by them to the Courts out
of which such Writs are issued, in the same Manner in all respects
as Writs are executed and returned by the Sheriffs of other Counties.
SEC. 123. In every Case of Execution, the Party entitled to
Execution may levy the Poundage Fees and Expenses of the Execution,
over and above the Sum recovered.
SEc. 124. A Writ of Execution issued after the Commencement
of this Act, if unexecuted, shall not remain in force for more than
One Year from the Teste of such Writ, unless renewed in the Manner
herein-after provided ; but such Writ may, at any Time before its
Expiration, be renewed, by the Party issuing it, for One Year from
the Date of such Renewal, and so on from Time to Time during the
Continuance of the renewed Writ, either by being marked with a Seal
bearing the Date of the Day, Month, and Year of such Renewal, (such
Seal to be provided and kept for that Purpose at the Office of the
Masters of the Court out of which such Writ issued,) or by such Party
giving a written Notice of Renewal to such Sheriff, signed by the
Party or his Attorney, and bearing the like Seal of the Court; and a
Writ of Execution so renewed shall have effect, and be entitled to
Priority, according to the Time of the original Delivery thereof.
SEC. 125. The Production of a Writ of Execution, or of the Notice
renewing the. same, purporting to be marked with such Seal, showing
the same to have been renewed according, to this Act, shall be
sufficient Evidence of its having been so renewed.
SEC. 126. A written Order under the Hand of the Attorney in
the Cause, by whom any Writ of Capias ad satisfaciendum shall have
been issued, shall justify the Sheriff, Gaoler, or Person in whose
Custody the Party may be under such Writ, in discharging such
Party, unless the Party for whom such Attorney professes to act
shall have given written Notice to the contrary to such Sheriff,
Gaoler, or Person in whose Custody the opposite Party may be ;
but such Discharge shall not be a Satisfaction of the Debt, unless
made by the Authority of the Creditor; and nothing herein contained
shall justify any Attorney in giving such Order for Discharge
without the Consent of his Client.
SEC. 127. It shall not be necessary in any Case to sue out
a Writ of Habeas corpus ad satisfaciendum to charge in Execution a
Person already in the Prison of the Court, but such Person may be so
charged in Execution by a Judge's Order made upon Affidavit that
Judgment has been signed and is not satisfied ; and the Service of
such Order upon the Keeper of the Prison for the Time being shall
have the Effect of a Detainer.
And with respect to Proceedings for the Revival of Judgments and other Proceedings by and against Persons not Parties to the Record, be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 128. During the Lives of the Parties to a Judgment, or those of them during whose Lives Execution may at resent issue present
within a Year and a Day without a Scire facias, and within Six Years from the Recovery of the Judgment, Execution may issue without a
Revival of the Judgment.
SEC. 129. In Cases where it shall become necessary to revive a
Judgment by reason either of Lapse of Time, or of a Change, by
Death or otherwise, of the Parties entitled or liable to Execution, the
Party alleging himself to be entitled to Execution may either sue out
a Writ of Revivor in the Form herein-after mentioned, or apply to
the Court or a Judge for Leave to enter a Suggestion upon the Roll,
to the Effect that it manifestly appears to the Court that such Party
is entitled to have Execution of the Judgment and to issue Execution
thereupon ; such Leave to be granted by the Court or a Judge upon
a Rule to show Cause or a Summons, to be served according to the
present Practice, or in such other Manner as such Court or Judge
may direct, and which Rule or Summons may be in the Form contained
in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed, marked No. s, or
to the like Effect.
SEC. 130. Upon such Application, in case it manifestly appears
that the Party making the same is entitled to Execution, the Court
or Judge shall allow such Suggestion as aforesaid to be entered in
the Form contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed,
marked No. 8, or to the like Effect, and Execution to issue thereupon,
and shall order whether or not the Costs of such Application
shall be paid to the Party making the same ; and in case it does
not manifestly so appear, the Court or Judge shall discharge the
Rule or dismiss the Summons with or without Costs : Provided
nevertheless, that in such last-mentioned Case the Party making
such Application shall be at liberty to proceed by Writ of Revivor
or Action upon the Judgment.
SEC. 131. The Writ of Revivor shall be directed to the Party
called upon to show Cause why Execution should not be awarded, and
shall bear Teste on the Day of its issuing ; and, after reciting the
Reason why such Writ has become necessary, it shall call upon
the Party, to whom it is directed, to appear, within Eight Days after.
Service thereof, in the Court out of which it issues, to show Cause
why the Party at whose Instance such Writ has been issued should
not have Execution against the Party to whom such Writ is
directed, and it shall give Notice that, in default of Appearance, the
Party issuing such Writ may proceed to Execution ; and such Writ
may be in the Form contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act
annexed, marked No. 9, or to the like Effect, and may be served
in any County, and otherwise proceeded upon, whether in Term
or Vacation, in the same Manner as a Writ of Summons ; and the
Venue in a Declaration upon such Writ may be laid in any County ;
and the Pleadings and Proceedings thereupon, and the Rights of
the Parties respectively to Costs, shall be the same as in an ordinary
Action.
SEC. 132. All Writs of Scire facias issued out of any of the
Superior Courts of Law at Westminster against Bail on a Recognizance
; Ad audiendum errores ; against Members of a Joint Stock
Company or other Body, upon a Judgment recorded against a
public Officer or other Person sued as representing such Company
or Body, or against such Company or Body itself ; by or against a
Husband to have Execution of a Judgment for or against a Wife ;
for Restitution after a Reversal in Error ; upon a Suggestion of
further Breaches after Judgment for any Penal Sum, pursuant to
the Statute passed in the Session holden in the Eighth and Ninth
Years of the Reign of King William the Third, intituled An Act
for the better preventing frivolous and vexatious Suits; or for
Recovery of Land taken under an Elegit, shall be tested, directed,
and proceeded upon, in like Manner as Writs of Revivor.
SEC. 133. Notice in Writing to the Plaintiff, his Attorney or
Agent, shall be sufficient Appearance to a Writ of Revivor.
SEC. 134. A Writ of Revivor to revive a Judgment less than
Ten Years old shall be allowed without any Rule or Order ; if more
than Ten Years old, not without a Rule of Court or a Judge's Order;
nor, if more than Fifteen, without a Rule to show Cause.
And with respect to the Effect of Death, Marriage, and Bankruptcy
upon the Proceedings in an Action, be it enacted as follows
SEC. 135. The Death of a Plaintiff or Defendant shall not
cause the Action to abate, but it may be continued as herein-after
mentioned.
SEC. 136. If there be Two or more Plaintiffs or Defendants, and One or more of them should die, if the Cause of such Action shall survive to the surviving Plaintiff or Plaintiffs, or against the surviving Defendant or Defendants, the Action shall not be thereby abated ; but such Death being suggested upon the Record, the Action shall proceed at the Suit of the surviving Plaintiff or Plaintiffs against
the surviving Defendant or Defendants.
SEC. 137. In case of the Death of a sole Plaintiff or sole
surviving Plaintiff, the legal Representative of such Plaintiff may, by
Leave of the Court or a Judge, enter a Suggestion of the Death,
and that he is such legal Representative, and the Action shall thereupon
proceed; and, if such Suggestion be made before the Trial, the
Truth of the Suggestion shall be tried thereat, together with the Title of deceased Plaintiff, and such Judgment shall follow upon
the Verdict in favour of or against the Person making such Suggestion,
as if such Person were originally the Plaintiff.
SEC. 138. In case of the Death of a sole Defendant or sole surviving Defendant, where the Action survives, the Plaintiff may make a Suggestion, either in any of the Pleadings, if the Cause has not arrived at Issue, or in a Copy of the Issue, if it has so arrived, of the Death, and that a Person named therein is the Executor or
Administrator of the Deceased ; and may thereupon serve such Executor
or Administrator with a Copy of the Writ and Suggestion, and
with a Notice, signed by the Plaintiff or his Attorney, requiring such
Executor or Administrator to appear within Eight Days after Service
of the Notice, inclusive of the Day of such Service, and that in
default of his so doing the .Plaintiff may sign Judgment against
him as such Executor or Administrator ; and the same Proceedings
may be had and taken in case of Nonappearance after such Notice,
as upon a Writ against such Executor or Administrator in respect
of the Cause for which the Action was brought; and in case no
Pleadings have taken place before the Death, the Suggestion shall
form Part of the Declaration, and the Declaration and Suggestion may
be served together, and the new Defendant shall plead thereto at the
same Time ; and in case the Plaintiff shall have declared, but the
Defendant shall not have pleaded before the Death, the new Defendant
shall plead at the same Time to the Declaration and Suggestion ; and
in case the Defendant shall have pleaded before the Death, the new
Defendant shall be at liberty to plead to the Suggestion, only by
way of Denial, or such Plea as may be appropriate to and rendered
necessary by his Character of Executor or Administrator,, unless, by
Leave of the Court or a Judge, he should be permitted to plead fresh
Matter in answer to the Declaration ; and in case the Defendant shall
have pleaded before the Death, but the Pleadings shall not ° have
arrived at Issue, the new Defendant, besides pleading to the Suggestion,
shall continue the Pleadings to Issue in the same Manner as the
Deceased might have done, and the Pleadings upon the Declaration and
the Pleadings upon the Suggestion shall be tried together ; and in
case the Plaintiff shall recover, he shall be entitled to the like
Judgment in respect of the Debt or Sum sought to be recovered and
in respect of the Costs prior to the Suggestion, and in respect of the
Costs of the Suggestion and subsequent thereto, he shall be entitled
to the like Judgment as in an Action originally commenced against
the Executor or Administrator.
SEC. 139. The Death of either Party between the Verdict and
the Judgment, shall not hereafter be alleged for Error, so as such
Judgment be entered within Two Terms after such Verdict.
SEC. 140. If the Plaintiff in any Action happen to die after an Interlocutory
Judgment and before a final Judgment obtained therein, the
said Action shall not abate by reason thereof, if such Action might
be originally prosecuted or maintained by the Executor or Administrator
of such Plaintiff; and if the Defendant die after such Interlocutory
Judgment and before final Judgment therein obtained, the
said Action shall not abate, if such Action might be originally
prosecuted or maintained against the Executor or Administrator of
such Defendant ; and the Plaintiff, or if he be dead after such
Interlocutory Judgment, his_ Executors or Administrators, shall and
may have a Writ of Revivor, in the Form contained in the Schedule
(A.) to this Act annexed, marked No. 9., or to the like Effect, against
the Defendant, if living after such Interlocutory Judgment, or if he be
dead, then against his Executors or Administrators, to show Cause
why Damages in such Action should not be assessed and recovered by
him or them ; and if such Defendant, his Executors or Administrators,
shall appear at the Return of such Writ, and not show or allege any
Matter sufficient to arrest the final Judgment, or shall make Default,
a Writ of Inquiry of Damages shall be thereupon awarded, or the
Amount, for which final Judgment is to be signed, shall be referred to
One of the Masters, as herein-before provided ; and upon the Return
of the Writ, or Delivery of the Order with the Amount indorsed thereon
to the Plaintiff, his Executors or Administrators, Judgment final shall
be given for the said Plaintiff, his Executors or Administrators, prosecuting
such Writ of Revivor, against such Defendant, his Executors or
Administrators respectively.
SEC. 141. The Marriage of a Woman Plaintiff or Defendant shall not
cause the Action to abate, but the Action may, notwithstanding, be
proceeded with to Judgment ; and such Judgment may be executed
against the Wife alone, or, by Suggestion or Writ of Revivor pursuant
to this Act, Judgment may be obtained against the Husband and
Wife, and Execution issue thereon ; and in case of a Judgment for the
Wife, Execution may be issued thereupon by the Authority of the
Husband without any Writ of Revivor or Suggestion ; and if in any
.such Action the Wife shall sue or defend by Attorney appointed by
her when sole, such Attorney shall have Authority to continue the
Action or Defence, unless such Authority be countermanded by the
Husband, and the Attorney changed according to the Practice of the
Court,
SEC. 142. The Bankruptcy or Insolvency of the Plaintiff in any
Action, which the Assignees might maintain for the Benefit of the
Creditors, shall not be pleaded in bar to such Action, unless the
Assignees shall decline to continue, and give Security for the Costs
thereof, upon a Judge's Order to be obtained for that Purpose, within
such reasonable Time as the Judge may order, but the Proceedings
may be stayed until such Election is made; and in case the Assignees
neglect or refuse to continue the Action, and give such Security
within the Time limited by the Order, the Defendant may, within
Eight Days after such Neglect or Refusal, plead the Bankruptcy.
And with respect to the Proceedings upon Motions to arrest the
Judgment, and for Judgment Non obstante veredicto, be it enacted as
follows :
SEC. 143. Upon any Motion made in arrest of Judgment, or to
enter an Arrest of Judgment, pursuant to the Statute passed in the
First Year of His late Majesty King William the Fourth, intituled
An Act for the more speedy Judgment and Execution in Actions
brought in His Majesty's Courts of Law at Westminster, and in the
Court of Common Pleas of the County Palatine of Lancaster, and
for amending the Law as to Judgment on a Cognovit actionem in
Cases of Bankruptcy, or for Judgment Non obstante veredicto,
by reason of the Non-averment of some alleged material Fact or Facts
or material Allegation, or other Cause, the Party, whose Pleading
is alleged or adjudged to be therein defective, may, by Leave of the
Court, suggest the Existence of the omitted Fact or Facts, or other
Matter, which, if true, would remedy the alleged Defect ; and such
Suggestion may be pleaded to by the opposite Party within Eight
Days after Notice thereof, or such further Time as the Court or a
Judge may allow ; and the Proceedings for Trial of any Issues
joined upon such Pleadings shall be the same as in an ordinary Action.
SEC. 144. If the Fact or Facts suggested be admitted, or found to be true, the Party suggesting shall be entitled to such Judgment as
he would have been entitled to, if such Fact or Facts or Allegations
had been originally stated in such Pleading, and proved or admitted on
the Trial, together with the Costs of, and occasioned by, the Suggestion
and Proceedings thereon ; but if such Fact or Facts be found untrue,
the opposite Party shall be entitled to his Costs of, and occasioned by,
the Suggestion and Proceedings thereon, in addition to any other
Costs to which he may be entitled.
SEC. 145. Upon an Arrest of Judgment, or Judgment Non obstante
veredicto, the Court shall adjudge to the Party, against whom such
Judgment is given, the Costs occasioned by the Trial of any Issues
of Fact, arising out of the Pleading for Defect of which such Judgment
is given, upon which such Party shall have succeeded ; and such
Costs shall be set off against any Money or Costs adjudged to the
opposite Party, and Execution may issue for the Balance, if any.
And with respect to Proceedings in Error, be it enacted as
follows
SEC. 146. No Judgment in any Cause shall be reversed or avoided
for any Error or Defect therein, unless Error be commenced, or
brought and prosecuted with Effect, within Six Years after such Judgment
signed or entered of Record.
SEC. 147. If any Person that is or shall be entitled to bring Error
as aforesaid is or shall be, at the Time of such Title accrued, within
the Age of Twenty-one Years, Feme Covert, non compos mentis, or
beyond the Seas, then such Person shall be at liberty to bring Error as
aforesaid, so as such Person commences, or brings and prosecutes
the same with Effect, within Six Years after coming to or being
of full Age, Discovert, of sound Memory, or return from beyond the
Seas; and if the opposite Party shall, at the Time of the Judgment signed
or entered of Record, be beyond the Seas, then Error may be brought,
provided the Proceedings be commenced and prosecuted with Effect
within Six Years after the Return of such Party from beyond Seas.
SEC. 148. A Writ of Error shall not be necessary or used in any
Cause, and the Proceeding to Error shall be a Step in the Cause, and
shall be taken in manner herein-after mentioned ; but nothing in this
Act contained shall invalidate any Proceedings already taken or to be
taken by reason of any Writ of Error issued before the Commencement
of this Act.
SEC. 149. Either Party alleging Error in Law may deliver to One of
the Masters of the Court a Memorandum in Writing, in the Form
contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed, marked No. 10.,
or to the like Effect, entitled in the Court and Cause, and signed by
the Party or his Attorney, alleging that there is Error in Law in the
Record and Proceedings ; whereupon the Master shall file such
Memorandum, and deliver to the Party lodging the same a Note
of the Receipt thereof ," and a Copy of such Note, together with a
Statement of the Grounds of Error intended to be argued, may be
served on the opposite Party or his Attorney.
SEC. 150. Proceedings in Error in Law shall be deemed a Supersedeas
of Execution from the Time of the Service of the Copy of such Note,
together with the Statement of the Grounds of Error intended to be
argued, until Default in putting in Bail, or an Affirmance of the
Judgment, or Discontinuance of the Proceedings in Error, or until
the Proceedings in Error shall be otherwise disposed of without a
Reversal of the Judgment ; provided always, that if the Grounds of
Error shall appear to be frivolous, the Court or a Judge upon Summons
may order Execution to issue.
SEC. 151. Upon any Judgment hereafter to be given in any of the said
Superior Courts of Common Law in any Action, Execution shall not
be stayed or delayed by Proceedings in Error, or Supersedeas thereupon,
without the special Order of the Court or a Judge, unless the
Person in whose Name such Proceedings in Error be brought, with
Two, or, by Leave of the Court or a Judge, more than Two sufficient
Sureties, such as the Court (wherein such Judgment is or shall be
given) or a Judge shall allow of, shall, within Four clear Days after
lodging the Memorandum alleging Error, or after the signing of the
Judgment, whichever shall last happen, or before Execution executed,
be bound unto the Party for whom any such Judgment is or shall be
given, by Recognizance to be acknowledged in the same Court, in
double the Sum adjudged to be recovered by the said Judgment,
(except in case of a Penalty, and in case of a Penalty in double the
Sum really due, and double the Costs,) to prosecute the Proceedings
in Error with effect, and also to satisfy and pay (if the said Judgment
be affirmed, or the Proceedings in Error be discontinued by the
Plaintiff therein,) all and singular the Sum or Sums of Money and
Costs adjudged or to be adjudged upon the former Judgment, and
all Costs and Damages to be also awarded for the delaying of
Execution, and shall give Notice thereof to the Defendant in Error, or
his Attorney.
SEC. 152. The Assignment of and Joinder in Error in Law shall not be necessary or used, and, instead thereof, a Suggestion to the Effect that Error is alleged by the One Party and denied by the other, may be entered on the Judgment Roll in the Form contained in
Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed, marked No. 11., or to the like
Effect : Provided that in case the Defendant in Error intends to rely
upon the Proceeding in Error being barred by Lapse of Time, or
by Release of Error, or other like Matter of Fact, he may give Four
Days written Notice to the Plaintiff in Error to assign Error as heretofore,
instead of entering the Suggestion ; and he shall, within
Eight Days, plead thereto the Bar by Lapse of Time, or Release of
Error, or other like Matter of Fact ; and thereupon such Proceedings
may be had as heretofore.
SEC. 153. The Roll shall be made up, and the Suggestion last aforesaid
entered by the Plaintiff in Error within Ten Days after the Service of
the Note of the Receipt of the Memorandum alleging Error, or within
such other Time as the Court or a Judge may order ; and in default
thereof, or of Assignment of Error in Cases where an Assignment is
required, the Defendant in Error, his Executors or Administrators,
shall be at liberty to sign judgment of Non-pros.
SEC. 154. In case Error be brought upon a Judgment given against
several Persons, and One or some only shall proceed in Error, the
Memorandum alleging Error, and the Note of the Receipt of such
Memorandum, shall state the Names of the Persons by whom the
Proceedings are taken ; and in case the other Persons, against whom
Judgment has been given, decline to join in the Proceedings in Error,
the same may be continued, and the Suggestion last aforesaid entered,
stating the Persons by whom the Proceedings are brought, without any
Summons and Severance, or if such other Persons elect to join, then
the Suggestion shall state them to be, and they shall be deemed as
Plaintiffs in Error, although not mentioned as such in the previous
Proceedings.
SEC. 155. Upon such Suggestion of. Error alleged and denied being
entered, the Cause may be set down for Argument in the Court of
Error in the Manner heretofore used ; and the Judgment Roll shall,
without any Writ or Return, be brought by the Master into the
Court of Error in the Exchequer Chamber, before the Justices, or
Justices and Barons, as the Case may be, of the other Two Superior
Courts of Common Law, on the Day of its Sitting, at such Time
as the Judges shall appoint, either in Term or in Vacation ; or if the
Proceedings in Error be before the High Court of Parliament, then
before the High Court of Parliament, before or at the Time of its
Sitting ; and the Court of Error shall and may thereupon review the
Proceedings, and give Judgment as they shall be advised thereon ;
and such Proceedings and Judgment, as altered or affirmed, shall be
entered on the original Record ; and such further Proceedings as may
be necessary thereon shall be awarded by the Court in which the
-original Judgment was given.
SEC. 156. Courts of Error shall have Power to quash the Proceedings
in Error in all Cases in which Error does not lie, or where
they are taken against good Faith, or in any Case in which Proceedings
in Error might heretofore have been quashed by such Courts ;
and such Courts shall in all respects have such Jurisdiction over the
Proceedings as over the Proceedings in Error commenced by Writ of
Error.
SEC. 157. Courts of Error shall in all Cases have Power to give
such Judgment and award such Process, as the Court, from which
Error is brought, ought to have done, without regard to the Party
alleging Error.
SEC. 158. Either Party alleging Error in Fact may deliver to One
of the Masters of the Court a Memorandum in Writing, in the Form
contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed, marked No. 12.,
or to the like Effect, intitled in the Court and Cause, and signed by
the Party or his Attorney, alleging that there is Error in Fact in the
Proceedings, together with an Affidavit of the Matter of Fact in
which the alleged Error consists ; whereupon the Master shall file such
Memorandum and Affidavit, and deliver to the Party lodging the
same a Note of the Receipt thereof ; and a Copy of such Note and
Affidavit may be served on the opposite Party or his Attorney ; and
such Service shall have the same Effect, and the same Proceedings
may be had thereafter as heretofore had after the Service of the
Rule for Allowance of a Writ of Error in Fact.
SEC. 159. The Plaintiff in Error, whether in Fact or Law, shall be
at liberty to discontinue his Proceedings by giving to the Defendant
in Error a Notice, headed in the Court and Cause, and signed by the
Plaintiff in Error or his Attorney, stating that he discontinues such
Proceedings ; and thereupon the Defendant in Error may sign Judgment
for the Costs of, and occasioned by, the Proceedings in Error,
and may proceed upon the Judgment on which the Error was
brought.
SEC. 160. The Defendant in. Error, whether in Fact or Law, shall
be at liberty to confess Error, and consent to the Reversal of the
Judgment, by giving to the Plaintiff in Error a Notice, headed in the
Court and Cause, and signed by the Defendant in Error or his Attorney,
stating that he confesses the Error, and consents to the Reversal of
the Judgment ; and thereupon the Plaintiff in Error shall be entitled
to and may forthwith sign a Judgment of Reversal.
SEC. 161. The Death of a Plaintiff in Error after Service of the Note of the Receipt of the Memorandum alleging Error, with a
Statement of the Grounds of Error, shall not cause the Proceedings
to abate, but they may be continued as herein-after mentioned.
SEC. 162. In case of the Death of One of several Plaintiffs in Error,
a Suggestion ma be made of the Death, which Suggestion shall not gg y gg
be traversable, but shall only be subject to be set aside if untrue,
and the Proceedings may be thereupon continued at the Suit of,
and against the surviving Plaintiff in Error, as if he were the sole
Plaintiff.
SEC. 163. In case of the Death of a sole Plaintiff or of several
Plaintiffs in Error, the legal Representative of such Plaintiff or of the
surviving Plaintiff may, by Leave of the Court or a Judge, enter a
Suggestion, of the Death, and that he is such legal Representative,
which Suggestion shall not be traversable, but shall only be subject
to be set aside if untrue, and the Proceedings may thereupon be
continued at the Suit of, and against such legal Representative as
the Plaintiff in Error ; and, if no such Suggestion shall be made, the
Defendant in Error may proceed to an Affirmance of the Judgment
according to the Practice of the Court, or take such other Proceedings
thereupon as he may be entitled to.
SEC. 164. The Death of a Defendant in Error shall not cause
the Proceedings to abate, but they may be continued as herein-after mentioned.
SEC. 165. In case of the Death of One of several Defendants in
Error, a Suggestion may be made of the Death, which Suggestion shall
not be traversable, but only be subject to be set aside if untrue, and
the Proceedings may be continued against the surviving Defendant,
SEC. 166. In case of the Death of a sole Defendant or of all
the Defendants in Error, the Plaintiff in Error may proceed upon giving Ten Days Notice of the Proceedings in Error, and of his
Intention to continue the same, to the Representatives of the deceased Defendants, or if no such Notice can be given, then, by Leave of the
Court or a Judge, upon giving such Notice to the Parties interested
as he or they may direct.
SEC. 167. The Marriage of a Woman, Plaintiff or Defendant in
Error shall not abate the Proceedings in Error,
but the same may be
continued in like Manner as herein-before provided with reference to
the Continuance of an Action after Marriage.
And with respect to the Action of Ejectment, be it enacted as
follows :
SEC. 168. Instead of the present Proceeding by Ejectment, a Writ
shall be issued, directed to the Persons in possession by Name, and
to all Persons entitled to defend the Possession of the Property
claimed, which Property shall be described in the Writ with reasonable
Certainty.
SEC. 169. The Writ shall state the Names of all the Persons in
whom the Title is alleged to be, and command the Persons, to whom
it is directed, to appear, within Sixteen Days after Service thereof, in
the Court from which it is issued, to defend the Possession of the
Property sued for, or such Part thereof as they may think fit, and
it shall contain a Notice that in default of Appearance they will be
turned out of Possession ; and the Writ shall bear Teste of the Day
on which it is issued, and shall be in force for Three Months, and
shall be in the Form contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act
annexed, marked No. 13., or to the like Effect ; and the Name and
Abode of the Attorney issuing the same, or, if no Attorney, the Name
and Residence of the Party shall be indorsed thereon, in like Manner
as herein-before enacted with reference to the Indorsements on a Writ
of Summons in a Personal Action ; and the same Proceedings may be
had to ascertain whether the Writ was issued by the Authority of
the Attorney whose Name was indorsed thereon, and who and what
the Claimants are, and their Abode, and as to staying the Proceedings
upon Writs issued without Authority, as in the Case of Writs in
Personal Actions.
SEC. 170. The Writ shall be served in the same Manner as an Ejectment has heretofore been served, or in such Manner as the Court or a Judge shall order, and in case of vacant Possession, by
posting a Copy thereof upon the Door of the Dwelling House or
other conspicuous Part of the Property.
SEC. 171. The Persons named as Defendants in such Writ, or either of them, shall be allowed to appear within the Time appointed. 
SEC. 172. Any other Person not named in such Writ shall, by Leave of the Court or a Judge, be allowed to appear and defend, on filing an Affidavit showing that he is in possession of the Land either
by himself or his Tenant.
SEC. 173. Any Person appearing to defend as Landlord in respect of Property, whereof he is in possession only by his Tenant, shall state in his Appearance that he appears as Landlord ; and such Person
shall be at liberty to set up any Defence which a Landlord appearing
in an Action of Ejectment has heretofore been allowed to set up, and
no other.
SEC. 174. Any Person appearing to such Writ shall be at liberty
to limit his Defence to a Part only of the Property mentioned in the
Writ, describing that Part with reasonable Certainty in a Notice intituled
in the Court and Cause, and signed by the Party appearing or
his Attorney ; such Notice to be served within Four Days after Appearance
upon the Attorney whose Name is indorsed on the Writ, if any, and
none, then to be filed in the Master's Office ; and an Appearance
without such Notice confining the Defence to Part, shall be deemed
an Appearance to defend for the whole.
SEC. 175. Want of "reasonable Certainty" in the Description of
the Property, or Part of it, in the Writ or Notice, shall not nullify
them, but shall only be Ground for an - Application to a Judge for.
better Particulars of the Land claimed or defended, which a Judge
shall have Power to give in all Cases.
SEC. 176. The Court or a Judge shall have Power to strike out
or confine Appearances and Defences set up by Persons not in possession
by themselves or their Tenants.
SEC. 177. In case no Appearance shall be entered into within the
Time appointed, or if an Appearance be entered, but the Defence be
limited to Part only, the Plaintiffs shall be at liberty to sign a Judgment
that the Person whose Title is asserted in the Writ shall recover
Possession of the Land, or of the Part thereof to which the Defence
does not apply ; which Judgment, if for all, may be in the Form
contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed, marked No. 14.,
or to the like Effect, and if for Part, may be in the Form contained
in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed, marked No. 15., or to the
like Effect.
SEC. 178. In case an Appearance shall be entered, an Issue may
once be made up, without any Pleadings, by the Claimants or their
Attorney, setting forth the Writ, and stating the Fact of the Appearance,
with its Date, and the Notice limiting the Defence, if any,
of each of the Persons appearing, so that it may appear for what
Defence is made, and directing the Sheriff to summon a Jury ; and
such Issue, in case Defence is made for the whole, may be in the
Form contained in Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed, marked
No. 16., or to the like Effect, and in case Defence is made for Part,
may be in the Form contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act
annexed, marked No. 15., or to the like Effect.
SEC. 179. By Consent of the Parties, and by Leave of a Judge,
a Special Case may be stated according to the Practice heretofore
used.
Special may stated.
SEC. 180. The Claimants may, if no Special Case be agreed to, proceed to trial upon the Issue, in the same Manner as in other Actions ; and the Particulars of the Claim and Defence, if any, or
Copies thereof, shall be annexed to the Record by the Claimants ;
and the Question at the Trial shall, except in the Cases hereafter
mentioned, be, whether the Statement in the Writ of the Title of the
Claimants is true or false, and, if true, then which of the Claimants is
entitled, and whether to the whole or Part, and if to Part, then to which
Part of the Property in question ; and the Entry of the Verdict may
be made in the Form contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act
annexed, marked No. 17., or to the like Effect, with such Modifications
as may be necessary to meet the Facts.
SEC. 181. In case the Title of the Claimant shall appear to have existed as alleged in the Writ, and at the Time of Service thereof, it shall also appear to have expired before the Time of Trial, the Claimant shall, notwithstanding, be entitled to a Verdict according to the Fact that he was so entitled at the Time of bringing the Action
and serving the Writ, and to a Judgment for his Cost of Suit.
SEC. 182. The Court or a Judge may, on the Application of
either Party, order that the Trial shall take place in any County or
Place other than that in which the Venue is laid ; and such Order
being suggested on the Record, the Trial may be had accordingly.
SEC. 183. If the Defendant appears, and the Claimant does not
appear at the Trial, the Claimant shall be non-suited ; and if the
Claimant appears, and the Defendant does not appear, the Claimant
shall be entitled to recover as heretofore, without any Proof of his Title.
SEC. 184. The Jury may find a Special Verdict, or either Party
may tender a Bill of Exceptions.
SEC. 185. Upon a Finding for the Claimant, Judgment may be
signed, and Execution issue for the Recovery of Possession of the Property,
or such Part thereof as the Jury shall find the Claimant entitled
to, and for Costs, within such Time, not exceeding the Fifth Day
in Term after the Verdict, as the Court or Judge before whom the
Cause is tried shall order ; and if no such Order be made, then on the
Fifth Day in Term after the Verdict, or within Fourteen Days after
such Verdict, whichever shall first happen.
SEC. 186. Upon a Finding for the Defendants, or any of them,
Judgment may be signed, and Execution issue for Costs against the
Claimants named in the Writ, within such Time, not exceeding the
Fifth Day in Term after the Verdict, as the Court or Judge before
whom the Cause is tried shall order ; and if no such Order be made,
then on the Fifth Day in Term after the Verdict, or within Fourteen
Days after such Verdict, whichever shall first happen.
SEC. 187. Upon any Judgment in Ejectment for Recovery of
Possession and Costs, there may be either One Writ or separate Writs
of Execution for the Recovery of Possession and for the Costs, at the
Election of the Claimant.
SEC. 188. In case of such an Action being brought by some
or One of several Persons entitled as Joint Tenants, Tenants in Common,
or Coparceners, any Joint Tenant, Tenant in Common, or Coparcener
in possession, may, at the Time of Appearance, or within Four
Days after, give Notice in the same Form as in the Notice of a limited
Defence, that he or she defends as such, and admits the Right of the,
Claimant to an undivided Share of the Property, (stating what Share,)
but denies any actual Ouster of him from the Property, and may,
within the same Time, file an Affidavit stating with reasonable Certainty
that he or she is such Joint Tenant, Tenant in Common, or
Coparcener, and the Share of such Property to which he or she is
entitled, and that he or she has not ousted the Claimant ; and such
Notice shall be entered in the Issue in the same Manner as the Notice
limiting the Defence, and upon the Trial of such an Issue the additional
Question of whether an actual Ouster has taken place shall be
tried.
SEC. 189. Upon the Trial of such Issue as last aforesaid, if it shall be found that the Defendant is Joint Tenant Tenant in Common > >
or Coparcener with the Claimant, then the Question whether an actual
Ouster has taken place shall be tried, and unless such actual Ouster
shall be proved the Defendant shall be entitled to Judgment and
Costs ; but if it shall be found either that the Defendant is not such
Joint Tenant, Tenant in Common, or Coparcener, or that an actual
Ouster has taken place, then the Claimant shall be entitled to such
Judgment for the Recovery of Possession and Costs.
SEC. 190. The Death of a Claimant or Defendant shall not cause the Action to abate, but it may be continued as herein-after men-
tioned. 
SEC. 191. In case the Right of the deceased Claimant shall survive
to another Claimant, a Suggestion may be made of the Death,
which Suggestion shall not be traversable, but shall only be subject to
be set aside if untrue, and the Action may proceed at the Suit
of the surviving Claimant ; and if such a Suggestion shall be
made before the Trial, then the Claimant shall have a Verdict and
recover such Judgment as aforesaid, upon its appearing that he was
entitled to bring the Action either separately or jointly with the
deceased Claimant.
SEC. 192. In case of the Death before Trial of One of several
Claimants, whose Right does not survive to another or others of the
Claimants, where the legal Representative of the deceased Claimant
shall not become a Party to the Suit in the Manner herein-after mentioned,
a Suggestion may be made of the Death, which Suggestion
shall not be traversable, but shall only be subject to be set aside if
untrue, and the Action may proceed at the Suit of the surviving
Claimant for such Share of the Property as he is entitled to, and
Costs.
SEC. 193. In case of a Verdict for Two or more Claimants, if One
of such Claimants die before Execution executed, the other Claimant
may, whether the legal Right to the Property shall survive or not,
suggest the Death in manner aforesaid, and proceed to Judgment and
Execution for Recovery of Possession of the Entirety of the Property
and the Costs ; but nothing herein contained shall affect the
Right of the legal Representative of the deceased Claimant, or the
Liability of the surviving Claimant to such legal Representative ;
and the Entry and Possession of such surviving Claimant under such
Execution shall be considered as an Entry and Possession on behalf
of such legal Representative in respect of the Share of the Property
to which he shall be entitled as such Representative, and the Court
may direct Possession to be delivered accordingly.
SEC. 194. In case of the Death of a sole Claimant, or, before
Trial, of One of several Claimants, whose Right does not survive to
another or others of the Claimants, the legal Representative of such
Claimant may, by Leave of the, Court or a Judge, enter a Suggestion
of the Death, and that he is such legal Representative, and the Action
shall thereupon proceed ; and if such Suggestion be made before the
Trial, the Truth of the Suggestion shall be tried thereat, together
with the Title of the deceased Claimant, and such Judgment shall
follow upon the Verdict in favour of or against the Person making
such Suggestion, as herein-before provided with reference to a Judg=
ment for or against such Claimant ; and in case such Suggestion in
the Case of a sole Claimant be made after Trial and before Execution
executed by Delivery of Possession thereupon, and such Suggestion
be denied by the Defendant within Eight Days after Notice thereof,
or such further Time as the Court or a Judge may allow, then such
Suggestion shall be tried ; and if, upon the Trial thereof, a Verdict
shall pass for the Person making such Suggestion, he shall be entitled
to such Judgment as aforesaid for the Recovery of Possession,, and
for the Costs of and occasioned by such Suggestion ; and in case of
a Verdict for the Defendant such Defendant shall be entitled to such
Judgment as aforesaid for Costs.
SEC. 195. In case of the Death, before or after Judgment, of One
of several Defendants in Ejectment, who defend jointly, a Suggestion
may be made of the Death, which Suggestion shall not be
traversable, but only be subject to be set aside if untrue, and the
Action may proceed against the surviving Defendant to Judgment
and Execution.
SEC. 196. In case of the Death of a sole Defendant, or of all the
Defendants in Ejectment, before Trial, a Suggestion may be made
of the Death, which Suggestion shall not be traversable, but only be
subject to be set aside if untrue, and the Claimants shall be entitled
to Judgment for Recovery of Possession of the Property, unless some
other Person shall appear and defend within the Time to be appointed
for that Purpose by the Order of the Court or a Judge, to be made
upon the Application of the Claimants ; and it shall be lawful for the
Court or a Judge, upon such Suggestion being made and upon such
Application as aforesaid, to order that the Claimants shall be at liberty
to sign Judgment within such Time as the Court or Judge may think
fit, unless the Person then in possession, by himself or his Tenant, or
the legal Representative of the deceased Defendant, shall within such
Time appear and defend the Action ; and such Order may be served
in the same Manner as the Writ ; and in case such Person shall appear
and defend the same, Proceedings may be taken against such new
Defendant as if he had originally appeared and defended the Action ;
and if no Appearance be entered and Defence made, then the
Claimant shall be at liberty to sign Judgment pursuant to the
Order.
SEC. 197. In case of the Death of a sole Defendant or of all the
Defendants in Ejectment after Verdict, the Claimants shall nevertheless
less be entitled to Judgment as if no such Death had taken place, and to proceed by Execution for Recovery of Possession without Sugges- or Revivor, and to proceed for the Recovery of the Costs, in like
Manner as upon any other Judgment for Money, against the legal
Representatives of the deceased Defendant or Defendants.
SEC. 198. In case of the Death before Trial of One of several
Defendants in Ejectment, who defends separately for a Portion of the
Property for which the other Defendant or Defendants do not defend,
the same Proceedings may be taken as to such Portion as in the Case
of the Death of a sole Defendant, or the Claimants may proceed against
the surviving Defendants in respect of the Portion of the Property for
which they defend.
SEC. 199. In case of the Death before Trial of One of several Defen- dants in Ejectment, who defends separately in respect of Property for which surviving Defendants also defend, it shall be lawful for the Court or a Judge at any Time before the Trial to allow the Person at the Time of the' Death in possession of the Property, or the legal Representative of the deceased Defendant, to appear and defend on such Terms as may appear reasonable and just, upon the Application
of such Person or Representative ; and if no such Application be
made or Leave granted, the Claimant, suggesting the Death in manner
aforesaid, may proceed against the surviving Defendant or Defendants
to Judgment and Execution.
SEC. 200. The Claimant in Ejectment shall be.at liberty at any Time
to discontinue the Action as to One or more of the Defendants,
by giving to the Defendant or his Attorney a Notice headed in the
Court and Cause, and signed by the Claimant or his Attorney, stating
that he discontinues such Action ; and thereupon the Defendant, to
whom such Notice is given, shall be entitled to and may forthwith
sign Judgment for Costs in the Form contained in the Schedule (A.)
to this Act annexed, marked No. 18, or to the like Effect.
SEC. 201. In case One of several Claimants shall be desirous to dis- he may apply to the Court or a Judge to have his Name struck out of the Proceedings, and an Order may be made thereupon upon such Terms as to the Court or Judge may seem fit, and the Action shall thereupon proceed at the Suit of the other Claimants.
SEC. 202. If after Appearance entered the Claimant, without going to Trial, allow the Time, allowed for going to Trial by the Practice of the Court in ordinary Cases after Tssue joined, to elapse, the Defendant
in Ejectment may give Twenty Days Notice to the Claimant to
proceed to Trial at the Sittings or Assizes next after the Expiration
of the Notice ; and if the Claimant afterwards neglects to give Notice
of Trial for such Sittings or Assizes, or to proceed to Trial in pursuance
of the said Notice given by the Defendant, and the Time for going to
Trial shall not be extended by the Court or a Judge, the Defendant
may sign Judgment in the Form contained in the Schedule (A.) to
this Act annexed, marked No. 19, and recover the Costs of Defence.
SEC. 203. A sole Defendant or all the Defendants in Ejectment
shall be at liberty to confess the Action as to the whole or Part
of the Property, by giving to such Claimant a Notice headed in the
Court and Cause, and signed by the Defendant or Defendants, such
Signature to be attested by his or their Attorney ; and thereupon
the Claimant shall be entitled to and may forthwith sign Judgment
and issue Execution for the Recovery of Possession and Costs in
the Form contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed,
marked No. 20, or to the like Effect.
SEC. 204. In case One of several Defendants in Ejectment, who
defends separately for a Portion of the Property for which the other
Defendant or Defendants do not defend, shall be desirous of confessing
the Claimant's Title to such Portion, he may give a like
Notice to the Claimant ; and thereupon the Claimant shall be entitled
to and may forthwith sign Judgment and issue Execution for the
Recovery of Possession of such Portion of the Property, and for the
Costs occasioned by the Defence relating to the same, and the Action
may proceed as to the Residue.
SEC. 205. In case One of several Defendants in Ejectment, who
defends separately in respect ,of Property for which other Defendants
also defend, shall be desirous of confessing the Claimant's Title, he
may give a like Notice thereof ; and thereupon the Claimant shall be entitled to and may sign Judgment against such Defendant for
the Costs occasioned by his Defence, and may proceed in the Action
against the other Defendants to Judgment and Execution.
SEC. 206. It shall not be necessary before issuing Execution upon
any Judgment under the Authority of this Act to enter the Proceedings
upon any Roll, but an Incipitur thereof may be made upon
Paper, shortly describing the Nature of the Judgment according to
the Practice heretofore used, and Judgment may thereupon be signed,
and Costs taxed, and Execution issued, according to the Practice
heretofore used : Provided nevertheless, that.the Proceedings may be
entered upon the Roll whenever the same may become necessary for
the Purpose of Evidence, or of bringing Error, or the like.
SEC. 207. The Effect of a Judgment in an Action of Ejectment under this Act shall be the same as that of a Judgment in the Action of Ejectment heretofore used.
SEC. 208. Error may be brought in like Manner as in other Actions
upon any Judgment in Ejectment, after a Special Verdict found by
the Jury, or a Bill of Exceptions, or by Consent after a Special Case
stated, but, except in the Case of such Consent as aforesaid, Execution
shall not be thereby stayed, unless the Plaintiff in Error shall, within
Four clear Days after lodging the Memorandum alleging Error, or
after the signing of the Judgment, whichever shall last happen,. or
before Execution executed, be bound unto the Claimant, who shall
have recovered Judgment in such Action of Ejectment, in double the
yearly Value of the Property, and double the Costs recovered by
the Judgment, with Condition, that if the Judgment shall be affirmed
by the Court of Error, or the Proceedings in Error be discontinued by
the Plaintiff therein, then the Plaintiff in Error shall pay such Costs,
Damages, and Sum or Sums of Money as shall be awarded upon or
after such Judgment affirmed or Discontinuance ; and it shall be
lawful for the Court wherein Execution ought to be granted upon
such Affirmation, or Discontinuance, upon the Application of the
Claimant, to issue a Writ to inquire as well of the mesne Profits as of
the Damage by any Waste committed after the first Judgment in
Ejectment, which Writ may be tested on the Day on which it
shall issue, and be returnable immediately after the Execution thereof;
and upon the Return thereof Judgment shall be given, and Execution
awarded for such mesne Profits and Damages, and also for Costs
of Suit.
SEC. 209. Every Tenant to whom any Writ in Ejectment shall be
delivered, or to whose Knowledge it shall come, shall forthwith give
Notice thereof to his Landlord, or his Bailiff or Receiver, under
Penalty of forfeiting the Value of Three Years improved or Rack
Rent of the Premises, demised or holden in the Possession of such
Tenant, to the Person of whom he holds, to be recovered by
Action in any Court of Common Law having Jurisdiction for the
Amount.
SEC. 210. In all Cases between Landlord and Tenant, as often as
it shall happen that One Half Year's Rent shall be in arrear, and the
Landlord or Lessor, to whom the same is due, hath Right by Law to
re-enter for the Nonpayment thereof, such Landlord or Lessor shall
and may, without any formal Demand or Re-entry, serve a Writ in
Ejectment for the Recovery of the demised Premises, or in case the
same cannot be legally served, or no Tenant be in actual Possession of
the Premises, then such Landlord or Lessor may affix a Copy thereof
upon the Door of any demised Messuage, or in case such Action in
Ejectment shall not be for the Recovery of any Messuage, then upon
some notorious Place of the Lands, Tenements, or Hereditaments
comprised in such Writ in Ejectment, and such affixing shall be deemed
legal Service thereof, which Service or affixing such Writ in Ejectment
shall stand in the Place and Stead of a Demand and Re-entry ; and in
case of Judgment against the Defendant for Nonappearance, if it shall
be made appear to the Court where the said Action is depending, by
Affidavit, or be proved upon the Trial in case the Defendant appears,
that Half a Year's Rent was due before the said Writ was served,
and that no sufficient Distress was to be found on the demised Premises,
countervailing the Arrears then due, and that the Lessor had
Power to re-enter, then and in every such Case the Lessor shall
recover Judgment and Execution, in the same Manner as if the Rent
in arrear had been legally demanded, and a Re-entry made ; and in
case the Lessee or his Assignee, or other Person claiming or deriving
under the said Lease, shall permit and suffer Judgment to be had and
recovered on such Trial in Ejectment, and Execution to be executed
thereon, without paying the Rent and Arrears, together with full
Costs, and without proceeding for Relief in Equity within Six Months
after such Execution executed, then and in such Case the said Lessee,
his Assignee, and all other Persons claiming and deriving under the
said Lease, shall be barred and foreclosed from all Relief or Remedy
in Law or Equity, other than by bringing Error for Reversal of such
Judgment, in case the same shall be erroneous, and the said Landlord
or Lessor shall from thenceforth hold the said demised Premises
discharged from such Lease ; and if on such Ejectment a Verdict
shall pass for the Defendant, or the Claimant shall be nonsuited
therein, then in every such Case such Defendant shall have and
recover his Costs ; provided that nothing herein contained shall
extend to bar the Right of any Mortgagee of such Lease, or any
Part thereof, who shall not be in possession, so as such Mortgagee
shall and do, within Six Months after such Judgment obtained and
Execution executed pay all Rent in arrear, and all Costs and
Damages sustained n y such Lessor or Person entitled to the Remainder
or Reversion as aforesaid, and perform all the Covenants
and Agreements which, on the Part and Behalf of the First Lessee,
are and ought to be performed.
SEC. 211. In case the said Lessee, his Assignee, or other Person
claiming any Right, Title, or Interest, in Law or Equity, of, in, or to
the said Lease, shall, within the Time aforesaid, proceed for Relief in
any Court of Equity, such Person shall not have or continue any
Injunction against the Proceedings at Law on such Ejectment, unless
he does or shall, within Forty Days next after a full and perfect
Answer shall be made by the Claimant in such Ejectment, bring into
Court, and lodge with the proper Officer such Sum and Sums of
Money as the Lessor or Landlord shall in his Answer swear to be
due and in arrear over and above all just Allowances, and also the
Costs taxed in the said Suit, there to remain till the Hearing of the
Cause, or to be paid out to the Lessor or Landlord on good Security,
subject to the Decree of the Court;, and in case such Proceedings
for Relief in Equity shall be taken within the Time aforesaid, and
after Execution is executed, the Lessor or Landlord shall be accountable
only for so much and no more as he shall really and bona fide,
without Fraud, Deceit, or wilful Neglect, make of the demised Premises
from the Time of his entering into the actual Possession thereof ;.
and if what shall be so made by the Lessor or Landlord happen to be
less than the Rent reserved on the said Lease, then the said Lessee
or .his Assignee, before he shall be restored to his Possession, shall
pay such Lessor or Landlord, what the Money so by him made fell
short of the reserved Rent for the Time such Lessor or Landlord held
the said Lands.
SEC. 212. If the Tenant or his Assignee do or shall, at any Time.
before the Trial in such Ejectment, pay or tender to the Lessor or
Landlord, his Executors or Administrators, or his or their Attorney in
that Cause, or pay into the Court where the same Cause is depending,
all the Rent and Arrears, together with the Costs, then and in such
Case, all further Proceedings on the said Ejectment shall cease and be
discontinued; and if 'such Lessee, his Executors, Administrators, or
Assigns, shall, upon such Proceedings as aforesaid, be relieved in
Equity, he and they shall have, hold, and enjoy the demised Lands,
according to the Lease thereof made, without any new Lease.
SEC. 213. Where the Term or Interest of any Tenant now or
hereafter holding under a Lease or Agreement in Writing any Lands,
Tenements, or Hereditaments for any Term or Number of Years
certain, or from Year to Year, shall have expired or been determined
either by the Landlord or Tenant by regular Notice to quit, and such
Tenant, or any one holding or claiming by or under him, shall refuse
to deliver up Possession accordingly, after lawful Demand in Writing
made and signed by the Landlord or his Agent, and served personally
upon or left at the Dwelling House or usual Place of Abode of
such Tenant or Person, and the Landlord shall thereupon proceed by
Action of Ejectment for the Recovery of Possession, it shall be lawful
for him, at the Foot of the Writ in Ejectment, to address a Notice to
such Tenant or Person requiring him to find such Bail, if ordered by
the Court or a Judge, and for such Purposes as are herein-after next
specified ; and upon the Appearance of the Party on an Affidavit of
Service of the Writ and Notice, it shall be lawful for the Landlord
producing the Lease or Agreement, or some Counterpart or Duplicate
thereof, and proving the Execution of the same by Affidavit, and upon
Affidavit that the Premises have been actually enjoyed under such
Lease or Agreement, and that the Interest of the Tenant has expired,
or been determined by regular Notice to quit, as the Case may be,
and that Possession has been lawfully demanded in manner aforesaid,
to move the Court or apply by Summons to a Judge at Chambers
for a Rule or Summons for such Tenant or Person to show Cause,
within a Time to be fixed by the Court or Judge on a Consideration
of the Situation of the Premises, why such Tenant or Person should
not enter into a Recognizance by himself and Two sufficient Sureties
in a reasonable Sum conditioned to pay the Costs and Damages
which shall be recovered by the Claimants in the Action ; and it shall
be lawful for the Court or Judge upon Cause shown, or upon Affidavit
of the Service of the Rule or Summons in case no Cause shall be
shown, to make the same absolute in the whole or in part, and to
order such Tenant or Person, within a Time to be fixed, upon a Consideration
of all the Circumstances, to find such Bail, with such Conditions
and in such Manner as shall be specified in the said Rule or
Summons, or such Part of the same so made absolute ; and in case
the Party shall neglect or refuse so to do, and shall lay no Ground to
induce the Court or Judge to enlarge the Time for obeying the
same, then the Lessor or Landlord filing an Affidavit that such Rule
or Order has been made and served and not complied with shall be
at liberty to sign Judgment for Recovery of Possession and Costs of
Suit in the Form contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed,
marked No. 21, or to the like Effect.
SEC. 214. Wherever it shall appear on the Trial of any Ejectment,
at the Suit of a Landlord against a Tenant, that such Tenant or his
Attorney hath been served with due Notice of Trial, the Judge before
whom such Cause shall come on to be tried shall, whether the Defendant
shall appear upon such Trial or not, permit the Claimant on the
Trial, after Proof of his Right to recover Possession of the whole or
of any Part of the Premises mentioned in the Writ in Ejectment, to go
into Evidence of the mesne Profits thereof which shall or might have
accrued from the Day of the Expiration or Determination of the
Tenant's Interest in the same down to the Time of the Verdict given
in the Cause, or to some preceding Day to be specially mentioned
therein ; and the Jury on the Trial finding for the Claimant shall in
such Case give their Verdict upon the whole Matter, both as to the
Recovery of the whole or any Part of the Premises, and also as to
the Amount of the Damages to be paid for such mesne Profits ; and
in such Case the Landlord shall have Judgment within the Time
herein-before provided, not only for the Recovery of Possession and
Costs, but also for the mesne Profits found by the Jury : Provided
always, that nothing herein-before contained shall be construed to bar
any such Landlord from bringing any Action for the mesne Profits
which shall accrue from the Verdict, or the Day so specified therein,
down to the Day of the Delivery of Possession of the Premises
recovered in the Ejectment.
SEC. 215. In all Cases in which such Security shall have been
given as aforesaid, if upon the Trial a Verdict shall pass for the
Claimant, unless it shall appear to the Judge before whom the same
shall have been had that the finding of the Jury was contrary to
the Evidence, or that the Damages given were excessive, such Judge
shall not, except by Consent, make any Order to stay Judgment or
Execution, except on condition that within Four Days from the Day
of the Trial the Defendant shall actually find Security, by the
Recognizance of himself and Two sufficient Sureties, in such reasonable
Sum as the Judge shall direct, conditioned not to commit any
Waste, or Act in the Nature of Waste, or other wilful Damage, and
not to sell or carry off any standing Crops, Hay, Straw, or Manure
produced or made (if any) upon the Premises, and which may happen
to be thereupon, from the Day on which the Verdict shall have been
given to the Day on which Execution shall finally be made upon
the Judgment, or the same be set aside, as the Case may be : Provided
always, that the Recognizance last above mentioned shall
immediately stand discharged and be of no Effect, in case Proceedings
in Error shall be brought upon such Judgment, and the
Plaintiff in Error shall become bound in the Manner herein-before
provided.
SEC. 216. All Recognizances and Securities entered into as
last aforesaid may and shall be taken respectively in such Manner
and by and before such Persons as are provided and authorized in
respect of Recognizances of Bail upon Actions and Suits depending
in the Court in which any such Action of Ejectment shall have been
commenced ; and the Officer of the same Court with whom Recognizances
of Bail are filed shall file such Recognizances and Securities,
for which respectively the Sum of Two Shillings and Sixpence, and
no more, shall be paid ; but no Action or other Proceeding shall be
commenced upon any such Recognizance or Security after the
Expiration of Six Months from the Time, when Possession of the
Premises, or any Part thereof, shall actually have been delivered
to the Landlord.
SEC. 217. In all Actions of Ejectment hereafter to be brought
in any of Her Majesty's Courts at Westminster by any Landlord
against his Tenant, or against any Person claiming through or under
such Tenant, for the Recovery of any Lands or Hereditaments in any
County, except London or Middlesex, where the Tenancy shall expire,
or the Right of Entry into or upon such Lands or Hereditaments shall
accrue to such Landlord, in or after Hilary or Trinity Terms respectively,
it shall be lawful for the Claimant in any such Action, at any
Time within Ten Days after such Tenancy shall expire, or Right of
Entry accrue as aforesaid, to serve a Writ in Ejectment in the Form
contained in the Schedule (A.) to this Act annexed, marked No. 13,
except that it shall command the Persons to whom it is directed to
appear within Ten Days after Service thereof in the Court in which
such Action may be brought ; and the like Proceedings shall be
thereupon had as herein-before provided, save that it shall be sufficient
to give at least Six clear Days Notice of Trial to the Defendant
before the Commission Day of the Assizes at which such Eject m-ent
is intended to be tried ; and any Defendant in such Action may, at
any Time before the Trial thereof, apply to a Judge by Summons
to stay or set aside the Proceedings, or to postpone the Trial
until the next Assizes ; and it shall be lawful for the Judge, in his
Discretion, to make such Order in the said Cause as to him shall
seem expedient.
SEC. 218. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prejudice
or affect any other Right of Action or Remedy which Landlords may
possess in any of the Cases herein-before provided for, otherwise than
herein-before expressly enacted.
SEC. 219. Where an Action of Ejectment shall be brought by any
Mortgagee, his Heirs, Executors, Administrators, or Assignees, for
the Recovery of the Possession of any mortgaged Lands, Tenements,
or Hereditaments, and no Suit shall be then depending in any of Her
Majesty's Courts of Equity in that Part of Great Britain called
England, for or touching the foreclosing or redeeming of such mortgaged
Lands, Tenements, or Hereditaments, if the Person having
Right to redeem such mortgaged Lands, Tenements, or Hereditaments,
and who shall appear and become Defendant in such Action,
shall, at any Time pending such Action, pay unto such Mortgagee,
or, in case of his Refusal, shall bring into Court, where such Action
shall be depending, all the Principal Monies and Interest due on such
Mortgage, and also all such Costs as have been expended in any
Suit at Law or in Equity upon such Mortgage (such Money for
Principal, Interest, and Costs to be ascertained and computed by the
Court where such Action is or shall be depending, or by the proper
Officer by such Court to be appointed for that Purpose), the .Monies
so paid to such Mortgagee, or brought into such Court, shall be
deemed and taken to be in full Satisfaction and Discharge of such
Mortgage, and the Court shall and may discharge every such Mortgagor
or Defendant of and from the same accordingly ; and shall and
may, by Rule of the same Court, compel such Mortgagee,,at the Costs
and Charges of such Mortgagor, to assign, su*Tender, or re-convey
such mortgaged Lands, Tenements, and Hereditaments, and such
Estate and Interest as such Mortgagee has therein, and deliver up all
Deeds, Evidences, and Writings in his Custody, relating to the Title
of such mortgaged Lands, Tenements, and Hereditaments, unto such
Mortgagor, who shall have paid or brought such Monies into the
Court, his Heirs, Executors, or Administrators, or to such other
Person or Persons as he or they shall for that Purpose nominate or
appoint.
SEC. 220. Nothing herein contained shall extend to any Case
where the Person, against whom the Redemption is or shall be prayed,
shall (by Writing under his Hand, or the Hand of his Attorney,
Agent, or Solicitor, to be delivered before the Money shall be brought
into such Court of Law, to the Attorney or Solicitor for the other
Side,) insist, either that the Party praying a Redemption has not a
Right to redeem, or that the Premises are chargeable with other or
different Principal Sums, than what appear on the Face of the Mortgage
or shall be admitted on the other Side ; or to any Case where
the Right of Redemption to the mortgaged Lands and Premises in
question in any Cause or Suit shall be controverted or questioned by
or between different Defendants in the same Cause or Suit ; or shall
be any Prejudice to any subsequent Mortgage or subsequent Incumbrance,
anything herein contained to the contrary thereof in anywise
notwithstanding.
SEC. 221. The several Courts and the Judges thereof respectively
shall and may exercise over the Proceedings the like. Jurisdiction
as heretofore exercised in the Action of Ejectment, so as. to
ensure a Trial of the Title, and of actual Ouster, when necessary,
only, and for all other Purposes for which such Jurisdiction may at
present be exercised ; and the Provisions of all Statutes not inconsistent
with the Provisions of this Act, and which may be applicable
to the altered Mode of Proceeding, shall remain in force and be
applied thereto.
And whereas the Power of Amendment now vested in the Courts
and the Judges thereof is insufficient to enable them to prevent the
Failure of Justice by reason of Mistakes and Objections of Form : Be
it enacted as follows :
SEC. 222. It shall be lawful for the Superior Courts of Common
Law, and every Judge thereof, and any Judge sitting at Nisi Prius,
at all Times to amend all Defects and Errors in any Proceeding in
Civil Causes, whether there is anything in Writing to amend by or
not, and whether the Defect or Error be that of the Party applying
to amend, or not ; and all such Amendments may be made with or
without Costs, and upon such Terms as to the Court or Judge may
seem fit ; and all such Amendments as may be necessary for the Purpose
of determining in the existing Suit the real Question in controversy
between the Parties shall be so made.
And in order to enable the Courts and Judges to carry this Act thoroughly into effect, and to enable them from Time to Time to
make Rules and Regulations and to frame Writs and Proceedings for
that Purpose, be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 223. It shall be lawful for the Judges of the said Courts, or
any Eight or more of them, of whom the Chiefs of each of the said
Courts shall be Three, from Time to Time to make all such General
Rules and Orders for the effectual Execution of this Act, and
of the Intention and Object hereof, and for fixing the Costs to be
allowed for and in respect of the Matters herein contained, and the
Performance thereof, and for apportioning the Costs of Issues,
and for the Purpose of enforcing Uniformity of Practice in the
Allowance of Costs in the said Courts, and of ensuring as far as may
be practicable an equal Division of the Business of Taxation amongst
the Masters of the said Courts, as in their Judgment shall be
necessary or proper, and for that Purpose to meet from Time to Time
as Occasion may require : and it shall further be lawful for the Judges
of the said Courts, or any Eight or more of them, of whom the Chiefs
of each of the said Courts shall be Three, from Time to Time to
exercise all the Powers and Authority given to them by an Act of
Parliament passed in the Session of Parliament held in the Thirteenth
and Fourteenth Years of the Reign of Her present Majesty, intituled
An Act to enable the Judges of the Common Law at Westminster
to alter the Forms of Pleading, with respect to any Matter herein
contained relative to Practice or Pleading, anything in this Act to
the contrary notwithstanding ; and the Provisions of the said lastmentioned
Act as to the Rules, Orders, or Regulations made in
pursuance thereof shall be held applicable to any Rules, Orders, or
Regulations which shall be made in pursuance of this Act : Provided
that nothing herein contained shall be construed to restrain the Authority
or limit the Jurisdiction of the said Courts or the Judges thereof
to make Rules or Orders, or otherwise to regulate and dispose of the
Business therein.
SEC. 224. Such new or altered Writs and Forms of Proceedings
may be issued, entered, and taken, as may by the Judges of the said
Courts, or any Eight or more of them, of whom the Chiefs of each
of the said Courts shall be Three, be deemed necessary or expedient
for giving Effect to the Provisions herein-before contained, and in
such Forms as the Judges of such Courts respectively shall from
Time to Time think fit to order; and such Writs and Proceedings
shall be acted upon and enforced in such and the same Manner as
Writs and Proceedings of the said Courts are now acted upon and
enforced, or as near thereto as the Circumstances of the Case will
admit ; and any existing Writ or Proceeding, the Form of which
shall be in any Manner altered in pursuance of this Act, shall nevertheless
be of the same force and virtue as if no Alteration had been
made therein, except so far as the Effect thereof may be varied by
this Act.
SEC. 225. It shall and may be lawful to and for the Judges of each of the said Courts from Time to Time to make such Rules and Orders for the Government and Conduct of the Ministers and Officers their respective Courts, in and relating to the Distribution and Performance of the Duties and Business to be done and performed
in the Execution of this Act, as such Judges may think fit and
reasonable : Provided always, that no additional Charge be thereby
imposed on the Suitors.
And whereas it is expedient that Injunctions and Orders to stay
Proceedings should be rendered more effectual, be it enacted as
follows :
SEC. 226. In case any Action, Suit, or Proceeding in any Court
of Law or Equity shall be commenced, sued, or prosecuted, in disobedience
of and contrary to any Writ of Injunction, Rule, or
Order of either of the Superior Courts of Law or Equity at Westminster,
or of any Judge thereof, in any other Court than that by or
in which such Injunction may have been issued, or Rule or Order
made, upon the Production to any such other Court or Judge thereof
of such Writ of Injunction, Rule, or Order, the said other Court (in
which such Action, Suit, or Proceeding may be commenced, prosecuted,
or taken), or any Judge thereof, shall stay all further Proceedings
contrary to any such Injunction, Rule, or Order ; and thenceforth
all further and subsequent Proceedings shall be utterly null and
void to all Intents and Purposes : Provided always, that nothing
herein contained shall be held to diminish, alter, abridge, or vary the
Liability of any Person or Persons commencing, suing, or prosecuting
any such Action, Suit, or Proceeding contrary to any Injunction, Rule,
or Order of either of the Courts aforesaid, to any Attachment, Punish
ment, or other Proceeding to which any such Person or Persons are,
may, or shall be liable in Cases of Contempt of either of the Courts
aforesaid, in regard to the commencing, suing, or prosecuting such
Action, Suit, or Proceeding.
And be it enacted as follows :
SEC. 227. In the Construction of this Act the Word "Court"
shall be understood to mean any One of the Superior Courts of
Common Law at Westminster in which any Action is brought; and
the Word " Judge " shall be understood to mean a Judge or Baron
of any of the said Courts ; and the Word " Master " shall be understood
to mean a Master of any of the said Courts ; and the Word
" Action " shall be understood to mean any Personal Action brought
by Writ of Summons in any of the said Courts ; and no Part of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, nor the Islands of
plan, Guernsey, Jersey, Alderney, or Sark, nor any Islands adjacent
to any of them, being Part of the Dominions of Her Majesty, shall
be deemed to be " beyond the Seas " within the Meaning of this Act :
And wherever in this Act, in describing or referring to any Person
or Party, Matter or Thing, any Word importing the Singular Number
or Masculine Gender is used, the same shall be understood to
include and shall be applicable to several Persons and Parties as
well as One Person or Party, and Females as well as Males, and
Bodies Corporate as well as Individuals, and several Matters and
Things as well as One Matter or Thing, unless it otherwise be provided,
or there be something in the Subject or Context repugnant to
such Construction.
SEC. 228. It shall be lawful for Her Majesty from Time to'Time,
by an Order in Council, to direct that all or any Part of the Provisions
of this Act or of the Rules to be made in pursuance thereof shall
apply to all or any Court or Courts of Record in England or Wales,
and within One Month after such Order shall have been made and
published in the London Gazette such Provisions and Rules respectively
shall extend and apply in manner directed by such Order ; and
any such Order may be in like Manner from Time to Time altered or
annulled.
SEC. 229. And whereas it is expedient to' apply the Provisions
of this Act, with the requisite Modifications, to the Superior Courts of
the Counties Palatine of Lancaster and Durham respectively : All the Enactments and Provisions of this Act with respect to Writs for the Commencement of Personal Actions, except such as relate to the Teste thereof in the Name of a Judge, to concurrent Writs, and to the Service of Writs elsewhere than in the Counties Palatine of Lancaster and Durham respectively, and Proceedings against Parties residing out of the Jurisdiction of the said Courts ; and all the Provisions of this Act with respect to the Appearance of the Defendant and Proceedings of the Plaintiff in default of Appearance ; and with respect to the Joinder
of Parties to Actions and Joinder of Causes of Action ; and with respect
to the Determination of Questions raised by Consent of the Parties without
pleading ; and with respect to the Language and Form of Pleadings,
and Provisions as to Pleadings, Profert, Oyer, setting out of Documents;
and with regard to the Time and Manner of declaring ; and as to Pleas
and subsequent Pleadings, and incident thereto ; and Examples and
Forms of Pleading and Causes of Action ; and with respect to Judgment
by Default, and the Mode of ascertaining the Amount to be
recovered thereupon and incident thereto ; and all the Provisions of
this Act with respect to Juries and Jury Process ; and with respect
to the Admission of Documents ; and with respect to the Expenses of
Execution and the remaining in Force and Renewal of Execution, the
discharging of Parties from Execution, and charging in Execution
Persons in Prison ; and with respect to Proceedings for the Revival of
Judgments and other Proceedings by and against Persons not Parties
to the Record ; and with respect to the Effect of Death, Marriage, and
Bankruptcy upon the Proceedings in an Action ; and with respect to
the Proceedings upon Motions to arrest the Judgment and for Judgment
Non obstante veredicto ; and with respect to Proceedings in Error
subject to the Proviso herein-after contained; and all the Provisions of
this Act with respect to the Action of Ejectment, and incident thereto and with respect to the Power of Amendment by Courts and the
Judges thereof, shall extend and apply to the Court of Common Pleas
at Lancaster and the Court of Pleas at Durham, and Actions and
Proceedings therein respectively.
SEC. 230. All the Powers given by this Act to the Judges of
the said Superior Courts at Westminster to make Rules and Regulations
for the Execution of this Act, and to frame Writs and Proceedings
for that Purpose ; and to the Judges of the -said respective Courts to
make Rules or Orders for the Government and Conduct of the
Ministers and Officers thereof; and all other Powers by this Act given
to or vested in the Judges of the said Superior Courts at Westminster
to be exercised by more than One of them, except the Powers and
Authority given by the said Act of Parliament passed in the Session
of Parliament held in the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Years of the
Reign of Her present Majesty, intituled An Act to enable the Judges
of the Courts of Common' Law -at Westminster to alter the Forms
of Pleading, shall and may be exercised by the respective Judges
of the-said Court of Common Pleas at Lancaster and Court of Pleas
at Durham, being Judges of One of the said Common Law Courts at
Westminster, or any Two of them, with respect to the said Court
of Common Pleas at Lancaster and Court of Pleas at Durham respectively,
and the Ministers and Officers thereof, and Matters and Proceedings
therein, within the Jurisdiction of the same Courts respectively
; and all Powers under this Act exercisable by any One Judge
of. the Superior Courts at Westminster shall and may be exercisable
by One Judge of the said Superior Courts of the said Counties
Palatine, being also a Judge of One of the said Courts at Westminster,
as to Matters and Proceedings in the said Superior Courts of the said
Counties Palatine.
SEC. 231. It shall and may be lawful to and for the Judges of each.
of the said Courts of Common Pleas at Lancaster and Pleas at Durham,
being Judges of One of the Superior Courts at Westminster, or any
Two of them, from Time to Time to make Rules and Orders, for
applying any of the other Provisions of this Act to the said respective
Superior Courts of the said Counties Palatine, and Matters and Proceedings
therein and Parties thereto, with such Modifications and
Alterations with reference to the Constitution and peculiar Circumstances
of such Court, as they may think fit and reasonable ; and for
modifying any of the Provisions hereby applied to such last-mentioned
Courts respectively with reference to such Constitution and peculiar
Circumstances ; and from Time to Time to rescind, amend, or alter such
Rules or Orders ; and that such Rules or Orders, subject to such Power
of Rescission, Amendment, and Alteration, shall have the same Force
as if the same were made by and embodied in this Act.
SEC. 232. Provided always, That all the Provisions of this
Act applicable to Masters of the said Courts at Westminster shall
apply to the respective Prothonotaries of the Court of Common Pleas
at Lancaster and: Court of Pleas at Durham, and their respective
Deputies, who may singly exercise, with reference to Matters and
Proceedings in the last-mentioned Courts respectively, the Powers
hereby given to any One or more of the Masters of the Superior
Courts at Westminster; and that such respective Officers shall record
the Proceedings of Trials of Causes depending in the said respective
Courts, and draw up and return Posteas on Records from the Superior Courts at Westminster, tried in the said Counties Palatine
respectively, and officiate at the Trial of such Causes therein as
heretofore.
SEC. 233. Provided also, as to Proceedings in Error, that the
Court of Queen's Bench shall still be the Court of Error from the
said Court of Common Pleas at Lancaster _ and Court of Pleas
at Durham ; and that it shall be sufficient to transmit to the
said Court of Queen's Bench a Transcript of the Record of any
Judgment or Proceedings in those Courts on which Error is alleged and that the Judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench thereon shall
be certified by One of the Masters of the said Court of Queen's
Bench on the said Transcript, or by Rule of Court, as the saiti Court
may direct ; and that thereupon such Judgment shall be entered on
the original Record in the said respective Courts of Common Pleas at
Lancaster and Pleas at Durham; and such further Proceedings as may
be necessary thereon shall be awarded by the said respective Courts,
subject to the Right of either Party to allege Errors in the said
Judgment in the said Court of Queen's Bench, and proceed
thereon as provided by this Act in the Case of Errors alleged in
Actions depending in that Court.
SEC. 234. From the Time when this Act shall commence and effect so much of a certain Act of Parliament passed in the Fifth Year of the Reign of His late Majesty King William the Fourth, intituled An Act for improving the Practice and Pro- in the Court of Common Pleas of the County Palatine of Lancaster, and so much of a certain other Act of Parliament
passed in the Second Year of the Reign of Her present Majesty,
intituled An Act for improving the Practice and Proceedings of the
Court of Pleas of the County Palatine of Durham and Sadberge, as
relate to the Duration of Writs ; and to Alias and Pluries Writs, and
to the Proceedings necessary for making the First Writ in any Action
available to prevent the Operation of any Statute whereby the Time
for the Commencement of any Action may be limited, shall be
repealed, except so far as may be necessary for supporting any
Writs that have been issued before the Commencement of this Act,
and any Proceedings taken or to be taken thereon ; but that the
other Provisions of the said last-mentioned Acts of Parliament, so far
as they are not altered by or inconsistent with the Provisions of this
Act, shall remain in force.
SEC. 235. In citing this Act in any Instrument, Document, or Proceeding, it shall be sufficient to use the Expression " The Common Law Procedure Act, 1852."
SEC. 236. Nothing in this Act shall extend to Ireland or Scot- land, except in the Cases herein specially mentioned.
SCHEDULE (A.) referred to in the foregoing Act.
No. i.
Writ where the Defendant resides within the Jurisdiction.
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God, cjc.
To C.D. of in the County of
We command you, That within Eight Days after the Service of
this Writ on you, inclusive of the Day of such Service, you do cause
an Appearance to be entered for you in Our Court of in an
Action at the Suit of A.B. ; and take notice, that in default of your
so doing the said A.B. may proceed therein to Judgment and Execution.
Witness, cc.
Memorandum to be subscribed on the Writ.
N.B.-This Writ is to be served within (Six) Calendar Months
from the Date thereof, or, if renewed, from the Date of
such Renewal, including the Day of such Date, and not
afterwards.
Indorsement to be made on the Writ before Service thereof.
This Writ was issued by E.F. of Attorney for the said
Plaintiff, or this Writ was issued in Person by A.B., who resides at
[mention the City, Town, or Parish, and also the Name
of the Hamlet, Street, and Number of the House of the Plaintif"s Residence,
if any such].
Indorsement to be made on the Writ after Service thereof.
This Writ was served by X. Y. on L.M. [the Defendant or One of
the Defendants], on Monday the Day of 18
(Signed) X. Y.
No. 2.
Writ where the Defendant, being a British Subject, resides out of the
Jurisdiction.
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God, 4'c,.
To C.D. of in the County of
We command you, That within [here insert a sufficient Number
of Days within which the Defendant might appear, with reference to
the Distance _he may be at./rom England] Days after the Service of
this Writ on you, inclusive of the Day of such Service, you do cause
an Appearance to be entered for you in Our Court of in an
Action at the Suit of A.B. ; and take notice, that in default of your
so doing the said A.B. may, by Leave of the Court-or a Judge, pro.
ceed therein to Judgment and Execution. Witness, 4'c.
Memorandum to be subscribed on the Writ.
N.B.-This Writ is to be served within (Six) Calendar Months
from the Date thereof, or, if renewed, from the Date of
such Renewal, including the Day of such Date, and not
afterwards.
Indorsement to be made on the Writ before the Service thereof.
This Writ is for Service out of the Jurisdiction of the Court, and
was issued by E.F. of Attorney for the said Plaintiff, or
this Writ was issued in Person by A.B., who resides at [Mention the
City, Town, or Parish, and also the Name of the Hamlet, Street,
and Number of the House of the Plaintiff's Residence, if any such].
The Indorsement required by the 8th Section should be made on
this Writ, but should allow the Defendant the Time limited for
Appearance to pay the Debt and Costs.
No. 3.
Writ where the Defendant, not being a British Subject, resides out of
the Jurisdiction.
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God, 4c-
To C.D. late of in the County of
We command you, That within [here insert a sufficient Number of
Days within which the Defendant might appear, with reference to the
Distance he may be at from England] Days after Notice of this Writ
is served on you, inclusive of the Day of such Service, you do cause
an Appearance to be entered for you in Our Court of in an
Action at the Suit of A. B. ; and take notice, that in default of your
so doing the- said A.B. may, by Leave of the Court or a Judge,
proceed therein to Judgment and Execution. Witness, c.
Memorandum to be subscribed on the Writ.
N.B.-Notice of this Writ is to be served within (Six) Calendar
Months from the Date thereof, including the Day of such
Date, and not afterwards.
Indorsements as in other Cases.
NOTICE of the foregoing Writ.
To G.H. late of [Brighton in the County of Sussex], or now
residing at [Paris in France].
Take notice, That A.B. of in the County of
England, has commenced' an Action at Law against you C.D. in Her
Majesty's Court of, Queen's Bench, by a Writ of that Court, dated
the Day of A.D. 18 ; and you are required,
within Days after the Receipt of this. Notice, inclusive of
the Day of such Receipt, to defend the said Action, by causing an
Appearance to be entered for you in the said Court to the said
Action ; and in default of your so doing the said A.B. may, by
Leave of the Court or a Judge, proceed thereon to Judgment and
Execution.
[Here state Amount of Claim as required by 8th Section, but
allowing the Defendant the Time limited for Appearance to pay Debt
and Costs.]
(Signed) A.B. of
or
8f c.
E.F. of 4 c.
Attorney for A.B.
No. 4.
Special Indorsement.
[After the Indorsement required by the 8th Section of this Act, this
special Indorsement may be inserted.]
The following are the Particulars of Plaintiff's Claim
1849.-June 20. Half Year's Rent to this Day £ s. d.
of H ouse an d Pr em is e s in --
Street, Westminster - - - 25 10 0
Sept. 12. Ten Sacks of Flour at 40s. - 20 0 0
Dec. 1. Money received by Defendant - 17 0 0
62 10 0
Paid - - - 15 0 0
Balance due - - £47 10 0
Or,
To Butchers Meat supplied between the 1st of January 1849 and
the 1st of January 1850 - - - - - £52
Paid - - - 20
Balance - - £32
[If any Account has been delivered, it may be referred to, with its
Date, or the Plaintif may give such a Description of his Claim as in
a Particular of Demand, so as to prevent the Necessity of an Application
for further Particulars.]
Or,
£50 Principal and Interest due on a Bond dated the Day
of conditioned for the Payment of 1001.
Or,
Or,
£90 Principal and Interest due on a Covenant contained in a Deed
dated the Day of to pay 1001. and Interest.
Or,
A Penalty of 1001. under the Statute 55 Geo. III. c. 137.
Or,
£85 on a Bill of Exchange for 1001., dated the 2d February 1849,
accepted or drawn, or indorsed by the Defendant.
Or,
£50 on a Guarantee dated the 1st of January 1850, whereby the
Defendant guaranteed the due Payment by E.F. of Goods supplied
or to be supplied to him.
[To any of the above may be added, in Cases where Interest is
payable, " the Plaintiff also claims Interest on V of the
" above Sum from the Date of the Writ until Judgment."]
N. B.-Take notice, That if a Defendant served with this Writ
within the Jurisdiction of the Court do not appear
according to the- Exigency thereof, the Plaintiff will
be at liberty to sign final Judgment for any Sum not
exceeding the Sum above claimed [with Interest at
the Rate specified], and the Sum of ?
for Costs, and issue Execution at the Expiration of
Eight Days from the last Day for Appearance..
No. 5.
In the Queen's Bench :
On the Day of A.D. 1850.
[Day of signing the Judgment.]
England A.B. in his own Person [or, by his Attorney]
to wit. 5 sued out a Writ of Summons against C.D., indorsed according
to the " Common Law Procedure Act, 1852," as follows :
[Here copy Special Indorsement,]
And the said C.D. has not appeared : Therefore it is considered that
the said A.B. recover against the said C.D. £ together with
-P for Costs of Suit.
No. 6.
In the Queen's Bench :
The Day of in the Year of our
Lord 18 .
Yorkshire) Whereas A.B. has sued C.D., and affirms, and
to wit. denies.
[Here state the Question or Questions of Fact to be tried.]
And it has been ordered by the Hon. Mr. Justice
according to 61 The Common Law Procedure Act, 1852," that the
said Question shall be tried by a Jury : Therefore let the same be
tried accordingly.
No. 7.
Form of Rule or Summons where a Judgment Creditor applies for
Execution against a Judgment Debtor.
[Formal Parts as at present.]
C.D. show Cause why A. B. [or as the Case may be] should not be
at liberty to enter a Suggestion upon the Roll in an Action wherein
the said A.B. was Plaintiff and the said C.D. was Defendant, and
wherein the said A.B. obtained Judgment for X against
the said C.P. on the Day of , that it manifestly
appears to the Court that the said A.B. is entitled to have Execution
of the said Judgment, and to issue Execution thereupon, and why the
said C.D. should not pay to the said A.B. the Costs of this Application,
to be taxed.
[Note.-The above Form may be mod fled so as to meet the Case
of an Application by or against the Representative of a Party to the
Judgment.]
No. 8.
Form of Suggestion that the Judgment Creditor is entitled to
Execution against the Judgment Debtor.
And now on the Day of it is suggested
and manifestly appears to the Court, that the said A.B. [or C.D., as
Executor of the last Will and Testament of the said A. B. deceased,
or as the Case may be,] is entitled to have Execution of the Judgment
aforesaid against the said E. F. [or against G. H., as Executor of the last
Will and Testament of the said E. F., or as the Case may be] : Therefore
it is considered by the Court that the said A.B. [or, C. D., as such
Executor as aforesaid, or as the Case may be,] ought to have Execution
of the said Judgment against the said E. F. [or against G. H., as
such Executor as aforesaid, or as the Case may be.]
No. 9.
Form of Writ of Revivor.
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God, cyc., to E.F. of greeting.
We command you that, within Eight Days after the Service of this
Writ upon you, inclusive of the Day of such Service, you appear in
our Court of to show Cause why A.B. [or C.D., as Executor
of the last Will and Testament of the said A.B. deceased, or
as the Case may be,] should not have Execution against you [if
against a Representative, here insert, as Executor of the last Will
and Testament of deceased, or as the Case may be] of
a Judgment whereby the said A.B. [or as the Case may be], on
the Day of in the said Court recovered
against you [or as the Case may be] £ ; and take
notice, that in default of your so doing the said A.B. [or as the Case
may be] may proceed to Execution.
Witness, 4 c.
No. 10.
'In the Queen's Bench :
The Day of in the Year of our Lord 18
[The Day of lodging Note of Error.],
A.B. and C.D.
The Plaintiff [or Defendant] says that there is Error in Law in
the Record and Proceedings in this Action ; and the Defendant
[or Plaintiff] says that there is no Error therein.
(Signed) A.B., Plaintiff.
[or C.D., Defendant.]
[or E.F., Attorney for Plaintiff or Defendant.]
No. 11.
The Day of in the Year of our Lord 18
[The Day of making the Entry on the Roll.]
The Plaintiff [or Defendant] says that there is Error in the above
Record and Proceedings, and the Defendant [or Plaintiff] says there
is no Error therein.
No. 12.
In the Queen's Bench :
The Day of in the Year of our Lord 18 .
[ The Day of lodging Note of Error.]
A.B. and C.D. in Error.
The Plaintiff [or Defendant] says that there is Error in Fact in
the Record and Proceedings in this Action, in the Particulars specified
in the Affidavit hereunto annexed.
(Signed) A.B., Plaintiff.
[or C.D., Defendant.]
[or E.F., Attorney for Plaintiff] [or Defendant].
No. 13.
EJECTMENT.
Form of Writ.
VICTORIA, arc., to X., Y., Z., and all Persons entitled to defend
the Possession of [describe the Property with reasonable
Certainty] in the Parish of in the County of
to the Possession whereof A., B., and C., some or One of them,
claim to be [or to have been on and since the Day of
A.D. ] entitled, and to eject all other Persons therefrom :
These are to will and command you, or such of you as deny the
alleged Title, within Sixteen Days after Service hereof, to appear in
Our Court of to defend the said Property, or such Part
thereof as you may be advised ; in default whereof Judgment may be
signed, and you turned out of Possession.
Witness, 4rc.
No. 14.
Judgment in Ejectment in case of Non-appearance.
In the Queen's Bench :
The Day of 18
[Date of Writ.]
Lancashire On the Day and Year above written, a Writ of our Lady
to wit. 5 the Queen issued forth of this Court in these Words ;
that is to say,
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God [here copy the Writ] ; and no
Appearance has been entered or Defence made to the said Writ :
Therefore it is considered that the said [here insert the Names of
the Persons in whom Title is alleged in the Writ] do recover
Possession of the Land in the said Writ mentioned, with the Appurtenances.
No. 15.
In the Queen's Bench :
On the Day of A.D. 18
Cumberland On the Day and Year above written, a Writ of our Lady
to wit. the Queen issued forth , of this Court, in these Words ;
that is to say,
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God [here copy the Writ] ; and C.D.
has, on the Day of appeared by
his Attorney [or in Person] to the said Writ, and has defended for
Part of the Land in the Writ mentioned; that is to say [here state
the Part], and no Appearance has been entered or Defence made to
the said Writ, except as to the said Part : Therefore it is considered
that the said A.B. [the Claimant] do recover Possession of the Land
in the said Writ mentioned, except the said Part, with the Appurtenances,
and that he have Execution thereof forthwith ; and as to
the rest, let a Jury come, 'c.
No. 16.
In the Queen's Bench :
On the Day of A.D. 18
Cumberland 1 On the Day and Year above written, a Writ of our Lady
to wit the Queen issued forth of this Court, in these Words ;
that is to say,
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God [here copy the Writ] ; and C.D.
has, on the Day of appeared by
his Attorney [or in Person], to the said Writ, and defended for the
whole of the Land therein mentioned : Therefore let a Jury come,
4 c.
No. 17.
Afterwards on the Day of A.D.
before and Justices of our Lady the Queen
assigned to take the Assizes in and for the within County, come the
Parties within mentioned ; and a Jury of the said County being
sworn to try the Matters in question between the said Parties, upon
their Oath say, that A.B. [the Claimant] within mentioned, on
the Day of A.D. was.
and still is, entitled to the Possession of the Land within mentioned,
as in the Writ alleged: Therefore, arc.
No. 18.
In the Queen's Bench :
On the Day of 18
[Date of Writ.]
Lancashire On the Day and Year above written, a Writ of our Lady
to wit. the Queen issued forth of this Court, in these Words ;
that is to say,
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God [here copy the Writ] ; and C.D.
has, on the Day of appeared by
his Attorney [or in Person] to the said Writ, and A.B. has discontinued
the Action : Therefore it is considered that the said C.D. be
acquitted, and that he recover against the said A.B. e
for his Cost of Defence.
No. 19.
In the Queen's Bench :
The Day of 18
[Date of Writ.]
Lancashire On the Day and Year above written, a Writ of our Lady
to wit. the Queen issued forth of this Court, in these Words ;
that is to say,
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God [here copy the Writ] ; and C.D.
has, on the Day of appeared by
his Attorney [or in Person] to the said Writ, and A.B. has failed to
proceed to Trial, although duly required so to do : Therefore it is
considered that the said C.D. be acquitted, and that he recover
against the said A.B. for his Costs of Defence.
No. 20.
In the Queen's Bench :
The Day of 18
[Date of Writ.]
Lancashire ) On the Day and Year above written, a Writ of our Lady
to wit. the Queen issued forth of this Court, in these Words ;
that is to say,
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God [here copy the Writ] ; and C .D.
has, on the Day of appeared by
his Attorney [or in Person] to the said Writ, and the said C.D. has
confessed the said Action [or has confessed the said Action as to
Part of the said Land, that is to say, here state the Part] Therefore
it is considered that the said A.B. do recover Possession of the Land
in the said Writ mentioned [or of the said Part of the said Land],
with the Appurtenances, and e for Costs.
No. 21.
In the Queen's Bench :
The Day of A.D. 18
[Date of Writ.]
Yorkshire On the Day and Year above written, a Writ of our Lady
to wit. f the Queen issued forth of this Court, with a, Notice
thereunder written, the Tenor of which Writ and Notice follows in
these Words ; that i 6 to say,
[Here copy the Writ and Notice, which latter may be as follows : ]
11 Take notice, That you will be required, if ordered by the Court
46 or a Judge, to give Bail by yourself and Two sufficient Sureties,
conditioned to pay the Costs and Damages which shall be recovered
in this Action."]
And C.D. has appeared by his Attorney [or in
Person] to the said Writ, and has been ordered to give Bail, pursuant
to the Statute, and has failed so to do : Therefore it is considered
that the said [here insert Name of Landlord] do recover Possession
of the Land in the said Writ mentioned, with the Appurtenances,
together with' for Costs of Suit.
SCHEDULE (B.)
FORMS OF PLEADINGS.
STATEMENTS OF CAUSES OF ACTION.
On Contracts.
1. Money payable by the Defendant to the Plaintiff for [these Words Money payable, yc. should precede Money Counts like 1 to 14,
but need only be inserted in the first] Goods bargained and sold by
the Plaintiff to the Defendant.
2. Work done and Materials provided by the Plaintiff for the Defendant at his Request. 3. Money lent by the Plaintiff to the Defendant. 4. Money paid by the Plaintiff for the Defendant at his Request.
5. Money received by the Defendant for the Use of the Plaintiff 6. Money found to be due from the Defendant to the Plaintiff on
Accounts stated between them.
7. A Messuage and Lands sold and conveyed by the Plaintiff to
the Defendant.
8. The Goodwill of a Business of the Plaintiff, sold and given up
by the Plaintiff to the Defendant.
9. The Defendant's Use, by the Plaintiff's Permission, of Messuages
and Lands of the Plaintiff.
10. The Defendant's Use, by the Plaintiff's Permission, of a Fishery
of the Plaintiff.
11. Fines payable by the Defendant as Tenant of Customary
Tenements of the Manor of to the Plaintiff as Lord
of the said Manor, for the Admission of the Defendant into the said
Customary Tenements.
12. The Hire of [as the Case may be], by the Plaintiff let to hire
to the Defendant.
13. Freight for the Conveyance by the Plaintiff for the Defendant
at his Request of Goods in Ships.
14. The Demurrage of a Ship of the Plaintiff kept on Demurrage
by the Defendant.
15. That the Defendant on the Day of A.D.,
by his Promissory Note, now over-due, promised to pay to the Plain- tiff £ Two Months after Date, but did not pay
the same.
16. That one A., on, c-c. [Date], by his Promissory Note, now
over-due, promised to pay to the Defendant, or Order, £ [Two] Months after Date ; and the Defendant indorsed the same to
the Plaintiff; and the said Note was duly presented for Payment, and
was dishonoured, whereof the Defendant had due Notice, but did not
pay the same.
17. That the Plaintiff, on, 4'c. [Date], by his Bill of Exchange,
now over-due, directed to the Defendant, required the Defendant to
pay to the Plaintiff £ Two Months after Date ; and the
Defendant accepted the said Bill, but did not pay the same.
18. That the Defendant, on, 4'c. [Date], by his Bill of Exchange,
directed to A., required A. to pay to the Plaintiff £ [Two] Months after Date ; and the said Bill was duly presented for
Acceptance, and was dishonoured, of which the Defendant had due
Notice, but did not pay the same.
19. That the Plaintiff and Defendant agreed to marry one another,
and a reasonable Time for such Marriage has elapsed, and the Plaintiff
has always been ready and willing to marry the Defendant, yet the
Defendant has neglected and refused to marry the Plaintiff.
20. That the Plaintiff and Defendant agreed to marry one another
on a Day now elapsed, and the Plaintiff was ready and willing to
marry the Defendant on that Day, yet the Defendant neglected and
refused to marry the Plaintiff.
21. That the Defendant, by warranting a Horse to be then sound and quiet to ride, sold the said Horse to the Plaintiff, yet the said Horse was not then sound and quiet to ride.
22. That the Plaintiff and the Defendant agreed by Charter-party, that the Plaintiff's Ship called the « Ariel " should with all convenient Speed sail to R., or so near thereto as she could safely get, and that Defendant should there load her with a full Cargo of Tallow or other lawful Merchandise, which she should carry to H., and there
deliver, on Payment of Freight £ per Ton, and that the
Defendant should be allowed Ten Days for loading, and Ten for
Discharge, and Ten Days for Demurrage, if required, at £
per Day ; and that. the Plaintiff did all Things necessary on his" Part
to entitle him to have the agreed Cargo loaded on board the said Ship
at R., and that the Time for so doing has elapsed, yet the Defendant
made default in loading the agreed Cargo,
23. That the Plaintiff let to the Defendant a House, No. 401, Piccadilly, for Seven Years, to hold from the Day of A.D. at £ a Year, payable quarterly, of which
Rent quarters are due and unpaid.
24. That the Plaintiff by Deed let to the Defendant a House, No. 401, Piccadilly, to hold for Seven Years from the Day of A.D. , and the Defendant by the said Deed
covenanted with the Plaintiff well and substantially to repair the said
House during the said Term [according to the Covenant], yet the said
House was during the said Term out of good and substantial Repair.
For Wrongs independent of Contract.
25. That the Defendant broke and `entered certain Land of the Plaintiff, called the Big Field, and depastured the same with Cattle. 26. That the Defendant assaulted and beat the Plaintiff, gave him into Custody to a Policeman and caused him to be imprisoned in a 3' > Police Office. 27. That the Defendant debauched and carnally knew the Plaintiff's Wife. 28. That the Defendant converted to his own Use, or wrongfully deprived the Plaintiff of the Use and Possession of the Plaintiff's Goods ; that is, to say, Iron, Hops, Household Furniture [or as the
Case may be].
29. That the Defendant detained from the Plaintiff his Title Deeds
of Land called Belmont in the County of ; that is to say,
[describe the Deeds].
30. That the Plaintiff was possessed of a Mill, and by reason
thereof was entitled to the Flow of a Stream for working the same,
and the Defendant, by cutting the Bank of the said Stream, diverted
the Water thereof away from the said Mill.
31. That the Plaintiff was the first and true Inventor of a certain
«
new Manufacture, that is to say, of certain Improvements in the
Manufacture of Sulphuric Acid," and thereupon Her Majesty Queen
Victoria, by Letters Patent under the Great Seal of England, granted
the Plaintiff the sole Privilege to make, use, exercise, and vend the
said Invention within England for the Term of Fourteen Years from
the Day of A.D. , subject to a
Condition that the Plaintiff should within Six Calendar Months next
after the Date of the said Letters Patent cause to be enrolled in the
High Court of Chancery an Instrument in Writing under his Hand
and Seal, particularly describing and ascertaining the Nature of his
said Invention, and in what Manner the same was to be and might be
performed, and the Plaintiff did within the Time prescribed fulfil the
said Condition, and the Defendant during the said Term did infringe
the said Patent Right.
32. That the Defendant falsely and maliciously spoke and published
of the Plaintiff the Words following ; that is to say, " he is a Thief ;"
[if there be any special Damage, here state it with such reason
able Particularity as to give Notice to the Defendant of the
peculiar Injury complained of; for instance,]
whereby the Plaintiff lost his Situation as Gamekeeper in the Employ
of A.
33. That the Defendant falsely and maliciously printed and published
of the Plaintiff in a Newspaper called " " the
Words following ; that is to say, " he is a regular Prover under Bankruptcies,"
the Defendant meaning thereby that the Plaintiff had proved
and was in the habit of proving fictitious Debts against the Estates
of Bankrupts, with the Knowledge that such Debts were fictitious.
COMMENCEMENT OF PLEA.
34. The Defendant by his Attorney [or in Person]
says [here state the Substance of the Plea].
35. And for a Second Plea the Defendant says [here state the
Second Plea].
Pleas in Actions on Contracts.
36. That he never was indebted as alleged. [This Plea is applicable to Declarations like those numbered 1 to 14.]
37. That he did not promise as alleged. [This Plea is applicable to other Declarations on Simple Contracts,
not on Bills and Notes, such as those numbered 19 to 22. It would be
unobjectionable to use " did not warrant," "did not agree," or any
other appropriate Denial.]
38. That the alleged Deed is not his Deed. 39. That the alleged Cause of Action did not accrue within Six Years [state the Period of Limitation applicable to the Case] before this Suit.
40. That before Action he satisfied and discharged the Plaintiff's Claim by Payment.
41. That the Plaintiff at the Commencement of this Suit was, and still is, indebted to the Defendant in an Amount equal to the
Plaintiff's Claim, for [here state the Cause of Set-of, as in a Declaration;
see Forms ante], which Amount the Defendant is willing to
set off against the Plaintiff's Claim.
42. That after the alleged Claim accrued, and before this Suit, the Plaintiff by Deed released the Defendant therefrom.
Pleas in Actions for Wrongs independent of Contract.
43. That he is not guilty. 44. That he did what is complained of by the Plaintiff's Leave. 45. That the Plaintiff first assaulted the Defendant, who thereupon necessarily committed the alleged Assault in his own Defence.
46. That the Defendant, at the Time of the alleged Trespass, was possessed of Land the Occupiers whereof for Twenty Years before this Suit enjoyed as of Right and without Interruption a Way on
Foot and with Cattle from a public Highway over the said Land
of the Plaintiff to the said Land of the Defendant, and from the said
Land of the Defendant over the said Land of the Plaintiff to the
said public Highway, at all Times. of the Year, for the more convenient
Occupation of the said Land of the Defendant, and that the
alleged Trespass was a Use by the Defendant of the said Way.
47. That the Defendant, at the Time of the alleged Trespass, was possessed of Land, the Occupiers whereof for Thirty Years before this Suit enjoyed as of 'Right and without Interruption, Common of
Pasture over the said Land of the Plaintiff for all their Cattle, levant
and couchant, upon the said Land of the Defendant, at all Times
of the Year, as to the said Land of the Defendant appertaining, and
that the alleged Trespass was a Use by the Defendant of the said
Right of Common.
REPLICATIONS.
48. The Plaintiff takes Issue upon the Defendant's 1st, 2d, &c.
Pleas.
49. The Plaintiff as to the Second Plea says [here state the Answer
to the Plea as in the following Forms].
50. That the alleged Release is not the Plaintiff's Deed.
51. That the alleged Release was procured by the Fraud of the
Defendant.
52. That the alleged Set-off did not accrue within Six Years before
this Suit,
53. That the Plaintiff was possessed of Land whereon the Defendant
was trespassing and doing Damage, whereupon the Plaintiff requested
the Defendant to leave the said Land, which the Defendant refused
to do ; and thereupon the Plaintiff gently laid his Hands on
the Defendant in order to remove him, doing no more than was
necessary for that Purpose, which is the alleged First Assault by the
Plaintiff.
54. That the Occupiers of the said Land did not for Twenty Years
before this Suit enjoy as of Right and without Interruption the alleged
Way.
NEW ASSIGNMENT,
55. The Plaintiff, as to the and Pleas, says,
that he sues not for the Trespasses therein admitted, but for Trespasses
committed by the Defendant in Excess of the alleged Rights, and also
in other Parts of the said Land and on other Occasions, and for other
Purposes than those referred to in the said Pleas.
[If the Plaintiff replies and new assigns, the new Assignment
may be as follows: ]
56. And the Plaintiff, as to the and Pleas,
further says, that he sues not only for the Trespasses in those Pleas
admitted, but also for, ,c-c. [If the Plaintiff replies and new assigns to some of the Pleas, and
new assigns only to the other, the Form may be as follows: ]
57. And the Plaintiff, as to the and Pleas,
farther says, that he sues not for the Trespasses in the Pleas
[the Pleas not replied to] admitted, but for the Trespasses in
the Fleas [the Pleas replied to] admitted, and also for, 4-c.