C -A P. CXXV..
An Act for the further Amendment of the Process,
Practice, and Mode of Pleading in and enlarging
the Jurisdiction of the Superior Courts of Common
Law at Westminster, and of the Superior
Courts of Common Law of the Counties Palatine
of Lancaster and Durham. [12th August 1854.]
B E it enacted by the Queen's most Excellent Majesty, by and
with the Advice and Consent of the Lords Spiritual and
Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled,
and by the Authority of the same, as follows :
SEC. 1. The Parties to any Cause may, by Consent in Writing, signed
by them or their Attorneys, as the Case may be, leave the Decision
of any Issue of Fact to the Court, provided that the Court, upon a
Rule to show Cause, or a Judge on Summons, shall, in .their or his
Discretion, think fit to allow such Trial ; or provided the Judges of
the Superior Courts of Law at Westminster shall, in pursuance of the
Power herein-after given to them, make any, General Rule or Order
dispensing with such Allowance, either in all Cases or in any particular
Class or Classes of Cases to be defined in such Rule or Order ;
and such Issue of Fact may thereupon be tried and determined, and
Damages assessed where necessary, in open Court, either in Term or
Vacation, by any Judge who might otherwise have presided at the
Trial thereof by Jury, either with or without the Assistance of any
other Judge or Judges of the same Court, or included in the same
Commission at the Assizes ; and the Verdict of such Judge or Judges
shall be of the same Effect as the Verdict of a Jury, save that it
shall not be questioned upon the Ground of being against the Weight
of Evidence; and the Proceedings upon and after such Trial, as to the
Power of the Court or Judge, the Evidence, and otherwise, shall be
the same as in the Case of Trial by Jury.
SEC. 2. It shall be lawful for any One of the Judges of any of the
Superior Courts at Westminster, at the Request of the Lord Chief
Justice or Lord Chief Baron, to try the Causes entered for Trial at
Nisi Prius in Westminster and London in either of the Courts, on the
same Days on which the said Lord Chief Justice or Lord Chief Baron,
or any other Judge of the same Court, shall be sitting to try Causes
at those Places respectively, or at either of them, so that the Trial of
Two Causes may be proceeded with at the same Time ; and all
Jurors, Witnesses, and other Persons who may have been summoned
or required to attend at or for the Trial of any Cause before the said
Lord Chief Justice or Lord Chief Baron, as the Case may be, shall
give their Attendance at and for the Trial thereof before such other
Judge as may be sitting to try the same by virtue of this Act ; and it
shall be lawful for the Associates and other Officers of the Lord Chief
Justice or Lord Chief Baron, as the Case may be, to appoint from
Time to Time fit and proper Persons, to be approved by the. said
Lord Chief Justice or Lord Chief Baron, to attend for them and on
their Behalf respectively before such Judge ; and the Trial of every
Cause which shall be so had by virtue of this Act shall, if
necessary, be entered of Record, as having been had before the
Judge by whom such Cause in fact was tried.
SEC. 3. If it be made appear, at any Time after the issuing of the
Writ, to the Satisfaction of the Court or a Judge, upon the Application
of either Party, that the Matter in dispute consists wholly
or in part of Matters of mere Account which cannot conveniently be
tried in the ordinary Way, it shall be lawful for such Court or Judge,
upon such Application, if they or he think fit, to decide such Matter
in a summary Manner, or to order that such Matter, either wholly or
in part, be referred to an Arbitrator appointed by the Parties, or
'to an Officer of the Court, or, in Country Causes, to the Judge of
any County Court, upon such Terms as to Costs and otherwise
as such Court or Judge shall think reasonable ; and the Decision or
Order of such Court or Judge, or the Award or Certificate of such
Referee, shall be enforceable by the same Process as the Finding of
a Jury upon the Matter referred.
If
SEC. 4. If it shall appear to the Court or a Judge that the Allowance
or Disallowance of any particular Item or Items in such Account
depends, upon a Question of Law fit to be decided by the Court, or
upon a Question of Fact fit to be decided by a Jury, or by a Judge
upon the Consent of, both Parties as herein-before provided, it shall
be lawful for such Court or Judge to direct a Case to be stated,
or an Issue or Issues to be tried ; and the Decision of the Court
upon such Case, and the Finding of the Jury or Judge upon such
Issue or Issues, shall be taken and acted upon by the Arbitrator
as conclusive.
SEC. 5. It shall be lawful for the Arbitrator upon any compul- sory Reference under this Act, or upon any Reference by Consent of Parties where the Submission is or may be made a Rule or Order of any of the Superior Courts of Law or Equity at Westminster, if he
shall think fit, and if it is not provided to the contrary, to state his
Award, as to the whole or any Part thereof, in the Form of a Special,
Case for the Opinion of the Court, and when an Action is referred,
Judgment, if so ordered, may be entered according to the Opinion of
the Court.
SEC. 6. If upon the Trial of any Issue of Fact by a- Judge under
this Act it shall appear to the Judge that the Questions arising
thereon involve Matter of Account which cannot conveniently be
tried before him, it shall be lawful for him, at his Discretion, to order
that such Matter of Account be referred to an Arbitrator appointed
by the Parties, or to an Officer of the Court, or, in Country Causes,
to a Judge of any County Court, upon such Terms as to Costs, and
otherwise, as such Judge shall think reasonable ; and the Award or
Certificate of such Referee shall have the same Effect as herein-before
provided as to the Award or Certificate of -a Referee before Trial and it shall be competent for the Judge to proceed to try and dispose
of any other Matters in question, not referred, in like Manner as if no
Reference had been made.
SEC. 7. The Proceedings upon any such Arbitration as aforesaid shall,
except otherwise directed hereby or by the Submission or Document
authorizing the Reference, be conducted in like Manner, and subject
to the same Rules and Enactments, as to the Power of the Arbitrator
and of the Court, the Attendance of Witnesses, the Production of
Documents, enforcing or setting aside the Award, and otherwise, asupon
a Reference made by Consent under a Rule of Court or Judge's
Order.
SEC. 8. In any Case where Reference shall be made to Arbitration as aforesaid the Court or a Judge shall have Power at any Time, and
from Time to Time, to remit the Matters referred, or any or either
of them, to the Re-consideration and Re-determination of the said
Arbitrator, upon such Terms, as to Costs and otherwise, as to the
said Court or Judge may seem proper.
SEC. 9. All Applications to set aside any Award made on a compulsory
Reference under this Act shall and- may be made within the
First Seven Days of the Term next following the Publication of the
Award to the Parties, whether made in Vacation or Term ; and if no
such Application is made, or if no Rule is granted thereon, or if any
Rule granted thereon is afterwards discharged, such Award shall be
final between the Parties.
SEC. 10. Any Award made on a compulsory Reference under this Act
may, by Authority of a Judge, on such Terms as to him may seem
reasonable, be enforced at any Time after Seven Days from the
Time of Publication, notwithstanding that the Time for moving to
set it aside has not elapsed.
SEC. 11. Whenever the Parties to any Deed or Instrument in Writing
to be hereafter made or executed, or any of them, shall agree that any
then existing or future Differences between them or any of them shall
be referred to Arbitration, and any One or more of the Parties so
agreeing, or any Person or Persons claiming through or under him or
them, shall nevertheless commence any Action at Law or Suit in
Equity against the other Party or Parties, or any of them, or against
any Person or Persons claiming through or under him or them in
respect of the- Matters so agreed to be referred, or any of them, it
shall be lawful for the Court in which Action or Suit is brought, or
a Judge thereof, on Application by the Defendant or Defendants, or
any of them, after Appearance and before Plea or Answer, .upon
being satisfied that no sufficient Reason exists why such Matters
cannot be or ought not to be referred to Arbitration according to
such Agreement as aforesaid, and that the Defendant was at the
Time of the bringing of such Action or Suit and still is ready and
willing to join and concur in all Acts necessary and proper for causing,
such Matters so to be decided by Arbitration, to make a Rule or
Order staying all Proceedings in such Action or Suit, on such Terms
as to Costs and otherwise as to such Court or Judge may seem fit :
Provided always, that any such Rule or Order may at any Time afterwards
be discharged or varied as Justice may require.
SEC. 12. If in any Case of Arbitration the Document authorizing the
Reference provide that the Reference shall be to a single Arbitrator,
and all the Parties do not, after Differences have arisen, concur in
the Appointment of an Arbitrator ; or if any appointed Arbitrator
refuse to act, or become incapable of acting, or die, and the Terms of Document do not show that it was intended that such Vacancy should not be supplied, and the Parties do not concur in appointing
a new one ; or if, where the Parties or Two Arbitrators are at liberty
to appoint an Umpire or Third Arbitrator, such Parties or Arbitrators
do not appoint an Umpire or Third Arbitrator ; or if any appointed
Umpire or Third Arbitrator refuse to act, or become incapable of
acting, or die, and the Terms of the Document authorizing the Reference
do not show that it was intended that such a Vacancy should
not be supplied; and the Parties or Arbitrators respectively do not
appoint a new one.; then in every such Instance any Party may
serve the remaining Parties or the Arbitrators, as the Case may be,
with a . written Notice to appoint an Arbitrator, Umpire, or Third
Arbitrator respectively; and if within Seven clear Days after such
Notice shall have been served no Arbitrator, Umpire, or Third Arbitrator
be appointed, it shall be lawful for any Judge of any of the
Superior Courts of Law or Equity at Westminster, upon Summons to
be taken out by the Party having served such Notice as aforesaid,
to appoint an Arbitrator, Umpire, or Third Arbitrator, as the Case
may be, and such Arbitrator, Umpire, and Third Arbitrator respectively
shall have the like Power to act in the Reference and make an
Award as if he had been appointed by Consent of all Parties.
SEC. 13. When the Reference is or is intended to be to - Two.
Arbitrators, One appointed by each Party, it shall be lawful for
either Party, in the Case of the Death, Refusal to act, or Incapacity
of any Arbitrator appointed by him, to substitute a new Arbitrator,
unless the Document authorizing the Reference show that it was
intended that the Vacancy should not be supplied ; and if on such a
Reference One Party fail to appoint an Arbitrator, either originally or
by way of Substitution as aforesaid, for Seven clear Days after the
other Party shall have,appointed an Arbitrator, and shall have served
the Party so failing to appoint with Notice in Writing to make the_
Appointment, the Party who has appointed an Arbitrator may
appoint such Arbitrator to act as sole Arbitrator in the Reference,
and an Award made by him shall be binding on both Parties as if the
Appointment had been by Consent ; provided, however, that the
Court or a Judge may revoke such Appointment, on such Terms as
shall seem just.
SEC. 14. When the Reference is to Two Arbitrators, and the Terms of the Document authorizing it do not show that it was intended that there should not be an Umpire, or provide otherwise for the Appointment of an Umpire, the Two Arbitrators may appoint
an Umpire at any rime within the Period during which they have
Power to make an Award, unless they be called upon by Notice
as aforesaid to make the Appointment sooner.
SEC. 15. The Arbitrator acting under any such Document or
compulsory Order of Reference as aforesaid, or under any Order
referring the Award back, shall make his Award under his Hand,
and (unless such Document or Order respectively shall contain a
different Limit of Time) within Three Months after he shall have
been appointed, and shall have entered on the Reference, or shall
have been called upon to act by a Notice in Writing from any Party,
but the Parties may by Consent in Writing enlarge the Term for
making the Award'; and it shall be lawful for the Superior Court
of which such Submission, Document, or Order is or may be made
Rule or Order, or for any Judge thereof, for good Cause to be
stated in the Rule or Order for Enlargement, from Time to Time
to enlarge the Term for making the Award ; and if no Period be
stated for the Enlargement in such Consent or Order for Enlargement,
it shall be deemed to be an Enlargement for One Month ; and
in any Case where an Umpire shall have been appointed it shall be
lawful for him to enter on the Reference in lieu of the Arbitrators,
if the latter shall have allowed their Time or their extended Time
to expire without making an Award, or shall have delivered to any
Party or to the Umpire a Notice in Writing stating that they
cannot agree.
SEC. 16. When any Award made on any such Submission, Doculiver
ment, or Order of Reference as aforesaid directs that Possession of
any Lands or Tenements capable of being the Subject of an Action
of Ejectment shall be delivered to any Party, either forthwith o
at any future Time, or that any such Party is entitled to the Possesin
sion of any such Lands- or Tenements, it, shall be lawful for the Court
of which the Document authorizing the Reference is or is made a
Rule or Order to order any Party to the Reference who shall be in
possession of any such Lands or 'T'enements, or any Person in
possession of the same claiming under or put in possession by him
since the making of the Document authorizing the Reference, to
deliver Possession of the same to the Party entitled thereto, pursuant
to the Award, and such Rule or Order to deliver Possession shall
have the Effect of a Judgment in Ejectment against every such Party
or Person named in it, and Execution may issue, and Possession shall
be delivered by the Sheriff as on a Judgment in Ejectment.
SEC. 17. Every Agreement or Submission to Arbitration by Consent,
whether by Deed or Instrument in Writing not under Seal, may be made a Rule of any One of the Superior Courts of Law or Equity at Westmay
minter, on the Application of any Party thereto, unless such Agree- ment or Submission contain Words purporting that the Parties intend
that it should not be made a Rule of Court ; and if in any such Agree-
ment or Submission it is provided that the same shall or may be made
a Rule of One in particular of such Superior Courts, it may be made a
Rule
Rule of that Court only ; and if when there is no such Provision a Case
be stated in the Award for the Opinion of One of the Superior Courts,
and such Court be specified in the Award, and the Document authorizing
the Reference have not, before the Publication of the Award to
the Parties, been made a Rule of Court, such Document may be made
a Rule only of the Court specified in the Award ; and when in any
Case the Document authorizing the Reference is or has been made Rule or Order of any One of such Superior Courts, no other- of such
Courts shall have any Jurisdiction to entertain any Motion respecting
the Arbitration or Award.
SEC. 18. Upon the Trial of any Cause the Addresses to the Jury
shall be regulated as follows: The Party who begins, or his Counsel,
shall be allowed, in the event of his Opponent not announcing at
the Close of the Case of the Party who begins his Intention to adduce
Evidence, to address the Jury a Second Time at the Close of such
Case, for the Purpose of summing up the Evidence ; and the Party on
the other Side, or his Counsel, shall be allowed to open the Case, and
also to sum up the Evidence (if any) ; and the Right to reply shall
be the same as at present.
SEC. 19. It shall be lawful for the Court or Judge, at the Trial of any
Cause, where they or he may deem it right for the Purposes of Justice,
to order an Adjournment for such Time, and subject to such Terms
and Conditions as to Costs, and otherwise, as they or he may
think fit.
SEC. 20. If any Person called as a Witness, or required or desiring
to make an, Affidavit or Deposition, shall refuse or be unwilling from
alleged coscientious Motives to be sworn, it shall be lawful for the
Court or Judge or other presiding Officer, or Person qualified to take
Affidavits or Depositions, upon being satisfied of the Sincerity of such
Objection, to permit such Person, instead of being sworn, to make
his or her solemn Affirmation or Declaration in the Words following;
videlicet,
A.B. do solemnly, sincerely, and truly affirm and declare, That
the taking of any Oath is, according to my religious Belief,
unlawful ; and I do also solemnly, sincerely, and truly affirm and
declare, c.'
Which solemn Affirmation and Declaration shall be of the -same
Force and Effect as if such Person had taken an Oath in the usual
Form.
SEC. 21. If any Person making such solemn Affirmation or Decla- ration shall wilfully, falsely, and corruptly affirm or declare any Y
Matter or Thing, which, if the same had been sworn in the usual
Form, would have amounted to wilful and corrupt Perjury, every such
Person so offending shall incur the same Penalties as by the Laws and
Statutes of this kingdom are or may be enacted or provided against
Persons convicted of wilful and corrupt Perjury.
SEC. 22. A Party producing a Witness shall not be allowed to im-
peach his Credit by general Evidence of bad Character, but he may,
in case the Witness shall in the Opinion of the Judge prove adverse,
contradict him by other Evidence, or, by Leave of the Judge, prove
that he has made at other Times a Statement inconsistent with his
present Testimony ; but before such last-mentioned Proof can be
given, the Circumstances of the supposed Statement, sufficient to
designate the particular Occasion, must be mentioned to the Witness,
and he must be asked whether or not he has made such Statement.
SEC. 23. If a Witness, upon Cross-examination as to a former Statecontradic-
ment made by him relative to the Subject Matter of the Cause, and
inconsistent with his present Testimony, does not distinctly admit that
he has made such Statement, Proof may be given that he did in fact
make it ; but before such Proof can be given, the Circumstances of the
supposed Statement, sufficient to designate the particular Occasion,
must be mentioned to the Witness, and he must be asked whether or
not he has made such Statement.
SEC. 24. A Witness may be cross-examined as to previous Statenation
ments made by him in Writing, or reduced into Writing, relative to the
Subject Matter of the Cause without such Writing being shown to
him ; but if it is intended to contradict such Witness by the Writing,
his Attention must, before such contradictory Proof can be given, be
called to those Parts of the Writing which are to be used for the Purpose
of so contradicting him : Provided always, that it shall be competent
for the Judge, at any Time during the Trial, to require the
Production of the Writing for his Inspection, and he may thereupon
make such Use of it for the Purposes of the Trial as he shall think fit.
SEC. 25. A Witness in any Cause may be questioned as to whether
he has been convicted of any Felony or Misdemeanor, and, upon
being so questioned, if he either denies the Fact, or refuses to answer,
it shall be lawful for the opposite Party to prove such Conviction ;
and a Certificate containing the Substance and Effect only (omitting
the formal Part) of the Indictment and Conviction for such Offence,
purporting to be signed by the Clerk of the Court, or other Officer
having the Custody of the Records of the Court where the Offender
was convicted, or by the Deputy of such Clerk or Officer, (for which
Certificate a Fee of Five Shillings and np more shall be demanded or
taken,) shall, upon Proof of the Identity of the Person, be sufficient
Evidence of the said Conviction, without Proof of the Signature or
official Character of the Person appearing to have signed the same.
SEC. 26. It shall not be necessary to prove by the attesting Witness any Instrument to the Validity of which Attestation is not requisite ;
and such Instrument may be proved by Admission, or otherwise, as if there had been no attesting Witness thereto. 
SEC. 27. Comparison of a disputed Writing with any Writing
,proved to the Satisfaction of the Judge to be genuine shall be permitted
to be made by Witnesses ; and such Writings, and the Evidence
of Witnesses respecting the same, may be submitted to the Court and
Jury as Evidence of the Genuineness, or otherwise, of the Writing in
dispute.
SEC. 28.. Upon the Production of any Document as Evidence at
the Trial of any Cause, it shall be the Duty of the Officer of the Court
whose Duty it is to read such Document to call the Attention of the
Judge to any Omission or Insufficiency of the Stamp ; and the Docu.
ment, if unstamped, or not sufficiently stamped, shall not be received
in Evidence until the whole or (as the Case may be) the Deficiency of
the Stamp *Duty, and the Penalty required by Statute, together with
the additional Penalty of One Pound, shall have been paid.
SEC. 29. Such Officer of the Court shall, upon Payment to him
of the whole or (as the Case may be) of the Deficiency of the Stamp
Duty payable upon or in respect of such Document, and of the Penalty
required by Statute, and of the additional Penalty of One Pound, give
a Receipt for the Amount of the Duty or Deficiency which the Judge
shall determine to be payable, and also of the Penalty,, and thereupon
such Document shall be admissible in Evidence, saving all just Exceptions
on other Grounds ; and an Entry of the Fact of such Payment
and of the Amount thereof shall be made in a Book kept by such
Officer ; and such Officer shall, at the End of each Sittings or Assizes
(as the Case may be), duly make a'Return to the Commissioners of
the Inland Revenue of the Monies, if any, which he has so received
by way of Duty or Penalty, distinguishing between such Monies, and
stating the Name of the Cause and of the Parties from whom he
received such Monies, and the Date, if any, and Description of the
Document for the Purpose of identifying the same ; and he shall pay
over the said Monies to the Receiver General of the Inland Revenue;
or tQ such Person as the said Commissioners shall appoint or authorize
to receive the same ; and in case such Officer shall neglect or
refuse to furnish such Account, or to pay over any of the Monies so
received by him as aforesaid, he shall be liable to be proceeded
H
against in the Manner directed by the Eighth Section of an Act
passed in_ the Session of Parliament h"olden in the Thirteenth and
Fourteenth Years of the Reign of Her present Majesty, intituled
An Act to repeal certain Stamp Duties, and to grant others in lieu
thereof, and to amend the Laws relating to the Stamp Duties;
and the said Commissioners shall, upon Request, and Production of
the Receipt herein-before mentioned, cause such Documents to be
stamped with the proper Stamp or Stamps in respect of the Sums
so paid as aforesaid : Provided always, that the aforesaid Enactment
shall not extend to any Document which cannot now be stamped
after the Execution thereof on Payment of the Duty and a Penalty.
SEC. 30. No Document made or required under the Provisions of
this Act shall be liable to any Stamp Duty.
SEC. 31. No new Trial shall. be granted by reason of the ruling
of any Judge that the Stamp upon any Document is sufficient, or
that the Document does not require a Stamp.
SEC. 32. Error may be brought upon a Judgment upon a Special,
Case in the same Manner as upon a Judgment upon a Special Verdict,
unless the Parties agree to the contrary ; and the Proceedings
for bringing a Special Case before the Court of Error shall, as nearly
as may be, be the same as in the Case of a Special Verdict; and the
Court of Error shall either affirm the Judgment or give the same
Judgment as ought to have been given in the Court in which it was
originally decided, the said Court of Error being required to draw any
Inferences' of Fact from the Facts stated in such Special Case which
the Court where it was originally decided ought to have drawn.
SEC. 33. In every Rule Nisi for a New Trial or to enter a Verdict
or Nonsuit, the Grounds upon which such Rule shall have been
granted shall be shortly stated therein.
SEC. 24. In all Cases of Rules to enter a Verdict or Nonsuit upon
a Point reserved at the Trial, if the Rule to show Cause be refused or
granted and then discharged or made absolute, the Party decided
against may appeal.
SEC. 25. In all Cases of Motions for a new Trial upon the
Ground that the Judge has not ruled according to Law, if the Rule.
to show Cause be refused, or if granted be then discharged or made
absolute, the Party decided against may appeal, provided any One
of the Judges dissent from the Rule being refused, or, when granted,
being discharged or made absolute, as the Case may be, or, provided
the Court in its Discretion think fit that an Appeal should be allowed
provided
provided, that where the Application for a new Trial is upon Matter
of Discretion only, as on the Ground that the Verdict was against the
Weight of Evidence or otherwise, no such Appeal shall be allowed.
SEC. 26. The Court of Error, the Exchequer Chamber, and the
House of Lords shall be Courts of Appeal for the Purposes of this
Act.
SEC. 27. No Appeal shall be allowed unless Notice thereof be
given in Writing to the opposite Party or his Attorney, and to One
of the Masters of the Court, within Four Days after the Decision
complained of, or such further Time as may be allowed by the Court
or a Judge.
SEC. 28. Notice of Appeal shall be a Stay of Execution, provided Bail to pay the Sum recovered and, Costs, or to pay Costs where the
Appellant was Plaintiff below, be given, in like Manner and to the
same Amount as Bail in Error, within Eight Days after the Decision
complained of, or before Execution delivered to the Sheriff.
SEC. 39. The Appeal herein-before mentioned shall be upon a Case to be stated by the Parties, (and in case of Difference, to be settled by the Court or'a Judge of the Court appealed from,) in which Case shall
be set forth so much of the Pleadings, Evidence, and the Ruling or
Judgment objected to, as may be necessary to raise the Question for
the Decision of the Court of Appeal.
SEC. 40. When the Appeal is from the Refusal of the Court below to grant a Rule to show Cause, and the Court of Appeal grant such Rule, such Rule shall' be argued and disposed of in the Court of Appeal.
SEC. 41. The Court of Appeal shall give such Judgment as ought
to have been given in the Court below ; and all such further
Proceedings may be taken thereupon as if the Judgment had been
given by the Court in which the Record originated.
SEC. 42. The Court of Appeal shall have Power to adjudge Payment of Costs, and to order Restitution ; and they shall have the same Powers as the Court of Error in respect of awarding Process and otherwise. 
SEC. 43. Upon an Award of a Trial de novo by any One of the
Superior Courts or by the Court of Error, upon Matter appearing
upon the Record, Error may at once be brought ; and if the Judgment
in such or any other Case be affirmed in Error, it shall be lawful for
the Court of Error to adjudge Costs to the Defendant in Error.
SEC. 44. When a new Trial is granted, on the Ground that the
Verdict was against Evidence, the Costs of the First Trial shall abide
the Event, unless the Court shall otherwise order.
SEC. 45. Upon Motions founded upon Affidavits it shall be lawful
for either Party, with Leave of the Court or a Judge, to make Affidavits
in answer to the Affidavits of the opposite Party, upon any new Matter
arising out of such Affidavits, subject to all such Rules as shall hereafter
be made respecting such Affidavits.
SEC. 46. Upon the Hearing: of any Motion or Summons it shall be
lawful for the Court or Judge, at their or his Discretion, and upon
such Terms as they or he shall think reasonable, from Time to Time
to order such Documents as they or he may think fit to be produced,
and such Witnesses as they or he may think necessary to appear, and
be examined vied voce, either before such Court or Judge, or before
the Master, and upon hearing such Evidence, or reading the Report
of such Master, to make such Rule or Order as may be just.
SEC. 47. The Court or Judge may by such Rule or Order, or any
subsequent Rule or Order, command the Attendance of the Witnesses
named therein, for the Purpose of being examined, or the Production
of any Writings or other Documents to be mentioned in such Rule or
Order; and such Rule or Order shall be proceeded upon in the same
Manner, and shall have the same Force and Effect, as a Rule of the
Court under an Act passed in the First Year of the Reign of His late
Majesty King William the Fourth, intituled An Act to enable Courts
of Law to order the Examination of Witnesses upon Interrogatories
or otherwise; and it shall be lawful for the Court, or Judge, or
Master to adjourn the Examination from Time to Time as Occasion
may require ; and the Proceedings upon such Examination shall be
conducted, and the Depositions taken down, as nearly as may be, in
the Mode now in use with respect to the vied voce Examination of
Witnesses under the last-mentioned Act., ,
SEC. 48. Any Party to any Civil Action or other Civil Proceeding in
any of the Superior Courts, requiring the Affidavit of a Person who refuses
to make an Affidavit, may apply by Summons for an Order to such
Person to appear and be examined upon Oath before a Judge or Master,
to whom it may be most convenient to refer such Examination, as to
the Matters concerning which he has refused to make an' Affidavit and a. Judge may, if he think fit, make such Order for the Attendance
of such Person before the Person therein appointed to take such
Examination, for the Purpose of being examined as. aforesaid, and for
.the Production of any Writings or Documents to be mentioned in
such Order, and may therein impose such Terms as to such Examination,
tion, and the Costs of the Application and Proceedings thereon, as he
shall think just.
SEC. 49. Such Order shall be proceeded upon in like Manner as an
Order made under the herein-before mentioned Act passed in the First
Year of the Reign of His late Majesty King William the Fourth, and
the Examination thereon shall be conducted, and the Depositions
taken down and returned, as nearly as may be, in the Mode now used
on viva voce Examinations under the said Act of Parliament.
SEC. 50. Upon the Application of either Party to any Cause or other Civil Proceeding in any of the Superior Courts, upon an Affidavit by such Party of his Belief that any Document, to the Production
of which he is entitled for the Purpose of Discovery or otherwise, is
in the Possession or Power of the opposite Party, it shall be lawful
for the Court or Judge to order that the Party against whom such
Application is made, or if such Party is a Body Corporate that some
Officer to ; be named of such Body Corporate, shall answer on
Affidavit, stating what Documents he or they has or have in his or
their Possession or Power relating to the Matters in dispute, or whathe
knows as to the Custody they or any of them are in, and whether
he or they objects or object (and if so, on what Grounds,) to the
Production of such as are in his or their Possession or Power ; and
upon such Affidavit being made the Court or Judge may make such
further Order thereon as shall be just.
SEC. 51. In all Causes in any of the Superior Courts, by Order of
the Court or a Judge, the Plaintiff may, with the, Declaration, and the
Defendant may, with the Plea, or either of them by Leave of the Court
or a Judge may, at any other Time, deliver to the opposite Party or
his Attorney (provided such Party, if not a Body Corporate, would
be liable to be called and examined as a Witness upon such Matter)
Interrogatories in Writing upon' any Matter as to which Discovery
may be sought, and require such Party, or in the Case of a Body
Corporate any of the Officers of such Body Corporate, within Ten,
Days to answer the Questions in Writing by Affidavit, to be sworn,
and filed in the ordinary Way ; and any Party or Officer omitting,
without just Cause, sufficiently to answer all Questions as to which
a Discovery may be sought within the above Time, or" such extended
Time as the Court or a Judge shall ' allow, shall be deemed to have
committed a Contempt of the Court, and shall be liable to be
proceeded against accordingly.
SEC. 52. The Application for such Order shall be made - upon an
Affidavit of the Party proposing to interrogate, and his Attorney or
Agent, or, in the Case of. a Body Corporate, of their Attorney or
I
Agent, stating that the Deponents or Deponent believe or believes
that the Party proposing to interrogate, whether Plaintiff or. Defendant,
will derive material Benefit in the Cause from the Discovery which
he seeks, that there is a good Cause of Action or Defence upon the
Merits, and, if the Application be made on the Part of the Defendant,
that the Discovery is not sought for the Purpose of Delay ; provided
that where it shall happen, from unavoidable Circumstances, that the
Plaintiff or Defendant cannot join in such Affidavit, the Court or
Judge may, if they or he think fit, upon Affidavit of such Circumstances
by which the Party is prevented from so joining therein,
allow and order that the Interrogatories may be delivered without
such Affidavit.
SEC. 53. In case of Omission, without just Cause, to answer sufficiently
such written Interrogatories, it shall be lawful for the Court or
a Judge, at their or his Discretion, to direct an oral Examination
of the interrogated Party, as to such Points as they or he may direct,
before a Judge or Master; and the Court or Judge may by such Rule
or Order, or any subsequent Rule or Order, command the Attendance
of such Party or Parties before the Person appointed to take such
Examination, for the Purpose of being orally examined as aforesaid,
or the Production of any Writings or other Documents to be mentioned
in such Rule or Order, and may impose therein such Terms
as to such Examination, and the Costs of the Application, and of the
Proceedings thereon, and otherwise, as to such Court or Judge shall
seem just.
SEC. 54. Such Rule or Order shall have the same Force and Effect,
and may be proceeded upon in like Manner, as an Order made under
the said herein-before mentioned Act passed in the First Year of the
Reign of His late Majesty King William the Fourth.
SEC. 55. Whenever, by virtue of this Act, an Examination of any
Witness or Witnesses has been taken before a Judge of One of the
said Superior Courts, or before a Master, the Depositions taken down
by such Examiner shall be returned to and kept in the Master's
Office of the Court in which the Proceedings are pending ; and Office
Copies of such Depositions may be given out, and the Depositions
may be otherwise used, in the same Manner as in the Case of Depositions'
taken under the herein-before mentioned Act passed in
the First Year of the Reign of His late Majesty King William the
Fourth.
SEC. 56. It shall be lawful for every Judge or Master named in
any such Rule or Order as aforesaid for taking Examinations under
this Act, and he is hereby required to make, if need be, a
special Report to the Court in which such Proceedings are pending,
touching such Examination, and the Conduct or Absence of any
Witness or other Person thereon or relating thereto ; and the Court
is hereby authorized to institute such Proceedings and make such
Order and Orders upon such Report as Justice may require, and
as may be instituted and made in any Case of Contempt of the
Court.
SEC. 57. The Costs of every Application for any Rule or Order to be made for the Examination of Witnesses by virtue of this Act, and of the Rule or Order and Proceedings thereon, shall be in the Discretion of the Court or Judge by whom such Rule or Order is made..
SEC. 58. Either Party shall be at liberty to apply to the Court or Judge for a Rule or Order for the Inspection,by the Jury, or by
himself, or by his Witnesses, of any Real or Personal Property the
Inspection of which may be material to the proper Determination of
the Question in dispute ; and it shall be lawful for the Court, or
a Judge, if they or he think fit, to make such Rule or Order,
upon such Terms as to Costs and otherwise'as such Court or Judge
may direct : Provided always, that nothing herein contained shall
affect the Provisions of the Common Law Procedure Act, 1852," or
any previous Act, as to obtaining a View by a Jury : Provided also,
that all Rules and Regulations now in force and applicable to the
Proceedings by View under the said last-mentioned Act shall be held
to apply to Proceedings for Inspection by a Jury under the Provisions
of this Act, or as near thereto as may be.
SEC. 59. The several Courts, or any Judge thereof, may make all such Rules or Orders upon the Sheriff or other Person as may be necessary to procure the Attendance of a Special or Common Jury for the Trial of any Cause or Matter depending in such Courts,
at such Time and Place and in such Manner as they or he may
think fit,
SEC. 60. It shall be lawful for any Creditor who has obtained a
Judgment in any of the Superior Courts to apply to the Court or a
Judge for a Rule or Order that the Judgment Debtor should be orally
examined as to any and what Debts are owing to him before a Master
of the, Court, or such other Person as the Court or Judge shall appoint;
and the Court or Judge may make such Rule or Order for the
Examination of such Judgment Debtor, and for the Production of any
Books or Documents, and the Examination shall be, conducted in the
same Manner as in the Case of an oral Examination of an opposite
Party before a Master under this Act.
SEC. 61. It shall be lawful for a Judge, upon the ex parte Application
of such Judgment Creditor, either before or after such oral Examination,
and. upon Affidavit by himself or his -Attorney stating that
Judgment has been recovered, and that it is still unsatisfied, and to
what Amount, and that any other Person is indebted to the Judgment
Debtor, and is within the Jurisdiction, to order that all Debts owing
or accruing from such Third Person (herein-after called the Garnishee)
to the Judgment Debtor shall be attached to answer the Judgment
Debt ; and by the same or any subsequent Order it may be ordered
that the Garnishee shall appear before the Judge or a Master of the.
Court, as such Judge shall appoint, to show Cause why he should not
pay the Judgment Creditor the Debt due from him to the Judgment
Debtor, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the Judgment
Debt. , -
SEC. 62. Service of an Order that Debts due or accruing to the
Judgment Debtor shall be attached, or Notice thereof to the Garnishee,
in such Manner as the Judge shall direct, shall bind such
Debts in his Hands.
SEC. 63. If the Garnishee does not forthwith pay into Court the.
Amount due from him to the Judgment Debtor, or an Amount equal
to the Judgment Debt, and does not dispute the Debt due or claimed
to be due from him to the Judgment Debtor, or if he does not appear
upon Summons, then the Judge may order Execution to issue, and it
may be sued forth accordingly, without any previous Writ or Process,
to levy the Amount due from such Garnishee towards Satisfaction of
the Judgment Debt.
SEC. 64. If the Garnishee disputes his Liability, the Judge, instead
of making an Order that Execution shall issue, may order that the
Judgment Creditor shall be at liberty to proceed against the Garnishee
by Writ, calling upon him to show Cause why there should not be
Execution against him for the alleged Debt, or for the Amount due to
the Judgment Debtor, if less than the Judgment Debt, and for Costs of
Suit; and the Proceedings upon such Suit shall be the same, as nearly
as may be, as upon a Writ of Revivor issued under Gl The Common
Law Procedure Act, 1852."
SEC. 65. Payment made by or Execution levied upon the Garnishee
under any such Proceeding as aforesaid shall be a valid Discharge to
him as against the Judgment Debtor to the Amount paid or levied,
although such Proceeding may be set aside or the Judgment reversed,
SEC. 66. In each of the Superior Courts there shall be kept at the
Master's Office a Debt Attachment Book, and in such Book Entries
shall be made of the Attachment and Proceedings thereon, with Names,
Dates, and Statements of the Amount recovered, and otherwise; and
the Mode of keeping such Books shall be the same in all the Courts and Copies of any Entries made therein may be taken by any Person,
upon Application to any Master
SEC. 67. The Costs of any Application for an Attachment of Debt under this Act, and of any Proceedings arising from or incidental to such Application, shall be in the Discretion of the Court or Judge.
SEC. 68. The Plaintiff in any Action in any of the Superior Courts;
except Replevin and Ejectment, may endorse upon the Writ and Copy
to be served a Notice that the Plaintiff intends to claim a Writ Mandamus, and the Plaintiff may thereupon claim in the Declaration,
either together with any other Demand which may now be enforced such Action, or separately, a' Writ of Mandamus commanding the
Defendant to fulfil any Duty in the Fulfilment of which the Plaintiff
is personally interested.
SEC. 69. The Declaration in such Action shall set forth sufficient
Grounds upon which such Claim is founded, and shall set forth that
the Plaintiff is personally interested therein, and that he sustains or,
may sustain Damage by the Nonperformance of such Duty, and that
Performance thereof has been demanded by him, and refused or
neglected.
SEC. 70. The Pleadings and other Proceedings in any Action in
which a Writ of Mandamus .is claimed-shall be the same in all respects,
as nearly as may be, and Costs shall be recoverable by either Party,
as in an ordinary Action for the Recovery of Damages.
SEC. 71. In case Judgment shall be given to the Plaintiff that Mandamus do issue, it shall be lawful for the Court in which such
Judgment is given, if it shall see fit, besides issuing Execution in the
ordinary Way for the Costs and Damages, also to. issue a peremptory
Writ of Mandamus to the Defendant, commanding him forthwith to
perform. the Duty to be enforced.
SEC. 72. The Writ need not recite the Declaration or other Proceedings,
or the Matter therein stated, but shall simply command the
Performance of the Duty, and in other respects shall be in the Form, of
an ordinary Writ of Execution, except that it shall be directed to the
Party and not to the Sheriff, and . may be issued in Term or Vacation,
and returnable forthwith ; and no Return thereto, except that of
Compliance, shall be allowed, but Time to return it may, upon suffi-
cient Grounds, be allowed by the Court or a Judge, either with or
without Terms.
SEC. 73. The Writ of Mandamus so issued as aforesaid shall have
the same Force and Effect as a peremptory Writ of Mandamus issued
out of the Court of Queen's Bench, and in case of Disobedience may
be enforced by Attachment.
SEC. 74. The Court may, upon Application by the Plaintiff,
besides or instead of proceeding against the disobedient Party by
Attachment, direct that the Act required to be done may be done by
the Plaintiff, or some other Person appointed by the Court, at the
Expense of the Defendant ; and upon the Act being done, the
Amount of such Expense may be ascertained by the Court, either
by Writ of Inquiry or Reference to a Master, as the Court or a
Judge may order ; and the Court may order Payment of the Amount
of such Expenses and Costs, and enforce Payment thereof by
Execution.
SEC. 75. Nothing herein contained shall take away the Jurisdiction
of the Court of Queen's Bench to grant Writs of Mandamus ; nor shall
any Writ of Mandamus issued out of that Court be invalid by reason
of the Right of the Prosecutor to proceed by Action for Mandamus
under this Act.
SEC. 76. Upon Application by Motion for any Writ of Mandamus
in the Court of Queen's Bench, the Rule may in all Cases be absolute
in the first instance, if the Court shall think fit; and the Writ may
bear Teste on the Day of its issuing, and may be made returnable
forthwith, whether in Term or in Vacation, but Time may be allowed
to return it, by the Court or a Judge, either with or without Ternis.
SEC. 77. The Provisions of " The Common Law Procedure
Act, 1852," and of this Act, so far as they are applicable, shall apply
to the Pleadings and Proceedings upon a Prerogative Writ of Mandamus
issued by the Court of Queen's Bench.
SEC. 78. The Court or a Judge shall have Power, if they or he
see fit so to do, upon the Application of the Plaintiff in any Action
foi the Detention of any Chattel, to order that Execution shall issue
for the Return of the Chattel detained, without giving the Defendant
the Option of retaining such Chattel upon paying the Value assessed,
and that if the said Chattel cannot be found, and unless the Court or
a Judge should otherwise order, the Sheriff shall distrain the Defendant
by all his Lands and Chattels in the said Sheriff's Bailiwick, till the
Defendant render such Chattel, or, at the Option of the Plaintiff, that
he cause to be made of the Defendant's Gods the assessed Value of
such Chattel ; provided that the Plaintiff shall, either by the same or
a separate Writ of Execution, be entitled to have made of the Defendant's
Goods the Damages, Costs, and Interest in such Action.
SEC. 79. In all Cases of Breach of Contract or other Injury, where
the Party injured is entitled to maintain and has brought an Action, he
may, in like Case and Manner as herein-before provided with respect
to Mandamus, claim a Writ of Injunction against the Repetition or
Continuance of such Breach of Contract, or other Injury, or the Committal
of any Breach of Contract or Injury of a like kind, arising out
of the same Contract, or relating to the same Property or Right ; and
he may also in the same Action include a Claim for Damages or other
Redress.
SEC. 80. The Writ of Summons in such Action shall be in the same Form as the Writ of Summons in an Personal Action but on y such Writ and Copy thereof there shall be endorsed a Notice that in default of Appearance the Plaintiff may, besides proceeding to Judgment and Execution for Damages and Costs, apply for and
obtain a Writ of Injunction.
SEC. 81. The Proceedings in such Action shall be the same, as nearly as may be, and subject to the like Control, as the Proceedings in, an Action to obtain a Mandamus under the Provisions herein-before contained ; and in such Action Judgment may be given that the Writ
of Injunction do or do not issue, as Justice may require ; and in case of
Disobedience such Writ of Injunction may be enforced by Attachment
by the Court, or, when such Courts shall not be sitting, by a
Judge.
SEC. 82. It shall be lawful for the Plaintiff at any Time after Commencement of the Action, and whether before or after Judg- meat, to apply ex parte to the Court or a Judge for a Writ of Injunc- tion to restrain the Defendant in such Action from the Repetition or. Continuance of the wrongful Act or Breach of Contract complained of,
or the Committal of any Breach of Contract or Injury of a like kind,
arising out of the same Contract, or relating to the same Property or
Right ; and such Writ may be granted or denied by the Court or Judge
upon such Terms as to the Duration of the Writ, keeping an Account,
giving Security, or otherwise, as to such Court or Judge shall seem
reasonable and just, and in case of Disobedience such Writ may
be enforced by Attachment by the Court, or, when such Courts shall
not be sitting, by a Judge : Provided always, that any Order for a Writ
of Injunction made by a Judge, or any Writ issued by virtue thereof,
may be discharged or varied or set aside by the Court, on Application
made thereto by any Party dissatisfied with such Order.
SEC. 83. It shall be lawful for the Defendant or Plaintiff in replevin
in any Cause in any of the Superior Courts in which, if Judgment
were obtained, he would be entitled to Relief against such Judgment
on equitable Grounds, to plead the Facts which entitle him to such
Relief by way of Defence, and the said Courts are hereby empowered
to receive such Defence by way of Plea ; provided that such Plea
shall begin with the Words 11 For Defence on equitable Grounds," or
Words to the like Effect.
SEC. 84. Any such Matter which, if it arose before or during
the Time for pleading, would be an Answer to the Action by way of
Plea, may, if it arise after the Lapse of the Period during which it
could be pleaded, be set up by way of Audita querela.
SEC. 85. The Plaintiff may reply, in answer to any Plea of the
Defendant, Facts which avoid such Plea upon equitable Grounds ;
provided that such Replication shall begin with the Words " For
Replication on equitable Grounds," or Words to the like Effect.
SEC. 86. Provided always, that in case it shall appear to the
Court, or any Judge thereof, that any such equitable Plea or equitable
Replication cannot be dealt with by a Court of Law so as to
do Justice between the Parties, it shall be lawful for such Court or
Judge to order the same to be struck out on such Terms as to Costs
and otherwise as to such Court or Judge may seem reasonable.
SEC. 87. In case of any Action founded upon a Bill of Exchange
or other negotiable Instrument, it shall be lawful for the Court or a
Judge to order that the Loss of such Instrument shall not be set up,
provided an Indemnity is given, to the Satisfaction of the Court or
Judge, or a Master, against the Claims of any other Person upon such
negotiable Instrument.
SEC. 88. The Superior Courts or any Judge thereof may, upon
summary Application, by Rule or Order, exercise such and the like
Jurisdiction as may, under the Provisions of an Act of Parliament
made and passed in the Fifty.-third Year. of the Reign of His Majesty
King George the Third, intituled An Act to limit the Responsibility
of Shipowners in certain Cases, be exercised by any Court of
Equity.
SEC. 89. Any Person who shall, upon any Examination upon Oath.
or Affirmation, or in any Affidavit in Proceedings under this Act,
wilfully and corruptly give false Evidence, or wilfully and corruptly
swear or affirm anything which shall be false, being convicted thereof,
shall be liable to the Penalties of wilful and corrupt Perjury.
Writs
SEC. 90. Writs of Execution to fix Bail may be tested and returnable in Vacation. 

SEC. 91 Proceedings against Executors upon a Judgment of Assets
infuturo may be had and taken in the Manner provided by " The
Common Law Procedure Act, 1852," as to Writs of Revivor.
SEC. 91. Where an Action would, but for the Provisions of " The
Common Law Pro4dure Act, 1852;" have abated by reason of the
Death of either Party, and in which the Proceedings may be revived
and continued under that Act, the Defendant or Person against whom
the Action may be so continued may apply by Summons to compel.
the Plaintiff, or Person entitled to proceed with the Action in the
Room of the Plaintiff, to proceed according to the Provisions of the
said Act within such Time as the Judge shall order ; and in default
of such Proceeding the Defendant or other Person against whom the
Action may be so continued as aforesaid shall be entitled to enter a
Suggestion of such Default, and of the representative Cjiaracter of
the Person by or against whom the Action may be proceeded with,
as the Case may be, and to have Judgment for the Costs of the
Action and Suggestion against the Plaintiff, or against the Person
entitled to proceed in his Room, as the Case may be, and. in the latter
Case to be levied of the Goods of the Testator or Intestate.
SEC. 93. If any Person shall bring an Action of Ejectment after
a prior Action of Ejectment for the same Premises has been or shall
have been unsuccessfully brought by such Person, or by any Person
through or under whom he claims against the same Defendant, or
against any Person through or under whom he defends, the Court or a
Judge may, if they or he think fit, on the Application of the Defendant
at any Time after such Defendant has appeared to the Writ, order
that the Plaintiff shall give to the Defendant Security for the Payment
of the Defendant's Costs, and that all further Proceedings in the
Cause shall be stayed until such Security be given, whether the prior
Action has been or shall have been disposed of by Discontinuance, or
by Nonsuit, or by Judgment for the Defendant.
SEC. 94. No Writ of Execution issued before the Twenty-fourth Day
of October One thousand eight hundred and fifty-two, if unexecuted,
shall remain in force for more than Six Calendar Months after the
Twenty-fourth Day of October One thousand eight hundred and
fifty-four, unless the same be renewed as herein-after mentioned, but all
such Writs may be renewed from Time to Time in the same Manner
as Writs issued after the Twenty-fourth Day of October One
thousand eight hundred and fifty-two may now be renewed under the
" Common Law Procedure Act, 1852," Section CXXIV.
SEC. 95. The Superior Courts may appoint and hold Sittings either
in Bane, or for the Trial of Issues in Fact by Judge or Jury, at any
Time or Times, whether in Term or Vacation, not being between the
Tenth of August and the Twenty-fourth of October.
SEC. 96. It shall be lawful for the Superior Courts of Common Law,
and every Judge thereof, and any Judge sitting at Nisi Prius, at all
Times to amend all Defects and Errors in any Proceedings under the
Provisions of this Act, whether there is anything in Writing to
amend by or not, and whether the Defect or Error be that of the
Party applying to amend or not ; and all such Amendments may be
made with or without Costs, and upon such Terms as to the Court
or Judge may seem fit ; and all such Amendments as may be necessary
for the Purpose of determining in the existing Suit the real
Question in controversy between the Parties shall be so made, if duly
applied for.
SEC. 97. It shall be lawful for the Judges of the said Courts, or
any Eight or more of them, of whom the Chiefs of each of the said
Courts shall be Three, from Time to Time to make all such General
Rules and Orders for the effectual Execution of this Act, and of the
Intention, and Object hereof, and for fixing the Costs to be allowed
for and in respect of the Matters herein contained, and the Performance
thereof, as in their Judgment shall be necessary or proper, and
for that Purpose to meet from Time to Time as Occasion may require:
Provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed to restrain
the Authority or limit the Jurisdiction of the said Courts or of the
Judges thereof to make Rules or Orders, or otherwise to regulate and
dispose of the Business therein.
SEC. 98. Such new or altered Writs and Forms of Proceedings may
be issued, entered, and taken, as may by the Judges of the said Courts,
or any Eight or more of them, of whom the Chiefs of each of the said
Courts shall be Three, be deemed necessary or expedient for giving
Effect to the Provisions herein-before contained, and in such Forms as,
he Judges of such Courts respectively shall from Time to Time think
fit to order; and such Writs and Proceedings shall be acted upon and
enforced in such and the same Manner as Writs and Proceedings of
the said Courts are now acted upon and enforced, or as near thereto as
the Circumstances of the Case will admit; and any existing Writ or
Proceeding the Form of which shall be in any Manner altered in
pursuance of this Act shall nevertheless be of the same Force and Virtue
as if no Alteration had been made therein, except as far as the Effect
thereof may be varied by this Act.
SEC. 99. In the Construction of this Act the Word [t Court" shall
be understood to mean any One of the Superior Courts of Com
mon Law at Westminster; and the Word 11 Judge" shall be understood
to mean a Judge or Baron of any of the said Courts ; and
the Word [L Master " shall be understood to mean a Master of any
of the said Courts ; and the Word II Action" shall be understood to
mean any Personal Action in any of the said Courts.
SEC. 100. All the Enactments and. Provisions. of this Act not` relating exclusively to the Sittings for Trials of Causes or Issues in Fact at London or - Westminster shall extend and apply to the Court of Common Pleas at Lancaster and the Court of Pleas at Durham, and Actions and Proceedings therein respectively, subject to the following Modifications : All the Powers given by this Act to the Judges of the. said Superior Courts of Common Law at Westminster to make General Rules and Orders shall and may be exercised by the respec- tive Judges of the Court of Common Pleas 'at Lancaster and Court
of Pleas at Durham, being Judges of One of the said Common Law
Courts at Westminster, or any Two of them respectively, with respect
to the said Court of Common Pleas at Lancaster and Court of Pleas
at Durham respectively, and Matters and Proceedings therein within
the Jurisdiction of the same Courts respectively ; and all Powers under
this Act exercisable by any One Judge of the Superior Courts at
Westminster shall and may be exercisable by One Judge of the
said Superior Courts of the said Counties Palatine, being also a Judge
of One of the said Courts at Westminster, as to Matters and Proceedings
in the said Superior Courts of the said Counties Palatine.
SEC. 101. Provided always, That all the Provisions of . this Act applicable
to Masters of the said Courts at Westminster shall apply to the
respective Prothonotaries of the Court of Common Pleas at Lancaster
and Court of Pleas at Durham and their respective Deputies acting
in the Execution of the Duties of such Offices, which acting Officers
respectively may singly exercise with reference to Matters and Proceedings
in the last-mentioned Courts respectively the Powers hereby
given to the Masters of the Superior Courts at Westminster.
SEC. 102. Provided also, as to Proceedings in Appeal, That the Court of Queen's Bench, being the Court of Error from the said Court of Common Pleas at Lancaster and Court of Pleas at Durham respec- tively, shall also be the Court of Appeal from the said respective Courts for the Purposes of this Act in reference to Motions for New Trials, or to enter Verdicts or Nonsuits previously made to the Judges
of the said respective Courts of Common Pleas at Lancaster and
Cour-t of Pleas at Durham respectively.
SEC. 103. The Enactments contained in Sections Nineteen, Twenty, Twenty-one, Twenty-two, Twenty-three, Twenty-four, Twenty-five,
Twenty-sip, Twenty-seven, and Twenty-eight, Twenty-niue,''I'birt
Thirt -one, and: Thirty-two of this Act shall apply and_ exi& u d- w
y
every. Court,of Civil Judicature in England :and' Ireland ,,.
SEC. 104. The Provisions -of this Act shall come'. into operation on the
Twenty-fourth Day of October in the Year of our Lord One thousand
.1, I t- . 1 Y
e ig ht hu n d re d and fifty-four.
SEC. 105. It shall, be. lawful for Her 'Majesty from Time to', Time.-
h ari .Order in Council, to direct that all' 'or any Part of the Proall'dt'Part
visions of this Act, or of the Rules to be made 'in pursuance thereof,
shall apply to all or any Court Courtsa of Record in. Engla zd and
ales and within One 'Month after such Order 'shall ha- e`been adet ,
and. published in the London 'Gazette such- Provisions and Rules
respectively shall extend and apply i n manner directed by such
Order, and an such Orde' mfy be in lii'fe Manner, from Time to
Time 'altered ;and annulled and, in and by any- ucl3 Order Her'
Majesty-may direct bb,y whom any Powers 'or Duties incident to the
Provisions applied under this Act, or the Common "-Law Procedure'
Act, 1852, shall and may be exercised with respect to'Matters in
such Court or courts, and may make any Orders or Regulations
which may be deemed requisite for carrying into operation in such
Court or Courts the Provisions so applied& `
SEC. 106.. I'n citing his et in any, I nstrument, Document, or Proceed-'
ing it shall be sufficient to, use the Expression  The Common Law
Procedure Act,' 1854."
SEC. 107. Nothing in this :Acct shall extend' to Ireland or ,5'cotk nd,
save, as aforesaid.
