CHAPTER 85.

CIVIL PROCEDURE IN DISTRICT COURTS.

§ 1209. The original writ in all civil actions begun before
a District Court, shall be a summons, a writ of replevin, a
capiu-3 or an attachment, and shall be signed by the Magistrate
of such Court, and shall contain a notitication to the defendant
that if he fails to attend at the time and place of trial designated
in the writ, judgment will be rendered upon default according
to the evidence taken an pa/rtc. All original writs shall be returnable not less than one nor more than six days from the date
of issue.

§ 1210. Such Magistrate shall issue an attachment against
the personal property of the defendant when requested in any
action founded on a judgment or on a contract, express or implied, if the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, shall make and
file in such Court an aflidavit specifying, as near as may be, the
amount due the plaintiff from the defendant, exclusive of all
set-offs and counter claims, and containing a further statement
either that the deponent knows, or has good reason to believe:

F*irr8t.' That the defendant contracted the debt sued upon

in a fraudulent and deceitful manner, or upon false and unfounded pretences; or

Second: That the defendant has assigned, disposed of, or
concealed, or is about to assign, dispose of or conceal his propetty, with the intent to defraud his creditors; or

Third: That the defendant is about to remove any of his
property from the Island wherein such application is made,

with the like intent, and that he refuses and neglects to pay
or secure the payment of the debt; or

F0m'th~.' That. the defendant has absconded to the injury
of his creditors; or is not a resident of this Republic; or has
not resided therein for one month immediately preceding such
application ;

P1'01>i-dcd, that it shall not be lawful for such Magistrate to
issue an attachment until the applicant shall have deposited
with him a bond in a penal sum of not less than fifty nor more
than live hundred dollars, with one or more suiiicient sureties,
to be approved by such Magistrate, conditioned for the payment of all the costs of the proceeding, and of all damages sustained by the defendant by reason of the attachment, in case
the plaintiff shall not sustain his suit, or in case the attachment
shall be dissolved, by competent authority, before final judgment in such suit. Such attachment may be in the following

form:

To any Constable of the District of . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Islaud
of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .H. I.

You are hereby commanded to attach and safely keep the
property of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .if any can be found Within
this District, subject to the order of this Court, (or other Court
as the case may be) at the sworn information and suit. of

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .plaint.iif, to answer to a debt, (or obligation as the case may be) alleged to be due him from the
said . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .and having so attached, you are further commanded to summon the said . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .if he
can be found in this District, to appear and answer the complaint and demand of the said plaintiff before me at . . . . . . ..
. . . . . . . . ..on the ....(lay  

(or before another Court as the case may be, stating the time),
and then and there show cause, if any he has, why judgment
should not be rendered against him, and the propertyattached
subjectto execution, levy and sale for the payment of the said

*- demand, interests and costs.

Notify the said . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..that. upon default to
attend at the time and place above mentioned, judgment will
be rendered against him 0.1? partc by default.

Given under my hand this. . . .day of . . . . . . . . . .A. D. . . . .

District Magistrate of . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

§ 1211. Such attachment shall be dissolved by the Magistrate issuing the same in case the applicant fail to establish
his claim on appearance and contest of the merits by the defendant, or if, having appeared in the cause, the defendant, upon
motion to dissolve such attachment, shall prove to the satisfaction of the Court that the alleged special facts upon which
such attachment was issued did not, at the date of such issue,
exist, but in case the defendant make default, or appearing,
the plaintiff substantiate his demand, the property attached
shall be liable to execution at his instance, and shall be levied
on, advertised and sold as in other cases, subject to the right
of appeal, and the right of property in third persons.

§ 1212. Every attachment issued as aforesaid shall be imposed by placing the property in security, Without removing
the same from the defendant’s premises, except for greater
safety, at the option of the ofiicer executing the writ. The
officer so attaching shall take an inventory thereof, and append
a copy of the same to his return of the attachment. He shall
also furnish a copy of the inventory to the defendant, and shall
post in three conspicuous places in the district a notice as
follows:

By virtue of a Writ from . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .District Magistrate of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .returnable at . . . . . . . . . . . . . .on
the . . . . ..day of., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..A. D . . . . . . . .., at
the suit of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .for . . . . . . . . . . . .dollars, I

have attached, subject to a demand to be proved, the following articles of property, to Wit:

All persons having rights in said property are hereby notified
to prove their claims on or before the return day above named.

Dated the . . . . . . . .day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .A. D . . . . . . .

§ 1213. Any person indebted to another, or liable to another
in law for money to an amount not exceeding five hundred dollars, may with, or without suit first instituted against him, appear

‘ in person or by duly empowered attorney, before a District Magistrate and there confess judgment against himself and his property for such sum with costs. And the Magistrate shall, in every
such case, enter up judgment in the same manner as if he had
rendered the same upon default, or upon evidence of indebtedness, and issue execution thereon in like manner and with the like
effect; provided that no such judgment confessed without suit
shall have the effect in law to cover or conceal the property of a
debtor, nor take precedence of other judgments subsequently
rendered, if it appear that the same was collusively or fraudulently confessed, or confessed without legal consideration, or
with the view of giving fraudulent and undeserved precedence
to one creditor over another.

§ 1214. Any judgment rendered in a District Court shall he
a lien upon real property when a transcript thereof, certified
by the Magistrate of such Court, shall have been docketed in
the oiiice of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the Judicial Circuit in which such District Court is situated. Such judgment
docket shall he recorded in the Registry of Deeds in a book
specially kept for that purpose, within fifteen days after such
docketing, otherwise such lien shall be void.

CHAPTER 86.

CIVIL PROCEDURE IN COURTS or RECORD.

§ 1215. Every civil action hereafter to be tried in any of the
Courts of Record in this Republic, shall be commenced by petition, which petition shall be verified by the oath of the plaintiff,

or some one on his behalf, deposing to the best of his knowledge
and belief.

SUIT ON EVIDENCE or INDEBTEDNESS.

§ 1216. In all suits for the recovery of money upon evidences of indebtedness, or vouchers certain or computable by
the Court, that is to say: upon promissory notes, bills of exchange, drafts, orders, bonds and other instrument, parol or

specialty, the plaintiff in person, or by his attorney, shall file a

petition for process, addressed to the Chief Judge or Justice of
the Court, in substance as follows:

The undersigned claims of . . . . . ., residing at . . . . . ., Island

of . . . . .., . . . . . . dollars, upon (a note or other evidence of
debt, as the case may be) dated . . . . . . , payable on . . . . . ., with
. . . . . .interest from . . . . . .. Said defendant has neglected
and refused to pay the same until this date, (and in case of fraud
or concealment, or other collusive or deceptive circumstances
attendant upon the contracting or the non-payment of the debt,
here insert the same according to the circumstances).
‘Wherefore, the undersigned asks the process of this Court to
cite the said defendant to appear and answer this demand.
Dated....day of...., 18.. . . . . . . . . . . ..

Plaintiff, or Plaintiff’s Attorney.

§ 1217. Upon the filing of such petition,in case no fraudulent
circumstances be alleged by the plaintiff, the clerk shall issue,

under the seal of the Court, a summons addressed to the Marshal
or his deputy, which may be in the following form:

You are commanded to summon . . . . . ., defendant, in case he
shall file written answer within twenty days after service thereof, to be and appear before the Supreme Court, (or Circuit
Court for the . . . . . .J 11dicial Circuit, as the case may be) at the
. . . . . .term thereof, to be holden at. . . . . ., in the Island of
. . . . . ., on the. . . . . .day of. . . . . . next, at. . . . . .o’clock
A. M., to show cause why the claim of . . . . . . , plainti§ , should
not be awarded to him pursuant to the tenor of his annexed
petition. And have yo11 then there this writ with full return
of your proceedings thereon.

\Vitness,» . . . . . . . . . ., Esquire,
(lhief Justice of the Supreme Court, at Honolulu,
this . . . . . .day of . . . . . ., A. D. 18. .
(Seal) . . . . . . . . . . . ., Clerk.

§ 1218. Every summons issued under the seal of a Court of
record, shall be served by the Marshal or his deputy, upon the
defendant, by the delivery to him of a certified copy thereof,
and of the plaintiff’s petition, to which petition shall always
be annexed a literal copy of the voucher upon which it is predicated, (if any there be), or in case the defendant cannot be
found, by leaving such certified copy with some agent or person
transacting the business of the defendant, or at the defendant’s
last place of residence.

§ 1219. In all cases where process of any Court of record
or not of record or any complaint, order or citation be served
by any ofiicer of the Court or of the police force including the
Marshal, his deputy, or any Sheriff or his deputies, a record
thereof shall be indorsed upon. the back of such process, complaint, order or citation. Such record shall state the name of
the person served and the time and place of service and shall he
signed by the officer making the service. Such record shall be
prima facie evidence of all it contains and no further proof
thereof shall be required unless either party shall desire to

examine such officer; in which case he shall be notified to
appear for examination.

§ 1220. If the defendant was never an inhabitant of the
Republic (but has property situated Within the same), or has
removed therefrom, and the fact shall appear by aflidavit to
the satisfaction of the Court, or a Judge thereof at Chambers,
and it shall in like manner appear that a cause of action exists
against. such defendant, or that he is a necessary or proper party
to the action, such Court or Judge may grant an order, that the
service be made by publication of the summons.

§ 1221. Such order shall direct the publication to be made in
the Government Gazette, for such length of time as may be
deemed reasonable, not less than three months. In case the
residence of the defendant is known, the Court or Judge shall
in addition to the publication, direct a copy of the summons
and petition to be forthwith deposited in the post-office, addressed to the defendant, at his place of residence. VVhen publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons
and petition, out of the Republic, shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the post-office. In either case, the service
of the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of
the time prescribed by the order for publication.

§ 1222. It shall be necessary to join as defendants in a civil
action, all the joint and several, or joint makers of promissory
notes, or drawers of drafts, bills of exchange, or orders, or joint
and several obligors, lessees, or parties of the first or second part
to covenants, agreements and contracts, in suing for non-pa_vment, non-acceptance, or non-fulfillment thereof, but it shall in
no case be necessary to serve all the joint parties sued with
process. Service of process upon one of several defendants at
law, shall be legal service upon all for the purposes of appearance in Court, and judgment may be entered against all such
co-defendants thereon; provided, however, that no execution

shall issue against the sole property of any joint defendant on
whom process was not duly served as aforesaid. 

§ 1223. It shall be incumbent upon every defendant served
with process of summons as hereinbefore provided, within the
time specified in the summons or order of publication, to file
with the Clerk of the Court, an answer to the plaintiiT’s demand,
either admitting all the facts stated in the petition to be true,
and denying that they are sufficient in law to support the plaintiff’s demand, which shall form an issue of law to be determined
by the Court, or denying the truth of the facts stated in the petition, which shall form an issue of fact to be determined by the
jury. After either of these answers, there shall be no further
pleading.

Provided that in all cases where the defendant is sued as the
maker, drawer, acceptor or endorser of any banker’s cheque,
promissory note, bill of exchange, or other negotiable securitv,
he shall not be allowed to file an answer unless he shall file
therewith an afiidavit. made by himself or by some person cognizant of the facts, on his behalf, that the defendant has a good
defense to the action on the merits, and stating some substantial
ground of defense to. the action, if such action be commenced
within six months after‘ the dishonor of the instrument on which
the action is brought.

§ 1224. Under the second answer mentioned in the last preceding section, the defendant may give in evidence, as a defense
to any civil action, any matter of law or fact whatever.

§ 1225. The respective Courts of record shall have power to
make such general and special rules, and orders, respecting notice
to the opposing party,’ of matters intended to be given in evidence by either party_ to a suit, as shall be necessary to prevent
surprise, and to afiford an opportunity for preparation for trial.

§ 1226. In case the defendant does not put in an answer to
the petition as hereinbefore required, the plaintiff may prove

service of the summons by personal delivery or otherwise, and
default in answering, by the clerk’s certificate, and shall there-.
upon be entitled to demand and receive of the Court, or Judge
at Chambers, an order declaring the defendant in default, and
authorizing the clerk, if the demand be upon a promissory note
or any other voucher contemplated by Section 1216, to assess
the amount of the plaintiff’s claim, principal, damages and interest, and to enter up judgment therefor and for the costs.

§ 1227. In actions where the service of the summons was by
publication, the plaintiff, upon the expiration of the time designated in the order of publication, may, upon proof of the publication, and that no answer has been filed, apply for judgment;
and the Court or Judge at Chambers shall thereupon require
proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint, and
shall require_the plaintiff or his agent to be examined on oath,
respecting any payments that may have been made to the plaintiff, or to any one for his use, on account of such demand, and
may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to

1'80 OVBT.

§ 1228. In case the defendant shall put in an answer denying the truth of the facts set forth in the plaintitf’s petition,
which answer shall be called the general issue, the clerk shall
enroll the cause upon the calendar of civil causes triable in the
Court in which the action was commenced.

§ 1229. In case the defendant shall put in an answer admitting the facts stated in the petition to be true, and denying that
they are sufficient in law to support the plaintiff’s demand, which
answer shall be called a demurrer, the plaintiff shall join therein
within twenty days on pain of being defaulted, and may apply
to a Judge at Chambers for a hearing and decision of the issue.

§ 1230. The Judge so applied to shall have power to cite the
defendant, appoint a day for argument, cite witnesses to prove

collateral facts involved, and to decide the issue, subject to exceptions by either party.

§ 1231. If no exception be taken at Chambers to the J udge’s
decision of a question of law, and no question of fact remains to
be decided at the term, the Judge shall make an order to the
clerk to enter up the judgment awarded by him upon the issue,
which shall be valid, subject to an appeal to the Court in banco.


§ 1232. In all civil cases involving unliquidated demands

constructive, implied, suppositious or hypothetical right on the
part of the Government, or of any private person, corporation
or other party, being plaintiff, to recover money or damages
pursuant to the words, or the spirit or intent of any law heretofore, now, or hereafter to be passed, or of any instrument in
writing signed by any party, or of any verbal understanding,
contract or agreement, or in consequence of any injury direct
or consequential to the party plaintiff, or to his property, real or
personal, or to his character, or his feelings, the plaintiff in
person, or by attorney, shall file with the Clerk of the Court, a
petition for process, in substance as follows:

The undersigned claims of . . . . . ., defendant, residing at
. . . . . . , Island of . . . . . . . . , the sum of . . . . . . dollars, for damages resulting to him (or as the case may be) for injury done
by said defendant to (the person, the property, the character
or the feelings of the plaintiff, as the case may be) in that the
defendant did (here set forth the cause and the manner in which
the injury was done, circumstantially With the view to proof)
which the plaintiff alleges was done in contravention of his
private rights under the laws.

Wherefore the undersigned asks the process of this Court, to
cite the said defendant to appear and answer this his complaint
before a jury of the country, at the . . . . . .term of this Court.
unless otherwise sooner disposed of by judicial authority.

§ 1233. In all cases contemplated by the last preceding section, the plaintiff may, according to circumstances, include in
his petition, an allegation that the defendant is secreting his
property, or disposing of the same, or colluding so to do, or is
about to depart the Republic, or is damaging or wasting the said
property, and thereupon ask for process of attachment, or injunction, or personal arrest, against the defendant, as such plaintiff may judge proper to ask in the premises.

§ 1234. In actions to recover at law any specific property,
real or personal, or any specific share or interest, or right to
property, real or personal in kind, as in cases of replevin, or of
ejectment, the plaintiff in person, or by attorney, shall file with
the Clerk of the Court, a petition for process, which may be in
the following form:

The undersigned complains of . . . . . ., defendant, residing at
. . . . . ., Island of. . . . . ., that he has unjustly, and contrary to
law and the rights of the plaintiff, taken into his possession
and converted to his use, (or occupation, as the case may be),
the following property, viz: (here set forth the property Wrongfully in the defendant’s possession, whether real or personal,
and if personal, the articles by name or description, and if real,
the metcs, bounds, quantity and locality thereof, with the kind
of title claimed by the plaintiff) valued at . . . . . . dollars, or if

in ejectment, state in lieu of the value, to the damage of said

plaintiff . . . . . . dollars.

Wherefore, the plaintiff asks the process of this Court, to cite
the said defendant to appear and answer this complaint before
a jury of the country, at the . . . . . .term of this Court, unless
sooner disposed of by judicial authority, and that the plaintiff
may have restitution of said property, with damages for its detention (or as the case may be).

§ 1235. In cases of ejectment, under the last preceding section, the plaintiff may, according to circumstances, allege in his

petition, that there is danger the defendant or some one for him,
will commit destruction of tenements or other property, on the
premises in controversy pendente lite, and thereupon ask for
process of injunction, or other restraining process of the Court,
as such plaintiff may judge proper to ask.

§ 1236. In every such case, in which process of constraint
to the person or property of a defendant is prayed for, no such
process shall issue until the plaintiff or some one on his behalf,
shall have filed a bond conditioned for the reimbursement to the
defendant of all costs, charges and damages sustained by him in
consequence of the suit, in case the plaintiff fail to sustain his
action. Upon the filing of the petition and bond, any Judge of
the Court at Chambers, may sanction a constraining writ, by
endorsing thereon his written allowance, without which no executive judicial ofiicer shall be justified in the seizure, constraint,
restraint or commitment of a defendant, or in the seizure, attachment, removal, detention or injunction of his property, real
or personal.

§ 1237. If the Judge deem it proper that the defendant, or
any of several defendants, should be heard before granting an
injunction, he may grant an order requiring cause to be shown,
at a specified time and place, why the injunction should not be
granted; and the defendant may in the meantime be restrained.

§ 1238. In case the petition contains no prayer for constraining process, the clerk shall issue a summons, addressed to the
Marshal or his deputy, which may be in the following form:

You are commanded to summon . . . . . ., defendant, in case
he shall file written answer within twenty days after service
thereof, to be and appear before the Supreme Court, (or Circuit

Court for the . . . . . Judicial Circuit) at the . . . . . .tern1 thereof,
to be holden at . . . . . ., on the . . . . . .day of . . . . . . next, at
. . . . . .o’clock A. M., to show cause why the claim of. . . . . .,

plainti1’:l°, should not be awarded to him pursuant to the tenor

of his annexed petition. And have you then there this writ
with full return of your proceedings thereon.

Witness, . . . . . . . . . ., Esquire,
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, at Honolulu,
this . . . . ..day of . . . . ..,18..
. . . . . . . . . ., Clerk.

§ 1239. In case the petition contains a prayer for process of
constraint against the defendant, or his property, and the plaintiff has filed with the clerk a bond as prescribed in Section 1236
approved by a Judge at Chambers, and the Judge has allowed the
constraining process, the clerk may issue a summons in the form
prescribed in the last preceding section, with an additional clause
after the words “annexed petition,” as follows:

And you are further commanded to arrest the said defendant
and commit him to prison, unless he shall give bond to answer
as aforesaid, (or to attach and keep safely the said personal property until judgment of restitution be awarded or refused, or to
enjoin the said defendant under penalty of . . . . . . dollars, not
to sell, mortgage, lease or rent the said real property, lands and
tenements, until the dissolution of such injunction by competent
judicial authority).

§ 1240. In all cases of attachment, sequestration or injunction of real property, the officer serving the writ shall, in addi—'

tion to personal delivery of a copy thereof to the defendant, post
upon the premises a copy of the process, and a notice of the day
and hour when attached, sequestrated or enjoined, and shall also
give notice thereof in the Government Gazette. All afterleases, mortgages, sales, bequests, assignments, trusts or other
conveyances of said property, until the dissolution of the process, shall be void in law as against the plaintiff in such cases.

§ 1241. All persons residing or being in this Republic shall
be personally responsible in damages, for trespass or injury,
whether direct or consequential, to the person or property of

others, or to their wives, children under majority, or Wards, by
such offending party,_or by his wife, or his child under majority,
or by his command, or by his animals, dmnitw or fora? na»tura:;

and the party aggrieved may prosecute therefor in the proper
courts.

§ 1242. Upon failure of any party defendant, after having
been served with the process prescribed in Sections 1217 and
1238, to answer the complaint within twenty days after service, the plaintiff in the action, upon proof to a Judge at Chambers, shall be entitled to an order for judgment by default, debarring the defendant from the right to answer. The Judge
or the Court shall have power, however, to open the default,
in\their discretion, for good and sufficient reasons.

§ 1243. The clerk shall, after such default, enter the cause
upon the calendar of assessments to be made 0.1‘ parte at the term
upon sole adduction of plaintiff’s evidence, without admitting
the defendant to rebut the same; provided, however, that the
defendant may in person, or by counsel, cross—examine the plaintiff’s witnesses; and address the jury in mitigation of damages.

§ 1244. The measure of damages in all cases contemplated
by Section 1232, shall be according to the true legal interpretation of the Court upon the law, instrument, contract or agreement; and in all cases of injury, direct or consequential, to the
plaintiff in person, or his wife, child or servant, or to his, her,
or their character or feelings, or to his property, real or personal,
the measure of damages shall be determined by the jury.

§ 1245. In actions of ejectment to enforce the right of possession of lands, it shall be suliicient to serve the party in actual
possession thereof, though he be not the adverse claimant, or if
no one be in actual possession at the time, to post a copy of the
process, and notice to the party claiming adversely, in some
*-conspicuous place upon the premises, at least thirty days before

the tirst day of the term of the Court at which the case is to be
tried.

§ 1246. Issues of fact arising in any suit, contemplated by Sections 1216 and 1232, shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury
trial be waived by the parties with the consent of the Co1u't.

§ 1247. In all cases of complication, and in cases involving
long accounts, the Court may, upon the written application of
either party showing satisfactory cause, or of its own motion,
appoint competent referees, as provided in Section 841 of the
Civil Code to hear and decide upon the facts and merits of the
case, reporting their decision to the Court: provided, however,

that this provision shall not extend to any case contemplated by Sections 1232 and 1234.

§ 1248. Referees so appointed shall be sworn to the faithful
and speedy investigation of, and to an honest award upon, the
matters submitted to them. All persons residing for the time
being within the jurisdiction of the Court, and liable to serve as
jurors, shall be liable to serve as referees upon appointment.

§ 1249. Either party may take exception to the decision of
the referees, upon a question of law, and it shall be the duty of
the referees to note such exception.

§ 1250. The report of referees in any cause shall be signed
by'them, or a majority of them. They shall file it with the
Clerk of the Court by whom they were appointed, and such
clerk shall notify the parties.

§ 1251. The party in whose favor the report shall have been
made, shall, within ten days after being notified by the clerk,
move the Court, or a Judge at Chambers, giving at least fortyeight hours notice of such motion to the opposite party, for
judgment of confirmation, which the Court or Judge shall grant
or refuse upon hearing the parties, or upon default of the opposite party to appear, after proper notice of such motion.

§ 1252. The parties to a Civil Suit may, with the consent
of the Court waive the right to a trial by jury, either by written
consent or by oral consent in open Court entered on the minutes;
provided, however, that in case of the failureof either party to
appear at the trial the other party being present, the absent
party shall be considered to have waived his right to a trial by

jury, and the case shall be tried with or without a jury at the
option of the party in attendance.

§ 1253. In such case the Court shall hear and decide the
cause, both as to the facts and the law, and its decision shall be
rendered in writing. If the taking of an account be necessary

to enable the Court to complete its judgment, a reference may
be ordered for that purpose.

§ 1254. Any party deeming himself aggrieved by the decision of a Circuit Court, on a question of law, in any such case,
may appeal therefrom to the Supreme Court, upon filing written notice of such appeal with the Clerk of the Circuit Court,
within ‘rive days after the rendition of its decision.

§ 1255. Parties to a question in difference, which might be
the subject of a civil action in the Supreme Court, may, without
action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the
controversy depends, and present a submission of the same to the
Justices of the Supreme Court, either in term time or in vacation. But it must appear by aflidavit, that the controversy is

real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights
of the parties.

§ 1256. The Justices, or a majority of them, shall thereupon
hear and determine the case, and render judgment thereon, in

writing, as if an action were depending.

§ 1257. Judgment shall be entered in such case, as in ordinary civil actions. The case, the submission, and the written decision, shall constitute the record.

§ 1258. The judgment shall be final, and may be enforced

in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an action.

§ 1259. The plaintiff in a civil suit may unite several causes
of action in the same complaint, when they all arise out of 2

1. Contracts, express or implied; or,

2. Claims to recover specific real property, With or Without
damages, for the withholding thereof, or for waste committed
thereon, and the rents and profits of the same; or,

3. Claims to recover specific personal property, with or
without damages for Withholding thereof; or,

4. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by
operation of law; or,

5. Injuries to character; or,
6. Injuries to the person; or,

7. Injuries to property. But the causes of action so united
shall all belong to one only of these classes, and shall effect all
the parties to the action, and shall be separately stated.

8. Every holder of a banker’s cheque, promissory note, bill
of exchange, or other negotiable security, may join as defendants
in any action for the recovery of the amount secured by any
such instrument all or any of the antecedent parties to the same,

-whether maker, -drawer, acceptor, or endorser.

AMENDMENTS.

§ 1260. Whenever a plaintiff in any action shall have mistaken the form of action suited to his claim, the Court, on motion, shall permit amendments to be made on such terms as it
shall adjudge reasonable; and the Court may, in furtherance of
justice and on the like terms, allow any petition or other pleading
to be amended in any matter of mere form, or by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake
in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect.

§ 1261. It shall be competent to the defendant in any civil
action to plead an offset of like kind and denomination, existing
in the same right, between him and the plaintiff, or having made
a legal tender of money in full payment of the plaintiH"s demand, to plead such tender, and bring the amount thereof into
Court in bar of further interest and costs, after such tender.

§ 1262. If the demand set oil’ is founded on a bond or other
contract having a penalty, no more shall be set oil’ than the

sum equitably due.

§ 1263. If there are several plaintiffs, the demand set 0E
Jmll lw elm» 1':-«am zlmn all juintly; if there are several defendle-m;m«l y-+1 «MT ~|ml] lac due to them all jointly, except

l in llll‘ l'<sll~r\\'iI1'__',' section.

Iln» ]u']’~Hli mtli whom a contract is made, has
-mu] :1 mm 1- brought on such contract, by or
. juim |_\'. any debt, due to or fron1 the per‘-nnrru.-1 was made, may be set off in like
'm;I1:I pm-tner had not been joined in the

Ii-=1» lm-' been brought by one person in
rm.-1lm~. the defendant may set off any

demand against the person for whose use or beneht the action is

brought, in like manner as if that person were the plaintiff in
the suit.

§ 1266. The plaintiff shall be entitled to every ground of defense against such set off, of which he might have availed him-.
self, in an action brought against him on the same ground.

§ 1267. The statute limiting personal actions, if applicable
to the set oil’, shall be applied in the same manner, as if an action

thereon had been commenced at the time when the plaintilf’s
action was commenced.

§ 1268. When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination
of a party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any
money, or other thing, capable of delivery, which, being the
subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another
party, or which belongs, or is due, to another party, the Court
may order the same, upon motion, to be deposited in Court, or

delivered to such party, upon such conditions as may be just,
subject to the further direction of the court.

§ 1269. Whenever in exercise of its authority a Court shall
have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other thing,
and the order is disobeyed, the Court, besides punishing the disobedience, may make an order requiring the Marshal, or any
of his deputies, to take the money or thing, and deposit or
deliver it in conformity with the direction of the Court.

§ 1270. Whenever any money shall be paid into, or deposited
in any Court of this Republic, to abide the ascertainment of the
right to such money, or the determination or suit, the Court shall
have power, upon the application of any party interested, or

without such application, to order such money to be deposited
in the public treasury, subject to the further order of the court.

§ 1271. Every administrator, guardian, receiver, or other

7'fiduciary appointed by judicial authority, may be required by

order of any Court or Justice having jurisdiction of the subject
matter, about which such fiduciary is employed, upon the application of any party interested, or without such application, to
deposit any money accruing in his hands in virtue of his trust,
in the public treasury subject to the further order of some competent Court or Justice.

§ 1272. The provisions of this Act shall not be held to affect
the power vested by will in any executor or guardian.


§ 1273. The several Courts of Record may, from time to
time, make such rules as they may deem necessary, for the
guidance of their respective clerks in making up calendars of the
causes, civil and criminal, coming on for trial in said Courts.

§ 1274. Causes placed upon the calendar shall be taken up
and disposed of in the order in which they stand, unless postponed by the Court at the request of the plaintiff or the defendant.

§ 1275. When a cause is reached upon the calendar, the
plaintiff shall be called by the clerk, and if the plaintiff be not
present, nor represented by counsel who is present, or if he or
his counsel being present, decline to answer when so called, he
may be declared non-suit with costs. If, upon calling the
plaintiff, he does appear, and the defendant having joined
"issue does not appear, or answer when called, the Court may

-order udgment by default to be entered against such defendant,

and allow the plaintiff to proceed  parfe before the Court or
jury, and the verdict of the jury or decision of the Court shall

be rendered on such 0.): palrtc showing, unless good cause appear
to the Court for postponing the case.

§ 1276. At the trial of every civil suit, the plaintiff shall
have the right to open the case, and first to introduce his witnesses and vouchers, and he shall also have the right to sum up
the entire evidence, and close the debate after the defendant
has fully ceased. The defendant may cross-examine the plaintif’f’s witnesses, and he shall have the right to introduce his
witnesses of defense, when the plaintiff has rested his cause.
The plaintiff may, in turn, cross-examine the defendant’s witnesses. \Vhen all the evidence has closed, the defendant shall
sum up his defense to the Court or jury; provided, that the
Justices of the Supreme Court may, by standing rule, modify
the application of the foregoing provisions, should it appear
expedient to do so.

§ 1277. lllhenever two or more actions are pending at one
time between the same parties, and in the same Court, upon
causes of action which might have been joined, the Court may
order the actions to be consolidated into one.

§ 1278. The time within which an act is to be done, as provided in any part of this chapter, shall be computed by excluding
the first day and including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it
shall be excluded.

CHAPTER 87.

ABATEMENT OF ACTIONS.

§ 1279. The death of a plaintiff or defendant shall not cause
an action to abate, but it may be continued as hereinafter mentioned; and Where an action would but for the provisions of
this Act, by reason of the death of either party, and in which
the proceedings may be revived and continued under this Act,
the defendant or person against whom the action may be so contined may apply by summons to compel the plaintiff, or person

“ entitled to proceed with the action in the room of the plaintiff,

to proceed according to the provisions of this Act, within such
time as the judge shall order; and in default of such proceeding,
the defendant, or other person against whom the action may be
so continued as aforesaid, shall be entitled to enter a suggestion
of such default, and of the representative character of the person by or against whom the action may be proceeded With, as the
case may be, and to have judgment for the costs of the action
and suggestion against the plaintiff, or against the person entitled
to proceed in his room, as the case may be, and in the latter case
to be levied of the goods of the testator or intestate.

§ 1280. If there be two or more plaintiffs or defendants, and
one or more of them should die, if the cause of such action shall
survive to the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, or against the surviving defendant or defendants, the action shall not be thereby
abated; but such death being suggested 11pon the record, the

action shall proceed at the suit of the surviving plaintiff or
plaintiffs, against the surviving defendant or defendants.

§ 1281. In case of the death of a sole plaintiff or sole surviving plaintiff, the legal representative of such plaintiff may,
by leave of the Court or Judge, enter a suggestion of the death
and that he is such legal representative, and the action shall
thereupon proceed; and if such suggestion be made before the
trial, the truth of the suggestion shall be tried thereat, together
with the title of the deceased plaintiff; and such judgment shall
follow upon the verdict in favor of or against the person making
such suggestion as if such person were originally the plaintiff.

§ 1282. In case of the death of a sole defendant or sole surviving defendant, where the action survives, the plaintiff may
make a suggestion either in any of the pleadings, if the cause has
not arrived at issue, or on the record, if it has so arrived, of the
death, and that a person named therein is the executor or administrator of the deceased, and may thereupon serve such executor or administrator with a copy of the suggestion and with
a notice signed by the plaintiff or his attorney requiring such
executor or administrator to appear within twenty days after
service of the notice, and that in default of his so doing the
plaintiff may apply for judgment against him as such executor
or administrator; and the same proceedings may be had and
taken in case of non-appearance, after such notice, as upon a
summons against such executor or administrator in respect of
the cause for whichithe action was brought; and in case the
defendant shall not have pleaded or answered before the death,
the new defendant shall plead or answer at the same time to the
petition and suggestion; and in case the defendant shall have
pleaded before the death, the new defendant shall be at liberty
to plead to the suggestion only by way of denial, or such plea
as may be appropriate to and rendered necessary by his character
of executor or administrator, unless by leave of the Court or a
Judge he shall be permitted to plead fresh matter in answer to
the petition, and the pleadings upon the petition and the pleadings upon the suggestion shall be tried together, and in case the
laintiff shall recover he shall be entitled to the like judgment

in respect of the debt or sum sought to be recovered, and in respect of the costs prior to the suggestion and respect of the costs
of the suggestion and subsequent thereto, he shall be entitled
to the like judgment as in an action originally commenced
against the executor or administrator.

§ 1283. The death of either party between the verdict and
the judgment shall not hereafter be alleged for error, if judgment be entered during the term in which such verdict was
rendered, and if the plaintiff in any action happen to die after
an interlocutory judgment and before a final judgment obtained
therein, the said action shall not abate by reason thereof, if such
action might be originally prosecuted or maintained by the executor or administrator of such plaintiff; and if the defendant
die after such interlocutory judgment and before final judgment therein obtained, the said action shall not abate if such
action might be originally prosecuted or maintained against
the executor or administrator of such defendant and the plaintiff, or if he be dead after such interlocutory judgment, his
executors or administrators shall and may have a writ of revivor
in the form contained in the schedule to this Act, or to the like
effect against the defendant if living after such interlocutory
judgment, or if he be dead, then against his executors or administrators, to show cause why damages in such action should
not be assessed and recovered by him or them, and if such
defendant, his executors or administrators shall appear at the
return of such writ and not show or allege any matter sufficient
to arrest the final judgment, or shall make default, and inquiry
of damages shall be thereupon held, or the amount for which
final judgment is to be signed shall be referred to the clerk of
the Court; and upon return of the writ or delivery of the order
with the amount endorsed thereon to the plaintiff, his executors
or administrators, judgment final shall be given for the said
plaintiff, his executors or adininistrators, prosecuting such writ of
revivor against such defendant, his executors or administrators
respectively.

§ 1284. The marriage of a woman plaintiff or defendant
shall not cause the action to abate, but the action may notwithstanding be proceeded with to judgment; and such judgment
may be executed against the wife alone, or by suggestion or
writ of revivor pursuant to this act judgment n1ay be obtained

' against the husband and wife, and execution issued thereon; and

in case of a judgment for the wife, execution may be issued
thereupon by the authority of the husband, without any writ
of revivor or suggestion; and if in any such action the wife
shall sue or defend by attorney, appointed by her when sole,
such attorney shall have authority to continue the action or
defense, unless such authority be countermanded by the husband, and the attorney changed according to the practice of
the Court.

§ 1285. The bankruptcy of or assignment by the plaintiff in
any action which the assignees or trustees might maintain for
the benefit of the creditors shall not he pleaded in bar to such
action, unless the assignees or trustees shall decline to continue,
and give security for the costs thereof upon a J 11dge’s order to be
obtained for that purpose within such reasonable time as the
Judge may order; but the proceedings may he stayed until such
election is made, and in case the assignees neglect or refuse to
continue the action and give such security Within the time
limited by the order the defendant may within eight days after
sueh neglect or refusal, by way of after-plea, plead the bankruptcy or assignment.

§ 1286. SCHEDULE.

The Republic of Hawaii,

To . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., Esquire,
Marshal of the Republic, or his Deputy,
Greeting: You are hereby commanded to summon . . . . . . . .
of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. to be and appear before our Supreme

Court (or Circuit Court as the case may be), at the . . . . . .term

thereof, to be holden at the Court Room of the Court House

at . . . . . . in the Island of . . . . .. on . . . . . . the . . . . . .
day of . . . . . . . . . . next, to show cause why damages should

not be assessed and recovered by A. B. (or C. D. as executor of
the last will and testament of A. B., deceased, or as the case may
be), against you (if against a representative, here insert as executor of the last will and testament of . . . . . . . ., deceased, or
as the case may be), on an interlocutory judgment rendered in
favor of the said A. B. (or as the case may be) on the . . . . . . . .
day of . . . . . . . . in the said Court against you (or as the case
may be). And notify the said . . . . . . . . that in default of
his doing so the said A. B. (or as the case may be) may have
the said damages assessed and proceed to execution.
Witness, etc.

CHAPTER 88.

STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.

THE TIME OF COMMENCING PERSONAL ACTIONS.

§ 1287. The following actions shall be commenced within
six years next after the cause of such action accrued, and not
after:

N

1. Actions for the recovery of any debt founded upon any
contract, obligation or liability, excepting such as are brought
upon the judgment or decree of some Court of record.

2. Actions upon" judgments rendered in any Court not being
a Court of record.

3. Action of debt for arrearages of rent:
4. Actions for trespass upon lands:

5. Actions for taking, detaining or injuring any goods or
chattels, including actions of replevin:

6. Special actions on the case for criminal conversation, for

_ libels, or for any other injury to the persons or rights of any,

except such as are specified in the next two sections.

§ 1288. The following actions shall be commenced within
four years after the cause of action accrued and not after. Actions for the recovery of any debt founded upon any contract,
obligation or liability, where the cause of action has arisen in
any foreign country, except such as are brought upon the judgment or decree of a Court of record.

§ 1289. The following actions shall be commenced Within
two years after the cause of action accrued, and not after:

1. Actions for assault and battery:
2. Actions for false imprisonment:

3. Actions for Words spoken slandering the character or title
of any person:

4. Actions for words spoken whereby special damages are
sustained:

5. Actions against the Marshal, Sheriffs or otherofiicers, for
the escape of prisoners, or upon any liability incurred by them
by the doing any act in their ofiicial capacity, or by the omission
of any ofiicial duty.

§ 1290. In all actions of debt, account, or assumpsit, brought
to recover any balance due upon a mutual, open and current
account, the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued,
from the time of the last item proved in such account.

§ 1291. If any person entitled to bring any action in this chapter specified (excepting actions against the Marshal, Sheriffs, or other ofiicers) shall, at the time the cause of action accrued be, either,

1. I-‘Vithin the age of twenty years: or,
2. Insane: or,

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under
the sentence of a Criminal Court for a term less than his natural
life: or,

4. A married woman:

Such persons shall be at liberty to bring such actions Within
the respective times in this chapter limited, after such disability
removed.

§ 1292. If any person entitled to bring any action in this chapter specined, shall die before the expiration of the time
herein limited for the commencement of such suit, if such cause
of action shall survive to his representative, his executors or his
administrators may, after the expiration of such time and Within

one year after such date, commence such action; but not after
that period.

§ 1293. If at any time when any cause of action specified in
this chapter shall accrue against any person, he shall be out of
the Republic, such action may be connnenced within the terms
herein respectively limited, after the return of such person into
this Republic; and if, after such cause of action shall have
accrued, such persons shall depart from and reside out of this
Republic, the time of his absence shall not be deemed or taken

as any part of the time limited for the commencement of such
action.

§ 1294. Whenever the commencement of any suit shall be
stayed by an injunction of any Court of equity, the time during
which such injunction shall be in force, shall not be deemed any

portion of the time in this chapter limited for the commencement of such suit. .

§ 1295. When a suit shall be alleged by a plaintiff to have
been commenced within the time required by law, and such
allegation shall be put in issue by the defendant, it shall be competent for the defendant to prove, on the trial, that the process
issued by the plaintiff was not issued with the intent or in the
manner required by law; or that any means Whatever were used
by the plaintiff, or his attorney, to prevent the service of the
Writ, or to keep the defendant in ignorance of the issuing thereof.

§ 1296. Upon any_ such matter being established, or upon
its appearance in any other Way that any process Was issued without any intent that it should be served, such process shall not
be deemed the commencement of a suit within the meaning of
the provisions of this chapter.

§ 1297. No person shall avail himself of any disability
enumerated in this chapter, unless such disability existed at the
time his right of his action accrued.

§ 1298. Where there shall be two or more such disabilities
existing at the time the right of action accrued, the limitations
herein prescribed shall not attach until all such disabilities be
removed. .

§ 1299. The provisions of this chapter shall not extend to
any action which is, or shall be, limited by any statute to be
brought within a shorterctime than is herein prescribed; b11t such
action shall be brought within the time limited by such statute.

§ 1300. If any person who is liable to any of the actions
mentioned in this article, shall fraudulently conceal the cause of
such action from the knowledge of the person entitled thereto,
the action may be commenced at any time within six years after
the person who is entitled to bring the same shall discover that
he has such cause of action, and not afterwards.

§ 1301. All the provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
case of any debt on contract, alleged by way of set off on the part
of a defendant, and the time of limitation of such debt shall be
computed in like manner as if an action had been commenced
therefor, at the time when the plaintiff’s action commenced.

§ 1302. Every judgment and decree, in any Court of record
of this Republic, shall be presumed to be paid and satisfied, at the
expiration of twenty years after the judgment or decree was

rendered.

§ 1303. \Vhen a cause of action has arisen in any foreign
country, and by the laws thereof an action thereon cannot there
be maintained against a person, by reason of the lapse of time,
and action thereon shall not be maintained against him in this
Republic, except in favor of a domiciled resident thereof,_who
has held the cause of action from the time it accrued.

§ 1304. No suit brought for the recovery of any debt contracted after the promulgation of this Act, for spirituous liquors

sold, or furnished to any person, by any licensed retail dealer in
such liquors, shall be maintained in any Court of this Republic.

§ 1305. No person shall commence an action to recover possession of any lands, or make any entry thereon, unless within
twenty years after the right to bring such action, first accrued.

§ 1306. If such right first accrued to any ancestor or predecessor of the person bringing such action, or making such entry,
or to any persons from, by or under whom he claims; the said
twenty years shall be computed from the time when the right
first accrued to such ancestor, predecessor or other person.

§ 1307. In the construction of this Act, the right to make
an entry or commence an action, shall be deemed to have fit-<t
accrued at the times respectively hereinafter mentioned, that is

to say:

F'£rst—\Vhen any person shall be disseized, his right of entry
or action shall be deemed to have accrued at the time of such disseizin.

Sc(,'mItdI]/—VVhen he claims as heir or devisee of one who died
seized, his right shall be deemed to have accrued at the time of
such death, unless there is an estate by the curtesy or in dower.
or some other estate intervening after the death of such ancestor
or devisor, in which case his right shall be deemed to have accrued when such intermediate estate shall expire, or when it
would have expired by its own limitation.

Thirdlg/—\Vhere there is such an intermediate estate, and in
all other cases, where a party claims in remainder, or reversion.
his right so far as it is affected by the limitation herein phascribed, shall be deemed to accrue when the intermediate or
precedent estate would have expired by its own limitation, notwithstanding any forfeiture thcreof, for which he might have
entered at an earlier time.

F0m°thIy—The preceding clause shall not prevent any person
from entering, when entitled to do so, by reason of any forfeiture
or breach of condition, but if he claims under such a title, his
right shall be deemed to have accrued when such forfeiture was

incurred or condition broken.

Fifthlg/—In the cases not otherwise specially provided for,
the right shall be deemed to have accrued when the claimant, or
the person under whom he claims, first became entitled to the
possession of the premises under the title upon which the entry

or action is founded.

§ 1308. If, when such right of entry or of action shall first
accrue as aforesaid, the person entitled to such entry or action,
shall be within the age of twenty years, or a married woman, or
insane, or imprisoned, such person, or anyone claiming from, by
or under him, may make the entry or bring the action at any
time within five years after such disability shall be removed,
notwithstanding the twenty years before limited in that behalf,

shall have expired.

§ 1309. If the person first entitled to make such entry or
bring such action, shall die during the continuance of any of the
disabilities mentioned in the preceding section, and no determination or judgment shall have been had, of or upon the title,
right or action, which accrued to him, the entry may be made,
or the action brought by his heirs, or any other person claiming
from, by or under him, at any time within ten years after his
death, notwithstanding the said twenty years shall have expired.

§ 1310. If, when such right of action shall first accrue, the
person entitled thereto shall be under any of the disabilities
before mentioned, and shall die without having recoyered the
premises, no further time for making such entry or bringing
such action, beyond what is hereinbefore prescribed, shall be
allowed by reason of the disability of any other person.

§ 1311. No person shall be deemed to have been in possession of any lands, within the meaning of this chapter, merely
by reason of having made an entry thereon, unless he shall have
continued in open and peaceable possession of the same for the
space of one year after such entry; or unless an action shall
have been commenced upon such entry within one year after

ouster.

§ 1312. The limitations hereinbefore prescribed shall take
effect from and after the thirty-first (lay of July, which shall
be in the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-one; and
if any person who shall then be entitled to bring any action to recover the possession of land, shall then be under the age of twenty years, or a married Woman,or insane,or imprisoned, the action
may be brought at any time within live years after the disability
shall cease, or after the death of the person disabled: But no
such action shall be maintained after it would have been barred
by the statutes of limitation in.force immediately before the

time when this Act shall become a law.

§ 1313. If any action, of which the commencement is limited by this Act, shall be abated by the death of any party thereto, or if, after verdict, the judgment shall be arrested, or if
the judgment be reversed on error, the party bringing the action

or any person claiming by, through or under him, may bring.

a new action for the same cause, within one year after the determination of the original action, on the revemal of the judgment

thereon.

CHAPTER 89.

THE PREVENTION OF FRAUDS AND PERJURIES IN CONTRACTS,
AND IN ACTIONS FOUNDED THEREON.

§ 1314. No action shall be brought and maintained in any
of the following cases:

First: To charge an executor or administrator, upon any
special promise to answer damages out of his own estate;

Second: To charge any person upon any special promise to
answer for the debt, default or misdoings of another;

Third: To charge any person, upon an agreement made in
consideration of marriage;

Fourth: Upon any contract for the sale of lands, tenements
or hereditaments, or of any interest in or concerning them;

Fifth: Upon any agreement that is not to be performed
within one year from the making thereof;

Unless the promise, contract or agreement, upon which such
actions shall be brought, or some memorandum or note thereof,
shall be in writing, and be signed by the party to be charged
therewith, or by some person thereunto by him lawfully author4

Ized.

§ 1315. The consideration of any such promise, contract or
agreement, need not be set forth, or expressed, in the writing
signed by the party to_ be charged therewith, but may be proved
by any other legal evidence. '

§ 1316. No action shall be brought and maintained, to charge
any person upon, or by reason of, any representation or assurapce, made concerning the character, cond11ct, credit, ability,

trade or dealings of any other person, unless such representation or assurance shall be made in writing, and signed by the
party to he charged thereby, or by some person, thereunto by
him lawfully authorized.

§ 1317. No contract for the sale of any goods, wares or merchandise, for the price of one hundred dollars or more, shall be
allowed to be ‘good, unless the purchaser shall accept part of the
goods, so sold, and actually receive the same, or give something
in earnest to bind the bargain, or in part payment, or some note
or memorandum, in writing, of the said bargain be made and
signed by the party to be charged by such contract, or by his
agent, thcreunto by him lawfully authorized.

§ 1318. \Vhen any person, who is bound by a contract in
writing to convey any real estate, shall die before making the
conveyance, the other party may have a bill in equity in the
Supreme Court, to enforce a specific performance of the contract by the heirs, devisees, or by the executor or administrator
of the deceased party, such bill to be hled within one year after
the grant of administration.

§ 1319. The Court shall hear and decide every such case, according to the proceedings in chancery, and shall make such decree therein as justice ‘and equity may require.

§ 1320. If it shall appear that the plaintiff is entitled to have
a deed of conveyance, the Court may authorize and require the
executor or administrator of the deceased party, to convey the
estate in like manner as the deceased person might and ought to
have done, if living; and if his heirs or devisees, or any of them,
are Within the Republic, and competent to act, the Court may
direct them or any of them, instead of the executor or administrator, to convey the estate in the manner before mentioned, or
to join with the executor or administrator in such conveyance.

§ 1321. Every conveyance made in pursuance of such decree,
shall be effectual to pass the estate contracted for, as fully as if
made by the contractor himself.

§ 1322. If the defendant in such suit shall neglect or refuse
to make a conveyance according to the decree, the Court may
enter judgment, that the plaintiff shall recover judgment for
possession of the land contracted for, to hold according to the
terms of the intended conveyance, and may issue a writ of seizin
thereupon; and the plaintiff, by force of said writ, having obtained possession of the premises, shall hold the same in like
manner, as if conveyed in pursuance of the decree.

§ 1323. The preceding section shall not prevent the Court
from enforcing their decree, by any other process, according to
chancery proceeding.

§ 1324. If the person to whom the conveyance was to be
made, shall die before such suit is brought, or before the conveyance is completed, any person, who would be entitled to the
estate under him as heir, devisee or otherwise, in case the conveyance had been made according to the contract, may commence such suit, or prosecute it, if commenced; and the conveyance shall thereupon be so made, as to vest the estate in the
same persons, who would have been so entitled to it.

§ 1325. If the party, to whom any such conveyance was to
be made, or those claiming under him, shall not commence a
suit, as before provided, and if the heirs of the deceased party
are under age, or otherwise incompetent to convey the lands
contracted for, the executor or administrator of the deceased
may file a bill in equity in the Supreme Court, setting forth the
contract and the circumstances of the case, whereupon the Court
may, by its decree, authorize and require such executor or adniinistrator to convey the estate, in the manner the deceased
should have done; and such a conveyance shall be deemed a

CHAPTER 90.

J URIES AND TRIAL BY JURY.

I)RAWING or J URIES.

§ 1326. Each Governor, in concert with some Judge of a
Court of Record, shall prepare semi-annually, in the months of
March and September, a list of the names of fifty persons, being
native Hawaiians, and fifty other persons, being foreigners by
birth, or of foreign parentage, residing within their respective
gubernatorial divisions who, in the opinion of such Governor
or Judge, are fit to serve as jurors; provided, that no lists of foreign jurors shall be prepared in Hawaii or Kauai. Each list
shall be signed by the Governor and Judge, and sent to the
Clerk of the Circuit Court; but in the Island of Oahu, the list
shall be sent to the Clerk of the Supreme Court, and in the
Island of Hawaii it shall be sent to the first clerk. Said clerks
shall Write each name on a separate piece of paper, and deposit
the same in appropriate boxes; the Hawaiian names being kept
in separate boxes from the foreign names.

§ 1327. The dutjf heretofore imposed upon the respective
Governors relating to the preparing of jury lists and the drawing of juries is hereby transferred to the Chief Clerk of the
Supreme Court for the Island of Oahu, and the clerks of the
respective Circuit Courts for the several Judicial Circuits.

§ 1328. The respective clerks, at least twenty days before
the sitting of any Court, shall draw from the appropriate box
the names of twenty—four native and twenty-four foreign jurors,

‘provided, that no foreign jurors shall be drawn in Hawaii and

Kauai. Such drawing shall be had in the presence. of a Justice

of the Supreme Court, or a Circuit Judge, or the Governor of

the Island, who shall certify to the regularity of the proceedings.

§ 1329. VVhenever it may be necessary or proper, for the
trial of any cause in the Circuit Court for the Third and Fourth
Judicial Circuits, to have a  composed wholly or in part of
foreigners, the presiding Judge of such Circuit Court, for the
time being, shall summon from among the foreigners residing

within such Circuit, a sufficient number of persons to act as
jurors in such case.

§ 1330. The clerks shall, within twenty-four hours of the
drawing of any jurors as aforesaid, transmit to the Marshal of
the Republic, or the Sheriff of the Island, the names of all

jurors drawn in the manner aforesaid, in order that such jurors
may be duly summoned.

§ 1331. In all civil cases in which one party is a native Hawaiian, and the other a foreigner (alien or naturalized), the jury
shall be composed of an equal number of natives and foreigners.
who shall be drawn alternately from the boxes containing the
names of the such natives and foreigners, as have been summoned to attend the Court as jurors in such cases; provided, always,
that either party, with the consent of the other, may waive his
right to a mixed jury.

§ 1332. All native Hawaiians, accused of any crime, shall be
tried by a jury composed entirely of natives; and all foreigners,
by a jury composed entirely of foreigners, who shall be, drawn
from the array of native and foreign jurors, respectively, returned to serve at the term.

§ 1333. At the trial of any case requiring a jury, in the
Supreme Court, or any Circuit Court, the Clerk of the Court
shall draw such jury, to the number of twelve, from the box
or boxes containing the names of such persons as have been duly

summoned to attend as jurors; and if any of the said twelve be
challenged and set aside, he shall continue to draw from said
box or boxes until twelve impartial jurors are obtained, when
they shall be sworn as the jurors for the trial of such cause.

§ 1334. Whenever from any cause a less number than twenty-four properly qualified jurors out of any panel, native or
foreign, are in attendance at any term of the Circuit Court in
any Circuit, or whenever during the term of any Circuit Court,
for any reason the available number of properly qualified jurors
from either panel now authorized by law is less than twentyfour, the Circuit Judge, together with a clerk of Court may
forthwith in the discretion of such Judge draw from the Circuit
at large in the manner provided in Section 1335 a new panel,
or a sutiicient number to make up a panel of thirty-six in the
First Circuit and twenty-four in the other Circuits; and the
persons so drawn shall serve for the remainder of the term for
which they were drawn, together with the qualified members
of the old panel, if any.

§ 1335. Such Circuit Judge, together with a clerk of the
Circuit Court or of the Judiciary Department, shall draw such
additional panel as follows: For a native jury in any Circuit
such Judge shall select the names of fifty persons of aboriginal
or part aboriginal blood; and from said fifty shall draw by lot
so many names as may be required to make the panel full. For
a foreign jury for the First Circuit the said Judge shall select
fifty names of persons other than aboriginal Hawaiians, and
from such fifty shall draw by lot. such number as may be required
to make a full panel. ln all Circuits other than the First
Circuit whenever it is necessary or proper to have a jury composed wholly or in part of other than aboriginal Hawaiians, the
Circuit Judge shall summon such jury from time to time as
required from the Circuit at large.

§ 1336. The Circuit Judges may draw successive panels in
the manner aforesaid as many times as may be necessary.

§ 1337. ‘Whenever a sufiicient number of Jurors, regularly

summoned, do not appear, or cannot be obtained, to form a 
in any case, civil or criminal, the Court may order the Marshal
to summon talesmen. Two talesmen may be summoned from
among the bystanders, if no objection is made by any party to
the cause. If more than two talesmen should be required, or if
objection be made to summoning any bystander, the Clerk shall
draw such number of names as may be required from a box
containing all the remaining names of the fifty last semiannually selected as jurors by the Clerk, in concert with some
J udgc, as provided by law. \Vhenever said list shall be exhausted before proceeding with the trial of the cause before the
Court, a new list of fifty names shall be prepared in the manner
provided by law, and-_ such talesmen as may be required shall be
drawn by the Clerk from such list. And new lists of fifty names
shall be prepared from time to time, as may be required. T he
persons whose. names are so drawn shall be forthwith summoned
to appear as jurors in the cause on trial.

§ 1338. The Marshal or his deputy shall summon the number
so ordered, and return their names into Court. Every person
so summoned shall attend forthwith and serve as a juror, unless
excused by the Court; and for every neglect or refusal so to

attend, shall be answerable to the Court in the same manner as
jurors regularly summoned as hereinbefore provided. The persons as summoned shall be subject to challenge as other jurors.

§ 1339. The provisions of Section 1337 shall be held to apply
to and control only the drawing of talesmen in the Supreme
Court, and shall not be held toapply and regulate the drawing
of talesmen in any of the Circuit Courts of the Republic.

§ 1340. In the several Circuit Courts of the Republic, whenever a sufficient number of jurors duly summoned do not appear.
or whenever from challenges or other causes a sufiieient number
of the regular panel cannot be obtained for the trial of any case

or cases, the Court may order the Sheriii or any of his deputies
to summon from among the bystanders or from the Circuit at
large so many persons to serve as jurors as shall be sufficient.

§ 1341. In the Supreme Court the number of persons drawn
to serve as jurors at any term of the Court shall be thirty-six
native Hawaiians and thirty-six foreigners instead of twentyfour each as heretofore by law provided.

§ 1342. In all cases, civil or criminal, either party may challenge any juror drawn for such trial, for cause to be assigned
to the presiding Judge, who may determine the validity of the
objection urged against the competency of such juror, or submit the question to the determination of three triors to be appointed by him.

§ 1343. In addition to the challenges of jurors allowed in Section 1342, the Republic in criminal cases, and the plaintiff
and defendant in all trials by jm'v. civil or criminal, except as
provided in Section 1344, shall each be allowed to peremptorily
challenge three jurors without assigning any reason therefor;
but where there are several parties on either side they must join

in such challenges.

§ 1344. Any person who is put on trial for an offense for
which, if convicted thereof, such person may be punished with
death or imprisonment for life, shall be allowed to challenge
peremptorily twelve of the persons called as jurors, and no
more; and the attorney appearing for the Republic in such case

shall be allowed to challenge peremptorily six of the persons
called as jurors, and no more.

§ 1345. No jury, for the trial of any case, civil or criminal,
shall be less than twelve in number; but when nine of such
jury shall agree upon a verdict, they may render the same, and
such verdict shall be as valid and binding upon the parties as if
rendered by all twelve.

§ 1346. Whenever any jury shall return into Court and state
that they cannot agree upon a verdict, the court may, in its
discretion, discharge such jury, or remand them to the juryroom for further deliberation.

§ 1347. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court shall have
power, in any intricate case, or case involving artistical or professional knowledge or skill, pending in such Court, upon the application of either party, to summon the adverse party to appear
and show cause, if any he has, why a special jury should not be
struck for the trial of such case.

§ 1348. If the adverse party do not appear in obedience to
the summons, or, appearing, fail to assign any satisfactory cause
to the contrary, and the Chief Justice shall be of the opinion

_ that the ends of justice will be best reached by such a jury, he

may order a special jury to be struck.

§ 1349. Special juries shall be struck in the following manner: The Chief Justice shall appoint a time and place for striking the jury, at which the party applying for such jury shall
notify the adverse party to attend. The Clerk of the Supreme
Court shall, at the time and place appointed, draw off a full list
of the names of the jurors last furnished him for the trial of
civil cases, (native, foreign or mixed, as the case may be,) when
the parties in person, or by attorney, beginning with the plaintiff, shall alternately strike off from said list, one name, until
only twelve names remain on the list; and those twelve shall
constitute the jury to try the particular cause for which they
were struck. If either party shall fail to attend at the time
and place of striking such jury, or shall neglect to strike out any
names according to the foregoing provisions, the clerk shall

strike for him.

§ 1350. The twelve jurors chosen as provided in the last preceding section, shall be summoned in like manner as other
jurors, and shall be in like manner answerable to the Court for

non-attendance. ‘They shall not be liable to challenge for any
cause whatever.

§ 1351. The expense of striking a special jury shall be paid

by the party applying for the same, and shall not be taxed in the
costs of the suit.

§ 1352. Every such juror, if duly summoned at least fortyeight hours previous to the holding of the Court, shall be punishable for non-attendance, by ‘due not exceeding one hundred
dollars, in the discretion of the Court, for each day that he fails
to attend Without reasonable cause; and he may be brought up
by summary attachment for that purpose.

§ 1353. From and after the date of the passage of this Act,
all actions of debt or assumpsit which shall have been beg11n, or
may hereafter be begun, before a District Court, in which the
amount claimed before such District Court shall be less than
fifty dollars, and which shall be appealed to the Circuit Court

of any Island or the Supreme Court of the Republic, shall be
tried by the Court Without the intervention of a jury.

§ 1354. Be it f11rther enacted that, whensoever any case
may have been appealed from any such District Court, if the
appellant shall be the plaintiff in the action, and it shall be apparent to the Court to which such appeal is taken, that the
claim has been made in the lower Court for fifty dollars or more,
without any reasonable expectation of recovering as much as
fifty dollars, but merely for the purpose of bringing the same
before a jury, the Appellate Court may, in its discretion, adjudge the costs of the jury to be paid by such appellant.

§ 1355. The jury shall in all cases be the exclusive judges
of the facts in suits tried before them, and the Judge or Justice
presiding at any jury trial (hereinafter named the Court), shall

in no case comment upon the character, quality, strength, weakness or credibility of any evidence submitted, or upon the character, attitude, appearance, motive or reliability of any Witness
sworn in a cause. Provided, however, that nothing herein shall
be construed to prohibit the Court from charging the jury
whether there is or is not evidence (indicating the evidence),
tending to establish or to rebut any specinc fact involved in the
cause, nor shall it be construed to prohibit the setting aside of
a verdict rendered by such jury, in a proper case, as being
against the weight of evidence, and the granting of a new trial
therein.

§ 1356. Unless the parties to the cause on trial either in
person or through their attorneys, shall file therein their written consent that the Court may charge the jury orally, it shall
be the duty of the Court, except as provided in the next succeeding section, to reduce to writing and read its charge to the jury:
and the manuscript of such charge, signed by the Court, shall
be filed in the cause, and shall constitute a part of the record
thereof. VVhenever, and as often as the Court shall depart from
such duty, either party to such suit shall be entitled, as a matter
of right, to demand and have granted a new trial of such cause.

§ 1357. . In cases where an oflicial stenographer is present.
and taking notes of the trial proceedings, it shall not be necessary for the (‘ourt to reduce its charge to writing, but such
charge may be orally given, and noted by such stenographer.
It shall be the duty of the stenographer in such case to transcribe
his notes of such charge within one week thereafter, and to file
the same, duly certified in said cause, and such transcript may
thereafter be used and referred to in like manner as though the
same had been written, charged and nled by the Court, as pm
vided in the last preceding section. Provided, however, that tf
the accuracy of such transcript shall be disputed by either party.
and a protest against the acceptance of the part or parts thereof
which shall be claimed to be inaccurate shall be filed by such

party, it shall be the duty of any Appellate Court before whom
such cause shall come for review (unless the parties thereto
shall by Written stipulation compose such dispute), to first find
and declare the true rendering of such part of the charge of the
lower Court as shall be involved in such dispute and protest.

§ 1358. It shall be the duty of the counsel for the respective
parties to a cause, to furnish the Court with a written memorandum of their request for the charging of the jury upon the
points of law involved therein, and it shall not be incumbent
upon the Court, in cases where the parties are so represented
by counsel, to charge the jury upon the law, unless thereto so
requested in writing. B11t in case either party shall be unrepresented by counsel, the Court shall charge the jury on his
behalf, and the Court may, of its own motion, charge the jury
upon any point of law involved in the trial.

§ 1359. Where requests for instructions are presented, as
hereinbefore provided, an argument thereon may be made by
the respective counsel, previous to the Court passing thereon.
VVhenever instructions are asked which the Court cannot give,
he shall, in the margin thereof, write the word “refused,” and

such instructions as the Court approves, he shall designate by

” It shall also be competent for the Court to modify an instruction so requested, and
to give it in its modified form, but in such manner that it shall
distinctly appear what instruction was given, and what refused,
in whole or in part. All written requests for instructions’ shall

writing in the margin the word “given.

be filed in the cause, and shall form a part of the record therein;
and the Court shall in no case orally qualify, modify or explain
the same to the jury.

§ 1360. Upon the trial by jury of any civil case except in
action for slander, libel, criminal conversation, seduction, malicious arrest, malicious prosecution and false imprisonment, the
Court by the consent of parties, instead of directing the jury to

give a general verdict, may direct the jury to answer any questions of fact stated to them by the Court for that purpose, and
in such case the jury shall answer such questions, and shall not
give any verdict, and on the finding of the jury on the questions which they answer, the Court shall enter the verdict, and
the verdict so entered shall be as effectual, and shall be open to
the same objections and modes of attack (if moved against), as
if the same had been the verdict of the jury.

§ 1361. In the challenging of jurors, the following order
and sequence shall be observed, namely: The plaintiff, in civil
actions, and the Republic in criminal cases, shall first challenge
for cause, after which the defendant or defendants shall challenge for cause. After the challenges for cause, if any, shall
have been determined, the Republic or plaintiff (as the case
may be), and the defendant, shall alternately state their peremptory challenges, if any, the Republic or plaintiff beginning,
and the defendant ending. In case there shall be two or more
defendants in any criminal case, they shall not be obliged to
join in any challenge, but they shall each be permitted to challenge separately, as many jurors as the law shall allow to any
separate or sole defendant under like circumstances. The order
of precedence of their challenges, if not agreed upon by them,
shall be determined by the Court.

§ 1362. At the close of the evidence (unless the Court shall
direct 'a non-suit, or order a verdict for the defendant), the

respective parties, or their counsel, shall be entitled to sum up
the facts to the jury. In their addresses to the  they shall
be allowed ample scope and latitude for argument upon, and
illustration of any and all facts involved in the cause, and of the
evidence tending to either prove or disprove the same. They
shall not be forbidden to argue the law of the case to the jury,
but they shall not assume to instruct the jury upon the law, in
such manner as to encroach upon the function of the Court to

so instruct the jury.

CHAPTER 91.

EVIDENCE.
PART I.—-MEANS or OBTAINING EVIDENCE.

§ 1364. The clerks of the several Courts of Record shall
issue to the Attorney-General or to the Marshal or to any Sheriff
or Deputy Sheriff, and to any party plaintiff or defendant, in any
cause, civil or criminal depending before such Courts respectively, or to the counsel of such party, writs of subpcena for witnesses, in blank, that the names of the Witnesses to be smnmoned
may be inserted after the issuing of such Writ.

§ 1365. Such Writs of subpoena shall be signed by the clerk
or his deputy, and impressed with the seal of the Court, and

shall be obligatory upon the Marshal and his deputies, and upon
the parties actually served therewith.

§ 1366. Upon non—attendance of witnesses duly summoned,
the service of the writ being proved by the oath of the oiiiccr
who served the same, the Court shall have summary power to
cause their attendance and to punish them for contempt.

§ 1367. The Attorney—General or the Sheriff on the several

Circuits may require of any Judge of a Court of Record, at
Chambers, that witnesses material to the prosecution of any

criminal indictment preferred, or about to be preferred, be

bound by recognizance to appear and testify at the trial of
such indictment, or that such witnesses be committed to jail

for that purpose, and it shall be lawful for the Judge, so applied
to, to make any such order.

§ 1368. No person shall be bound to attend as a witness

upon the trial of any civil cause, in any Court of Record, unless
his traveling fees be paid, or tendered to him at the time of the

service of the subpcena.

§ 1369. Witnesses in criminal cases, whether for the prosecution or defense, shall not be entitled to any fees.

§ 1370. It shall be lawful for any Court of Record, or any
Judge thereof in any action or suit depending in any such
Court, upon the application of any of the parties to such action
or suit, to order a commission to issue for the examination of
witnesses residing in a foreign country, or in some other Circuit
than that in which the cause is pending, upon oath by interrogatories, or otherwise, and by the same or any subsequent
order or orders to give all such directions touching the time,
place, and manner of such examination all other matters and
circumstances connected with such examinations as may appear
reasonable and just, and it shall be lawful for every person
authorized to take the examination of witnesses by any rule,
order, writ, or commission made or issued in pursuance of this
Act, and he is hereby authorized and required to take all such

examinations.

§ 1371. It shall and may be lawful for the person or persons
to be named in any such rule or order as aforesaid, for taking
any examination in pursuance thereof, and he and they are
hereby required to make (if need be) a special report to the
Court wherein the action shall be depending touching such
examination, and the conduct or absence of any witness or other
person thereon, or relating thereto, and the Court out of which
the commission issued, is hereby authorized to institute such proceedings and make such order and orders upon such report, as
justice may require, and as may be ‘instituted and made in any
case of contempt of that Court.

§ 1372. The costs of every application for any rule or order
to be made for the examination of witnesses under any commission by virtue of this Act, and of the rule or order and proceedings thereupon, shall be costs in the cause unless otherwise
directed either by the Judge making such rule or order, or by
the Judge before whom the trial or enquiry of the cause may
be had, or by the Court wherein the action shall be depending.

§ 1373. Whenever by virtue of this Act an examination of
any witness has been taken before a Judge of a Court of Record,
or before the clerk or deputy clerk thereof, or any other person
or persons as aforesaid, the depositions taken down by such
examiner shall be returned to and filed, and kept in the oflice
of the Clerk of the Court from which the commission issued,
and the oflice copies of such depositions may be given out to
either party. _

§ 1374. No examination or deposition to be taken by virtue
of this Act, shall be read in evidence Without the consent of the
party against whom the same may be offered, unless it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the Court or person having by law
or consent of parties, authority to hear, receive and examine
evidence that the examinant or deponent is such party, or is
beyond the jurisdiction of the Court, or is resident in another
Circuit, or dead, or unable from permanent sickness or other
permanent infirmity to attend, in all’ or any of which cases, the
examinations and depositions certified under the hand of the
commissioners or other person taking the same, shall and may
vvithout proof of the signature to such certificate be received
and read in evidence, saving all just exceptions.

§ 1375. On the trial of any issue joined or of any matter or
question or on an enquiry arising in any suit, action or proceeding in any Court or before any person having by law or by consent of parties authority to hear, receive and examine evidence,
any person who may happen to be present, and Who by virtue of

this Act is competent to give evidence may be called, and required
to give evidence and to produce any document, and if any such
person when called and required as aforesaid, shall not appear
and give evidence and (if then able so to do) produce the document, he shall be subject to the same proceedings and liabilities
as if he had been duly served with a writ of subpoena ad testi]‘ic(mdum or duccs tecmn-, or a summons, or other process, and
had received his conduct money and payment for expenses and
loss of time.

§ 1376. Either party to any suit or action depending in any
Court of Record, may call on the other party by notice, to admit
any fact or document, saving all just exceptions; and every
such notice and admission respectively may be in the form contained in the first and second schedules to this Act, or to the
like effect; and in case of refusal or neglect to admit, the costs
of proving the fact or document shall be paid by the party so
neglecting or refusing, whatever the result of the case may be,
unless at the hearing, trial or enquiry the Judge shall certify
that the refusal to admit was reasonable, and no costs of proving
any document shall be allowed unless such notice be given, except in cases Where the omission to give the notice is in the
opinion of the Court or presiding Judge at the trial of the cause,
a saving of expense.

§ 1377. An aflidavit of the attorney, solicitor or agent in
the cause, or his clerk, of ,the due signature of any admissions
made in pursuance of such notice and annexed to the aflidavit,
shall be in all cases suflicient evidence of such admissions; and
an aflidavit of the attorney, solicitor or agent in the cause, or his
clerk, of the service of any notice to produce in respect of which
notice to admit shall have been given and of the time when it
was served, with a copy of such notice to produce, annexed to
such affidavit, shall be suiiicient evidence of the service of the
original of such notice, and of the time when it was served.

§ 1378. VVhen a Witness whose testimony is Wanted in any
civil cause pending in this Republic, shall live on another island
from that on which the trial is to be held, or shall be about to
go out of the Republic and not return in time for the trial,
or is so sick, infirm or aged as to make it probable that he will
not be able to attend at the trial, his depositions may be taken
in the manner hereinafter prescribed, at the option of the party
instead of by commission as hereinbefore provided.

§ 1379. At any time after the cause is commenced by the
service of process, or after it is submitted to arbitrators or
referees, either party may apply to any District Magistrate or any
Circuit Judge, or any Clerk of a Court of Record, who shall
issue a notice to the adverse party to appear before said District
Magistrate, Circuit Judge or Clerk of a Court of Record at the
time and place appointed for taking the depositions, and to put
such interrogatories as he may think fit.

§ 1380. The said notice shall be served on the agent or attorney of the adverse party, and shall have the same effect as if
served on the party himself.

§ 1381. If there are several parties on either side of the
cause, plaintiffs or defendants, a notice served on either of them
shall be suflicient.

§ 1382. The notice shall be served by leaving a copy thereof
at the place of abode of the person to be notified, allowing in
all cases not less than twenty-four hours after such notice, before
the time appointed for taking the depositions, and not less than
one day additional, exclusive of Sundays, for every twenty-five
miles of travel of the opposite party, if he shall live more than
twenty—five miles from the place of taking the deposition.

§ 1383. The deponent shall be sworn or aflirmed to testify
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, relating
to the cause for which the deposition is taken, and shall then be

examined by the District Magistrate, Circuit Judge or Clerk as
aforesaid, or by the parties, and his testimony shall be taken in
writing. The examination shall be either verbal, or by written

interrogatories.

§ 1384. The deposition shall be written by the officer before
whom the deposition is taken, or by some impartial person by
him appointed, in the presence and under the direction of the

—said officer, and shall be carefully read to or by the deponent,

and shall then be subscribed by him.

§ 1385. The otlicer taking the deposition shall annex to the
deposition a certiiicate of the time and manner of taking it,
the person at whose request, and the cause or suit for which it
was taken, and stating also whether the adverse party attended,
and if not, stating the notice, if any, that was given to him.

§ 1386. The deposition shall be delivered by the officer taking the same to the Court, arbitrators or referees before whom
the cause is pending, or shall be enclosed and sealed and directed to them, and shall remain sealed until opened by the
direction of any Justice of the said Court, arbitrators or referees.

§ 1387. Every objection to the competency or credibility of
the deponent and to the propriety of any questions put to him,
or any answers made by him, may be made when the deposition
is produced, in the same manner as if the witness were personally present and examined at the trial; and the Court shall
have the authority to order any testimony which is deemed inadmissible to be expunged, provided that if any deposition is
taken upon written interrogatories, all objections to an interrogatory shall be made before it is answered, and if the interrogatory
is not withdrawn the objection shall be noted thereon, and otherwise the objection shall not be considered.

§ 1388. When the plaintiff in any suit shall discontinue it,
or become non-suited, and another suit shall afterward be commenced for the same cause between the same parties or their
representatives, all depositions and testimony lawfully taken and
filed in Court in any preceding suit may be used in the succeeding suit, in like manner as if taken in the said suit.

§ 1389. Any witness may be summoned and compelled to
give his depositions at any place on the island on which he has
his abode, in like manner and under the same penalties as he
maybe summoned and compelled to attend as witness in any
Court.

§ 1390. WheneVer any person shall be desirous of perpetuating the testimony of any witness, he shall file a petition with
the Clerk of any Court of Record, setting forth his claims,
interest or title in, or to the subject on which he wishes to perpetuate evidence, and the names and places of residence of aii
other persons known to him as being interested therein, and the
name or names of the witness or witnesses whom he proposes to
examine; and praying from any Judge of the Court in which
said petition is filed, an order requiring the adverse party or
parties to attend at a time and place in the order specified, that
the testimony of such witness or witnesses may be taken for the
purpose of being perpetuated.

§ 1391. If the petitioner expects to be a plaintiff in any
future action, he shall likewise set forth in his petition the obstacles preventing the immediate commencement of an action.

§ 1392. If the order is granted, the deposition or depositions
shall be taken before some Judge of the Court in which the
petition is filed, the same latitude of examination and crowexamination being allowed as if a suit were actually pending,
and the Judge having caused the deposition to be signed on each
sheet by the witness, shall certify that the depositions have been
properly taken, and shall order them to be filed with the Clerk
of the Court.

§ 1393. If a trial shall afterwards be had between the parties
named in the petition or their privies or successors in interest
touching the matter of controversy set forth in the petition,
the deposition filed in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding sections shall be given in evidence by either party,
where the witness or Witnesses are insane or dead, or their attendance for oral examination cannot be required or obtained;
provided, however, that such depositions shall be subject to the
same objections for irrelevancy or incompetency as might be
made to depositions pending an action.

§ 1394. The applicant shall pay all costs of all proceedings
under this part of this Act.

§ 1395. Either party to any action or suit depending in any
Court of Record, shall be at liberty to apply to the Court or any

_ Judge of the Supreme Court for a rule or order for the inspection by himself or by his witnesses of any real or personal property, the inspection of which may be material to the proper determination of the question in dispute; and it shall be lawful
for the Court or any such Judge, if they or he think fit, to
make such rule or order upon such terms as to costs and otherwise as such Court or Judge may direct.

§ 1396. Whenever any cause or other civil proceeding shall
be pending in any Court of Record, such Court or any Judge
of the Supreme Court may, on application made for such purpose by either of the litigants, compel the opposite party to
allow the party making the application to inspect all documents
in the custody or under the control of such opposite party relating to such cause or other proceeding, and if necessasy to take
examined copies of the same, in all cases in which previous to
the passing of this Act, a discovery might have been obtained
in a Court of Equity, at the instance of the party so making the
application as aforesaid.

§ 1397. Upon the application of either party to any cauw
or other proceeding in any Court of Record, upon an affidavit
by such party of his belief that any document to the production
of which he is entitled, for the purpose of discovery or otherwise is in the possession or power of the opposite party, it shall
be lawful for the Court or any Judge of the Supreme Court,
to order that the party against whom such application is made
or (if such party is a body corporate) that some otiicer to be
named of such body corporate shall answer on affidavit, stating
what documents he or they has or have in his or their possession
or power, relating to the matters in dispute; or what he knows
as to the custody they or any of them are in, and whether he or
they objects or object, (and if so on what grounds) to the production of such as are in his or their possession or power; and
upon such affidavit being made, the Court or Judge may make
such further order thereon as shall be just.

§ 1398. All proclamations, treaties and other acts of state
of this Republic or of any foreign state, and all judgments,
decrees, orders and other judicial proceedings of any Court of
justice in any part of this Republic, or in any foreign state.
and all aflidavits, pleadings and other legal documents, wills and
codicils filed or deposited in any such Court, may be proved in
any Court of ustiee or before any person having bylaw or by consent of parties authority to hear, receive and examine evidence,
either by examined copies or by copies authenticated as hereinafter mentioned, (that is to say) if the document sought to be proved
be a proclamation, treaty, or other act of state, the authenticated
copy to be admissible in evidence must purport to be sealed with
the great seal of this Republic, or of the foreign state to which
the original document belongs; and if the document. sought to
be proved be a judgment, decree, order or other judicial pmeeeding of any Court in this Republic, or in any foreign state.
or an atiidavit, pleading, or other legal document, will or codicil

nled or deposited in any such Court, the authenticated copy to
be admissible in evidence must purport either to be sealed with
the seal of such Court or (in the event of such Court having no
seal) to be signed by the Judge or (if there be more than one
Judge) by any one of the Judges of the said Court, and such
Judge shall attach to his signature a statement in writing on the
said copy that the Court ‘whereof he is Judge l1as no seal. But
if any of the aforesaid authenticated copies shall purport to be
signed or sealed as hereinbcfore respectively directed, the same
shall respectively be admitted in evidence in every case in which
the original document could have been received in evidence
Without any proof of the seal, where a seal is necessary, or of the
signature, or of the truth of the statement attached thereto,
where such signature and statement are necessary, or of the
judicial character of the person appearing to have made such
signature and statement; and every such copy shall be prima
facic evidence of the original thereof, in like manner as if such
original were produced and proved in due course of law.

§ 1399. Wherever in any legal proceedings whatsoever it
shall be necessary to prove any grant of land, lease or other conveyance of any Government land or real estate, it shall not be
necessary to produce the original patent, grant, lease, or conveyance, but a certified copy thereof under the hand and oflicial
seal of the Minister shall be received as evidence in any Court,
the same as the original instrument itself.

§ 1400. Every register of a vessel kept under any of the laws,
now or hereafter to be in force relating to the registry of Hawaiian vessels, may be proved in any Court or before any person
having by law, or by consent of parties, authority to hear, receive and examine, either by the production of the original, or
by an examined copy thereof, or by a copy thereof purporting
to be certified under the hand of the person having charge of the
original. And every such register or such copy of a register,
and also every certificate of registry granted under any of such

Acts, and purporting to be signed as required by law, shall be
received in evidence in any such Court, or before any such person as aforesaid, as prima famle proof of all matters contained
or recited in such register, when the register or any such copy
thereof as aforesaid is produced, and of all the matters contained
or recited in, or endorsed on such certificate of registry, when the
said certiiicateis produced.

§ 4101. VVhenever in any legal proceeding whatsoever it
may be necessary to prove the trial and conviction or acquittal
of any person charged with any offense, it shall not be necessary
to produce the record of the conviction or acquittal of such person or a copy thereof, but a certificate containing the substance
and effect only (omitting the formal part) of the indictment,
information or presentment and conviction, or acquittal for such
offense, purporting to be signed by the officer having the custody of the records of the Court where the oEender was convicted or acquitted, or by the deputy of such officer, shall upon proof
of the identity of the person be sufficient evidence of the said
conviction or acquittal, without proof of the signature or official
character of the person appearing to have signed the same.

§ 1402. Whenever by any law now or hereafter to be in
force, any certificate, official or public document or documents,
or proceeding of any corporation, or joint stock, or other company, or any certified copy of any document or by-laws, entry
in any register or other book, or of any other proceeding shall be
receivable in evidence of any particulars, the same shall respectively be admitted in evidence in any Court, and by any person
having by law or by consent of parties authority to hear, receive and examine evidence, provided they respectively purport
to be sealed or impressed with a stamp, or sealed and signed, or
signed alone as required, or impressed with a stamp, and signed
as directed by the respective Acts made or to be hereafter made,

without any proof of the seal or stamp where a seal or stamp is
necessary, or of the signature or of the official character of the

person appearing to have signed the same, and without any
further proof thereof in every case in which the original record
or document could have been received in evidence.

§ 1403. Whenever any book or other document is of such a
public nature as to be admissible in evidence on its mere production from the proper custody, and no law exists which renders its contents provable by means of a copy, any copy thereof
or extract therefrom shall be admissible in any Court, or before
any person having by law or by consent of parties authority
to hear, receive and examine evidence, provided it be proved
to be an examined copy or extract, or provided it purport to be
signed and certified as a true copy or extract by the oflicer to
whose custody the original is intrusted.

§ 1404. The mere production of a newspaper purporting to
contain public notices published by authority shall be prima
facie evidence of the publication thereof, on the day on which
the same bears date. And where by any law now or hereafter
to be in force, the President with the advice of his Cabinet, or
any Cabinet Minister shall be authorized or empowered to do

any act whatsoever, or where by any such law anything is required to be certified by a Cabinet Minister, and published in
any newspaper, proof of the said newspaper purporting to coutain a copy or notification of any such act or certificate shall be
prima facic evidence of such act or certificate having been duly
done or given, and if such newspaper purports to contain any
rule, or by law, regulation matter or thing allowed, confirmed,
cancelled or approved. of, assented to or certified, it shall also be
prima fact}: evidence of the purport and due making of such
rule, regulation, by law, matter or thing.

§ 1405. All copies of the votes and proceedings of the Legislature and of proclamations, if purporting to be printed by authority, shall be admitted as evidence thereof by all Courts and
persons having by law or by consent of parties authority to hear,

receive and examine evidence, Without any proof  given
that such copies were so printed.

§ 1406. The probate of a Will or codicil. or letters of administration with the will or codicil annexed. shall be prima facie
evidence of the original will or codicil. in like manner as if such
original were produced and proved in due course of law§ 140T. \\'here any writing whatsoever shall have been c« pied by means of any machine or press. which produces a far‘simile impression or copy of such Writing. such impressiun or
copy shall. upon proof to the satisfaction of the Court or person
having by law or by consent of parties authority to hear. receive
and examine evidence. that the same was taken or made from the
original writing by means of such machine or press as aforesaid.
be sutiicient prima facic evidence of such writing without any
proof that such impression or copy was compared with the said
original thereof, and without any notice to produce such
original.

§ 1403. Every examination and deposition taken by virtue
of any law heretofore in force shall and may be read in evidence.
in the same manner as if this law had not been pased§ 1409. A transcript of any of the records and judicial proceedings of any Court of Record or of any Judge of a Court of
Record at Chambers. shall be admitted in evidence upon being
authentic-ated by the attestation of the clerk of such Court with

the seal of such Court annexed. or of the Judge at Chambers
before whom the proceedings were bad. with the seal aforesaid

§ 1404. A transcript from the docket of any Circuit J udg-e
at ( 'han1l-ers. or of any District Magistrate. of any judgment
had before him. of the execution issued thereon. if any, and nf
the return to such execution. if any. when subscribed by said
J udge or .\[agistrate shall be evidence to prove the facts stated
in such transcript in any other Court.

§ 1411. Every Court and person now or hereafter having
by law or by consent of parties authority to hear, receive and
examine evidence, is hereby empowered to administer an oath
to all such witnesses as are legally called before them respectively. But if any person called as a witness, or required or desiring to make an aflidavit or deposition, shall refuse or be unwilling from alleged conscientious motives to be sworn, it shall
be lawful for the Court or person having by law or by consent
of parties authority to hear, receive and examine evidence, or
for any Judge or person qualified to take affidavits or depo~sitions, upon being satisfied of the sincerity of such objection,

to permit such person instead of being sworn, to make his solemn aflirmation or declaration in the words following, that is
to say: I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .do solemnly, sincerely and
truly affirm and declare, that the taking of any oath is according '
to my religious belief, unlawful, and I do now also solemnly,
sincerely, and truly affirm and declare that the evidence, &c.
Which solemn affirmation and declaration shall be of the same‘
force and effect as if such person had taken an oath in the
usual form.

§ 1412. N 0 person offered as a witness shall hereafter be excluded by reason of incapacity from crime (perjury or subornation of perjury only excepted) or interest, from giving evidence
either in person or by deposition according to the practice ofthe Court, on the trial of any issue joined or of any matter or
question, or on any enquiry arising on and suit, action or proceeding in any Court, or before any person having by law or
by consent of parties authority to hear, receive and examine
evidence. But every person so offered may and shall be admitted to give evidence, notwithstanding that such person may
or shall have an interest in the matter in question, or in the

event of the trial of any issue, matter, question or enquiry, or of
the suit, action or proceeding in which he is offered as a witness,
and notwithstanding that such person oEered as a witness may
have been previously convicted of any crime or offense except
as aforesaid. p

§ 1413. On the trial of any issue joined, or of any matter
or question, or on any enquiry arising in any suit, action or proceeding in any Court, or before any person having by law or by
consent of parties, authority to hear, receive and examine'evidence, it shall be lawful for such Court or person to receive the
evidence of any minor, notwithstanding he may be destitute of
the knowledge of God and of any belief in religion or in a future
state of rewards and punishments. Provided always, that the
evidence of such minor shall be given upon his affirmation or
declaration to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but
‘the truth, or in such other form as may be approved of and allowed by such Court or person as first aforesaid, and after he shall
have been cautioned by such Court or person that he will incur
and be liable to punishment if he do not tell the truth. Provided also, that no such evidence shall in any case be received
unless it shall be proved to the satisfaction of such Court or such
person, that such minor perfectly understands the nature and
object of such declaration or affirmation as aforesaid, and the
purpose for which his testimony is required.

§ 1414. On the trial of any issue joined, or of any matter
or question, or on any enquiry arising in any suit, action or proceeding in any Court or before any person having by law, or
consent of parties, authority to hear, receive and examine evidence, and parties thereto, and the party on whose behalf any
such action, suit or proceeding may be brought or defended, and

the husbands and wives of such parties and persons respectively

shall (except as hereinafter excepted) be competent and compellable to give evidence, either in person or by deposition, according to the practice of the Court, on behalf of either or any
of the said suit, action or proceeding.

§ 1415. The defendant in any criminal proceeding may give
evidence on his own behalf, and thereupon be subject to crossexamination in like manner as any other witness, but in case
any such person shall neglect or decline to offer himself as a witness, no inference shall be drawn prejudicial to such accused by
reason of such neglect or refusal, nor shall any argument be permitted tending to injure the defense of such accused person on
account of such failure to offer himself as a witness.

§ 1416. Nothing herein contained shall render any person
who in any criminal proceeding is charged with the commission
of any indictable offense, or any offense punishable on summary
conviction, compellable to give evidence for or against himself;
or (except as hereinafter mentioned) shall render any person
compellable to answer any question tending to criminate himself, or shall in any criminal proceeding render any husband
competent or compellable to give evidence against his wife, or
any wife competent o_r compellable to give evidence against her
husband, except in such cases where such evidence may now be
given; provided also that in all criminal proceedings the husband or wife of the party accused shall be a competent Witness
for the defense.

§ 1417. No husband shall be compellable to disclose any
communication made_ to him by his wife during the marriage,
and no Wife shall be compellable to disclose any communication
made to her by her husband during the marriage.

§ 1418. No clergyman of any church or religious denomination shall, Without the consent of the person making the confession, divulge in any action, suit, or proceeding, Whether civil

or criminal, any confession made to him in his professional
character according to the uses of the church or religious denomination to which he belongs, and no physician or surgeon
shall, without the consent of his patient, divulge in any civil
suit, action or proceeding (unless the sanity of the patient be the
matter in dispute) any information which he may have acquired

in attending the patient, and which was necessary to enable him
to prescribe or act for the patient.

§ 1419. No witness shall on the trial of any issue joined or of
any matter or question, or on any enquiry arising in any suit,
action, or proceeding, whether civil or criminal, be permitted
to refuse to answer any question which is relevant and material
to the matter in issue on the ground that the answer may expose

him to any penalty or forfeiture, or may disgrace or criminate
himself, unless the Court or person having by law or by consent
of parties authority to hear, receive and examine evidence, shall
be of the opinion that the answer will tend to subject such
witness to punishment for treason, felony or misdemeanor.

§ 1420. A witness may be questioned as to whether he has
been convicted of any indictable or other oEense; and upon
being so questioned if he either denies the fact or refuses to

answer, it shall be lawful for the party so questioning to prove
such conviction.

§ 1421. A party producing a witness shall not be allowed to
impeach his credit by general evidence of bad character: but
may contradict him by other evidence, or (in case the witnes
shall in the opinion of the Court or person having by law or
consent of parties, authority to hear, receive and examine evidence prove adverse) may by leave of such Court or person
prove that he has made at other times a statement inconsistent
with his present testimony; but before such last mentioned
proof can be given, the circumstances of the supposed statement

suilicient to designate the particular occasion must be mentioned’
to the Witness, and he must be asked whether or not he has
made such statement.

§ 1422. If a witness upon cross’-examination as to a former
statement made by him relative to the subject matter of the
cause or prosecution and inconsistent with his present testimony,
does not distinctly admit that he has made such statement, proof
may be given that he did in fact make it; but before such proof
can be given, the circumstances of the supposed statement sufficient to designate the particular occasion, must be mentioned

to the Witness, and he must be asked whether or not he has made
such statement.

§ 1423. A witness may be cross-examined as to previous
statements made by him in writing or reduced into writingrelative to the subject matter of the cause or prosecution, Without such writing being shown to him; but if it is intended to
contradict such witness by the writing, his attention must,
before such contradictory proof can be given, he called to those
parts of the writing which are to be used for the purpose of so
contradicting him; provided always that it shall be competent
for the Court or person having such authority as aforesaid, at
any time during the trial or enquiry, to require the production
of the writing for his inspection, and he may thereupon make
such use of it for the purposes of the trial or enquiry as he

shall think fit.

§ 1424. All Courts and all persons having by law or by consent of parties authority to hear, receive and examine evidence,
shall henceforth take judicial notice of the signature of every
person who is, or shall be, or shall have been, Cabinet Minister,
Judge of the Supreme Court or of any Circuit Court, or Clerk
01- Deputy Clerk of the Supreme Court or of any Circuit Court,

the commissioners of the board to quiet land titles, or masters
in chancery, provided such signature shall be attached or appended to any decree, order, certificate, afiidavit or other judicial
or oflicial document.

§ 1425. It shall not be necessary to prove by the attesting wit‘ness any instrument to the validity of which attestation is not
requisite; and such instrument may be proved by admission or
otherwise as if there had been no attesting witness thereto.

§ 1426. Comparison of a disputed writing with any writing
proved to the satisfaction of the Court or person having such
authority as aforesaid to be genuine, shall be permitted to be
made by witnesses; and such writings and the evidence of witnesses respecting the same may be submitted to such Court or
person and the jury or assessors (if any) as evidence of the
genuineness or otherwise of the writing in dispute.

§ 1427. No confession which is tendered in evidence on any
trial, shall be rejected on the ground that a promise or threat
has been held out to the person confessing, unless the Judge or
other presiding oflicer shall be of opinion that the inducement
was really calculated to cause an untrue admission of guilt to
be made; nor shall any confession which is tendered in evidence on any trial be rejected on the ground that it purports
to have been made on oath, if proof can be given to the Judge
or other presiding oflicer, that in fact it was not so made.

§ 1428. From and after,the coming into operation of this
Act, it shall not be lawful for any Justice or other person to
administer, or cause, or allow to be received any oath or affidavit, touching any matter or thing, whereof such Justice or other
person hath not jurisdiction or cognizance by some law in force
at the time being; but nothing in this section shall be construed to extend to any oath, solemn affirmation or affidavit
before any Justice in any matter or thing touching the preservation of the peace, or the prosecution, trial or punishment of offenses, or touching any enquiry held before any Justices in the
nature of coroner’ s inquests respecting sudden deaths or touching
any proceedings before the Legislature or any committee therof,
nor to any oath or affidavit which may be required by the laws
of any foreign country to give validity to instruments in writing designed to be used in such foreign countries.

§ 1429. SCHEDULES.
Fmsr SCHEDULE.

In the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Between A. B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .plaintiff,
and C‘. D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .defendant.

Take notice that the . . . . . . . . . . . . proposes to prove the

several facts and documents hereunder specified, and that such
documents may be inspected by the plaintiff (or defendant)
his attorney or agents at . . . . . . . .on . . . . . . . .next between
the hours of . . . . . .and . . . . . . . . o’clock, and that the plaintiff
(or defendant) is hereby required within forty-eight hours from
the last mentioned hour to admit the said several facts, and
that such of the said documents as are specified to be originals
were respectively written, signed, or executed as they purport
respectively to have been, that such as are specified to be copies,
are respectively true copies, and such copies as are stated to
have been served, sent, or delivered were so served, _sent or
delivered respectively, saving all just exceptions to the admissibility of all such facts and documents as evidence in this cause.

Dated this . . . . . . . . . .day of . . . . . . . . . . 18. .
G. H. attorney or agent for, etc.

To Mr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .the attorney or agent.

FACTS.

1. That the above named John Doe was authorized by the
defendant to sign the above mentioned agreement. on his behalf.

2. That John Jones died on the 1st day of March, 18. . . .,
intestate.

3. That John Smith was at the conlmencement. of this suit,
heir—at-‘law of the said John Jones.

SECOND SCHEDULE.

I hereby admit the Originals numbered 1, the Copies numbered 1, and the Facts numbered 2.
A. B., Defendant’s Attorney.

CHAPTER 92.

APPEALS AND EXCEPTIONS.

APPEALS.

§ 1430. Appeals shall he allowed from all decisions of District Magistrates in all matters, whether civil or criminal, to
the Circuit Court of the same Circuit, whenever the party
appealing: shall file notice of his appeal within five days, and
shall pay the costs accrued within ten days and, if it is a civil
cause, shall deposit. a suflieient bond in the s11n1 of one hundred dollars conditioned for the payment of the costs further to
accrue in case he is defeated in the Court above, or money to
the same amount within ten days after the decision appealed
from; provided, however, that if in his notice of appeal he
signifies his desire to waive a jury, he shall only be required to
deposit as surety for further costs a bond in the sum of twenty
dollars, or money to the same amount. And in such case, if
it is a civil cause, if the appellee, or any appellee in the cause,
shall desire to have it tried before a jury on appeal, he shall not
be denied if he shall, within twenty days after the decision appealed from, file his motion to that effect in the Circuit Court,
and shall deposit his bond or money in the sum of one hundred
dollars for the payment of costs to accrue in case he is defeated
in the Court above. But in case such Waiver of Jury by the
appellant is not objected to by any appellee as signified by his
Inotion for a trial by jury as aforesaid, the cause shall be tried
xvithout. a jury, and may be tried by the Circuit Judge i11 vacation by agreement of parties. And after the trial and conclusion of such cause on appeal, whether by verdict of a jury or

by the decision of the Circuit Judge, jury being waived as
aforesaid, there shall in such cause be no further trial of the issue
of fact (unless a new trial of such cause shall be awarded
according to law), but exceptions upon questions of law may be
taken to the Supreme Court, and further provided, that any
appeal solely upon points of law from a decision of a District
Magistrate shall be so stated in the notice of appeal, and such
appeals upon points of law may be made either to the Circuit
Court. of the same Circuit, or to the Supreme Court, at the
option of the party appealing, and such appeal shall be heard
and determined Without the intervention of a jury; and the

bond shall be the same as hereinbeforc provided in the case of
waiver of jury.

§ 1431. If the appeal shall be in a criminal cause other than
a capital case, the appellant may in his notice of appeal signify
his desire to waive the trial of such appeal by a jury, or when
anv such cause is called for trial before a jury the appellant
may in open Court waive a trial by jury. In case of the Waiver
of a jury trial as aforesaid the cause may be set down for trial
at any time either in term time or in vacation, and when such
cause shall have been tried and determined there shall not be
any further trial on the facts, except on the granting of a new
trial according to law, but exceptions upon questions of law may
be taken to the Supreme Court.

§ 1432. When any party deems himself aggrieved by the
decision of any District Magistrate, in any case, civil or criminal,
and the Circuit Judge to whom appeal might be taken, is legally
disqualified to hear and determine the case, said party may take
an appeal direct to the Supreme Court, or to the Circuit Court
of the Circuit in which he resides, upon conforming to the conditions upon which appeals may be taken to a Circuit Judge at
Chambers.

§ 1433. Appeals shall be allowed from all decisions, judgments, orders or decrees of Circuit Judges in Chambers, to

the Supreme Court, except in cases in which the appellant is
entitled to appeal to a jury, whenever the party appealing shall
file notice of his appeal within five days, and shall pay the
costs accrued, and deposit a suflicient bond in the sum of fifty
dollars, conditioned for the payment of the costs further to
accrue in case he is defeated in the Appellate Court, or money
to the same amount, within ten days after the filing of the
decision, judgment, order or decree appealed from; provided,
however, that in any case in which the law allows an appeal
from the decision, judgment, order or decree of a Judge in
Chambers to be tried before a jury, the Judge whose decision,
judgment, order or decree is appealed from shall not preside at
the trial of such appeal before a jury, but such appeal shall be
in order for hearing at the next regular term of the CircuitCourt
of the Circuit in which the cause was tried in Chambers, and the
Circuit Judge of some other Circuit, who shall be thereto
authorized by the written request of the Chief Justice, or other
Justice of the Supreme Court, shall preside at the trial of" such
appeal; but further provided, that in case such appeal shall be
taken from the decision, judgment, orderor decree of one of the
Judges of the First Circuit in Chambers, it shall be in order
for hearing at the next regular term of such Circuit, but the
Judge whose decision, judgment, order or decree is appealed
from shall not preside at the trial of such appeal.

§ 1434. In case of such appeal to the Supreme Court from

a decision, judgment, order or decree of a Circuit Judge in
Chambers, the Supreme Court shall have power to review, reverse, afiirm, amend, modify or remand for new hearing, in
Chambers, such decision, judgment, order or decree in whole
or in part, and as to any or all of the parties. Every such
appeal shall be taken on the record and no new evidence shall
be introduced in the Appellate Court; provided that the Appellate Court may, in case evidence is offered, which is clearly
I newly discovered evidence, and material to the just decision of
the appeal, admit the same. Nothing herein contained shall he

construed to permit an appeal to be taken from any order by
any Judge or Magistrate allowing any warrant, attachment,
writ or other process, or for any other order of a like nature.

§ 1435. An appeal duly taken and perfected in any cause
provided for in this Act shall immediately thereafter operate
as an arrest of judgment and stay of execution, provided that
execution may issue pending such appeal upon good and sutlicient cause being shown therefor.

§ 1436. Whenever any question of law shall arise in any
trial or other proceeding before a Circuit Court, the presiding
Judge may reserve the same for the consideration of the Snpreme Court; and in such case shall report the cause, or so much
thereof as may be necessary to a full understanding of the questions, to the Supreme Court.

§ 1437. Any question may be reserved in like manner upon
the motion of either party, on account of any opinion, direction,
instruction, ruling or order of the Judge in any matter of law.

§ 1438. A party may allege exceptions to any such opinion,
direction, instruction, ruling or order, and the same being re~
duced to writing in a summary mode, and presented to the
Judge during the term or within ten days thereafter; or, in
case of proceedings in vacation as of the term, within ten days
after the opinion, direction, instruction, ruling or order objected
to, and being found conformable to truth, shall be allowed
and signed by the J udgc, but if the Judge shall refuse to allow
and sign such exceptions, the truth of the allegations therein
contained, may, nevertheless, be established before the Supreme
Court, and the exceptions allowed by it; provided, that further
time may be allowed by the Judge in his discretion.

§ 1439. Upon the allowance of such exceptions and the
deposit of twenty-five dollars, or a bond of this amount, by the

party excepting, with the Clerk of such Court, for costs to
accrue in the Supreme Court, the questions arising thereon
shall be considered by tl1e S11pren1e Court. If, however, the
exceptions shall appear to the Judge before whom the trial is
had to be frivolous, immaterial or intended for delay, judgment
may be entered in the bause, and execution may be awarded
or stayed on such terms as the Judge shall deem reasonable,
notwithstanding the allowance of exceptions.

§ 1440. When, upon the hearing of a cause brought before
the Supreme Court upon exceptions, it shall appear that the
exceptions are frivolous or immaterial, or were intended for
delay, the Court may award against the party taking the exceptions, double costs from the time when the same were
alleged; and also interest, from the same time, at the rate of
nine per cent. per annum on the sum, if any, found d11e for
debt or damages; or may award any part of such additional
costs and interest as it may deem proper.

§ 1441. When judgment has been entered in any cause in
which exceptions have been allowed, the judgment may be
vacated by the Supreme Court without any writ of error in
like manner as if it had been entered by mistake, and thereupon such further proceedings shall be had in the cause as to
law and justice shall appertain.

§ 1442. No trial by jury shall be prevented or delayed by
the alleging, filing, or allowance of such exceptions; but the
verdict shall be received and such further proceedings shall be
had in the cause as the Court may order, in pursuance of the
foregoing provisions.

CHAPTER 93.

VVRIT or ERROR.

§ 1443. A Writ of error may be had by any party deeming
himself aggrieved by the decision of any Justice, Judge or
Magistrate, or by the decision of any Court except the Supreme
Court, or by the verdict of a jury, at any time before execution thereon is fully satisfied, within six months from the reudition of judgment.

§ 1444. Writs of error shall lie to any decision or ruling
by a Justice or Judge in any case in which jury has been Waived.

§ 1445. A writ of error may be had to correct any error
appearing on the record, either of law or fact, or for any cause
which might be assigned as error at common law; provided,
however, that no Writ of error shall issue for any defect of
form merely in any declaration, nor for any matter held for
the benefit of the plaintiff in error.

§ 1446. For all purposes of this Act the record shall be
deemed to include all pleadings, motions, notes or bills of exception, exhibits, Clerk’s or Magistrate’s notes of proceedings,
and if so desired by the plaintiff in error a transcipt of the
evidence in the case.

§ 1447. There shall be no reversal on error of any finding
depending on the credibility of witnesses or the Weight of evidence.

§ 1448. Writs of error in civil cases may be issued by the
Clerk of the Judiciary Department or his deputies, as of right
in term time or vacation, upon the application of any party

to the original cause or of any personal representative of a

deceased party.

§ 1449. No writ of error shall issue in a criminal case unless allowed by a Justice of the Supreme Court. The allowance
of the writ shall operate as a stay of execution in capital cases
but shall not suspend sentence in cases not capital.

§ 1450. No writ of error shall issue until the sum of twentyfive dollars has been deposited to cover costs, and a bond has
been filed with the Clerk, in favor of the prevailing party in
the proceeding in which the error is alleged to have occurred,
or to his personal representatives, conditioned for the payment
of the judgment in said original cause in case of failure to sustain the writ of error. An assignment of errors shall be filed
at the time of procuring the Writ.

§ 1451. Every writ of error shall be addressed to the Clerk
of the Court, if any, in which the error is alleged to have
occurred, or to the Judge or Magistrate making the ruling, and
may be served upon such Clerk or Judge by mail.

§ 1452. VVrits of error shall be substantially of the following form:

Supreme Court of the Hawaiian Islands.

Defendant in Error.

To . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Clerk, etc.

\Vhereas, in an action lately pending before the . . . . . . . . ..
Court for the. . . .  . .Judicial Circuit, in which . . . . . . . . . .
was plaintiff, and. . . , . . . . . . . . . . . .defendant, error is alleged

to have occurred as appears by the assignment of errors on
file in this Court, you are commanded forthwith to send up to

this Court the record and all exhibits filed in said proceedings.

\Vitness, the Honorable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.

No writ of error shall be quashed for defect of form.

§ 1453. Service of a copy of the assignment of errors shall
be made by the Marshal or his deputies upon the defendant in
error or upon the personal representative of a deceased party.
Such copy shall bear a notice from co11nsel that a writ of error
has issued. No hearing shall be had on a writ of error until
twenty days after service.

§ 1454. No joinder in error shall be necessary. After due
service the Court may proceed 0.1? parte if no appearance is
made by the defendant in error.

§ 1455. No reversal on error shall affect the validity of any
sale of personal or real property made on execution prior to the
service of the copy of the assignment of errors. The issue of a
writ of error and the filing a bond as above provided shall stay
execution from and after notice of the same could have reached
the ofiieer making the levy of the same. It shall be the duty of
the Clerk or Magistrate of the Court to which the writ is
addresse(l to notify such ofiieer, and he shall be deemed to have
received such notice by the first mail after the receipt of said
writ, if making a levy in a place other than the residence of
such Clerk or Magistrate, otherwise on the same day.

§ 1456. The Supreme Court shall have power to enter such
judgment in the case as in their opinion the facts and law
warrant.

§ 1457. The Supreme Court shall have power to order
additional bond upon motion, and to determine the amount
of penalty thereof and the sufiieiency of the sureties to the

CHAPTER 94.

APPEAL BONDS.

§ 1458. Whenever, in a proceeding before any Court, on a
motion for a new trial, or on an appeal, or upon an application
for a writ of error, or upon exceptions, a bond shall be required
for costs, or against the removal or disposal of property liable
to execution, it shall be sufiicient to give one bond, in an amount
to be fixed by the presiding Judge, which may include both
security against costs and against the removal or disposal of
property, and no other or further bond shall be required, and
such bond shall remain in full force and effect until the final
termination of the whole proceedings so pending in such Court,
or until the final determination before the Court to which such

motion for new trial, petition for writ of error, appeal or exceptions, shall or may be taken.

§ 1459. No bill of exceptions or appeal shall be dismissed
for any informality or insufiiciency of any bond, unless upon
neglect of the party filing such bond to comply with an order
of a Judge directing an amendment of such bond after a reasonable time of not less than 24 hours, which shall be given for
such purpose.

§ 1460. The bond required in Section 1458 shall in all cases
run to the Clerk of the Judiciary Department and to his successors in such office. It shall be conditioned for the payment
of all costs to arise subsequent to its filing, and against the
removal or disposal of property.

§ 1461. Whenever any person for whose benefit such bond
has been filed shall be entitled to a recovery thereunder, an

CHAPTER 95.

JUDGMENT, EXECUTION AND N EW TRIAL.

§ 1462. Judgment shall be entered by the clerk, Without
motion, immediately upon the rendition of a verdict, or of a
judgment of the Court in Banco, or of a Judge at Chambers,
and execution may issue thereon at any time thereafter, when
called for, unless notice is given at the time of rendering the
verdict, or judgment, of a motion for a new trial and the filing
of a bill of exceptions and bond, as provided by statute, within
ten days after the rendition of such verdict or judgment: provided, that execution may issue Within ten days, even though
such notice be given, when good and sufficient cause can be
shown therefor. The provisions of this section shall not affect

the right of appeal.

§ 1463. Any party against whom a verdict or judgment is
rendered, as set forth in the last preceding section, may, upon

iiling a sufficient bond of security, conditioned for the payment
of all costs of motion in case he fail to sustain the same, and

that he will not to the detriment of the p1aintiE in the action,
remove or otherwise dispose of any property he may have liable
to execution on such judgment, and upon giving notice of said
motion and the grounds thereof to the opposite party, move
the Court at any time within ten days after rendition of verdict
or judgment, for a new trial, for any cause for which by law
a new trial may and ought to be granted. The filing of the
bill of exceptions and bond shall operate as a stay of execution,

until the motion is determined.

§ 1464. Every Circuit Judge at Chambers, and District
Lfagistrate, shall, at the request of the party recovering any

civil judgment in his Court, unless such judgment be duly
appealed from, issue his execution against the property of the
party recovered against, which execution may be in the following
form:

To any constable of the District of. . . ., Island of. . . ., H. L:

You are commanded to levy upon the personal property of
. . . . . ., if any within your district, and if sufficient cannot be
found, then upon his real property Within said district, and
giving thirty days previous notice as required by law, to sell
the same, or so much thereof as may be found necessary, at
public sale to the highest bidder, in order to satisfy a judgment
rendered by me against him in favor of . . . . . ., on the . . . . . .
day of . . . . . ., 18. ., for . . . . . . dollars, the costs of Court
inclusive, collecting also the legal interest thereon, from the
date thereof, and your costs and the expenses of levy, advertisement and sale. Make due return to me of this Writ, with
your proceedings thereon, and the money by you so collected,

on or before the expiration of . . . . . . days; and hereof fail not
at your peril.
Given under my hand this . . . . . .day of . . . . . ., 18. ..

District Magistrate (or as the case may be).

§ 1465. The provisions of the last preceding section shall
not apply to the issuing of execution upon a judgment entered
up by the order of a Circuit Judge, in any cause or proceeding
in the Circuit Court, but in such case the execution shall be
issued in the manner and form prescribed for Courts of Record.

§ 1466. All executions issued by a Circuit Judge at Chambers, or District Magistrate, shall be made returnable within
sixty days from the date thereof.

§ 1467. The forms of executions to be issued from Courts of
Record shall be the same as have been heretofore established by
the usage and practice of such Courts; but alterations therein

may, from time to time, be made, or allowed by the Supreme
Court, when necessary to adapt them to changes in the law, or
for other sufiicient reasons.

§ 1468. All writs of execution, whether civil or criminal,
issuing from any Court of Record, shall be addressed to the Marshal, or his deputy, and shall be signed by the clerk of such
Court, and impressed with the seal thereof.

§ 1469. Every ofiicer receiving a writ of execution issued in
due form by any Court or Justice, shall note thereon the day
and hour of its receipt, and he shall give priority in levying
upon property of the defendant in execution, to the writs received by him according to the order of time in which they are
received.

§ 1470. Every levy by an ofiicer, in pursuance of a writ of
execution issued by any Court or Justice, shall be made by taking the property levied upon into his possession, care and guardianship, and in his option, by removal of the same to some place
of security. The ofiicer shall make an inventory of the property
levied upon.

§ 1471. The oflicer shall, after levy, advertise for sale the
property levied upon whether real or personal, for thirty days,
or for such times as the Court shall order, by posting a written
or printed notice in three conspicuous places within the district where such property is situated, and if on the Island of
Oahu, by advertisement thereof at least three times in one or
more newspaper or newspapers published at Honolulu, Island
of Oahu, Hawaiian Islands.

§ 1472. The officer shall, on the day and at the place set for
such public sale, unless paid the amount of the judgment, interest and costs, and his fees and disbursements accrued upon
the writ, sell the property advertised to the highest bidder. He
shall deduct from the proceeds of the sale sufficient for the

full satisfaction, if possible, of the execution and his costs, expenses and commissions, and return the said writ, satisfied Wholly
or in part, paying the amount collected thereon to the plaintiff

in execution or his attorney.

§ 1473. If, at the time appointed for the sale, the oiiicer
shall deem it expedient, and for the interest of all persons concerned therein, to postpone the sale, for want of purchasers or
for other suflicient cause, he may postpone it for any time not
exceeding seven days, and so from time to time, for like good
cause, until the sale shall be completed; giving notice of every
such adjournment, by a public declaration thereof, at the time
and place previously appointed for the sale.

§ 1474. The officer shall execute and deliver, to any purchaser at any such sale, such certificate of purchase, or conveyance, as may be necessary.

§ 1475. No sale by execution shall operate to convey a
greater estate or interest in the property sold, than the defendant
in execution had at the time of such sale; and all such sales of
property not belonging to the defendant shall subject the officer
tn the private action of the purchaser, being afterwards deprived
thereof by the real owner.

§ 1476. The ofiicer serving any execution shall act upon his
own private accountability, for all excesses of his official powers,
and for any departure from the legal import of the Writ or mandate in his hands.

§ 1477. If, upon an execution being issued by a Circuit
Judge at Chambers, or by a District Magistrate, no property.
or not a suflicient amount of property, belonging to the defendant in execution, can be found within the jurisdiction of the
Judge or Magistrate issuing the execution, and the same is returned unsatisfied, either wholly or in part, the plaintiE in execution may, upon procuring a certified copy of the judgment

and execution in the Court below, to be docketed in the ofliee of
the Clerk of the Supreme Court, sue out a Writ of execution from
said Supreme Court, which shall be available against the property
of the defendant, Wherever situated within the Republic.

§ 1478. Any Circuit Court, out of which an execution has
been issued, if such execution has been ret11rned unsatisfied
wholly or in part, may issue an alias execution to the same
circuit, or an execution leviable in some other circuit, for the
satisfaction of the unpaid remainder of the judgment and additional costs, expenses and commissions, which alias or testatmn
writ of execution ‘shall be served by the Marshal or his deputy,
in like manner as the original.

§ 1479. No original execution shall be issued, unless within
one year after the party shall be entitled to sue out the same,
and no alias, or other successive execution, shall be issued afterwards, unless each one be sued out within one year after the return day of that which preceded it.

§ 1480. If a judgment remains unsatisfied, after the expiration of the time for taking out execution thereon, the plaintiff
may have scire facias to obtain a new execution, or he may,
at any time after the judgment, have an action of debt thereon.

§ 1481. Any Judge of a Court of Record may, by order at
Chambers, in any cause in which an execution shall have been
issued, grant a stay thereof in the ofiicer’s hands, for equitable
reasons, when no appeal or writ of error is granted, upon the
defendant giving bond and security for its payment with costs
up to the said stay. The property levied upon shall not be released from the levy by the stay of execution, and in case at
the end of the time accorded the condition of such bond be not
complied with, the plaintiE in execution may elect whether to
proceed to the sale of the levied property, or to enforce the
bond; provided, that if the levied property be not sufficient to
pay the judgment, with all costs, expenses and commissions, the

stay inclusive, the sureties in the bond shall be answerable for
the deficiency. And when justice may require the renewal of
any execution, or an extension of the time for making return
to any execution, any Judge of a Court of Record shall have
power so to order.

§ 1482. Bonds of indemnity given to an ofiicer, as provided
in Section 274 of the Civil Code, shall be collectable by the
oflicer receiving the same, upon citation to show cause and
proof of the signatures thereto, without the intervention of :1
jury, and the damages to be assessed ther.eon shall be the
amount recovered against the said officer, with interest and
costs of suit, and the expenses of such citation and judgment of

indemnity, for which execution may be issued against the coobligors, both jointly and severally, leviable as in other cases
of indebtedness.

§ 1483. The following property, when owned by any person

being a housekeeper, and having a family, shall be exempt from
levy and sale on execution:.

The family Bible, family pictures, and school books, two
swine or six goats, and all necessary fish, meat, flour and vegetables, and one piece of land where kalo is growing, or any other
vegetable, provided the same does not exceed one-half an acre,
actually cultivated for family use, likewise a house lot not to
exceed one-quarter of an acre, and the dwelling house and other
buildings thereon situated, providing the value thereof shall not
exceed two hundred and fifty dollars. But this exemption shall
not apply to mechanics and material men for labor performed
and material furnished in the erection of such buildings. All
necessary wearing apparel, mats, beds, bedsteads and bedding,
for such person and his family. One poi board, two calabashes,
one o-o, one table, six chairs, six knives and forks, six plates, six
tea cups and saucers, one sugar dish, one milk pot, one tea pot,

