P .A.RT THIRD: 
OF THE COURTS, AND THE PROCEDURE THEREIN. 
CODE OF CIVIL PRACTICE AT LAW AND IN EQUITY.t 
TITLE. 
Be it tntaattd 1,,y th, General .A,,e,nbly of ~ Slat~ <if Iowa, a, jol­ 
loti,•:
Thia .A.et shall be known as the Code of Civil Practice. 
CHAPTER 108.t 
PRELIHINARY PROVISION$, 
SECTION 2605. Remedies in civil cases in the courts of this state,
are divided into two classes-1st, Actions; 2d, Special Proceedings, 
SEC. 2606. A civil action is a common proceeding in a court of jus- 
tiee, by one party against another, for the enforcement or protection of. 
a private right, or the redress or prevention of a private wrong. It
may also be brought, in certain cases, for the recovery of a penalty or
a forfeiture. 
Every other remedy in a civil case is a special pro-
SEC. 2607.
ceeding. 
The proceeding supplementary to an execution is a special proceeding, per
Willard, J., in Davis v. Turner, 4 P. R., 190, 192; and the proceeding to 
assess damages upon laying out a plank road, under chapter 210, of the laws
of 1847, ia most undoubtedly what under the Code is denominated a special 
proceeding, per Maaon, J., u parte Ran80fll, 8 Code Bep., 148. Cited and
approved, 1 Kernan, 2 7 7. 
The proceeding upon a bond taken to suspend the sale of personal property
under an execution, can not be considered an action but more properlv comes
within that class of remedies denominated special or fflmmarg proceedings,
and no written pleadings are allowable. Watson v. Gabbey, 18 B. M., 662. 
SEC, 2608. The forms of all actions and suits heretofore existing
are abolished ; and hereafter, there shall be but one form of action for
the enforcement or protection of private rights, and the redress or pre­
vention of private wrongs, which shall be called a civil action.• 
Sac. 2009. In such action the party oomplai.aing is known as the
plaintiff, and the advene party as the defendant. 
_SEC. i610. The proceedings ia a civil action may be of two kinds;
1, ordinary-2 equitable. 
SEC. 2611. The phuntiff' may prosecute his action by equitable pro-
eeedings, in all cases where courts of equity, before the adoption of this 
eede, bad juriadietion ; and must 80 proceed in all cases where such
jurisdiction was exclusive. 
SEC. 2612. In all other cases, except in this code otherwise pro-
vided, the plaintiff must prosecute bis action by ordinary proceedings. 
SEC. 2613. An error of the plaintiff' as to the kind of proceedings
-®pted. shall not cause the abatement or dismissal of the action, but 
tnerely a change into the proper proceedings, by an amendment in the
pleadings, and a transfer of the action to the proper docket. 
SEC. 2614. The error mentioned in the last section may be corrected
b
h 1 
· •tr. · h · · bef th d s: dant has 
y t e p amu , wit out motion, at any time tore e eren
answered ; or, afterwards, on motion, in court. 
SEC, 2615. The defendant shall be entitled to have the correction
made, in the following cases :-Where the action has been commenced 
by equitable proceedings, the defendant, by motion made, at the time of
filing his answer, may have them changed into ordinary proceedings
when it appears that by the provisions of section 2612, the plaintiff'
should have adopted ordinary proceedings, and in addition that bis
answer presents a defense on which he is entitled to trial by jury. 
A prayer in an answer to transfer the action to the one or the other side 
of the court, is not equivalent to a motion to transfer. Duvall, J., Lander T, 
. Nunn, Mss. opinion, September, 1857. Cited from Ky. Code by Stanton. 
SEC, 2616. Where the action has been commenced by ordinary
di h d "- d b • d b t: I • f' 
procee mgs, t e eren ant, y motion ma e, at, or erore, t ie time o
filing his answer, may have them changed into equitable proceedings 
when it appears· that, by the provisions of section 2611, the plaintiff
should have adopted equitable proceedings. 
SEC. 2tH 7. Where the action has been properly commenced by
ordinary proceedings, either party shall have the right, by motion, to
have any issue, which before the adoption of this code was exclusively
cognizable in equity, tried in the manner hereinafter prescribed in cases 
of equitable proceedings ; and if all the issues are such as, before the
adoption of this code, were cognizable in equity, though none were
exclusively so, the defendant shall be entitled to have them all tried as
in cases of equitable proceedings. 
,vhere the answer of a defendant to an ordinary petition sets up an
equitable defense, the trial of the issue should be as in case of equitable
proceedings, and if the equitable defense be adjudged insufficient, and there 
Le a legal issue, that should be referred to a Jury, unless a jury be waived 
in some of the modes pointed out by the code. SmiJh v . .Moberly, 15 B. M.,
73. 
SEC. 2618. If the plaintiff's claim is for money due by contract,
and the defendant puts in a defense of exclusively equitable cognizance,
upon the plaintiff filing an affidavit that he verily believes that he will
succeed in the action, and that the collection of his claim after judg­
ment will be endangered by the delay arising from such defense being
put in, the court shall require the defendant to give security for the pay-
ment of any judgment the plaintiff may obtain in the action, and upon
his failure to give such security, shall order the defendant to pay into
court an amount sufficient to discharge the plaintiff's claim and his prob­
able costs; upon which order execution may be issued ~ upon a judg­
ment, and the amount collected upon execution shall be brought into
court and await the decision of the action, and be paid to the plaintiff or
defendant, according to such decision. But no such security shall be
required if the trial of the equitable defense takes place during the term
at which it is put in, nor until all defenses to the action, other than those
of equitable cognizance, are tried or disposed of in favor of the plain­
tiff. 
SEC, 2619. An error as to the kind of proceedings adopted in the
action, is waived by failure to move for its correction at the time and in
the manner prescribed in this chapter; and all errors in the decisions of 
the court, on any of the motions named in this chapter, arc waived,
unless excepted to at the time ; which may be done by the clerk noting
at the end of such decision words of the following import: " To which
decision the plaintiff (or defendant) excepts." 
The code requires that when the petition is in equity, when it should have
been at law, and at law when it should have been in equity, it is to be reached 
by motion, and if not so moved, the error is waived. Trustees of Lebanon 
v. Forrest, etc., 15 B. M., 172. 
SEC. 2620. The provisions of this code concerning the prosecution
of a civil action, apply to both kinds of proceedings, whether ordinary
or equitable, unless the contrary appears," 
81w. 2621. Judgment obtained in an action by ordinary proceed-
• h 11 t b 11 d odified b d . . b 
mgs, s a no e annu e or m 1 y any or er m an action y
equitable proceedings, except for a defense which has arisen or been 
discovered since the judgment was rendered. But such judgment does
not prevent the recovery of any claim, though such claim might have 
been used by way of set-off, counter-claim, or cross-demand, in the action
on which thejudgment WM recovered. 
SEC. 2622. The rule of the common law that statutes in derogation
thereof are to be strictly construed, has no application to this code. Its
provisions and all proceedings under it, shall be liberally construed with
a view to promote its object and assist the parties in obtaining justice." 
CHAPTER 109.* 
ORGANIZATION OF SUPREME COURT. 
[Code=Chapter 90.] 
SECTION 2628. The supreme court shall be held at the capital of
this state. 
SEC. 2624. There shall be two terms a year, one commencing on the
first Monday in June, and the other on the first Monday of December. 
SEC. 2625. The sheriff of the county where the court is held, or bis
deputy, must attend upon the court, and shall receive two dollars a day
for such attendance. 
SEc. 2626. The amount appropriated by the general assembly there-
for, shall limit the contingent expenses, which shall be allowed said
court. 
SEC, 2627. (1551.) The presence of two judges is necessary for the
tnmsaction of business, but one alone may adjourn from day to day, or
to any particular day, or until the next term. 
Sso. 2628. (1552.) When the court is equally divided in opuuon,
the cause must stand for a re-argument, unless the third judge be legally
disqualified from sitting. In such case the judpient of the district
court shall stand affirmed, but the decision is ot no further force or
authority. 
SEC. 2629. (1553.) If all the judges fail to attend on the first day 
of the term, the clerk must enter the fact upon the record, and the court
shall stand adjourned until the next day. The same proceedings shall 
be repeated from day to day, until the fourth day of the term, when if
none of the judges appear, the court shall stand adjourned until the
next term. 
SEc. 2630. (1.554.) No process or proceeding is in any manner
affected by an adjournment or failure to hold court, but all shall stand 
continued to the next term, without any special order to that effect.
SEC. 2631. (1555.) The supreme court has an appellate jurisdiction 
over all judgments and decisions of any of the district courts as well in 
- case of civil actions properly so called, as in proceedings of a special
or independent character. 
SEc. 2632. An appeal may also be taken to the supreme court from
the following orders: 
I. An order made affecting a substantial right in an action, when
such order, in effect, determines the action and prevents a judgment from 
which an appeal might be taken;
2. A final order made in special proceedings affecting a substantial 
right therein, or made on a summary application in an action after judg­
ment; 
3. When an order grants or refuses, continues or modifies a provis­
ional remedy; or grants, refuses, dissolves, or refuses to dissolve an in­
junction or attachment; when it grants or refuses a new trial, or when it
sustains or overrules a demurrer; 
4. An intermediate order involving the merits and materially aft"ect­
ing the final decision ; 
5. An order or judgment on habeas corpus. 
SEC. 2633. If any of the above orders are made by a judge of the
district court, the same is reviewable in the same way as if made by the
court. 
SEC. 2634. (1557.) The court may also in its discretion, prescribe
rules for allowing appeals, on such other intermediate orders or decisions
as they think expedient, and for permitting the same to be taken and
tried during the progress of the trial in the court below; but such inter­
mediate appeals must not retard proceedings in the trial in chief in the 
district court. • 
SEc. 2635. (1558.) The court may issue all writs and process necet- 
sary for the exercise and enforcement of its appellate jurisdiction. 
SEC. 2636. (1560.) The opinions of the court on all questions re­
viewed on appeal, as well as such motions, collateral questions and points
of practice as they may think of sufficient importance, shall be reduced
to writing, and filed with the clerk of the court. 
Sec. 2637. (15Gl.) All dissenting opinions must be written and
filed in the same manner. 
SEC. 2638. (1562.) The records and reports must in all cases show
whether a decision was made by a full bench, and whether either, and if
so, which of the judges dissented from the decision. 
S1w. 26a9. (1563.) The 8upr~me court has a general supervision
over the district court to prevent and correct abuses where no other
remedy is provided for by law. 
Argummt Term. 
SEC. 2640. The supreme court shall hold argument terms at the
city of Davenport, in the county of Scott, twice a year, one beginning on
the first Monday in April, and the other the first Monday of October. 
SEC, 2641. All the causes on the docket shall be heard each term,
unless by the parties, for good cause shown, continued, and such as are
thus continued shall go to the succeeding term of the court at the capital. 
Sim. 2642. From the counties of Scott, Clinton, Jackson, Dubuque,
Clayton, Allamakee, Winnesheik, Hancock, Mitchell, Chickasaw, Floyd,
Worth, Cerro Gordo, Tama, Bremer, Butler, Black Hawk, Buchanan,
Delaware, Fayette, Jones, Linn, Benton, Johnson, Iowa, Cedar, Musca·
tine, Louisa, ,vashington, Des Moines, Henry, Lee, Van Buren, Jeffer­
son and Howard, causes must be taken thereto. But with the consent
of the appellee, expressed in writing on the notice of appeal, the appel·
lant may take such appeal to the capital. 
SEC. 2643. Appeals from the other counties of the state s)mll not
go to the Davenport term, unless by consent of parties expressed in the 
notice of appeal. 
SF.c. 2GH. The court at the Davenport term, shall have the same
powers, and be governed by the same rules, and the duties of all the
officers thereof shall be the same as at the term at the capital, so far as
the same are applicable to a term which is only one for argument. 
SEO. 2645. Each judge of the supreme court shall have 88 mileage
for the Davenport term, going and returning, ten cents for each mile by
the nearest practicable route, and the clerk thereof shall have five dol-
lars a day, for each day of the session of such term. 
CHAPTER 110. 
CLEBK OF THE 8UPBEKE COURT, 
(Code-Chapter 91.) 
SECTION 264:6. The supreme court may appoint and remove it8
clerks • 
SEC. 2647. Such clerk shall keep his office at the capital of the 
state.
SEc. 2648. He shall keep a complete register of all the proceedings 
of the court, with an index of the same.
SKc. 2649. He must not allow any written opinion of the court to 
be removed from bis office, except by the reporter, but shall permit any
one to examine or copy the same, and shall, when required, make a
copy for any one for a fee of six cents for every one hundred words. 
SEC. 2650. He shall promptly announce by letter, any decision ren­
dered, to one of the attorneys of each side, when such attorneys are not
in attendance at the place of court. 
SEC. 2651. He shall make a record of every opinion rendered by
said court, 88 soon 88 filed, and shall perform all the duties ordinarily
pertaining to his office. 
Sso. 2652. When the clerk shall have arranged the causes from
the different counties for their days, he shall publish the same four
weeks in some newspaper, published in the city where the court is to
be held, and send copy thereof to the clerk of the district court in
each county in the state, who shall post the same in a conspicuous place
in his office. 
CHAPTER 111. 
[Code-Chapter 92.•J 
DISTRICT COURT. 
SECTION 2653. (1566.) The judicial districts, and the terms of the
district courts therein respectively, shall remain as at present fixed until
otherwise directed-provided that in any county where, by the laws
now in force, terms of the district court are holden within any incorpo­
rated city or town not being the seat of justice of such county, the said 
city or town shall provide and furnish the necessary rooms and places
for such terms of said court free from charge to such county. 
Sso. 2654. (1567.) In counties where no time is now fixed for
holding a court, the judge may appoint the terms by a written notice to 
the clerk thereof. 
SEC. 26.55. (1568.) The clerk shall thereupon prepare as many
written notices of the time and place of holding such court as there are
townships in the county, and the sheriff shall post up one of such notices 
in a public place in each of said townships at least three weeks prior to
the time therein fixed for holding the court. 
SEO. 2656. (1569.) A special term may be ordered in any county
at any regular term of the court in that county. · 
SEC. 2657. (1570.) Such special term may also be called at any
time by the judge for the trial of those causes in which both parties
consent. 
SEO. 2658. (1571.) The court in ordering a special term shall
direct whether a grand or petit jury, or both or neither shall be sum­
moned. 
SEC. 2659. (1572.) The court may, by its rules, establish terms in
any county for the making up of issues, or the transaction of any other
business not requiring a jury; but the number of trial-terms above 
required shall not on that account be lessened. 
SEC. 2660. (1573.) When a county i; not provided with a regular
court house at the place where the courts are to be held, they shall be
held at such place as the county court provides. 
SEC. 2661. (1574.) If no suitable place be thus provided, the dis-
trict court shall direct the sheriff to procure one. 
SEC. 2662. (1575.) The district judges may interchange and hold
each other's courts. 
Sso. 2663. (1576.) The several district courts shall exercise gen-
eral original jurisdiction, both civil and criminal, and as well in chancery 
as at common law, where not otherwise provided by law. They shall
also have a general supervision over all inferior courts, to prevent and
correct abuses where no other remedy is provided. 
SEC. 2664. (1577.) The clerk of each district court shall keep a
record of the proceedings of the court under the direction of the judge.
He shall, from time to time, read over all entries therein in open court,
which, when correct, shall be signed by the judge. 
SEC. 2665. (1578.) When it is not practicable to have all the
records prepared and thus approved during the term, they may be read,
corrected and approved at the next succeeding term, but such delay
shall not prevent an execution from issuing in the mean time, and all
other proceedings may take place in the same manner as though the
record had been approved and signed. Entries authorized to be made
in vacation, shall be read, approved, and signed at the next term of the,
court. 
SEC. 2666. (1579.) The record aforesaid is under the control of
the court, and may be amended, or any entry therein expunged at any 
time during the term at which it is made, or before it is signed by the
judge as aforesaid. 
SEC. 2667. (1580.) Entries made, approved, and signed at a pre-
vious term, can be altered only to correct an evident mistake. 
SEC. 2668. (1581.) If the judge does not appear on the day ap-
pointed for holding the court, the clerk shall make an entry thereof in 
his record, and adjourn the court till the next day, and so on until the 
third day, unless the judge appear, provided three days are allowed for
such term. 
SEC. 2669. (1582.) If the judge does not appear by five o'clock
of the third day, and before the expiration of the time allotted to
the term of the court, it shall stand adjourned till the next regular
term. 
SEC. 2670. (1583.) If the judge is sick, or for any other sufficient
cause! is unable to attend court at the regularly appointed time, he may,
by a written order, direct an adjournment to a particular day therein
specified, and the clerk shall, on the first day of the term, or as
soon thereafter as he receives the order, adjourn the court as therein 
directed. · 
SEC. 2671. (1584.) No recognizance or other instrument or pro-
ceeding shall be rendered invalid by reason of there being a failure of 
the term, but all proceedings pending in court shall be continued to the
next regular term, unless an adjournment be made as authorized in the 
wt preceding section.
SEC. 2672. (1585.) In eases of such continuances or adjournments, 
persons recognized or bound to appear at the regular term which bas
failed as aforesaid, shall be held bound in like manner, to appear at the
time so fixed, and their sureties (if any) shall be liable in case of their
non-appearance, in the sames manner as though the term had been
held at the regular time, and they had failed to make their appearance
thereat. 
SEC, 2673. (1586.) Upon any final adjournment of the court, all
business not otherwise disposed of will stand continued generally. 
CHAPTER 112. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS. 
[Code-Chapter 93.]• 
SECTION 2674. (1587.) No judge of the supreme or district court
shall practice as an attorney or counselor at law, or give advice in rela- 
· tion to any case pending, or about to be brought, in any of the courts of
this state. 
SEc. 2675. In 1860, and every sixth year thereafter, there shall be 
appointed by the governor, by and with the consent of the senate, three 
commissioners of legal inquiry, who shall hold their office for six years,
and any vacancy, by resignation or otherwise, may be filled by the
governor, subject to the approval .of the senate then, or next to be in 
session.
SEC. 2676. Each of the judges of the supreme and district court 
shall report to the chairman of such commission, as fast as the same
shall fall under his observation, any omission, discrepancy, or other evi-
dent imperfection of the law of civil or criminal procedure. 
SEO. 2677. Such commission may report to the legislature at each
regular session, such amendments in civil or criminal procedure, as they 
· may deem advisable, in order to carry out the intent and general spirit
of the system of practice herewith adopted. 
SEC, 2678. They shall not, nor shall any or them receive, either
directly or indirectly, any compensation for their services. 
SEc. 2679. The district court of any county may provide. by general
rule, that in actions brought, or to be brought, in such court, the time of
filing an answer, reply, demurrer or motion, shall be other than that
provided in this code, and such other rules as may be necessary to the
end that in those counties, where the 8ftllle seems to such court desirable,
issues may be made up in vacation. 
SEC, 2680. (1590.) The said courts may adopt also such other rules
as they may deem expedient, consistent with law, and may revise the 
same as often as they think expedient. .
SEC, 2681. (1591.) The prime object of such rules shall be to carry 
out the purposes of the statute, to preserve 88 far 88 is consistent with
law, the substance of previous remedies, dispensing, with all needless
forms with the view of arriving at the prompt attainment of justice. 
SEC. 2682. ( 1592.) All process issued by the clerk of the supreme
or any district court shall bear date on the day on which it is issued, be
tested in the name of the clerk who issued the same, and be under the 
seal of the court.
Sso. 2683. (1593.) All judicial proceedings must be public unless 
otherwise specially provided by statute, or otherwise agreed upon by
the parties. 
SEC. 2684. (1594.) All courts have power to administer oaths,
connected with any matter pending before them, either by ,ny judge,
justice or clerk thereof, or by any other person appointed for that pur­
pose by them. 
SFr 2685. (1595.) A judge or justice is disqualified from acting as
such except by mutual consent of parties, in any case wherein he is a
party or interested, or where he is related to either party by consanguin­
ity or affinity, within the fourth degree, or where he has been attorney
for either party in the action or proceeding. But this section does not
prevent them from disposing of any preliminary matter not affecting the
merits of the case. 
Ssc, 2686. (1596.) No court can be opened, nor can any judicial
business be transacted on Sunday, except, 
I. To give instructions to a jury then deliberating on their verdict;
2. To receive a verdict or discharge a jury;
8. To exercise the powers of a single magistrate in a criminal pro­ 
ceeding.
SEC. 2687. (1597.) All courts must sit at the places designated for 
that purpose, pursuant to statute, unless by common consent some other
place is fixed upon. 
81:onolf 2688. (1598.) The following acta or omissions are deemed 
w be contempts, and are punishable as such, by any of the courts of this
state, or by any judicial officer acting in the discharge of an official duty,
u hereinafter provided: 
1. For contemptuous or insolent behavior wwards such court while
engaged in the discharge of a judicial duty which may tend to impair
the respect due to its authority ; 
2. For any willful disturbance calculated to interrupt the due course
of its official proceedings ; 
3. For illegal resistance to any order or process made or issued
by it; 
4. For disobedience to any subpoena issued by it and duly served, or
refusing to be sworn, or to answer a., a witness ; 
5. For unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action or pro­
ceeding pending before such court, while going to, or remaining at, the
place where the action or proceeding is thus pending; 
6. For any other act or omission specially declared a contempt by 
Jaw. 
SEO. 2689. (1599.) In addition to the above, the supreme or district
courts may punish the following acts or omissions as contempts : 
1. Failure to testify before a grand-jury, when lawfully required to
do so; 
2. Assuming to be an officer, attorney, or counselor of the court, and
acting as such without authority ; 
8. Misbehavior as a juror, by improperly conversing with a party, or
with any other person in relation to the merits of mi action in which he
is acting or is to act as a juror, or receiving a communication from any 
person in respect to it without immediately disclosing the same to the
rourt; 
4. Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magistrate, or officer, to any
lawful judgment, order, or process of a superior court, or proceeding in
any matter contrary to law, after it has been removed from such tribu­
nal, magistrate, or officer. · 
SEC. 2690. (1600.) The punishment for contempts may be by fine,
or imprisonment, or both, but where not otherwise specially provided, 
the supreme and district courts are limited to a fine of fifty dollars and
an imprisonment not exceeding one day, and all other courts are limited 
to a fine of ten dollars. 
CHAPTER 113. 
[Code-Chapter H.] 
CONTEXPTS. 
SEC. 2691. (1601.) But if the contempt consists in an omission to 
perfonn an act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he 
may be imprisoned until he performs it. In that case the act to be per­ 
formed must be specified in the warrant of .commitmenL 
SEC. 2692. (1602.) Unless the contempt is committed in the imme­
diate view and presence of the court, or comes officially to its knowl­
edge, an affidavit showing the nature of the transaction is necessary as
a basis for further action in the premi:,;es. 
SEC. 2693. ( 1603.) Before punishing for a contempt, unless the
offender is already in the presence of the court, he must be served per­
sonally with a rule to show cause against the punishment, and a l"C880n­
able time given him therefor; or he may be brought before the court
forthwith, or on a given day, by warrant, if necessary. In either case
he may, at his option, make a written explanation of his conduct under
oath, which must be filed and preserved. 
SEC. 269!. (1604.) Where the action of the court is founded upon
evidence given by others, such evidence must be in writing, and be filed
and preserved, and if the court act upon their own knowledge in the
premises, a statement of the facts upon which the order is founded, must
be entered on the records of the court, or be filed and preserved when
the court keeps no record. 
SEC. 2695. (1605.) When the offender is committed, the warrant
must state the particular facts and circumstances on which the coon
acted in the premises. and whether the same was within the knowledge
of the court, or was proved by witnesses. 
SEC. 2696. (1606.) No appeal lies to an order to punish for a con­
tempt, but the proceedings may, in proper cases, be taken to a higher 
court for revision by certiorari. 
SEc. 2697. (1607.) The punishment for a contempt constitutes no
bar to an indictment; but if the offender is indicted, and convicted for
the same offense, the court, in passing sentence, must take into consider­
ation the punishment before inflicted. 
SEC. 2698. (1608.) Any officer authorized to punish for a contempt,
is a court within the meaning of this chapter. 
CHAPTER ru, 
ATTORNEYS A.ND COUNSELORS. 
[Code-Chapter 95.] 
SECTION 2699. (1609.) All persons who, by the law heretofore in
force, were permitted to practice as attorneys and counselors, may con­
tinue to practice as such. 
· SEC. 2700. Any white male person twenty-one years of age, who is
actually an inhabitant of this state, and who satisfies any district court 
of this state that he possesses the requisite learning, and that be is of 
good moral character, may, by such court, be licensed to practice in all
the courts of the state, upon taking the usual oath of office. 
SEc. 2701. (1611.) The supreme court may, on motion, admit any
practicing attorney of the district court to practice in the supreme court 
upon his taking the usual oath of office.
SEC. 2702. (1612.) Any practicing attorney of another state, hav- 
ing professional business in either the supreme or district court, may, on
motion, be admitted to practice in either of those courts upon taking the
oath as aforesaid. 
SEC. 2703. (1613.) The form of the oath aforesaid shall be in sub-
stance as follows: "You do solemnly swear that you will support the 
constitution of the United States, and of this state, and that you will
faithfully discharge the duty of an attorney and counselor of this court,
according to the best of your ability." 
SEc. 2704. ( 1614.) It is the duty of an attorney and counselor:
1. To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice and judicial 
officers;
2. To counsel or maintain no other actions, proceedings, or defenses, 
than those which appear to him legal and just, except the defense of a
person charged with a public offense; 
8. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the causes confided to
him, such means only as are consistent with truth, and never to seek to
mislead the judges by any artifice or false statement of fact or law ; 
4. To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at any peril to himself 
to preserve the secret of his client ;
5. To abstain from all offensive personalities, and to advance no fact 
prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or witness, unless
required by the justice of the cause with which he is charged ; 
6. Not to encourage either the commencement or continuance of an
action or proceeding from any motive of passion or interest. 
7. Never to reject, for any consideration personal to himself, the cause
of the defenseless or the oppressed. 
SEc. 2705. (1615.) An attorney and counselor who is guilty of a
deceit or collusion, or consents thereto with intent to deceive a court, or
judge, or a party to an action or proceeding, is liable to be disbarred,
and shall forfeit to the injured party treble damages, to be recovered in
a civil action. 
SEC, 2706. (1616.) An attorney and counselor has power:
1. To execute in the name of his client a bond for an appeal, certio- 
rari, or writ of error, or any other paper necessary and proper for the
prosecution of a suit already commenced. 
2. To bind his client by his agreement in respect to any proceeding
within the scope of his proper duties and powers, but no evidence of
any such agreement is receivable except the statement of the attorney
himself, his written agreement signed and · filed with the clerk, or an
entry thereof upon the records of the court; 
3. To receive money, claimed by his client in an action or proceed­
ing, during the pendency thereof or afterwards, unless he has been
previously discharged by his client, and upon payment thereof, and not
otherwise, to discharge the claim or acknowledge satisfaction of the
judgment. . 
SEC. 2707. (1617.) The court may, on motion, for either party and
on the showing of reasonable grounds therefor, require the attorney for 
the adverse party, or for any one of several adverse parties to produce 
or prove by his own oath or otherwise, the authority under which he
appears, and until he does so, may stay all proceedings by him on behalf 
of the parties for whom he assumes to appear. 
Sso. 2708. (1618.) An attorney has a lien for a general balance of
compensation upon any papers of his client, which have come into his
~ession in the course of his professional employment ; upon money
m his hands belonging to his client, and upon money due to his client
and in the bands of the adverse party in an action or proceeding in
which the attorney was employed, from the time of giving notice of the
lien to that party. 
SEC. 2709. (1619.) Any person interested in such matter may
release such lien, by giving security, in a penalty double the amount
claimed by the attorney, and conditioned to pay the amount that may be
finally found due for his services. 
SEc. 2710. (1620.) The supreme and district courts may respect­
ively revoke or suspend the license of any attorney or counselor at
law, to practice therein, and a revocation or suspension by the district
court in one county operates to the same extent in the courts of all other
counties. 
SEC. 2711. (1621.) The following are sufficient causes for such
revocation or suspension. 
I. When he has been convicted of a felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude, in either of which cases the record of convic­
tion is conclusive evidence; 
2. When he is guilty of a willful disobedience or violation of the
order of the court, requiring him to do or forbear an act connected with,
or in the course of his profession ; . 
8. For a willful violation of any of the duties or an attorney or eoun­
selor as herein before prescribed ; 
4. For doing any other act to which each a consequence is by law
attached. 
SEc. 2712. (1622.) The proceedings to remove or suspend an
attorney may be commenced by the direction of the court, or on
motion of any individual. In the former case the court must direct
some attorney to draw up the accusation ; in the latter the accusation
must be drawn up and sworn to by the person making it, 
SEC. 2718. (1628.) If the court deem the accusation sufficient to 
justify farther action, it shall cause an order t.o be entered, requiring the 
accused to appear and answer on a day therein fixed, either at the same
or a subsequent term, and shall cause a copy of the accusation and
order to be served upon him personally. 
SEC. 2714. ( 1624.) To the accusation be may plead or demur, and
the issues joined thereon shall in all cases be tried by the court, all the
evidence being reduced to writing, flied and preserved. 
SEC. 2715. (1625.) If the accused plead guilty or fail to answer,
the court shall proceed to render such judgment as the CMe requires. 
SEc. 2716. (1626.) In case of a removal or suspension being
ordered by a district court, an appeal tberef rom lies to the supreme court,
and all the original papers, together with a transcript of the record shall
thereupon be transferred to the supreme court to be there considered
and finally acted upon. A judgment of acquittal by the district court 
is final. 
SEC. 2717. (1627.) An attorney who receives the money or prop­
erty of his client in the course of his professional business, and refuses
to pay or deliver it in a reasonable time at\er demand, is guilty of a 
misdemeanor. 
SEC. 2718. (1628.) Where the attorney claims to be entitled to a
lien upon the money or property, he is not liable to the penalties of the
two preceding sections until the person demanding the money proffers
sufficient security for the payment of the amount of the attorney's claim
when it is legally ascertained. 
SEc. 2719. (1629.) Nor is be in any case liable as aforesaid provi-
ded he gives sufficient security that he will pay over the whole or any
portion thereof to the claimant when he is found entitled thereto. 
CHAPTER 115. 
[Code-Chapter 96.]• 
JURORS. 
SECTION 2720. (1630.) All qualified electors of the state, of good 
moral character, sound judgment, and in full possession of the senses of
hearing and seeing, are competent jurors in their respective counties. 
SEC. 2721. (1631.) The following persons are exempt from Iiabil-
ity to act as jurors, to wit :-All persons holding office under the laws
of the United States or of this state ;-all practising attorneys, physi- 
cians and clergymen ; all acting professors or teachers of any college, 
school, or other institution of learning ; and all persons disabled by
bodily infirmity, or over sixty-five years of age, or specially exempted
by any other statute from serving on juries. 
SEC. 2722. {1682.) Any person may also be excused from serving
on a jury when for any reason his own interests or those of the public
will be materially injured by his attendance, or when the state of his
own health, or the death, or the sickness of a member of his family re­
quires his absence. 
SEC. 2i23. Two jury lists, one consisting of seventy-five persons to
serve as grand jurors, and one consisting of one hundred and fifty per­
sons to serve as petit jurors, and both lists composed of persons compe­
tent and liable to serve as jurors, shall be annually made in each county,
from which to select jurors for the years commencing on the first day of
January annually. 
SEC. 2724. (1634.) Should there be less than that number of such
persons in any county, the list shall comprise all those who am1wer the 
above description.
SEC. 27~5. On or before the first Monday in &ptember in each year, 
the county clerk shall apportion the number to be selected from each
township as nearly as practicable in proportion to the number of votes
polled therein at the last general election, and shall deliver a statement
thereof to the sheriff. . 
SEC. 2726. The sheriff shall cause a written notice to be delivered
to one. of the judges of election in the several townships of the county,
on or before the day of the general, election in each year, informing
them of the number of jurors apportioned for the ensuing year to their
respective townships. 
SEc. 2727. The judges shall thereupon make the requisite selection,
and return list of' names as selected, to the county judge, with the re­
turns of election, and further, provided that in case the judges of elec­
tion shall fail to make and return said lists as herein required, the county
canvassers shall, at the meeting to canvass the votes polled in the county,
make such lists for the delinquent townships. 
SEC, 2728. (1638.) The judge shall thereupon file said lists in his
office, and cause a copy thereof to be recorded in the election book. 
SEC. 2729. (1639.) Grand jurors shall be selected for the first
term in the year at which said jurors are required, commencing next
after the wt day of July in each year, and shall serve for one year.
Petit jurors shall be selected for each term wherein they are required. 
SEC. 2730. (1640.) At least twenty days previous to the first day
of any term at which a jury of either kind is to he selected, the clerk
must write out the names on the lists aforesaid, which have not been
previously drawn as jurors during that year, on separate ballots, and
the judge of the county court and sheriff having compared said ballots
with the jury list and rectified the same, if necessary, shall place the
ballots in a box to be provided for that purpose. 
SEC. 2731. (1641.) .After thoroughly mixing the same, the clerk
shall draw therefrom the requisite number of jurors to serve as afore­
said. 
SEC. 2732. (1642.) When grand jurors are to be selected their
number must be fifteen, and they shall serve for one entire year there­
after; the number of the petit jurors shall be the same unless the judge of
the county court on the written direction of the judge of the district
court order a greater number. 
SEc. 2733. (1643.) Within three days after such drawing the clerk
must issue a precept to the sheriff, commanding him to summon the said 
jurors to appear before the district court at eleven o'clock, A. M., of the
first day of the next term thereof (naming the month and day,) unless
the judge of the district court has previously directed a different hour
or day for their appearance, in which case such direction must be ob­
served. 
SEC. 2734. (1644.) The sheriff shall immediately obey such pre-
cept, and on or before the day for the appearance of said jurors must
make return thereof, and on failure to do so without sufficient cause, is
liable to be fined for a contempt in any amount not exceeding fifty dol-
lars. 
SEC. 2735. (1645.) If a person summoned as a juror, as aforesaid,
fail to appear, the court may issue a rule returnable to that or the suc­
ceeding term, requiring him to appear and show cause why he should
not be fined for a contempt, and unless he render a reasonable excuse
for his failure to attend, the court may fine him in any amount not ex­
ceeding ten dollars and costs, 
SEC. 2736. (1646.) Except when required at a special term which
has been called in vacation, the grand jury need not be summoned after
the first term, but must appear at the next term without summons under
the same penalty as though they had been regularly summoned. 
SEC, 2737. (1647.) If the requisite number of jurors docs not ap-
pear by the time appointed as aforesaid, the court may at any time there-
after direct the sheriff to summon, forthwith, the number necessary to 
make up the deficiency. 
SEC, 2738. Where from any cause the persons summoned to serve
as grand jurors, or petit jurors, fail to appear, or when from any cause,
the court shall decide that the grand or petit jurors have been illegally
elected or drawn, the court may set aside the precept under which the
jurors were summoned, and cause a precept to be issued to the sheriff, 
commanding him to summon a sufficient number of persons from the
body of the county to serve as jurors at the term of court then being
holden, which precept may be made returnable forthwith, or at some
subsequent day of the term, in the discretion of the court. 
SEC, 2739. (1649.) Within ten days after the close of each term,
the clerk of the court must make out a certificate to each juror of the
amount to which he is entitled for his services, which must be allowed
by the county court and paid, as other demands against the county. 
CHAPTER 116. 
LDDTA.TION8 OF ACTIONS. 
[Code-Chapter 99.] 
SECTION 27 40. (1659.) The following actions may be brought
within the times herein limited respectively after their causes accrue,
and not afterwards except when otherwise specially declared, that is to 
say:
I. Actions of slander, libel, malicious prosecution, injuries to the per­ 
son, or for a statute penalty, within two years;
2. Those against a sheriff or other public officer growing out of a lia­ 
bility incurred by the doing of an act in an official capacitl, or by th.e
omission of an official duty, including the · non-payment o money col­ 
lected on execution, within three years ; 
8. Those founded on unwritten contracts, those brought for injuries to
property or for relief on the ground of fraud in cases heretofore solely
cognizable in a court of chancery, and all other actions not otherwise
provided for in this respect, within five years; 
4. Those founded on written contracts, on judgments of any courts
( except those courts provided for in the next section,) and those brought
for the recovery of real property, within ten years; 
5. Those founded on a judgment of a court of record, whether of this
or of any other of the United States, or of the federal courts of the United
States, within twenty years. 
SEC. 2741. (1660.) In actions for relief on the ground of fraud as
above contemplated, the cause Qf action will not be deemed to have
accrued until the discovery of the fraud by the party aggrieved. 
SEC. 27 42. (1661.) In actions founded upon contract the above lim­
itations shall not apply if from the answer of the defendant or from his
testimony as a witness it appearo affirmatively that the cause of action
still justly subsists. But the answer of one of several defendants shall
not prejudice the interests of others in this respect. 
SEC. 2743. (1662.) Where there is a continuous open current ac­ 
count, the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued on the date
of the last item therein as proved on the trial. 
SEc. 27 44. (1668.) The delivery of the original notice to the sheriff
of the proper county with intent that it be served immediately, (which
intent shall be presumed unless the contrary appears.) or the actual
service of that notice by another person, is a commencement of the
action. 
SEC. 2745. (1664.) The time during which a defendant is a non­
resident of the state shall not be included in computing any of the
periods of limitation above prescribed. 
SEc. 27 46. ( 1665.) But when a cause of action has been fully
barred by the laws of any country where the defendant has previously
resided, such bar shall be the same defense here as "though it had arisen
under the provisions of this chapter. 
SEC. 2747. (1666.) The above limitation of actions for the recovery
of real property shall not apply to minors so far as to prevent them from
having at least one year after attaining their majority within which to
commence such actions. 
SEc. 27 4:8. (1667.) If the person entitled to a cause of action die
within one year next previous to the expiration of the limitation above
provided for, the limitation above mentioned shall not apply until one 
year after such death.
SEc. 2749. ( 1668.) If after the commencement of an action the 
plaintiff fail therein (or any cause except negligence in its prosecution,
and a new suit be brought within six months thereafter, the second suit 
shall for the purposes herein contemplated be deemed a continuation of
the first. 
SEc. 2750. (1669.) The above limitations and provisions shall not
apply to evidences of debt intended to circulate as money, but shall in 
other respects be applicable to all actions brought by or against all
bodies corporate and politic except when otherwise expressly declared. 
SEC. 2i 51. Causes of action founded on contract are revived by an
admission that the debt is unpaid, as well as by a new promise to pay
the same. But such admission or new promise must be in writing,
signed by the party to be charged thereby. 
SEC. 2752. A defendant may plead a set-off or counter-claim to.any
cause of action, notwithstanding -such set-off or counter-claim is barred
by the statute, provided that the claim pleaded as such set-off was
owned by the defendant at the time the same became barred by the
statute. 
SEc. 27 53. (167 J.) The provisions of this chapter are intended to
apply to causes of action which have already accrued and are not yet 
barred, subject to the regulations contained in the following two sec-
tions. 
SEC. 2754. (1672.) The times hereafter allowed for commencing
actions in such cases shall not be less than one-half the periods of lim-
itation herein respectively prescribed, except as provided in the next
section. 
SEC. 2755. (1673.) But where the period of limitation heretofore
fixed by statute is not enJarged by the provisions of the first section of
this chapter, the time allowed for the commencement of a suit shall in
no case be greater than that fixed by the law heretofore in force as
applied to those cases. 
SEC. 2756. (1674:.) The time of limitation in relation to actions for
the recovery of real estate as prescribed in this chapter, shall not com-
mence to run in favor of a settler on any public lands until such lands
have been sold by the state. 
CHAPTER 117. 
[Code-Chapter 100.]• 
PARTIES 1'0 AN ACTION. 
SECTION 27 57. Every action most be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest, except as provided in the next section . 
SEC. 27 58. An executor or administrator, a guardian, a trustee of
an express trust, a party with whom, or in whose name a contract is
made for the benefit of another, or a party expressly authorized by
statute, may sue in his own name without joining with him the party for
whose benefit the suit id prosecuted. 
SEC. 2759. All persons having an interest in the subject of the
action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs,
except where it is otherwise provided in this code. 
SEC. 2760. In case of an assignment ofa thing in action, the action by
the assignee shall be without prejuqice to any set-off or other defense 
existing before notice of the assignment; but this section shall not apply
to negotiable instruments transferred in good faith and upon valuable 
consideration before due. 
SEO. 2761. Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims
an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff; or who is a nec-
essary pe.rty to a complete determination or settlement of the question 
involved in the action. 
SEO. 2762. (1679.) Persons having an united interest must be 
joined on the same side, either as plaintiffs or defendants. But when
some who should thus be made plaintiffs refuse to join, they may be
made defendants ; the reasons thereof being set forth in the petition. 
SEC. 2763. (1680.) When the question is one of a common or gen­
eral interest to many persons, or when the parties are very numerous
and it is impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more
may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole. 
SEC. 2764. Where two or more persons are bound by eontraet, or
by judgment, decree or statute, whether jointly only or jointly and sev- 
erally, or severally only, and including the parties to negotiable paper,
common orders, and checks, and sureties on the same, or separate instru­
ments-the action thereon may, at the plaintiff's option, be brought
against any or all of them. When any of those so bound are dead, the
action may be brought against any or all the survivors, with any or all of
the representatives of the decedents--or against any or all such repre­
sentatives. An action or judgment against any one or more of several
persons jointly bound, shall not be a bar to proceedings against the
others. 
SEO. 27 65. The court may determine any controversy between par-
ties before it when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of oth-
ers, or by saving their rights. But when a determination of the contro-
versy between the parties before the court, can not be made without the
presence of other parties, the court must order them to be brought in. 
SEc. 27 66. When in an action for the recovery of real or personal
property, any person having an interest in the property applies to be 
made a party, the court may order it to be done by the proper amend­
ment. 
A person not a party but having an interest, can not be made a party to an
action on contract to recover money. This section must be confined to actions
for the recovery of real or specific personal property. Judd v. Yom1g, 7 Pr. 
B., 79.
The provision allowing a third person to be made a party, extends only to 
actions for the recovery of real or personal property, and not to an action in 
the nature of a creditor's bill. Tallman v. Hollister, 9 Pr. R., 608. 
SEC. 2767. Upon affidavit of a defendant before answer in any ac­
tion upon contract for the recovery of personal property, that some third
party without collusion with him, has, or makes a claim to the subject oC 
the action, or on proof thereof as the court may direct, the court may
make an order for the safe keeping, or for the payment or deposit in
court, or delivery of the subject of the action to such person as it may
direct, and an order requiring such third person to appear in a reason­
able time and maintain or relinquish his claim against the defendant, and
in the mean time stay the proceedings. If such third party, being served
with a copy of the order, fails to appear, the court may declare him
barred of all claim in respect to the subject of the action against the de­
fendant therein. If such third person appears, he shall be allowed tQ 
make himself defendant in the action in lieu of the original defendant
who shall be discharged from all liability to either of the other parties,
in respect to the subject of the action upon his compliance with the order
of the court for the payment, deposit, or delivery thereof. 
SEc. 27 68. The provisions of the last section shall be applicable to 
an action brought against a sheriff, or other officer, for the recovery of
personal property taken by him under an attachment or execution, or for
the proceeds. of such property so taken and sold by him. And the de­
fendant in any such action shall be entitled to the benefit of these pro.
visions against the party in whose favor the attachment or execution
issued, upon exhibiting to the court the process under which he acted, 
with his affidavit that the property, for the recovery of which, or its pro.
eeeds, the action was brought, was taken under such process. 
SEC. 2769. In an action against a sheriff, or other officer, for the
recovery of property taken under an attachment or execution, the court
may, upon the application of the defendant and of the party in whose
favor the process issued, permit the latter to be substituted as the de-
fendant, sureties for the costs being given. 
SEc. 2770. An action to recover the possession of specific personal
property taken under a landlord's attachment, when it is brought by the 
tenant or his assignee or under-tenant, may be against the party who sued
out the attachment; and the property claimed by such action, may, under
the writ therefor, be taken from the officer who seized it, when he has no
other claim to hold it than that derived from the writ.. The indorsement
of a levy on the property made upon the process by the officer holding it,
ahall be a sufficient taking of the property to sustain the action against
the party who sued out the writ. 
SEC. 2771. When a married woman is a party, her husband must
be joined with her, except that 
1. When the action concerns her separate property, or is founded on
her own contract, she may sue and be sued alone. 
2. When the action is. between herself and her husband, she may sue
and be sued alone. And in no CMe need she prosecute or defend by
guardian or next friend.• 
SEC, 2772. When sued alone, judgment shall be enforced against
her separate property. 
SEC, 2773. When suing alone, judgment may be. enforced against 
her separate property, or her husband being bro~ht in by rule, execu­
tion may issue against him also, unless for cause he show that he is not
interested in the suit by the wife. 
SEC. 277 4. If husband and wife are sued t.ogether, the wife may de-
fend for her own right; and if either neglect to defend, the other may 
defend for such one also, 
SEC. 277 5. In an action brought by a man and his ,Vife for an in-
jury done to the wife, in respect of which she is necessarily joined as 
co-plaintiff, it shall be lawful for the husband to join thereto claims in
his .own right. 
SEC. 2776. When a husband, teing a father, has deserted his family,
the wife, being a mother, may prosecute or defend in his name, any
action which he might have prosecuted or defended, and shall have the
same powers and rights therein as he might have bad. 
SEC. 2777. The action of an infant must be brought by his guardian
or next friend ; but the court has powE:r to dismiss it if it is not for the
benefit of the infant, or to substitute the guardian of the infant or other
person as next friend. 
SE~. 2778. The defense of an infant must be by his regular guard-
ian, or by a guardian appointed to defend him, where no regular guard- 
ian appears, or where the court directs a defense by a guardian ap-
pointed for that purpose. No judgment can be rendered against an
infant until after a defense by a guardian. 
SEc. 2779. The appointment can not be made until after service of
the notice in the action as directed by this code, and may then be made 
by the court or judge thereof, or during vacation by the clerk of the dis- 
trict court; but the court shall have power to remove such guardian and
appoint another instead, whenever the interests of the infant requires
such a change. 
SEc. 2780. The appointment may be made upon the application of
the infant if he is of the age of fourteen years, and applies at or before 
the term to which the notice is served. If he is under the age of four-
teen, or does not so apply, the appointment may be made upon the
application of any friend of the infant, or on that of the plaintiff' in the
action. 
SEC. 2781. The action of a person of unsound mind, must be
brought by his guardian, or if he has none, by his next friend. When 
brought by his next friend, the action is subject to the power of the
court "in the same manner as the action of an infant so brought. 
SEC. 2782. The defense of an action against a person of unsound
mind, must be by his guardian or a guardian appointed by the court to
defend for him, when no guardian appears, or when the court directs a 
defense by a guardian. The guardian to ?efend may be appointed at 
l
on of any friend of the defendant, or on that of the plain·
appointme!t can be made until after service of the notice, u
this code, and no judgment can be rendered against him 
defense by guardian.
3. Where a party is found to be of unsound mind during 
Jndency of an action, the fact being stated on the record, if he is
.iifl', his guardian may be joined with him in the action as such ; if 
Is defendant, the plaintiff may, on ten days' notice thereof to his 
.... Lrdian, have an order making the guardian a defendant also .• 
SEC. 2784:. No judgment can be rendered against a prisoner in the
penitentiary, until after a defense made for him by his attorney, or if 
there is none, ty a person appointed by the court to defend for him.
Sao. 2785. A co-partnership may sue or be sued in its firm name; 
and when so sued the individual property of any member of such firm,
may, on scir« facias, be made liable to the judgment, unless he show
cause to the contrary. A co-partnership may also sue or be sued in the
individual names of its members.• 
Sao. 2786. (1692.) When an action is founded on a written instru-
ment, suit may be brought by or against any of the parties thereto, by 
the same name and description as those by which they are designated in
such instrument. 
Sec. 2787. When a bond or other instrument given to the state or
to any officer or person, is intended for the security of the public gen~
era.Uy, or of particular individuals, suit may be brought thereon in the
name of any person intended to be thus secured, who has sustained any
injury in consequence of a breach thereof; or by such party in the
name of the obligee, the body politic may sue in the name of the obligee
in the bond, and in case a motion is allowable, such party may, in the
same manner, m~ such motion. 
SEC. 2788. (1694.) When the precise name of any defendant can 
not be ascertained, he may be described as accurately as practicable,
and when the name is ascertained it shall be substituted in the proceed· 
ings. 
SEC. 2789. (1695.) Corporations, foreign or domestic, may bring
suit in the courts of this state in their corporate name. 
SEC. 2790. An unmarried female may prosecute, as plaintiff, an
action for her own seduction, and recover such damages as may be found
in her favor. 
SEC. 2791. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his 
famiiJ, or imprisonment, the mother, may prosecute as plaintiff for the
seduction of the daughter; and the guardian for the seduction of the 
ward, though the daughter or ward be not living- with, nor in the service
of the plaintiff a.t the time of the seduction, or afterwards, and there be
no loss of service ; but when the action is brought by the guardian, the
damages recovered shall inure to the benefit of the ward. 
SEC. 2792. A father, or in case of bis death or imprisonment or
desertion of his family, the mother, may prosecute as plaintiff an action 
for the expenses and actual loss of service resulting from the injury or
death of a minor child. 
Sze. 2793. The state shall commence and prosecute suits according
to the laws of the land, as in cases between individuals, except that no
security shall, in such case, be required. 
SEC, 2794. No action shall abate by the transfer or assignment of 
any interest therein during its pendencj. In case of the marriage of a
female party, the fact being suggested on the record, the husband may 
be made a party with his wife, whenever necessary. In case of any other
transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the
original party, or the court may allow the pe:r8on to whom the transfer
or assignment is made to be substituted in the action, proper orders
being made as to security for costs. 
CHAPTER 118. 
PLACE OF BRINGING SUIT. 
[Code-Chapter 101.] 
SECTION 2795. Actions for the following causes must be brought in
the county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof is
situated: 
1. For the recovery of real property or of an estate therein, or for
the determination in any form of such right or interest. 
2. For the partition of real property.
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property, or for the sale 
of real property under any incumbrance or charge.
4. For injuries to real property.
5~ For the possession of personal property .. 
SEC. 2796. .Actions for the following causes must be brought in the
county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose: 
1. An action for the recovery of a fine, penalty, or forfeiture imposed
by a statute, except that when the offense for which the claim is made was
committed on a water course or road, which is the boundary of two
counties, the action may be brought in either of them. 
~ An action against a public officer, or person specially appointed to
execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue or under color of his
office, or against one who by his command or in his aid, shall do anything
touching the duties of such officer, or for neglect of official duty. 
8. An action upon the official bond of a public officer. 
SEc. 27':J7. An action when aided by attachment may he brought in
any county of the state, wherever any part of the property sought to be
attached may be found, when the defendant, whose property is thus pur-
sued, is a non-resident of this state. If such defendant is a resident of
this state, such action must be brought in the county of his residence, or
that in which the contract was to be performed, except that if an action
be duly brought against such defendant in any other county by virtue of
any provisions of this chapter, then such action may, if legal cause for
an attachment exist, be aided by an attachment. 
SEC. 2798. (1704.) When by its terms a contract is to be per-
formed in any particular place, action for a breach thereof, may be
brought in the county wherein such place is situated. 
SEC. 2799. An action against a railroad company, or an owner of a 
line of mail stages, or other coaches, for an injury to person or property,
upon the road or line, or upon a liability as a carrier, may be brought in
any county through or into which said road or line passes. • 
SEC. 2800. (1701.• Except where otherwise provided herein, per-
sonal actions must be brought in .a county wherein some of the defend-
ants actually reside. But if none of them have any residence within
this state, they may be sued in any county wherein either of them may 
be found. 
SEC. 2801. When a corporation, company, or individual has an office
or agency in any county for the transaction of business, any suits grow-
ing out of or connected with the business of that office or agency, may
be brought in the county where such office or agency is located. 
SEC. tts02. If a suit be brought in the wrong county, it may be there
prosecuted to a termination, unless the defendant, before answer, demand 
a change of venue to the proper county. In which case the court shall
order the same at the costs of the plaintiff, and may award the defend-
ant a reasonable compensation for his trouble and expenses in attending
at the wrong county. 
CHAPTER 119.* 
[Code-Chapter 102.] 
CHANGE OF VENUE. 
2803. A change of venue in any civil action, may be had 
in any of the following cases :
1. Where the county in which the suit is pending is a party thereto. 
;l. Where the judge is a party, or is directly interested in the suit,
or is connected by blood or affinity, with any person so interested, nearer 
than in the fourth degree. •
S. Where either party files an affidavit, stating that the inhabitants 
of the county arc, or the judge is so prejudiced against him, or that the
adverse party or hi~. attorney, has such an undue influence over the in·
habitants of the county, that he can not obtain a fair trial. Where it
is made to appear to the judge that a jury of twelve men can not be
obtained in the county where said action is pending, then upon applies-
tion of either party, a change of venue shall be granted to the nearest
county in which a jury can be obtained.f 
SEC. 2804. The application for a change of venue may be made,
either to the court or to the judge in vacation, and if made in term time, 
shall not be awarded until issue be made up, unless objection be to the
court ; nor shall such application be allowed after a continuance, except
for a cause not known to the atfiant before such continuance, and after
one change, no party is entitled to another, for any cause in existence,
when the first change was obtained. 
SEC~ 2805. The venue shall be changed to some other county in the
same district, unless the objections are to the judge, or unless the objec­
tion made is claimed to hold to all the other counties of the district, and
shall be to the most convenient county to which no objection is made. 
SEC. 2806. (1709.) If the change is ordered by the judge in vacs- 
tion, he must immediately transmit to the clerk, where the cause is pend­
ing, the affidavit, if any, and the order for the change. 
SEC. 2807. In such case,as well as where the order is made in open
court, the clerk must forthwith transmit to the clerk of the proper court,
strongly enveloped and sealed, a transcript of the record and proceed-
ings in such cause with all the original. papers filed therein, having first
made out and filed in his own office, authenticated copies of all such
original papers, but if less than all of several plaintiffs or defendants
take such change, the clerk shall so transmit not the original papers, but
a copy thereof instead, and shall retain the original papers in bis office,
and as to those who take no change, the cause shall proceed as if no
change had been taken by any co-party. 
S1w. 2808. Upon filing such transcript and papers in the office of
the clerk of the court to which the same were certified, the cause shall 
be docketed without fee, and proceeded in as though it had originated
therein. 
SEc. 2809. The costs occasioned by such change of venue, includ-
ing those of the transcript and transmission, and those growing out of
the preparation of the other party for trial, shall, unless such change be
taken under subdivision 2 of section 2803, be taxed against the appli-
eant and not as a. part of the costs of the case, and the clerk may require
payment of the costs of the transcript and transmission, before the case
is transmitted as aforesaid. 
SEc. 2810. If change of venue be taken in vacation, and the appli-
cant therefor has not procured the transmission of the papers to the 
proper county, before the first day of the next term thereafter, then
such party shall be held to have waived his change of venue, and the 
eause shall be retained in the court where pending for trial therein, un-
-less such non-transmission be the entire fault of the clerk. And if such 
change be taken during a term of court, unless the cause be so trans­
mitted as aforesaid, or the costs of the clerk therefor be paid or secured
by the morning of the second day thereafter, or before said cause be
reached for trial, if sooner reached, then such cause shall be retained
for trial in the court where pending, and tried as if no change had been
prayed. 
[Code-Chapter 103.] 
THE MANNER 01' COHKENCING ACTIONS. 
SECTION 2811. {1714.) Actions originating in the district coart
are to be commenced by serving the defendant with the notice herein­ 
after described, 
CHAPTER 120. 
SEC. 2812. Such notice must be signed by the plaintiff or his attor-
ney, and must inform the defendant of the name of the plaintiff, and,
that on or before a date therein named, a petition will be filed in the
office of the clerk of the district court of the county wherein suit is
brought, naming it and stating generally the nature of the claim, or
claims, if more than one, without the need of stating the facts consti­
tuting the cause thereof (as for example on account for a promissory
note-for work-for goods sold-for assault and battery-for slander­
for the recovery of personal or real property, or in some other such
general way,) and if the action is for money, how much is claimed­
and that unless he appears thereto and defends, before noon of the second
day of the term, at which said defendant is required by law to appear­
naming it-or at such other time, as may be by general rule of such
court prescribed, default will be entered against him, and judgment
rendered thereon. If the defendant fail to appear, judgment shall not
be rendered for a larger amount than the sum therein claimed and
costs. 
SEC, 2813. If the petition is not filed by the date thus fixed, and
ten days before the term, the action will be deemed discontinued. 
SEc. 2814. The notice may be served by any person not a party to
the action. 
SEC. 2815. The defendant, if served otherwise than by publication,
shall be held to appear at the next term after service, provided- 
I, He be served within the county where suit is brought in such time 
RS to leave at least ten days between the day of service and the first
day of the next term. 
2. He be served without the county, but within the judicial district,
so as to leave at least fifteen such days. 
8. He be served elsewhere within the state so as to leave twenty
such davs, · 
4. H~ be served without the state so 88 to leave ten such days for
every one thousand miles or fraction thereof, extending between the
county of suit and the place of service, which distance shall be judi­
cially noticed by the court. If not so served, be shall be held to appear
at the second term thereafter. 
SEC. 281 6. The notice shall be served as follows :
I. By reading the notice to the defendant or offering to read it in 
case he neglects or refuses to hear it read, and in either case by deliv­
ering him personally a copy of the notice, or if he refuses to receive it,
offering to deliver it. 
2. If not found within the county of his residence, by leaving a copy
of the notice at his usual place of residence, with some member of the
family over fourteen years of age. 
8. By taking an acknowledgment of the service indorsed on the
notice, dated, and signed by the defendant. 
SEC. 2817. If served personally, the return must state the time and
manner and place of making the service, and that a copy was delivered 
to defendant, or offered to be delivered. If made by leaving a copy
with the family, it must state at whose house the same was left and that
it WM the usual place of residence of the defendant-and the township, 
town or city in which the house WM situated, the name of the person
with whom the same was left, or a sufficient reason for omitting to do
so, and that such person was over fourteen year~ of age, and was a
member of the family. 
S KO. 2818. Ir notice is served out of the county where suit is
pending, either within or without the state, return mny be made by mail
and the postage thereon taxed among the costs. 
SEC. :l8 l 9. If notice is placed in the hands of the sheriff of the
county wherein action is brought, he must note thereon the <late when 
thus left with him, and must proceed to serve the same without delay,
if possible, within his county, and must file the same with his return
thereon immediately thereafter in the office of the clerk of the district
court. If placed in the hands of the sheriff of any other county, he
must serve the same if possible within his county at once, and return
the same by mail to the party from whom he received it, with his return
thereon, immediately thereafter. 
SEc. 2820. If a notice be not duly filed by the sheriff, or if the
return thereon is defective, the officer making the same may be fined by 
the court not exceeding ten dollars, and shall also be liable to the action
of any person aggrieved thereby. But the court may permit an amend-
ment according to the truth of the case. 
SEC. 2821. Notice shall not be served on Sunday, unless the plain-
tiff make oath thereon that personal service will not be possible unless
then made, and a notice indorsed with such affidavit shall be served by
the sheriff, or may be served by another, as on a secular day. 
Sim. :l822. (17~4.) The plaintiff may notify either of the defendants
that no personal claim is made against him, in which case a copy of that 
notice must accompany the return. If after such notice and return such
defendant unreasonably defend, he must pay costs to the plaintiff. 
SEC. 28:,?:3. If service be made within the state, the truth of the
return is proven by the signature of the sheriff, or his deputy, when 
made by- either of them in his own county, and the court shall take
judicial notice thereof. If made without the state or by one not such
officer within the state, the return may be proven by the affidavit of
him making the same, certified by one empowered to administer oaths. 
SEC. 2hi4. (1726.) If a county is defendant, service may be made
on the county judge or clerk of the county court, If any other civil 
corporation, upon a trustee or other officer thereof.
Ssc. 2825. ( 1727.) When an action is brought against a corpora- 
tion of any other description, service may be made upon either of its 
officers, or on any clerk or &.aaent engaged in the active management of
the ordinary business of the corporation. 
SEC. 2826. If brought against a corporation having no officers, or a
partnership, service may be made upon any member thereof, or upon
any agent employed in the general management of their business. 
SEC. 2827. When a corporation,company, or individual, has, fur the
transaction of any business, an office or agency in any county, other
than that in which the principal resides, service may be made on any
agent or clerk employed in such office or agency, in all actions growing
out of, or connected with, the business of that office or agency. 
SEC. 2828. When the defendant is a minor under the age of four- 
teen years, the service must be made on him, and also on his father or
mother or guardian, and if there be none of these within the state, then
on the person within this state having the care and control of such 
minor, or with whom he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be
employed. When the infant is over fourteen years of age, service on
him shall be sufficient. 
SEC. 2829. When the defendant is a person of unsound mind, ser­
vice must be made upon him and upon his guardian, and if he have no
guardian, then upon his wife or the person having the care of him, or
with whom he lives, or the keeper of the asylum in which he may be 
confined. 
8Ec. 2830. When the defendant is a prisoner in the penitentiary, a
~y of the petition must be with the notice delivered to the prisoner,
and a copy of the notice shall also be delivered to bis wife, if he have
any. 
Site. 2881. Service may be made by publication in either of the
following cases : 
1. In actions brought for the recovery of real property, or an estate
or interest tberein. 
2. In an action for the partition of real property.
8. In an action for the sale of real property under a mortgage lien or 
other incumbrance or charge.
4. In actions to compel the specific performance of a contract of sale 
of real estate, or in actions to establish or set aside a will, where in such
cases any or all of the defendants reside out of this state, and the real
property is within this state. 
6. In actions brought against a non-resident of this state, or a foreign
corporation having in this state property or debts owing to such defend­
ant, sought to be taken by any of the provisional remedies, or to be
appropriated in any way. 
6. In actions which relate to, or the subject of which is real or per­
sonal property in this state, when any defendant bas or claims a Hen or
interest, actual or contingent therein, or the relief demanded consists
wholly or partly in excluding him from any interest therein, and such
defendant is a non-resident of the state or a foreign corporation. 
7. In all actions where the defendant being a resident of the state has
departed therefrom, or from the county of his residence, with intent to
delay or defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a notice, or
keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent. · 
8. Where the action is for a divorce.
SEC. 2832. Before service can be made by publication, an affidavit 
must be filed that personal service of notice can not be made, within this
state, on the defendant to be served by publication. When such affida-
vit is filed the party may proceed to make service by publication. 
SEC. 2S83. The publication must be made by publishing the notice
required in section 2812, without addition, four consecutive weeks, 
which last publication shall be at least ten days before the next term of
court, in some newspaper issued at least weekly, and printed in the 
county where the petition is filed, and if there be none printed in such
county, then in such paper printed at the next nearest county of this
state, which paper shall, in either case, be determined in writing by the
clerk of the court on the tiffi.davit., which affidavit shall be filed in the 
case. 
SEC. 2884. Service by publication shall be deemed complete when
the proper affidavit shall have been filed, and the notice published in
the manner and for the time prescribed in the preceding section, and
the affidavit of such publication shall have also been filed, which affida-
vit maybe made by any person knowing the fact, and the defendant
shall be held to appear at the term which next succeeds such completed
service, without regard to the number of days intervening. 
SEC. 2835. Actual personal service of the notice either within or
without the state, supersedes the necessity of publication. 
S1w. 2836. In actions where it shall be necessary to make an
unknown person defendant, the petition shall be sworn to, and shall
atate what interest such person has or claims to have, how the same was
derived or is claimed to have been derived, as exactly as possible, that 
the name and the residence of such person are unknown to plaintiff, and
that he has sought diligently to learn the same, and thereon proceedings
may he had against such person without naming him, as follows : 
SEC. :2837. The court shall approve a notice collected from the
avermenta of the petition, which notice shall contain the name of the
plaintiffs, a description of the property, and all the allegations of the
petition concerning the interest of the unknown pel'l!On and the mode of
devolution thereof the relief demanded, also the name of the court and
the term at which appearance must be made. Said notice must be enti­
tled in the full name of the plaintiff against the unknown claimants of
property, and shall be signed by the plaintiff's attorney. 
SEC. 2838. The court, on its approval of said notice, shall indorse
the same thereon and order that the said notice be published in some
newspaper of this state, designsting such paper as shall be most likely
to give notice to such unknown person. 
SEC. 2889. Such notice shall be tiled in the cause, and its contents,
without more, shall be published in the paper .designated, at least
weekly for six successive weeks, and at the end of said time, service
shall be deemed complete, and such unknown person in court at the next 
term thereafter.
SEC. 2840. The mode of appearance may be :
I, By delivering to the plaintiff or the clerk of the court a memoran- 
dum in writing to the effe<>t that the defendant appears, signed either by
the defendant in person or by his attorney, dated the day of its delivery,
and to be filed in the CMe. 
2. By announcing to the court an appearance, which shall be entered
of record. 
8. By an appearance, even though specially made, by himself or hie
attorney, for any purpose connected with the cause ; or for any purpose
connected with the service, or insufficiency of the notice. And an
appearance, special or other, to object to the substance or service of the
notice, shall render any further notice unnecessary, but may entitJe the
defendant to a continuance, if it shall appear to the court that he has not
had the full timely notice required, of the substantial cause of action
stated in the petition. But if the petition contains more titan one cause
of action, a mere apearanee shall not be deemed an appearance to any
cause except such as the defendant shall have had due notice of, accord­
ing to section i8 l 2 hereof and such causes shall be dismissed." 
SEo. 2841. When the action is against two or more defendants, and
one or more shall have been served, but not all of them, the plaintiff
may proceed as follows: 
1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon contract,
he may proceed against the defendants served, and if he recover judg­
ment it may be entered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted,
so far as that it may be enforced against the joint property of all, and
the separate property of the defendants served, and it shall not be valid
l\,"8.inst those not served until on scire faciaa they have bad full oppor­
tunity to show cause against the judgment. 
2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may with­ 
out prejudice to his rights again&t those not served, proceed against the
defendants served in the same manner as if they were the only defend- 
ants.
3. Or the plaintiff may continue till the next term, and proceed to 
bring in the other defendants ; but at such second term the suit shall
proceed against all who have been served in due time, and no further 
delay shall be allowed to bring in the others, unless all that appear shall
consent to such delay. 
SEC. 2842. When a petition has been filed affecting real estate, the
action is pending so as to charge third persons with notice of its pend- 
ency, and while pending no interest can be acquired by third persons in
the subject matter thereof as against the plaintiff's title, if the real prop-
erty affected be situated in the county where the petition is filed. 
SEC. 2848. When any part of real property, the subject of an action
is situated in any other county than the one in which the action is
brought, the plaintiff must, in order to affect third persons with a con-
structive notice of the pendency of the action, file with the clerk of the
district court of such county, a notice of the pendency of the action con-
taining the names of the parties, the object of the action, and a descrip-
tion of the property in that county affected thereby, and from the time
of such filing only, shall the pendency of the action be constructive
notice to subsequent vendees or incumbrancers thereof, who shall be
bound by all the proceedings taken after the filing of such notice, to the
same extent as if a party to the action, and the clerk of such county
must immediately, on receipt of such notice, index and record the same
in the incumbrance book. 
SEC. 2844. Causes of action of whatever kind, where each may be
prosecuted by the same kind of proceedings, provided that they be by 
the same party, and against the same party in the same rights, and if
suit on all as to venue may be brought in that county, may be joined in
the same petition, but the court to prevent confusion therein, may direct
all, or any portion of the issues joined therein, to be tried separately, and
may determine the order thereof. t 
Under the code there is but one form or action allowed. But there are 
causes of action that can not be properly joined in the same petition ; [ as for
example an equitable and an ordinary one,] but the plaintiff may, at any
time before the cause is submitted to tbe jury, or the court, strike out any
cause of action and, by amendment, submit for decision, a distinct cause of
action from that stated in the original petition. Hord v. Chandler, 13 B. M., 
404. 
SEC. 2845. The plaintiff may strike from bis petition any cause of
action, or any part thereof, at any time before the finai. submission of the 
case to the jury or to the court, when the trial is by the court.
The plaintiff has a right to strike from his petition any cause of action at 
any time before the final submission of the case to the jury, or to the court.
By amending his petition, he may submit a distinct cause of action from that
in his original petition. Hord v Chandler, 18 B. M., 404. 
SEC, 2846. The court at any time before the defense, shall on mo-
tion of the defendant, strike out of the petition, any cause or causes of
action improperly joined with others. 
Misjoinder of' actions is no eauee of demttrrer. A motion to strike out is
the proper remedy. Stiles, J., Hart v. Cundiff, Mu. opin., January, 1856. 
Stanton's Ky. Code. 
CHAPTER 121.* 
JOINDER OJ.I' ACTIONS. 
SEC. 2847. All objections to the misjoinder of causes of actions
shall be deemed to be waived, unless made as provi_ded in the last sec- 
tion, and all errors in the decision of the court thereon are waived,
unless excepted to at the time. 
SEC. 2848. When a motion is sustained on the ground of misjoinder
of causes of action, the court, on motion of the plaintiff, shall allow him,
with or without costs, in its diecretion, to file several petitions, each in­
cluding such of said causes of action as might have been joined, and an 
action shall be docketed for each of said petitions, and the same shall be
proceeded in without further service, and the court shall determine, by 
order, the time of pleading therein. 
CHAPTER 122.* 
PLEADING. 
[Code-Chapter l°'-1 
TDD OF PLEADING. 
SECTION 2849. The defendant shall, in an action commenced by
ordinary proceedings, demur or answer, or do both, as to the original
petition, before noon of the second day of the term. ' 
SEC. 2850. In such action, the plaintiff' shall demur or reply as to
the original answer, or do both, before noon of the third day of the
term, and as to an amended or supplemental answer, or an answer in
the nature of an answer over, after motion or demurrer by the party 
answering, before noon of the second day after the day on which such
answer shall have been filed. 
SEC. 2851. The defendant shall, if the original reply be filed before
noon of the third day of the term, demur thereto before noon of the
fourth day of the term, and to an amended or supplemental reply, be­
fore noon of the second day after the day on which such pleading shall
have been filed. 
SEC. 2852. In an equitable action, the defendant shall demur before
noon of the second day of the term, and shall answer in the same time,
if the notice shall have been served sixty days before such term, and if 
not, then in sixty days from the day of completed service. 
SEC. 2853. If the answer, the action being commenced by equitable
.proceedings, is filed on the second day of the term, the plaintiff may
demur before noon of the third day thereafter, and must reply thereto
on or before the fiftieth day after said filing. 
SEC. 2854. The defendant must demur to an equitable reply before
noon of the second day of the term, after the filing thereof. 
Sso. 2855. If any pleading is by any rule or order, or for any legal
reason, filed after the time herein fixed, then the adverse party shall 
have, in which to file his subsequent pleading, the same number of days 
as would have been allowed him had such late pleading been tiled in the
time herein fixed. 
SEO. 2856. The appearance term shall not be the trial term for
equitable actions, except in cases in which notice shall have been served
sixty days before such term. and in which also the answer shall be 
merely a denial, and the proof documentary. 
SEC. 2857. The day on which the judge actually opens court, shall 
be for the purpose of timing the pleadings, considered the first day of 
the term. 
SEO. 2858. Every pleading must, however, be filed on or before the
cause is called for trial, although the time allowed for such pleading 
shall not then have elapsed. 
SEC. 2859. Taking into consideration in each case, the business of
the attorney, and also the opportunities in such county afforded the
client to have consulted him before the term, the court, for good cause
shown, may, on request, extend the time of filing any pleading beyond
the time herein fixed, but shall do so with due regard to making up the
issues at as early a day as under the circumstances is possible. 
SEC. 2860. The court shall have the power to tax against the losing
party to any motion or demurrer contemplated in this chapter, the sum 
of five dollars, or any smaller sum, depending on the merits of the con-
troversy raised by such motion or demurrer, as costs, in favor of the
party who thereon succeeds. But aft.er the filing of any such motion
or demurrer, and before the same is called up for argument, such motion
or demurrer may be confessed, and the proper amendment made without
the costs contemplated in this section ; but a second confession of a
motion or demurrer to a like pleading, shall not exempt from the costs
contemplated in this section, but shall incur them as would an adjudi-
cation • 
SEC. 2861. When a petition, answer, or reply shall be adjudged
insufficient in whole or in part upon demurrer, or the whole or some
part thereof stricken oat on motion, the proper party may file a further
like pleading within such time as the court may then direct, and the
same shall hold as to the answer or reply of a party whose demurrer is
overruled, and in either case, in default of such pleading being so filed,
the court shall proceed with the cause in the same manner as if no such
original pleading had been filed. 
SEC. 286t. If such second petition, answer, or reply be filed, and in
like manner be adjudged insufficient, or the whole or some part thereof in
like manner stricken out, the party filing such second pleading shall be 
taxed ten dollars, or some smaller sum, in the discretion of the court, as
costs, and file a like pleading instanter; or in default thereof, the court.
shall proceed with the cause in the same manner as if no second plead-
ing had been filed. 
SEC. 2863. If a third petition, answer, or reply be adju~ed insuffi-
cient, as above, or the whole or some part be stricken out, the party
filing such pleading shall be taxed fifteen dollars, or a smaller sum, in the
discretion of the court, as costs, and no further petition, answer, or reply
shall be filed, but judgment shall be rendered as for want of such plead· 
mg. 
Sze. 2864. All motiou 888&iling any pleading shall be in writing,
and filed in the ease, and Iha.II specify the causes on which they are
founded, and no cause not so epeci8ed shall be argued or considered in
support of the motion. 
SEC. 286.5. Motions 8188iling pleadings for any of the objectiooe
ltated in this chapter, shall be regulated as regards the time of filing
them as demurrers are. 
Sao. 2866. A motion af\er a motion, or a demurrer after a demur­
rer, to the same pleading, shall not be allowed ; but each motion and 
each demurrer shall state all the oojectioM to any pleading which are
intended to be made to it, except that a demurrer, on the ground of
insufficient statement of facts to oonstitute a muse of action, defense,
1et-off, counter-claim, erose-demand, or reply, may be filed at any time
before answer or reply, unless the points thereof have been already
made, or oould have been made in a prior demurrer. 
Ssc. 2867. A motion 888&iling any pleading, or any count thereof,
for any of the objections stated in this chapter, shall suspend the neces­ 
sity of any other pleading to such pleading or count, until the motion
shall have been determined, whereupon the com1 shall direct on or
before what time the next pleading shall be filed : the same shall obtain 
as to a demurrer.
Sze. 2868. All pleadings, including demurrers, and all motione made 
in writing. shall be filed with the case. 
Sso, 2869. No motion or demurrer shall be argued until the morn-
ing after that on or before which the same shall have been filed, as pro­ 
vided in the preceding secuon, unless by consent, or unless the case be
sooner reached. 
· SEC. 2870. A motion or dumurrer once filed shall not be withdrawn,
without the consent of the adverse party entered thereon, or of the 
court; in which last case the court may award to the. other party, costs,
as imposed on adjudication thereof, and shall fix the time of filing the
next pleading. . 
SEC. 2871. The fifing of a pleading in the clerk's office, and notice
thereof on 'the notice book, within the time allowed, shall be equivalent 
to a filing in open court. 
SEC. 2872. All technical forms of actions and of pleading, all com-
mon counts, general issues, and all fictions are abolished, and hereafter
the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the roles by which their
sufficiency is to be determined, are those prescribed in this eode." 
SEC. 2873. The pleadings are the written statements of the parties 
0£ the facts constituting their respective claims and defenses.
SEc. 287 4. The only pleadings allowed are : 
I. The petition of the plaintiff. 
2. The demurrer or answer by the defendant.
3. The demurrer or reply by the plaintiff.
4. The demurrer by the defendant. 
The Petition.
SEc. 2875. The first pleading by the plaintiff is the petition. The 
petition must contain : 
I. The name of the court and the county in which the action is
brought. 
2. The names of the parties to the action, plaintiffs and defendant.a,
followed by the word " petition," if the proceedings are ordinary, and
by the words" petition in equity," if the proceedings are equitable. 
3. A statement in ordinary and concise language, without repetition,
of the facts constituting the plaintiff's cause of action. 
4. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff considers himself 
entitled, and if such demand be for money, the amount thereof must be
stated. 
6. Where the petition contains more than one cause of action, each
must be stated wholly in a count by itself, and must he sufficient ill
itself; but one prayer for judgment may include a smn, based on all
counts looking to money remedy. 
9. In a petition by equitable proceedings, each cause of action shall
also be separated into paragraphs, numbered as such for more convenient
reference, and each paragraph shall contain, as near as may be conven­
ient, a complete and distinct statement. 
The Demurrer. 
SEC. 287 6. The defendant may demur to the petition only where it
nppears on its face, either, 
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant
or the subject of the action, or, 
2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue, or,
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties for 
the same cause, or,
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiffs, or defendants, or, 
5. That the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that it states some fact which avoids the cause of action, or, 
6. For causes stated in sections 2918, 2920, 2961, 2a68, of this
chapter. 
SEC. 2877. The demurrer must distinctly specify and consecutively
number as the grounds of objection, some matter of error, intended to
be argued as a defect in the pleading; unless it do so it shall be disre­
garded; and it shall not be enough to state the objection in the terms of
the preceding section, except that a demurrer to an equitable petition for
the fifth reason of section 287 6 may be stated in the terms thereof," 
SEC. 2878. When any of the matters enumerated in section
287 6 do not appear on the face of the petition, the objection may be 
taken by an answer. If no such objection is taken either by demurrer
or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same,
except only the objection that the petition does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action, or states a fact which amids the cause of
action. 
SEc. 2879. The defendant may demur to one or more of the several
causes of action alleged in the petition and answer, as to the residue. 
.A,uwer.• 
SEC. 2880. The answer shall contain : '
1. The style of the court, the name of the county, and the name of 
the plaintiffs and defendants, but when there are several plaintiffs and
defendants, it shall be only necessary to give the first name of each class,
with the words--and others. • 
2. A general denial of each allegation of the petition, or else of any
knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief, which latter
may be by this or any equivalent stetementc=-of the truth of no allega­
tion of the petition has this defendant knowledge or information sufficient
to form a belief; or, 
8. A specific denial of each allegation of the petition oontroverted by
the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to
form a belief. 
4. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense, in ordinary
and concise language, without repetition. 
5. A statement of any new matter constituting a set-off, or a counter- 
claim, or a cross-demand, or a Cl'088-petition, in ordinary and concise
language, without repetition. 
6. The defendant may set forth in his answer as many causes of
defense, set-off counter-claim, or cross-demand, whether legal or equita­
ble, as he may have. 
SEC. 2881. Matter of defense as distinguished from set-ofF, counter-­
claim, or cross-demand, is either negative, as for example, that which
contradicts, in whole or in part, some fact-proposition of the petition, or
it is affirmative; as for example, that which states new matter either to
avoid some fact-proposition of the petition, or to avoid the legal conclu­
sion of the petition, and all such negative matter, whether wholly or
partly so, should be stated in one division of the answer. 
SEC. 2882. Each affirmative matter of defense shall be stated in a
distinct division of the answer, and must be sufficient in itself and
must intelligibly refer to that part of the petition to which it is intended
to apply. 
SEC. 2883. In the defense part of an answer or reply, it shall not
be necessary to make any prayer of judgment. . 
SEo. 2884. Each matter of set-off, counter-claim or cross-demand,
or cross-petition, must be specially stated in a distinct division. 
SEC. 2885. An equitable division must be also separated into para­
graphs and numbered as is required in regard to an equitable cause of
action in the petition. 
SEC. 2886. A set-off can only be pleaded in an action founded on
contract, and must be a cause of action arising on contract, or ascer­
tained by the decision of a court. 
SEC. 2887. A co-maker or surety when sued alone, may, with the
consent of his co-maker or principal, avail himself by way of set-off,
of a debt or liquidated demand due from the plaintiff at the commence­
ment of the suit to such co-maker or principal, but the plaintiff may
meet such set-off in the same way as if made by the co-maker or prin­
cipal himself. 
SEC. 2~88. Where it appears that a new party is necessary to a
final decision upon a set-off, the court shall permit the new party to be 
. made, if it also appears that owing to the insolvency or non-residence
of the plaintiff, or other cause, the defendant will be in danger of losing
his claim unless permitted to use it as a set-off. 
SEC. 2889. The counter-claim must be a cause of action in favor of
the defendants, or some of them, against the plaintiffs, or some of them,
arising out of the contracts or transactions set forth in the petition, as
the foundation of the plaintiff's claim, or connected with the subject of
the action." 
SEC. 2890. When it appears that a new party is necessary to a final
decision upon a counter-claim, the court may either permit the new party
to be made, by a notice to reply to the counter-claim in the answer, or
may direct that it be stricken out of the answer, and made the subject
of a separate action. 
81.;c. 2891. A statement by way of cross-demand is any new matter
constituting any cause of action in favor of the defendant, or all the de­
fendants if more than one, against the plaintiff, or all the plaintiffs, if 
more than one, and which the defendant or defendants might have
brought when suit was commenced, or which was then held, either ma­
tured or not, if matured when so plead." 
SEC. 2892. 'When a defendant has a cause of action, affecting the
subject matter of the action, against a co-defendant, or a person not a
party to the action, he may make in his answer a cross-petition against 
the co-defendant or other pen:on.
The defendants thereto, may be notified as in other cases, and defense 
thereto shall be made in the time and manner prescribed in regard to
the original petition, and with the same right of obtaining provisional
remedies applicable to the case, 
The prosecution of the cross-petition shall not delay the trial .of the 
original action, when a judgment can be rendered therein that will not
prejudice the rights of the parties to the cross-petition. 
SEC, 2893. The guardian of an infant or person of unsound mind,
or attorney for a person in prison, must deny in the answer all the 
material allegations of the petition, prejudicial to such defendant. 
SEC. 2894. When the facts stated in the answer, or any division
thereof are not sufficient to constitute a defense, set-off, counter-claim, 
or cross-demand, the adverse party may demur, and shall be held therein
to the same certainty in the statement of his grounds therefor, as obtains
in a demurrer to the petition. 
Reply. 
SEC, 2895. There shall be no reply except upon the allegations of 
a counter-claim, or set-off, or cross-demand, in the answer. 
SEC, 2896. \Vhen the answer contains new matter constituting a 
set-off, counter-claim or cross-demand, the plaintiff may reply. to such
new mutter. 1. Denying generally or specifically, each allegation con- 
troverted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to
form a belief as in case of answer, or-2. He may allege in concise and
ordinary language, any new matter not inconsistent with the petition,
constituting a defense to the set-off, counter-claim or cross-demand. 
SEC. 2897. Any number of defenses, negative or affirmative, are
pleadable to a set-off, counter-claim or cross-demand. 
SEC. 2898. .All the negative matter of the reply, whether wholly or
partly so, shall be stated in one division-s-and each affirmative matter of 
defense in the reply, shall be sufficient in itself, and must intelligibly
refer to the pa~ of the answer to which it is intended to apply. .A.
division of equitable matter must also be separated into paragraphs and
numbered as required in case of such matter in the answer. 
SEC. 2899. When the facts stated in the reply do not amount to a
sufficient defense, the defendant may <lemur, subject to the same require- 
ments of certainty in statements of grounds thereof, as obtain in demur-
rer to the petition. 
General Principles of Pleading. 
SEC. 2900. The opposite party shall be deemed to join in a demur-
rer, whenever he shall not amend the pleading to which it is addressed. 
SEC. 2901. In all cases in which a denial is made by answer or re-
ply, concerning a time, sum, quantity, or place alleged, the party deny- 
fog shall declare whether such denial is applicable to every time, sum, 
quantity, or place, or not, and if not, what time, sum, quantity or place,
he admits. 
SEc. 2902. The counts of the petition must be consecutively num­
bered as such, and so must the divisions of the answer as such, and of 
the reply as such.
S1w. 2903. If the matter of the petition, answer or reply, is not put 
into distinct counts or divisions and numbered as herein contemplated,
or if one such division contains in the petition more than one cause of
action, or if one division in the answer contains more than one affirma­
tive defense, or set off, or counter-claim, or cross-demand, or if one divis­
ion in the reply contains more than one affirmative defense to any set­
off, counter-claim. or cross-demand, the party so neglecting to divide and
number, may, on motion, be ordered to divide and number, and the party
so pleading double in the contemplation of this section, may be on motion,
ordered to elect on which part of such double count or division he will
stand, and to strike out the rest of it~r to re-divide such count or
division, made bad by such duplicity. 
SEC. 290 t. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party, or his
attorney, and when any pleading in a case shall be verified by affidavit,
all subsequent pleadings except demurrers shall be verified also, and in
all cases of verification of a pleading the affidavit shall be to the effect
that the affiant believes the statements thereof to be true." 
SEC. 2905. Where a corporation is a party, the affidavit may be
made by any officer thereof. 
SEC. 2906. When there are several parties united in interest., the
affidavit may be made by any one of them. 
SEC. 2907. If the pleading be founded on a written instrument, for
the payment of money only, and such instrument be in the possession of
the agent or attorney, the affidavit may'be made by such agent or at­
torney. 
SEO. 2908. If the statements of the pleading are known to any per
son other than the party, such person may make the afBda'rit. 
8Ec. 2909. Wheu the aifidavit ia made by an otlter than the party, 
it most also contain avennents showing the afflant competent to make 
the affidavit according to the foregoing provisions. 
SEC. 2910. 1'he verification shall not be required to the answer of 
a guardian, of an infant, or person of unsound min~ or a prieoner. 
SEC. 2911. The verification shall not be required when the admie,. 
Bion of the truth of the allegations of the petition or answer might sub-
ject the party to a criminal or penal prosecution, and when it can be 
seen from the pleading to be answered, than an admission of the truth
of its allegations might so subject the party, his general affidavit that
such might be the effect of the admission, without stating the facts lead­
ing him to eueh a conclusion, shall be received, in lieu of a verifieation 
of the pleading.
SEc. 2912. Verification shall not be required to a pleading grounded 
on an injury to the person or the character. 
SEC. 2913. The affidavit of verification may be made before any
person, either within or without this state, duly .qualifled to administer 
an oath, and must be signed by the person making the same, and the 
officer before whom the same itl taken, shall certify that it was signed in
his presence, by the person (naming him) and by him, before such
officer sworn to or affirmed. That purporting to be the certificate of
such officer, as signed officially, if made within this state, shall be prima 
· facie evidence that it is such certificate, and that its averments are true,
and if made without this sULte shall be so taken, when made before any
one, by our law qualified to take depositions, but if taken before any
officer not so qualified, his official certificate must be authenticated as is
required by section 4058 of this code, 
SEc. 2914. The verification of the pleading does not apply to the
amount claimed, except in actions founded on contract, express or 
implied, for the payment of money only. 
SEC. 2915. The verification shall not make other or greater proof
necessary on the side of the adverse party. 
SEC. 2916. If a pleading be not duly verified, it may be stmck out,
on motion, but such defect will be deemed waived if the other party 
respond thereto, or proceed to trial without such motion. 
SEC. 2917. Every material allegation of the petition not eontro-
verted by the answer, and every material allegation in the answer of 
new matter, constituting a set-off, counter-claim or cross-demand, not
controverted by the reply, must for the purposes of the action, be taken
as true. But the allegations of new matter in the answer, not relating 
to a set-off, counter-claim or cross-demand, or of new matter in a reply,
is to be deemed controverted by the adverse party as upon a direct
denial or avoidance as the case may require. An allegation of value, or 
of amount of damage, shall not be deemed true by a failure to controvert
it, and an a.verment that, of the truth of any stated allegation or allega-
tions the party has not sufficient knowledge or information to form a 
belief, shall be deemed a sufficient denial to prevent the SMDe from being
taken as true. A party desiring to admit any allegations of fact, which
by this section· would otherwise be deemed controverted by mere force 
of law, may at any time ftle a written admission thereof. 
SEC. 2918. If the action, set-off, counter-claim, or cross-demand, is
""- d d b.11 f • 1 b • d , 
roun e on an account, a 1 o particu ars must e mcorporate mto,
or attached to, and filed with the pleading, or such pleading will be 
demurrable, and if not incorporated into it-must be verified as the
pleading. And if the same be not a statement of such particulars as may
be necessary to give the court and the other party, reasonable knowl-
edge of the nature and the grounds of the cause of action, set-off,counter-
elaijn or cross-demand, the court may, on motion, order it to be made
more specific. Such bill of particulars shall be deemed a part of the
pleadings to which it is annexed, and shall be answered or replied to as
such, and as such shall define and limit the proof, subject, however, to
amendment as hereafter provided. The items of a bill of particulars
ahal! be consecutively numbered, and the party adverse shall answer
specifically every item ; but he may make one and the same allegation
or denial concerning any number of items to which such allegation or
denial is applicable, specifying the number of the items thus answered
together, when less than the whole. 
SEC. 2919. If the adverse party shall deny that any item is due or
payable, or that he owes the party as alleged, he must state all the 
substantive grounds on which he rests such denial, and shall specify
whether some, and what part of the whole, of such item or demand is 
denied." ·
SEC. 2920. If the action, set-off, counter-claim or cross-demand is 
founded on a note, bill, bond, or other writing, as evidence of indebted-
ness, the original or a copy thereof must be set out in or annexed to
the pleading, if in the power of the party to procure it. If not so
done, the reason thereof must be stated in the pleading. If there be
no such copy so set out or annexed, and no sufficient reason stated
for such omission, it will be sufficient ground for a demurrer . to such
pleading. • 
If it apeears on the face of a paragraph of the answer that it is founded
upon a written instrument, and ·neither the instrument nor a copy of it is
filed, the paragraph will be subject to a demurrer. Price v. Tk« Grand 
Rapids, etc., Co., 12 Ind. R. 
SEC. 2921. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a
court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state 
the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination
may be stated to have been duly given or made. 
SEO. 2922. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in 
& contract, whether such conditions are expressed or implied, it shall not
be necessary to state the facts constituting such performance, but a gen-
eral statement that the party duly performed all the conditions on his 
part, or to that substantial effect, shall be sufficient. 
v. FOUJler, Sand., 665. 
SEC. 2928. A plaintiff auing 88 a corporation, partnership, executor,
guardian, or in any other way, implying oorporat.e, partnership, repre­ 
sentative, or other than ind~vidual capacity, need not state the {.act.a 
constituting such capacity or relation, but may aver generally, or 88 a 
legal conclusion, such capacity or relation; and where a defendant ~
held in such capacity or relation, a plaintiff may aver such capacity or 
relation, in the same general way. 
SEC. 2924. If the general allegation contemplated in the three pre­
ceding sections is made in a petition, and is not controverted in the 
answer, or made in the answer in relation to a set-off, counter-claim, or 
cross-demand, and not controverted in the reply, each allegation not so 
controverted shall, on the tsial, be taken as true.•
SF.c. 2925. If either of the allegations contemplated in sections 
2921-2922-2928 is intended to be controverted, it shall not be sufficient
to controvert it in tenns of the allegation contradictory of the general
proposition intended to be controverted, but it is neceuary to state spe­ 
cifically the facts relied on as a denial of such proposition.
Ssc. 2926. In pleading a private statute, pr a right derived there- 
from, it shall be sufficient fl> refer to such statute by its title and the
day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice
thereof. 
SEC. 2927. Every court of this state shall take judicial notice of the
rules of any other court thereof. 
SEc. 2928. In an action for slander or libel, it shall not be necessary
to state in the petition any extrinsic fact for the purpose of showing the
application to the plaintiff of any defamatory matter out of which the
cause of action arose, but it shall be sufficient to state generally that the 
IBIIle was spoken or published concerning the plaintiff, nor ~hall it be
necessary to state any prefatory or extrinsic fact for the purpose of
showing that such words were used in a defamatory sense, but it shall
be sufficient generally to state that the words or matte\ were used in a
defamatory sense, specifying such defamatory sense, and where the words
or matter set forth, with or without the alleged meaning, show a. cause
of action, it shall be sufficient.• 
SEO. 2929. In actions of slander or libel,.the defendant may, in his
answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and 
any mitigating circumstances sufficient in law to reduce the amount of
damages ; or he may allege either one of these without the other, and
the allegation of the truth of the matter charged shall not, if the defend-
ant fail to establish it, be deemed, in itself, proof of the malice of such
words, but the jury shall decide upon the whole case, whether such
defense \\tas, or was not, made with malicious intent, and whether he
prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the .mltigatlng
circumstances, but each defense must be separately stated and numbered,
and if the defendant relies on more than one mitigating circumstance
sufficient in law to reduce the amount of damages, each of such circum-
stances must be separately stated and numbered, and sufficient in itself,
and if the defendant relies on the truth of the matter charged, nothing
herein is intended to relax the la"; of pleading heretofore in force, as 
SEC. 2930. Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an action
who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the success of either of
the parties to the action, or an interest against both. An intervention
takes place when a third party is permitted to become a party to an
action between other persons, either by joining the plaintiff in claiming
what is soughtby the petition, or by uniting with the defendant in re­ 
sisting the claim of the plaintiff, or by demanding any thing adversely
to both the plaintiff and defendant. A third person may intervene
either before or after issue has been joined in the cause, and before the
trial commences. 
SEC. 2931. The court shall determine upon the intervention at the
same time that the action is decided, and the intervenor has no right to 
delay ; and if the claim of the intervenor is not sustained, he shall pay
all costs of the intervention. 
SEC. 2932. The intervention shall be by petition filed in the court
in which the action is pending, and it must set forth the facts constituting 
the grounds on which the intervention rests, and shall be taken notice of
by the adverse party, as any other pleading, on being served by copy,
and shall be responded to in the time which is allowed for other plead­
ings of the kind used in such response, and all the pleadings therein
shall be governed by the same principles and rules as obtain in other
pleadings provided for in this chapter. But if such petition is filed
during term, the court shall direct the time in which an answer shall be 
filed thereto. 
SEC. 2933. In a proceeding against a married woman, growing out
of any contract which she may have the legal right to make, the plead- 
ing need not state facts constituting a cause against her with respect to
her separate property, but need only state facts constituting a cause of 
action, or set-off or counter-claim, or cross-demand, against her as a
person, and judgment shall be personal 
SEC. 2934. One cause of action, defense, set-off, counter-claim, cross-
demand, or reply, shall be expressed in but one statement, and not in 
various counts or divisions. If such be done, the adverse party may
move to strike out all but one of such counts or divisions, supporting
bis motion by an affidavit that the same are for only one cause of action,
whereupon the other party shall either so strike out at the cost of the
motion, or declining, must show on the trial as many distinct causes as
he bas counts or divisions, or shall pay all the costs of the whole trial.• 
SEC. 2935. Where a transaction has taken place between the plain-
tiff and defendant, constituting in favor of the plaintiff a cause of action 
against the defendant, and where another contemporaneous or subsequent
transaction growing out of and based upon the former transaction, has
also taken place between them, which may or may not have operated a 
merger or displacement of the former cause of action-then, if such
plaintiff is not clear upon· which of such transactions he is entitled to
recover, he may state in his petition, in distinct counts, the facts consti-
tuting each of such causes of action, and may pray for the relief proper
to each cause of action, and must also state that he claims to recover but
for one of such causes; whereupon the defendant may allow judgment
to go against him on either of such causes in bar of the other; or if
the defendant contests both of such causes, the plaintiff may, on proper
proof, recover on either, or having obtained verdict on both, may state
on which one he will have judgment, which judgment shall be in bar of 
the other. 
The same principles shall obtain in regard to a set-off, counter-claim, 
or cross-demand. t 
SEc. 2936. W11ere a transaction has occurred, and if certain facts
thereof should be proved, such proof would entitle the plaintiff to one 
kind or degree of relief, w bile if other facts thereof were proved, such 
proof would entitle the plaintiff" to another kind or 4egree of relief;
then if tile plaintiff" can not determine which group of fads he cab 
prove, but believes he can prove the one or the other of such groups, he
may state as cause .of action in distinct counts, each of such group of 
facts, with the relief which he demands thereon, and that he asks judg­
ment only on one of such group of &de. Whereupon the parties shall
have the aame rights, and the same proceedings may be bad as are pro­ 
vided for in eect.ion 2985, and the verification of the caw,es of action o(
this sect.ion shall be in e8'ect tut the plaintiff' believes one or the other 
of them true, but can not determine which."
Sso. 2937. CJontradictory causee of defense or reply may be stated 
in an answer or reply, and when the pleading is verified, it must be to
the same effect as required in the last section. 
SEc. 2938. Two or more parties making the same defense or reply, 
may do so jointly. ·
Sso. 2939. The pleading may include one count only when the same 
contract was made by each of the adverse parties, but must include
different counts describing the dift'erent contracts of the adverse parties,
when, as in the case of maker and indorser, the same contract was not
made by alL 
SEO. 2940. Whenever a party claims a right derogatory from the
general law, or when his claim is founded upon an exception of any 
kind, he shall set forth such claim or 8llCh excep&ioa particularly in his 
pleading. 
Sso. :2941. Propositions which stare matters of law, aa contra-dis­
tinguished from those which 1tate matters of fact, must not be stated in
a pleading, but if a proposition which has a meaning which would make
it matter of law has also another and a common sense meaning, which
would make it matter of fact, it shall be taken in the latter meaning ancl
shall be deemed a proposi&.ioo of fact. t 
SEC. 2942. Any defense showing that .a contract, written or oral, or
::,ca::~C::'1~ any instrument sued on; is void or voidable ; or the fact that the alleged 
instrument was delivered to a third person, as an escrow, or showing
matter of justification, excuse, discharge, or release, and any cause of 
defense which admits the facts of the adverse pleading, but by some
other matter seeks to avoid their legal effect, must be specially pleaded. 
SEC, 2943. Any defense that admits that an allegation of the other
pleading is true, as an allegation of fact, but assumes that it is not true 
as an allegation of law, and seeks to avoid it by new matter, must be
specially pleaded. 
SEC, 2944. Under a mere denial of an allegation, no evidence shall
be introduced by the party so denying, which does not tend to negative 
such an allegation of fact, or to negative some proposition of fact, as
contradistinguished from one of law, which the party having made the
controverted allegation, is bound to prove, in order to sustain such alle­ 
gation. • 
Ssc, 2945. Propositiona which are atatements of evidence, 88 COD• 
tradistinguished from propoaitioD8 which are statements of the ultimate
results of evidence, should not be 9tated in any pleading.• 
Ssc. 2946. The court may, on motion of any person aggrieved
thereby, cause irrelevant or redundant matter to be stricken from an.y
pleadings, at the cost of any party, whose pleading contains them. 
SEC. 2947. A material allegation in a pleading, is one essential to
the claim or defense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient. 
SEC. 2948. When the facts on which a.ny pleading is founded, are
stated in a manner so general, or so indefinite, or-so uncertain that the 
precise nature of the cause of action, or defense, or set-off, or counter-
claim, or cross-demand is not so apparent as to enable the adverse
party to respond intelligibly thereto, the court may, on motion, require
the pleading to be made more specific, definite, and certain by amend·
ment, and no pleading which recites or refers to a contract, shall be
deemed sufficiently specific, unless it states whether the same is in writ­
ing or not, Such motion shall point out wherein the amendment is
required or shall be disregarded, and if the reason for such demand of
more specific statement exists outside of the pleadings, the motion must
state the same and be sworn to. 
SEC. 2949. The title of a cause shall not be changed in any of its
stages of transit from one court to another. 
SEC. 2950. Matters of which judicial notice is taken, need not be
stated in a pleading. 
SEC. 2951. In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of de­
termining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a 
view to substantive justice between the parties. 
SEc. 2952. Wh~n a party claims by conveyance, he may state it 
according to its legal effect or name.
SEC. ~953. When a party claims by inheritance, either by immedi­ 
ate or mediate descent, he shall allege how he is heir, as son, nephew, or
otherwise. 
SEC. 2954. It shall not be necessary to allege the commencement of
either a particular or a superior estate, unless it be essential to the merits 
of the CMe. 
SEC, 2955. When time forms a material point in the merits of a
cause, the day, month, and year, or when there is a continued act, the 
period of its duration must be alleged. When time is not material, it
need not be stated, and if stated, need not be proved. 
SEC, 2956. In actions for injuries to goods and chattels, their kind
or species shall be aUeged. 
SEC. 2957. It shall be necessary to allege a place, only when it is
descriptive of the subject matter of the action, and forms a part of the
substance of the issue. 
SEc. 2958. In actions for injuries to real property, the party shall
describe the property, and when the injury is to an incorporeal heredita- 
ment, shall describe the property in respect of which the right is claimed,
as well as the right itself, either by the name by which the property is
designated in the national survey, or by its abuttals, or by its course sand
distances, or by any name which it has acquired by reputation, certain
enough to identify it. 
SEC. 2959. When the party intends to prove malice, to affect dama-
ges, he must aver the same. 
SEC, 2960. In an action, set-off, counter-claim, or cross-demand on
a bond with conditions, the party sueing thereon shall, in his pleading,
notice the conditions and allege facts constituting the breach or breaches
relied on. 
SEC, 2961. When a pleading shows affirmatively, that its cause of
claim is barred by the statute of limitations, it may be assailed by 
demurrer.
SEC, 2962. When the defendant pleads the statute of limitations, 
responding to such plea, the plaintiff may, without leave or C0.3t, or incur-
ring delay, amend his petition, by a count averring as another cause of 
action, the proper admission or new promise, with what other matter
may be necessary to constitute sufficient cause of such claim, and the
plaintiff may recover on either of such claims as he may show himself
entitled. But he may in the first instance, rely on and state as cause of
action, the matter displacing the bar of the statute as contemplated in the
amendment herein stated. 
SEC, 2903. When any pleading shows affirmatively, that its cause
of claim should be evidenced by writing, according to the law of evi-
dence, and that the same is not so evidenced, it may be assailed by
demurrer. 
SEC, 2964. Where such cause of action, set-off, counter-claim, or
cross-demand, as should be evidenced by writing, is so evidenced, then 
the same must be stated to be so, and the writing, or a copy thereof,
must be annexed to the pleading, unless a reasonable excuse be set forth
in the pleading for not annexing the same, else it shall not be received
in proof on trial. 
· SEC. 2965. All statements which need not be proved to any extent
at all, such ns the statement of time, quantity, quality, and value, when
these are immaterial, the statement of finding and losing, and bailment
in action for goods, or their value; the statement of promises which
were not in fact made, and which need not be proved, and all statements
of a like kind, shall be omitted. 
8Ec. 29li6. If a party state mo'!'e facts, or a greater title or estate
h 
. . l hi h 1' f ) . d d h fl
t an ts necessary to entit e irn to t e re IC c aime , an sue acts, 
estates, or title be denied to the full extent, he shall not be compelled to
prove more than is necessary to constitute a claim to the relief prayed,
or to any lower degree of relief, included in tho relief prayed. And if 
a party states in his answer or reply, more than is needed for his defense,
he shall not be compelled to prove more than is needed for his defense. 
SEC. 2967. When the action, defense, set-off, counter-claim or cross·
demand is founded on a written instrument, and the original is referred 
to in a pleading, and annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execu­
tion of such instrument shall be deemed admitted, unless the adverse party
in response to such pleading, if it is one which may be responded to, and if 
it be not, then before the trial deny the genuiness of execution of the
same by affidavit; and when any other writing, purporting to have been
executed by one of the parties is referred to in, and filed with a plead­
ing, it may be read against such party 88 genuine and duly executed,
unless he denies the same by affidavit, before the trial is begun. 
SF.c. 2968. Either. party may be allowed, on motion, to make a sup-
plemental petition, answer or reply, alleging facts material to the case,
which have happened or have come to his knowledge since the filing oC
the former petition, answer, or reply, nor shall such new pleading be
considered a waiver of former pleadings. 
SEC. 2969. Matter in abatement may be stated in the answer or
reply, 88 one or more of the causes of defense or reply. Either together 
with or without other causes of defense in bar, and no one of such
causes shall be deemed to overrule the other; nor shall a party after
trial, on matter of abatement, be allowed in the same action to answer
or reply matter in bar." 
SEC, 2970. Any defense a.nsmg after the commencement of any
action, shall he stated according to the fact, without any formal com- 
mencement or conclusion, and any answer which does not state whether
the defense therein set up arose before or after action, shall be deemed
to be of matter arising before action. 
SEC. 2971. The forms contained in schedule A to this act annexed
shall be sufficient, and those and tpe like forms may be used with such
modifications as may be necessary to meet the facts of the case ; but
nothing herein contained shall render it erroneous or irregular to depart
from the letter of such forms so long as the substance is expressed with-
out prolixity. 
.Amendments. 
SEC, 2972. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and
the proof is to be deemed material, unless it has actually misled the
adverse party to bis prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon
the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has been so misled,
that fact must be shown by proof aliunde to the satisfaction of the court,
and such proof must also show in what respect he has been so misled,
and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended upon
such terms as may be just.• 
SEC. 2973. When the variance is not material as provided in the
1--t ti h di h l'. be f d rdin th 
Ult! sec ion. t e court may irect t e tact to oun acco g to e
evidence, and may order an immediate amendment without costs. 
SEC. 297 4. When, however, the allegation of the claim or defense
to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in som_e particular or par·
ticulars only, hut in its general scope and meaning, it shall not be deemed
a case of variance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof. 
SEC, 2975. The plaintiff" may amend his petition without leave, at
. b l'. h . fil d • h . di h di 
any time erore t e answer rs e , wit out preJU ice tot e procee mgs
already had; but a notice of such amendment shall be served on the 
defendant or his attorney, and the defendant shall have the same time to
answer or demur thereto, as he had to the original petition. 
Sso. 2976. Upona demurrer being overruled, the party demurring
may answer or reply. 
SEC. 2977. The court may, on motion of either party, at any time
in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper, permit
such party to amend any pleadings or proceedings by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations
material to the case, or when the amendment does not change substan­
tially the claim or defense by conforming the pleadings or proceedings
to the facts proved. The court may likewise, in its discretion, on terms,
and for good cause proved, allow an answer or reply to be filed after the
time limited by this code, when such time bas not been by order ex­
tended. And whenever any proceeding taken by a party, fails, in any
respect to conform to the provisions of this code, it may permit an amend­
ment of such proceeding so as to make it conformable thereto. 
SEC. 2978. The court must, in every stage of an action, disregard
any error or defect in the proceeding, which does not affect the substan­
tial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment shall be reversed or 
affected by reason of such error or defect. 
SEC. 2979. When either party shall amend any pleading or pro­
ceeding, the case shall not be continued in consequence thereof, unless 
the court shall be satisfied by affidavit or otherwise, that the adverse
party could not be ready for trial in consequence of such amendment.
But if the court is thus made to become satisfied, a continuance may
be granted to some day in the same term, or to the next term of said 
court. 
SEC. 2980. Whenenr two or more actions are pending in the same
court which might have been joined, the defendant may, on motion, and
notice to the adverse party, require him to show cause why the same 
shall not be consolidated, and if no sufficient cause be shown, the same
shall be consolidated. 
SEc. 2981. Courts may permit the amendments authorized by this
h t b d · h be. if d ibed · · 290-' 
c apter o e ma e, wit out rng veri e as prescr1 in section · <t:,
unless a new and distinct cause of action, defense, set-off, counter-claim,
or cross-demand is thereby introduced. 
SEC. 2982. If an original pleading be lost or withheld by any one,
the court may order a copy thereof to be substituted. 
.SEC. 2983. All matters of supplement or amendment, whether of
addition or subtraction, shall be made not by erasure or interlineation of 
the original, or by addition thereto, but upon a separate paper, which
shall be filed, and shall constitute, with the original, but one pleading.
But if it be stated in such paper,. that it is a substitute for the former
pleading intended to be amended, in that case it shall be deemed such 
substitute, but the pleading superseded by the substitute shall not be
withdrawn from the files. 
SEC. 2984. No record shall be an"iended or impaired by the clerk,
or other officer of the court, or by any person without the order of such 
court, or of some court of competent authority. 
Interrogal.ories. 
SEC. 2985. Either party may annex to his petition, answer or reply,
written interrogatories to any one or more of the adverse parties con- 
ceming any of the material matters in issue in the nction, the answer to
which on oath may be read by either party as a deposition between the
party interrogating and the party answering. 
SEC. 2986. The party answering shall not be confined to respond-
iog merely to the interrogatories, but may state any new matter con- 
cemiog the same cause of action, which shall likewise be read as a 
deposition. 
S•q. 2987. These shall be answered at the same time the petition is
required to be answered, and when annexed to tbe answer or reply, shall 
be answered at or before the calling of the cause for trial, if such plead-
ing has been filed four clear days. 
SEC. 2U88. The trial of an action by ordinary proceedings shall not
be postponed on account of the failure to answer interrogatories, if the
party interrogated is present in court at the trial, so that he may be
orally examined; nor, in case of his absence, unless an affidavit be filed
showing the facts, the party believes will be proved by the answers
thereto, and that the party has not filed the interrogatories for the pur-
pose of delay ; whereupon, if the party will consent that the facts stated
in the affidavit shall be considered as admitted by those interrogated, the
trial shall not be postponed for that cause. 
SEC. 2989. The party in answering such interrogatories, shall dis-
tinguish clearly between what is stated from his personal knowledge, 
and what is stated from information or belief merely. An unqualified
statement of a fact shall be considered as made of his personal knowl- 
edge. 
SEC. 2990. The answers to the interrogatories shall be verified by
the affidavit of the party answering, to the effect that the statements in
them made of his own personal knowledge are true, and those made
from the information of others he believes to be true. 
SEC. 2991. Where a party filing interrogatories shall also file an
ffid 
• h h il b li h bi f h · ·
a avit t at e veri y e ieves t e su ~ect o t e mterrogatorles, or any 
of them, is in the personal knowledge of the opposite party, and that his
answers thereto, if truly made from such knowledge, will sustain the
claim of defense, or any part thereof, and the opposite party shall fail to 
answer therein within the time allowed therefor, or by the court ex- 
tended, the claim or defense, or the part thereof, according to such affi-
davit, shall be deemed to be sustained, and judgment given accord- 
ingly. 
SEC. 2992. The court may compel answers to Interrogatories, by
process of contempt, and may, on the failure of the party to answer 
them after reesonable time allowed therefor, dismiss the petition, or
quash the answer of the party so failing. 
CHAPTER 123.* 
[Code-Chapter 105.] 
TRIAL AND ITS INCIDENTS. 
SEC. 2993. Issues arise in the pleadings where a fact or conclusion
of law is maintained by one party and controverted by the other. They 
are of two kinds: Ist, of law; 2d, of fact. 
SEc. 2994. An issue of fact arises, I. Upon a material allegation
of fact in the petition denied by the answer. 2. Upon a material alle­
gation of fact in a set-off, counter-claim, or cross-demand, presented in
the answer and denied by the reply. 3. Upon allegations of fact
being new matter, in the answer or reply, which shall be considered as 
controverted by the opposite party without further pleading. 
S1w. 2995. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the petition, 
answer, or reply, or to ·some part of either, or upon any allegation of 
fact in a pleading by the one party, the truth of which is neither con­
troverted by the other party nor by the law for him. 
SEC. 2996. Issues both of law and fact may arise upon different
parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases the issues of 
law must be first tried; but by going to trial on an issue of fact without
objection, a party will be deemed to have waived his demurrer. 
SEC. 2997. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues in an
action, whether they be issues of law or of fact. 
SEC. 2998. Issues of law must be tried by the court, unless referred
as provided in section 3089. An issue of fact in an action by ordinary 
proceedings, must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial shall be waived,
as provided in section 3087, or a reference be ordered, as provided in 
section 3090. 
Hou, Equital,le I,,uu Tritd. 
SEC, 2999. Equitable issues may be tried according to two distinct
methods, called first and second methods of equitable trials, and these 
methods shall differ one from the other in the following particulars, and
none others r " 
I. As to the form of evidence. In all cases tried according to the
first method, all the evidence shall be in writing, while in those cases
tried by the second method, the evidence shall be as in ordinary actions. 
2. As to who may determine the facts therein. In a trial by the first
method, the issues shall be tried by the court, who may, however, to in­
form his conscience, order the whole issue, or any part thereof, or any
specific question of fact involved therein, to be tried by a jury, or may
refer the same, and may in either case accept or reject the finding of the
jury or referee, and may, with or without a statement of any finding of
facts, render such judgment as he considers equitable. W bile in a trial
by the second method, either party shall be entitled to have the whole
issue or nny part thereof, or any specific question of fact involved therein,
tried by a jury, under the instructions of the court, as in a case by or­
dinary proceedings, or to have the same tried by the court acting as a
jury, and finding in writing the facts, which finding of facts in either
case shall be of ultimate facts and not of evidence of such facts, and
shall be stated on the record as a special verdict, and the judgment of 
the court shall be the legal conclusions based upon and supported by the
facts so found as herein contemplated. 
8. As to what is triable on appeal. In an appeal taken on n case
tried in the first method, ail the evidence shall go to the supreme court,
which shall try the case on both the law and facts as apparent of record.
)Vhile in cases tried by the second method, no evidence shall, on appeal, 
go to the supreme court, except such as may be necessary to explain and
apply any bill of exceptions, and such court shall try only the legal
errors thereof, duly presented, as in a case by ordinary proceedings, in­
cluding the sufficiency of the facts stated on the record, as the basis of
the judgment to warrant the same. 
81w. 3000. The first method shall obtain in all cases, except, 1.
In di vorce cases. 2. In foreclosure of tax-title cases, and of mortgages. 
3. In default cases, 4. In cases where all the parties thereto consent 
to try by the second method, in which cases the second method shall
obtain. 
SEC. 3001. The consent in the last section contemplated, must be
expressed in open court, and entered of record, or must be in writing
and signed by the parties or the attorney of the parties, and filed in the
cause, 
SEc. 3002. The plaintiff in his petition, or the defendant in his
answer, may state his consent to try the case by the second method, and
if the other party, within ten days thereafter, file his consent thereto in
the clerk's' office, the cause shall be so tried. 
SEC, 3003. Or if all the parties at any time before trial enter into
such consent, the cause shall be so tried. 
Continuance.
SEC. 3008. When time is asked for making application for a con­ 
tinuanee, the cause shall not lose its place on the calendar, or it may be 
• , , 
Precedence of Oau,u. 
SEC. 3004. A civil cause shall not be tried save by consent of the
bar, in any other order than that in which it stands upon the docket. 
SEc. 3005. The clerk shall keep a calendar of all the causes pend­
ing in his court, arranging in one part thereof, criminal causes, in the
order of their commencement ; in another part thereof, ordinary actions,
in the same order; and in another, equitable actions, in the same order,
and shall enter the causes thereon M soon as the same arc commenced, .
by the filing of the petition or transcript therein, and shall, under the
direction of the court or judge, apportion the same to as many days of
the term, as shall be thought necessary, and shall on the order of any 
party, in any cause, issue subpceuas for witnesses returnable on the -­
day on which such cause is set for trial, and the clerk shall furnish at
such term, the court and the bar, each, with a copy of such calendar. 
SEC, 3006. The criminal causes shall first be called in their order,
and disposed of by trial, or continuance, in such order, unless the court
for good cause shall direct otherwise, and after the civil calendar is en­
tered upon, no criminal cause shall be allowed to intervene. But the
court shRII not protract the trial of the civil causes beyond a day of the
term after which all defendants in criminal causes who desire to be tried
at such term, may be so tried, during which re-entry upon the criminal
calendar, the causes shall be tried, or continued, in their order. 
SEC, 3007. Except when otherwise provided, causes shall be tried
at the first term after due, legal and timely service has been made, unless
reasonable cause for continuance be shown. 
contmued at the option of the other party, and at the cost of the party 
applying therefor; for which cost judgment may be at once entered by
the clerk, unless the contrary be agreed between the parties. 
SEC, 3009. A continuance shall not be granted for any cause grow-
ing out of the fault or negligence of the party applying therefor ; sub­ 
ject to this rule, it may be allowed for any cause which satisfies the court
that substantial justice will thereby be more nearly obtained. 
SEC. 3010. Motions for continuance on account of the absence of
evidence, must be founded on the affidavit of the party, his agent, or 
attorney, stating facts as distinguished from legal conclusions· which show
the materiality of the evidence sought to be obtained, and showing that 
dforta which constitute due diligence have been used te obtain its pres­
enee. 
SEC. 8011. If such motion be on account of the absence of a wit- 
ness, the affidavit so sworn to, as in the last section, must state, 1. The
name and residence of such witnese, or if that be not known, a suffi- 
cient reason· why not known, and also, in either case facts showing
reasonable grounds of belief that his attendance or testimony will be
proeured at the next term. 2. It must also state efforts constituting
due diligence whieh have been used to obtain such witness or his testi-
mony. 3. It must also state what particular facts, as distinguished from
legal conclusions, the affiant believes the witness will prove, and thai
the affiant believes them to be true, and that he knows of no other wit- 
ness by whom such facts can be fully proved.
SEC. 8012. If the affidavit does not contain a sufficient statement of 
the facts herein required, the court shall overrule the same, as insuffi-
cient in statement of facts. 
SEC. 3018. If on the contrary, the court finds the statement suffi-
cient, it shall so determine, and the cause shall be continued unless the
opposite party will admit that the witness, if present, would swear to
the facts thus stated, in which event the cause shall not be continued,
but the party moving therefor shall read as the evidence of such wit-
ness, the facts by the court held to be sufficiently stated. 
SEC. 8014. 'The motion must be filed on the second day of the term, 
if it is then certain that it will have to be made before the trial, and as 
soon thereafter as it becomes certain that it will so need to be made, and
shall not be allowed to be made when the cause is called for trial, except
for cause which could not, by reasonable diligence, have been before
that time discovered, and if made after the second day of the term, the
affidavit must state facts constituting an exCl}se for the delay in making
it. If time is taken when the case is called to make such motion, the
motion shall be made and determined as soon as the court opens after
the next ordinary adjournment. 
SEC. 3015. The application shall not be amended but once, unless
by permission, and to supply a clerical error. 
SEC. 3016. To such motion, both as original and as amended, the
adverse party may at once, or within such reasonable time as the court 
shall allow, file written objections stating wherein he claims that the
same is insufficient, and on such motion and objections no argument
shall be heard unless the court desire it. 
SEC. 3017. Such motion and objections shall be a part of the record,
and error in refusing a continuance, or in compelling an election, may 
be reviewed.
SEC. 3018. No copy need be served of a motion for continuance, or 
of objections thereto, but a notice of such motion shall be entered on
the notice book. 
SEC. 3019. Every continuance granted upon the application of
either party, shall be at the costs of such party, unleas otherwise or-
dered by the court. 
SEO. 8020. The court shall grant continuances whenever the parties
agree thereto, and provide as to costs as may be stipulated. 
SEC. 3021. The marriage of a party is no sufficient ground, of
itself, for a continuance. 
SEC. 3022. A case continued remains for all purposes except a trial
on the facts. 
SEC. 3023. Where the defenses are distinct, any one of several de­
fendants may continue as to himself. 
Separate Trial. 
SEC. 3024. A separate trial between the plaintiff and any or all of
several defendants, may be allowed by the court, whenever, in its 
opinion, justice will be thereby promoted. 
SEC, 3025. Where there are several causes of action united in a
petition, or where in any controversy there are several issues, and the
court shall be of opinion that nil or any of them should be tried sepa­
rately by the court or jury, it may direct such separate trial, and such
separate trial may be had at the same, or at different terms of the court,
as circumstances in the discretion of the court may require. 
Selection of Jury. 
SEC. 3026. (1773.) When a jury trial is demanded, the clerk shall
select twelve jurors Ly lot, from the regular panel. · 
SEC. 3027. (2972.) A challenge is an objection made to the trial
jurors, and is of two kinds: 
I. To the panel :
2. To an individual juror. 
SEC. 3028. ·where there are several parties, plaintiffs or defend-
ants, and no separate trial is allowed, they are not allowed to sever their 
challenges, but must join in them. 
SEC. 3029. (297 4.) A challenge to the panel can be founded only
on a material departure from the forms prescribed by statute in respect 
to the drawing and return of the jury. 
SEC, 3030. (297 5.) A challenge to the panel must be taken before 
a juror is sworn, and must be in writing, specifying plainly and dis-
tinctly the facts constituting the ground of challenge. 
SEC. 3031. (2976.) A challenge to the panel may be taken by
either party, and upon the trial thereof, the officers, whether judicial or 
ministerial, whose irregularity is complained of, as well as any other
persons, may be examined to prove or disprove the facts alleged as the
ground of the challenge. 
SEC. 3032. If the facts of the challenge be allowed by the court,
the jury must be discharged, so far as the trial in question is con-
cerned; if it be disallowed, the court shall direct the jury to be im-
panneled. 
SEC. 3038. (2978.) A challenge to an individual juror is either
peremptory or for cause. 
SEC. 3034. (2979.) It must be taken when the juror appears and
before he is sworn, but the court may, for good cause, permit it to be 
taken after the juror is sworn, and before the jury is completed. 
SEC. 3035. A peremptory challenge is an objection to a juror for
which no reason need be given, but upon which the court shall exclude
him. 
SEC. 3036. Each party shall have the right to challenge perempto-
rily, five jurors, and no more, and the plaintiff first, and afterwards the 
defendant, shall complete his challenges for cause, and shall then, in
turn, in the same order, exercise the right of peremptory challenge. 
SEC. 3037. After each challenge, the vacancy shall, if required, be
filled before further challenges are made, and any new juror thus 
introduced, may be challenged for cause, as well as peremptorily. A
challenge for cause is an objection to a particular juror, and is either- 
L General, that the juror is disqualified from serving in any case;
or 
2. Particular, that he is disqualified in the case on trial. 
SEC. 3038. General causes of challenge are :
1. A conviction for felony. 
2. A want of any of tho qualifications prescribed by statute to render
a person a competent juror, 
3. Inability to understand the English language, unsoundness of mind,
or such defects in the faculties of the mind or the organs of the body,
as render him incapable of performing the duties of a juror. 
SEC, 8039. Particular causes of challenge are of two kinds :
1. For such a bias ns, when the existence of tho fact is ascertained, 
in judgment of law disqualifies the juror, and which is known in this
chapter as implied bias. 
2. For the existence of a state of mind on the part of the juror in
reference to the case, which, in the exercise of a sound discretion, leads 
to the inference that he will not act with entire impartiality, and which
is actual bias. 
SEC. 8040. A challenge for implied bias may be taken for all or my
of the following causes, and for no other: 
1. Consanguinity or affinity within the ninth degree, to the advene 
party.
2. Standing in the relation of gurdian and ward, attorney and cli­ 
ent, master and servant, or landlord and tenant, or being a member of
the family, or in the employment. of the adverse party. 
8. Being a party adverse to the challenging party in a civil action, or
having complained against, or been aecused by him in a criminal prose­ 
cution.
4. Having sat already upon the trial of the same issues.
5. Having served as a grand juror, or a petit juror, in a criminal case 
based upon the same transaction.
6. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as 
regards the liability of the adverse party, or on the meritB of the eoe­
troversy. 
Ssc, 8041. (2987.) An exemption from service on a jury is not a
cause of challenge, but the privilege of the person exempted. 
Sso. 8042. (2988.) Upon the trial of a challenge to an individual 
juror, the juror challenged may be examined as a witness to prove or
disprove the challenge, and must answer every question pertinent to the
inquiry thereon. 
Ssc. 8043. (2990.) In all challenges the court shall determine the
law and the f act,.and must either allow or disallow the challenge. 
SEC. 8044. When the requisite number of jurors can not otherwise
be obtained, the sheriff shall select talesmen to supply the deficiencr,
from the body of the county. 
SEC. 3045. The parties may, at any time, either before the jury is
sworn, or after, agree to take the verdict of the majority, which agree­
ment being stated to the court and stated on the record to have beea
made, shall bind the parties, and in such case a verdict signed by any
seven or more and duly rendered, when read and not disapproved by
said majority, shall, in every particular, be as binding as if made by a
full jury; or when both parties require it a struck jury may be ordered;
whereupon eighteen jurors shall be called into the box, and the plaintiff'
first and then the defendant, shall strike out one juror in turn until each
bas struck six, and the remaining six shall try the cause. 
Order During Trial. 
SEC. 804:6. When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall proceed
in the following order : 
I. The party on whom rests the burden of proof, may briefly state
his claim, and the evidence by which he expects to sustain it. 
2. The other party may then briefly state his defense, and the evi­
dence he expects to offer in support of it. 
8. The party on whom rests .the bnrthen of proof in the whole action,
must first produce bis evidence; the adverse party must then produce 
his evidence. 
4. The parties then will be confined to rebutting evidence, unless
the court, for good reasons, in furthenmce of justice, permit them to
offer evidence in their original case. 
5. But -one counsel on each side shall examine the same witness, and
upon interlocutory questions, the party moving the court or objecting to
testimony, shall be heard first; the respondent may then reply by one
counsel, and the mover rejoin, confining his remarks to the points first
atated, and a pertinent answer to respondent's argument. Debate on the
question shall then be closed, unless the court request further argument. 
SEC. 8047. The parties may then either submit or argue the case to 
the jmy. In the argument the party having the burthen of the issue,
'8hall have the opening and closing, but shall disclose in the opening all the 
points relied on in the cause ; and if in the close, he should refer to any
new material point or fact, not relied upon m the opening, the adverse 
party shall have the right of replying thereto, which reply shall close
the argument in the case. 
SEo. 30t8. If the party holding the affirmative waive the opening,
he shall be limited in the close, simply, to a reply to .his adversary's 
argument, otherwise the other party shall have the concluding argu- 
meet. 
SEO. 3049. Every plaintiff or defendant shall be entitled to appear
by one attorney, and if there be but one plaintiff' or defendant, he may 
appear by two, and where there are several defendants having the same
or separate defenses, and appearing by the same or different attorneys,
the court shall before argument, ammge their order. 
SEO. 8050. The coart may restrict the time of any attorney in any 
argument to itself, but shall not do so in any case before a jury. 
In,tructiom. 
SEC, 3051. When the argument is concluded, either party may
request instructions to the jury on points of law, which shall be given 
or refused by the court. Instructions asked shall be stated in writing
by the party, if any one of the other party, or if the court require it.
The party on whom is the burden of proof as aforesaid, shall first
demand his instructions, then the other party, and the first party may 
then ask such alone, as go in reply.
SILc. 3052. There shall be but two instructions at moss, written on 
one sheet of pnper, and the paper shall be written only on one side
thereof, and the writer shall leave a margin on the left hand side thereof
of about two inches, and each instruction demanded shall distinctly and
intelligibly refer to the cause of action to which it is intended to be
applied, if there Le several, or if one cause of action be divisible into
different parts, then to such part as it is intended to be applied. 
SEC, 3053. If the court refuse a written instruction as demanded,
but give the same with a modification which the court may do, such 
modification shall not be by interlineation or erasure, but shall be well
defined and shall follow some such characterizing words as " changed
thus," which words shall themselves indicate that the same was refused
as demanded. 
SEC. 305-:i. The court must read over all the instructions which it
intends to give and none others to the jury, and must announce them as 
given, and shall announce as refused without reading to the jury, all
those which are refused, and must write the words "given" or "refused" 
as the case may be, on the margin of each instruction. 
SEC. 3055. If the giving or refusal be excepted to, the same may be
without any stated reason therefor, and all instructions demanded must 
be filed, and shall become part of the record. 
SEC, 3056. Any decision or instruction of the court in favor of
either party, may be abandoned by such party at any time before the
case is committed to the jury, unless testimony calculated to influence
the minds of the jury has been afterwards admitted or rejected, or
when the opposite party can not be placed in the same position which
he would have occupied had such decision or instruction not been
given. 
SEC. 3057. After argument, the court may also, of its own motion,
charge the jury, which charge shall Le exclusively in writing. 
SEc. 8058. The charge shall be expressed in paragraphs, and num­
bered consecutively. 
SEC. 305!). Every part or paragraph of the charge shall be deemed
approved, unless excepted to before the retiring of the jury ; if so 
excepted to, that fact and by whom excepted to, whether by plaintiff or
defendant, shall be stated by the court, on the margin, against such
instruction or part of the charge. 
SEC. 3060. The court shall not make any oral explanation of any 
instruction or charge. 
Rules regarding Jury. 
SEC. 3061. Whene'\"er in the opinion of the court, it is proper for
the jury to have a view of the real property which is the subject of con- 
troversy, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may
order them to be conducted in a body, under the charge of an officer, to
the place which shall be shown to them by some per~on appointed by
the court for that purpose; while the jury are thus absent, no person
other than the person so appointed shall speak to them on any subject
connected with the trial. 
SEC. 3062. When the case is finally submitted to the jury, they may
decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they shall be 
kept together in some convenient place without food and without drink,
except water, under charge of an officer, until they agree upon a ver-
dict, or are discharged by the court. The officer having them under his
charge shall not suffer any communication to be made to them, or make
any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict,
unless by order of the court, and he shall not before their verdict is ren- 
dered oommunicat.e to •Y person the state of their del.iberalione, or the
verdict agreed upon. 
SEC. 3063. H the jury are permiUed to separate, either during the
trial or after the case is submiUed to them, they moat be advised bJ the
court, that it is the duty of each ooe of them not to converse with any 
other of them, or with any person, nor to suffer himself to be addressed
by any person on any subject of the trial. and that awing the trial it ii 
the duty of each one of them to avoid, as far as possible, Nl'Jl1iDg toJ 
opinion thereon until the cause is finally submitted to them. 
SEC. 3064. If, after the empanneling of the jury and before ver-
dict, a juror becomes sicl. so as to be unable to perform .his duty, he ma, 
be discharged, In such case, unless otherwiae arnmged by the OOll88llt 
of the parties, the vacancy thus made, must be filled, and the trial com­
mence anew, or the court may, in its discretion, order the jur, to be dis- 
charged.
SEo. 3065. The jury may be disobarged by the coart on aooouut m 
any accident or calamity requiring their discharge, or by the consent of 
both parties, or when on an amendment a continuance is ordered, or after
they have been .kept together until it sat.isfactorally appears that there ii 
no probability of their agreeing. 
SEC. 8066 • In a.II cases where the jury are discharged, daring the
trial or after the cause is submitted to them,, it may be tried again imme­ 
diatel y, or at a future time, as the com may thea direct. 
SEC. 3067. The oourt may also, at any time aft.er haviug entmM
upon the trial of any cause, where it may deem it right for the purposes
of justice, order an adjournment for such time, within the term and sub­
ject to such terms and conditions as to costs, and Qtherwise, as it ma, 
think just.• 
SEC, 3068. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with
them all books of accounts, and all paperd, which have been received as
evidence in the cause, except depositions, which shall DOt be 80 take&, 
unless all the testimony ie in writing, and none ex the same has been
ordered to be struck out. 
SEC. 3069. (1784.) When the jury is apsent, the court may adjoum
from time to time, in respect to other business, but is to be deemed <>pell 
for every purpose eoonected with the cause submitted to the jury, until
a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. 
SEC, 3070. ( 1778.) At any time before the cause is finally submit­
ted to the osurt or jury, either party may be permitted by the court to 
give further testimony to correct an evident oversight or mistake, bu
terms may be imposed upon the party obtaining the privilege, [See
Kerby v. Cannon, 9 Ind., 8 71.] 
SEc. 8071. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if they de­
sire to be informed as to any point of law arising in the case, they may 
request the officer to conduet them into court, which he shall do, wheD
the information required shall be given, in the presence of, or after notice
to the parties or their counsel. 
SEC. 3072. Such information shall be in writing and shall be held
approved, unless it be excepted to in the same way as the charge, an•
no discussion thereon shall be allowed to either party. 
SEC. 3073. The verdict moat be written and signed by a foreman
chosen by the jury itself, and when agreed the jury must be conducted 
into court, their nmes called, and the~ rendered by him, and Pead
by the clerk to the jury and the inquiry made whether it is their ver­
dict. H any juror disagrees, the jury must be sent out again, ·bat if 'DO 
oisagreement is expressed and neither party Tequires the jury to be
pJlled, the veNlict is complete and the jury discharged from the case. 
SEC. 307 4. When the verdict is announced, either party may Te- 
,quire the ju,y 1& be· polled, which shall be done by ttie court or clerk,
asking each juror if it is his verdict. If any one answer in the nega-
'iive, the jury must be sent out for further detiberation. 
SEc. 3015. When by consent fK the parties and the court, the jury
have been permitted 10 seat their verclict &ed eeparate before it is ren-
dered, such sealing is equivalent to a rendritioo and a recording thereof
in open court, nor ahaB such jury be polled or permitted to disagree
filiereto, unless such a -OOUl'8e -has been ~ upea between the parties 
in open oourt aud eatered on the record.
SEo. 807'6. If, while the jury are kept 1ogethe!', either during 'Pro- 
,gress of the trial, or -afteT their Tetirement 'k,r deliberation, the court
order them to be provided with suitable food and lodging, they must be 
so provided by the sheriff at-the expense of the county. 
SEC. 3077. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A
.general ve:r.liliot is ooe ,in which they pt'OOOIU16e generally for tbe plaintiff 
tor for the defentiaDt !Rpoll all or upon any-Of d.le asues. 
SEc. 307~. A 9Pecial verdict ~s one in which the jury finds facts
-enly; it must present the nltimate faet.s as established by the evidence, 
and not the evidence to prove them so that nothing remains to the court 
:but to draw fllOlll them .its conclusions of law. 
SEC. 307.9. In all actions, the jury, Hl -their ciieoret.i<m, :may render. 
-1 ial __,J• d • · 1.: h "'-- de
a ~va ...... or a spec n,i-utct, an m any case m w11.1c "1t;y rea r a 
,general verdiet, they may be required by the eoart, and must be so re-
.quired, on the request of any party to the action, to find specially upon
particular questions of fact to be stated to them in writing, or to find that
the facts stated in the petition, answer, or reply, or in all or either of
them, or in any count of either of them, or in case any count of either 
« tbem be divisible, then that any defined part thereof is true, or not
true, and euch special finding is to be 1'eOOl'ded wittl the v,erdiet.• 
SEC. 3080. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent. with the
general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the court may give
judgment accordingly. 
SEC. 8081. When by the verdict either party is entitled to recover
money of the adverse party, the jury in their verdict must assess the 
amount of such recovery. 
SEC. 3082. In actions for the recovery of specific personal property,
the J. ury must assess the value of the property, as also the damages for 
taking or detention, whenever, by their verdict there will be a judgment
for the recovery or return of the property, and when required so to do
by either party, must find the value of each article thereof. 
SEC. 3083. When there are several defendants, the verdicts and
judgments,-whetherthe pleadings are joint or several, shall be moulded 
according to the facts, and to meet the exigencies of the· case. 
SEC. 8084. ( 17 90.) The verdict shall be sufficient in form if it 
expresses the intention of the jury. 
SEC. 8085. The verdict shall, in all cases, be filed with the clerk,
and entered upon the record, after having been put into form by the
court, if necessary. 
Trial., by the Oourt. 
SEC. 8086. (1771.) Upon a decision ofa demurrer, if the unsuccessful
party fail to amend or plead over, the same consequences shml ensue as 
though a verdict had passed against the plaintiff, or the defendant had
made default, as the case may be. 
SEC. 3087. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to
• f J.'. • h J.'. }} • 
an issue o fact in t e 10 owmg cases:
1. By suffering default or by failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk. 
8. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes. 
SEC. 3088. Upon the trial of questions of fact by the court, in an 
action by ordinary proceedings, it shall not be necessary for the court to
state its finding, except generally for the plaintiff or defendant, unless 
one of the parties, before any testimony is offered, requests it, in which
case its decision shall be given in writing, stating the facts found, and the
legal conclusions founded thereon, separately, all of which shall be
entered on the record. 
Reference.• 
SEC. 3089. All or any of the issues in an action, whether of fact or
of law, or both, may be referred, upon the consent of the parties, either
written or oral, in court entered upon the record. 
SEC, 3090. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon
the motion of either, or upon its own motion, direct a. reference in either 
of the following cases :
1. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination 
of mutual accounts, or when the account being on one side only, it shall
be made to appear to the court that it is necessary that the party on the
other side should be examined as a witness to prove the account, in which
case the referees may be directed to hear and report upon the whole
issue, or upon any specific question of fact involved therein ; or, 
2. When the taking of an account shall be necessary for the infor­
mation of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a. judgment or
order into effect. 
3. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings shall arise,
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of ~n action. 
4. When a question of fact shall arise in any action by equitable pro­
ceedings. 
SEC. 3091. Where not otherwise declared in the order of reference, 
all the referees must meet to hear proofs, arguments, and to deliberate,
but a decision by the majority shall be regarded as their decision. 
SEC. 3092. When appointed by a court, the judge thereof may fill 
vacancies in vacation.
S.1:c. 8093. The referees sball stand iu the place of the court, and 
shall have the same power, so far as necessary, to discharge their duty • 
SEC. 309'9 The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same
manner as a trial by the court, They have the same power to summon 
and enforce, by attachment, the attelildance of witnesses to punish them
as for a contempt for uoo~tendance, or refusal to be sworn, or to testify,
and to administer all necessary oaths in the trial of the case, to take 
.testimony by commission, grant continuances, &o presene order, awl 
punish all violations thereo£. 
SEO. 8095. The report of the refe~ oo the whole issue, must state
the facts found, and the conclusions of law, separntely, and shall stand 
.as the finding of the court, except as otherwise provided in equitable 
act.ions tried by the first met.sod; and judgment may be entered thereoa 
m the 881Ile manllel" as if the action had been tried by the eourt--t.he
report may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner. 
Sse, 3096. When the reference i& to report the facts, the re,ort 
shall have the effect of a special verdict, except as is otherwise provided·
in equitable actions tried by the first method. 
SEC. 8097. The referees shall sign any true bill of exceptions taken
to any ruling by them made in the C88e whereto any party demands a 
bill of exceptions ; and the party shall have the same rights to obtain
such bill as exist in the court, and such bills shall be returned with their 
report. 
SEC. 8098. In all cases of reference, the parties, except when an in-
fant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person or persons, not
exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered accordingly; and if 
the parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more referees,
not exceeding three, who shall be persens free from exception, and has-
ing the qualifications of jurors, or the court. may allow each party to 
select one, and itself select a third.
SEC. 3099. A judge of the oourt, when a esse is pending, may, in 
vacation, upon the written consent of the parties, make an order of ref:.
erence. In such case the order of reference shall be written in the 
written agreement to refer, and shall be filed with the clerk of the court,
with the other papers in the case. 
SEC. 3100. The referees must make an affidavit well and faithfully 
to hear and examine the case, and to make a ju.st aod true report therein
according to the best of their understanding. The oath may be admin-
istered by any person authorized to administer an oath, and the affidavit
shall be returned with the report. . 
SEC, 8101. The referees shall be allowed such compensation for their
services 88 the court may deem just, which shall be taxed 88 a part of
the costs in the case. 
SEC. 3102. The order shall not be made until the case is at issue, 
8.8 to these parties, whose rights are to be examined on the reference.
The order may direct when the referee shall proceed to a hearing, and.
when he shall make his report ; but in the absence of such direction, he
shall do so on the morning of the tenth day after the day on which was
made the order of reference, and shall file his report as soon as done
of the time thus fixed, or determined, the parties shall take notice, and
non-attendance of either party within an hour of such time, shall be at,. 
tended with like consequences as if the case were in court, which come-
quence shall be reported, as any other fact or finding of the referees. 
SEc. 3103. The referee must be called on by the court to accept or
refuse the appointment, and his acceptance shall be entered of record; 
and he shall be under the control of the court, who may, on the motion
of either party, make all proper orders with a. view to his proceeding
with all due dispatch, and the court or judge may, on his motion, on
good cause shown, enlarge the time of making his report, · 
SEC. 310!. Any one of such referees may issue and sign subpcenas,
and other process, administer oaths, necessary for the discharge of their 
duties, and the full exercise of all their powers. 
SEC. 3105. The formula of procedure which, in the court itself, regu·
latcs service, pleading proof, trial, and the preparation, progression, and
method of each of these shall obtain before the referee, and in every in-
cident of the proceeding before him the rights and responsibilities of
parties, and of their attorneys, and of the referee, shall be the same as
if the referee was the court, engaged in the same matter. 
Exceptions. 
SEC. 8106. An exception is an objection taken to a decision of the
court, or party acting as the court, on matter of law. The party
objecting to the decision, must object at the time the decision is made,
and at once present his bill of exceptions; but unless the court or 
adverse party object, he may have time to do so, not extending beyond
the term. 
E,ldenceneeded. SEC. 3107. No stated form of exception is required. So much of
the evidence as is necessary to explain the ruling, should be stated, and
the ruling and that it was excepted to when made, unless that fact oth­
erwise appear. If the exception is to the admission or exclusion of
evidence, oral or written, the ground of the objection must be also stated,
and no other shall be regarded. 
SEC. 3108. 'When the decision objected to is entered on the record,
and the grounds of the exception appear in the entry, or when any error
appears of record, the exception may be taken by the party causing to
be noted at the end of the decision, or in connection therewith, that he
excepts. 
SEC. 3109. Where an instruction is marked "excepted to," such
terms shall sufficiently indicate that it was excepted to at the proper 
time, and an exception when presented for signature, need not include
therein, spread out at length, any writing filed in court, but may incorpo­
rate the same, by any unmistakable reference thereto, and the clerk in
making a transcript of the bill of exception shall write therein at length, 
all of such writing included therein by reference. 
SEC. 3110. 'When the decision is not entered on the record, or when
the grounds of objection do not sufficiently appear in the record, the 
party excepting must reduce his exception to writing, and present it
to the court for its signature. If the judge deems it true he shall sign 
it. If he does not deem it true, he shall at once state to the party ofter- 
Where the judge who presided at the trial of the case, did not preside
when the motion for a new trial was overruled, the hill of exceptions must
he certified by the affidavits of persons present at the trial, and who recollect
it sufficiently well to make affidavit thereto. Simpson, J., Cwmbro-n v. 
Oouglitry, Mss, opin., February, 1856. Stanton', Ky. Code. 
SEC. 3111. No exception shall be regarded in the supreme court,
unless the ruling bas been on a material point, and the effect thereof 
prejudicial to the substantive rights of the party excepting. 
x~ Trials. 
SEO. 8112. A new trial is a re-examination in the same court of an
issue of fact, after a verdict by a jury, report of a referee, or a decision
by the court. The former report, verdict, or decision, shall be vacated,
and a new trinl granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for
any of the following causes affecting materially the substantial rights 
of such party :
I. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury referee, or pre­ 
vailing party, or any order of court or referee, or abuse of discretion,
by which the party was prevented from having a fair trial. 
2. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.
3. Accident or surprise, ,.,hich ordinary prudence could not haTe 
guarded against,
4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influ..­ 
ence of passion or of prejudice. 
5. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too 
Jai,ge or too small, where the action is upon a contract or for the injury
or detention of property. · 
6. That the verdict, report or decision, is not sustained by sufficient
evidence, or is contrary to law. 
7. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party applying, which
he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced
at the trial. 
8, Error of law occurring at the trial, excepted to by the party mak-
ing the application. . . 
81.-:c. 8113. A new trial shall not be granted on account of the
smallness of damages in an action for an injury to the person or repu­ 
tation, nor in any other action where the damages shall equal the actual
pecuniary injury sustained. 
SEC, 3114. The application for a new trial must be made at the tenn 
the verdict, report or decision is rendered, and except for the cause of
newly discovered evidence, material for the party applying, which he
could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced at the 
trial, shall be within three days after the verdict or decision was ren­
dered. 
SEC, 3115. The application must be made by motion upon written
grounds, filed at the time of making the motion, the causes enumerated
in sub-divisions two, three, and seven, of section 3112, must be sustained
by affiqp.vits showing their truth, and may be controverted by affidavits. 
SEc. 3116. 1Vhere the grounds for a new trial could not with rea-
sonable diligence have been discovered before, but are discovered after 
the term at which the verdict, report of referee, or decision was rendered
or made, the application may be made by petition, filed as in other cases,
not later than the second term after the discovery; on which notice shall
be served and returned as an original notice, and the defendant held to 
appear as in an original action. The facts stated in the petition shall
be considered as denied, without answer. The case shall be tried as
other cases, by ordinary proceedings, but no petition shall be filed more
than one year after the final judgment was rendered. 
SEC. 3117. The costs of all new trials shall either abide the event
of the suit, or be paid by the party to whom such new trial is granted,
according to the order of the court, to be made at the time of granting 
such new trial. -
SEC. 3118. The court may determine not to grant a new trial, unless 
certain terms or conditions named by the court shall be agreed to by the
opposite party; in the event of his agreement to which, the terms or
conditions named shall be entered on the recofd, and no new trial shall
be granted if the party refuse to agree to the terms or conditions upon
which a new trial shall be awarded. 
SEC. 3119. Upon any motion made for a new trial, or for judgment,
notwithstanding the verdict, by reason of the non-averment of some
material fact, the party whose pleading is thus alleged defective, may, if
the court deem it necessary, file a statement of the omitted fact, which,
if true, would remedy the alleged defects, and such statement shall be
filed before the hearing of the motion, and shall suspend the same. If
the facts thus stated would not, if proved, defeat the object of the motion,
it shall be granted. If such new averments would, if proved, defeat the
object of the motion, and be not admitted, they must be denied or con-
fessed, and avoided by the opposite party, within such time as the court
shall direct, unless the same are denied by legal operation, and in such
case the law of pleading and of procedure, applicable to actions and
pleadings of that kind shall obtain ; except that the party stating the
new fact shall be held the plaintiff therein, and the statement and re-
sponse shall not need to be verified." 
SEC. 3120. If the facts thus stated be admitted, or found to be true,
the party stating the same shall be entitled to such judgment as he would
have been entitled to, if such facts had been stated in the original plead-
ing, and admitted as proved in the trial, together with the costs of, and
occasioned by the new pleading and the proceedings therein; but if the
fact be found untrue, the opposite party shall be entitled to his costs of, 
and occasioned by the new pleading and the proceedings therein, in ad­ 
dition to any other costs to which he may be entitled. 
Judgment. 
SEC. 8121. Every final adjudication of the rights of the parties in
an action, is a judgment : and such adjudication may consist of many 
d f I . } • d d . ~ h 1 • "ff
gments, one o w ue 1 JU gments may etermine ror t e p amti or 
defendant on the claim of either as an entirety, or when n claim consists
of several parts or items, such judgment may be for either of them, on
any specific part or item of such aggregate claim, and against him on
the other part thereof, or a. judgment may in either of these ways
determine on the claims of co-parties on the same side against each 
other," 
SEO. 8122. To avoid a re-examination of questions and issues which
have been once satisfactorily settled, and a re-opening of such parts of a 
cause as have been satisfactorily tried, any party who succeeds in/art 
of his cause, or in part of his causes, and fails 8..3 to part, may hav the
entry in such case express judgment for him for such part as he succeeds
upon, and against him on the other part," 
SEC. 3123. Judgment may be rendered for or against one or more
of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several defend- 
ants, whether such plaintiffs or defendants be jointly or severally liable,
and the court may determine the ultimate rights of the parties, on the
same side as between themselves, and may grant to any party any
affirmative relief which he may be entitled to, and render judgment
accordingly, and may render such and so many judgments, joint, sepa-
rate, and cross, as may be necessary to express the rights of the parties, 
SEC. 8124. Where matter in abatement is plead in connection with
other matter not such, the finding of the Jury or court must distinguish 
between matter in abatement and matter in bar, and the judgment must,
if it is rendered on the matter in abatement, and not on the merits, so 
declare. 
SEC, 8125. Where any other than a general execution of the com­
mon form is required, the party must state in his pleading the facts
entitling him thereto, and the judgment may be entered in accordance
with the finding of the court or jury thereon • 
Sim. 8126. In an action against several defendants, the court may,
in its discretion, render judgment for or against one or more of them, 
whenever a several judgment is proper, leaving the action to proceed
against the others. 
SEC~ 8127. An action mny be dismissed, and such dismissal shall be 
without prejudice to a future action :
I. By the plaintiff before the final submission of the case to the jury, 
or to the court, when the trial is by the court;
2. By the court, when the plaintiff fails to appear when the case is 
called for trial; 
3. By the court, for want of neces...iqiry parties, when not made accord­
ing to the requirement of the court ; 
4. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants, when
there are others whom the plaintiff fails to prosecute with diligence; 
5. Ily the court, for disobedience by the party of an order concerning
the pleadings or any proceeding in the action. 
SEC. 3128. In all other cases upon the trial of the action, the decis-
ion must be upon the merits. 
SEC. 3129. In any case when a set-off, counter-claim or cross-demand
has been filed, the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to the
trial of his claim, although the plaintiff may have dismissed his action,
or failed to appear. 
SEC. 3130. The defendant may also, at any time before the final 
submission of the cause to the jury or to the court, when the trial is by
the court, dismiss his set-off, counter-claim or cross-demand, without pre-
judice. 
SEC. 3181. Any party to any claim may dismiss the same in vaca-
tion and the clerk shall make the proper entry of dismissal on the record, 
and if the costs are not paid, may enter judgment against such party
therefor, in favor of the party entitled thereto, and issue execution there-
for at the order of such party; the party so dismissing shall be liable
for no costs made by the other party after notice to him of such dis- 
missal. · 
SEC. 8132. Though all the defendants have been served with notice,
judgment may be rendered against any of them severally, where the 
plaintiff would be entitled to judgments against such defendants, if the
action had been against such alone. 
SEC. 3133. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no answer,
can not exceed that which he shall have demanded in his petition. But
in any other case the court may grant him any relief consistent with the
case made by the petition and embraced within the issue. 
SEC. 3134. Whenever damages are recoverable, the party may Damages. 
claim and recover if he shows himself entitled thereto, any amount of
damages which he might have hitherto recovered for the same stated
cause of action. 
SEC. 3135. If only part of the claim is controverted by the plead-
ing, judgment may, at any time, be rendered for the part not contro- 
verted. 
SEC. 3136. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment must be
entered by the clerk in conformity with the verdict, unless it is special 
or the court orders the case to be reserved for future argument or con-
sideration. 
SEC. 3137. When the verdict is special, or when there has been a
special finding on particular questions of fact, or issues, or when the 
court has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall order what judgment
shall be entered. 
8Ec. 8188. When by the statements of the pleadings, one party is
entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so rendered
by the court, though a verdict has been found against such party, unless
the other party proceed as provided in section 3119. 
SEC. 3139. If a set-off, counter-claim or cross-demand established
at the time, exceed the plaintiff's claim so established, judgment for the
defendant must be given for the excess; or if it appears that the defend­ 
ant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment DlU8t then be giv­
en therefor. 
SEc. 3140. All judgments and orders must be entered on the record
of the court and specify clearly the relief granted, or order made in the 
action.
SEC. 3141. Where a judgment is set aside or satisfied by exeeu­ 
tion or otherwise, the clerk shall at once enter a memorandum thereof
on the column left for that purpose in the judgment docket. 
SEC. 3142. In cases where the title to land is involved and express- 
ly settled or determined, the clerk shall make a complete record of the
whole cause, and enter it in the proper book. But in no other case need
a complete entry be made except at the request of a party who will pay 
the expense of such record.
SEC. 3143. Any judgment in a case pending which may be agreed 
upon between the parties interested therein, may at any time be entered,
and if not done in open court, the judgment agreed to shall be in writing,. 
signed, and filed with the clerk, who shall thereupon enter the same ac­
cordingly, and execution thereon may issue forthwith, unless therein
otherwise agreed upon between the parties. 
SEc. 8144. In all actions where the plaintiff recovers a sum of
money, the amount to which he is entitled may be awarded him by the 
judgment generally without any distinction being therein made as to
whether such sum is recovered by way of a debt or damages. 
SEC. 3145. The provisions of this chapter relative to juries are in­
tended to be applied to the court when acting as a jury on the trial of a
cause so far as they are applicable and not incompatible with other pro­
visions herein contained. 
SEC. 3146. A defendant against whom a judgment has been ren­
dered, or any person interested therein having some good matter of dis­ 
charge which has arisen since the judgment, may, upon motion, in a sum­
mary way, have the same discharged either iu whole or in part, accord­
ing to the circumstances. 
SEC. 3147. The court shall have power, on motion, to inquire into
the facts attending or connected with the assignment of a judgment, or
the entry of the same to the use of any party, and to strike out such
use, or to declare such assignment void, either in whole or in part, when­
ever such assignment or use shall be determined to be inequitable or
fraudulent, or in bad faith. 
Default. 
[Code-Chapter 106.J 
SEC, 81.48. If a party fail to file or amend his pleading by the time
prescribed by the rules of pleading, or in the absence of rules by the
time fixed by the court; or if having plead, his answer, or reply, on
motion or demurrer is held insufficient or is struck out, and he fail to
amend or to answer or reply further as required by the rules of or by
the court, or if he withdraw his pleading without authority, or permission
to replead, judgment by default may be rendered against him on demand
of the adverse party, made before such pleading is filed. 
Sac. 3149. WJiere no appearance is made, default shall not be had 
until the court determines, from an inspection of the record, that notice
bas been given as required by this code. 
SEC. 3150. Default may be set. aside on such terms as the court
may deem just, among which must be that of pleading issuably and
instanter, but not unless an affidavit of merits be filed, and a reasonable
excuse be shown for having made such default, nor unless application 
therefor be made at the term in which default was entered, or if entered
in vacation, then on the first day of the succeeding term. 
SEC. 3151. When the action is for a money demand, and the amount
of the proper judgment is a mere matter of computation, the clerk shall 
ascertain the amount. When long accounts are to be examined, the
court may refer the matter. In other cases, the court shull assess the
damages, unless a jury be demanded by the party not in default. The
proper amount having been ascertained by either of the above methods,
judgment shall be rendered therefor. 
SEc. 3152. The party in default may appear at the time of the 
t d
. th . . h• b r: h 
assessmen an cross-examme e witnesses agamst im, ut ror no ot er
purpose. 
SEC. 8153. (1833.) When the proceedings are of an equitable char-
aeter, the court upon reading the pleadings and proofs, and hearing the 
· testimony offered, shall render such judgment as is consistent with the
rules heretofore observed in chancery eases. 
SEC. 3154. A defendant served by publication alone, shall be
allowed at any time before judgment, to appear and defend the action, 
and upon a substantial defense being declared, time may be given, on
reasonable terms, to prepare for trial. 
SEC. 3155. When the plaintiff files with the petition, his own affida-
vit, stating that any of the allegations of the petition recited in said 
affidavit are true, and known to be so by the defendant, and that they
can not be proved or shown otherwise than by his testimony or his
answer, so · far as affiant knows or believes ; such allegations, unless
denied by an answer, shall be taken as true. 
SEC. 8156. Before a judgment is rendered against a defendant served
by publication alone, and who has not appeared, it shall be necessary
that a bond be executed to such defendant by one or more sufficient
sureties of the plainti~ to the effect that if the defendant within the
period prescribed by law, shall appear, make defense and set aside the
judgment, the plaintiff shall restore to him the property taken under
any attachment in the action, or under the judgment thereon, the resto-
ration of which may be adjudged, and pay to the defendant such sums
of money as the court may award to him. 
SEC. 8157. If such bond is not given, the court may enter a judg­
ment ascertaining the rights of the parties, but shall retain control over
and preserve any money or property, or the proceeds thereof which may 
have been attached in the action until the expiration of the period
allowed to the defendant in which to appear and make defense ; when if
no defense is made, such money or property, or its proceeds shall be
delivered according to the judgment. 
SEc. 8158. Before rendering judgment against a defendant served
by publication alone, and who has not appeared, the court shall cause the
plaintiff to appear personally in court or before a referee, and answer
under oath, interrogatories concerning the matters in the petition or :my 
matters of defense thereto, including matters of set-off or counter-claim,
and may order the examination to be reduced to writing, and filed with
the papers of the action. 
SEC. 8159. If upon the examination provided in the last section, any
matters of set-off or counter-claim are disclosed, the same may be
adjusted and allowed in the judgment. 
SEC. 8160. When a judgment has been rendered against a defendant
or defendants, served by publication only, and who do not appear, such
defendants, or any one or more of them, or any person legally represent­
ing him or them, may at any time within two years after the rendition
of the judgment, appear in court, and move to have the action re-tried;
and security for the costs being given, they shall be admitted to make
defense ; and thereupon the action shall be re-tried as to such defend­
ants, as if there had been no judgment, and upon the new trial, the court
may confirm the former judgment, or may modify or set it aside, and
may order the plaintiff to restore any money of such defendant paid to 
him under it, and yet remaining in his possession; and pay to the defend­
ant the value of any such property which may have been taken in
attachment in the action, or under the judgment, and not restored. 
SEc. 8161. The plaintiff may at any time after the judgment, cause
a certified copy thereof to be served on a defendant, served by publica­
tion only, whereupon the period in which such defendant is allowed to
appear and have a new trial, shall be reduced to one year after such
service. 
SEC. 3162. The service of the copy of the judgment shall be,
whether made within or without the state, actual and personal, by deliv­
ery of copy, and made and returned, as in case of original notice. 
S so, 3163. The title of a purchaser in good faith to any property sold
under an attachment or judgment, shall not be affected by the new trial
permitted by section 3160, except the title of property obtained by the
plaintiff and not bought of him in good faith by others. 
SEC. 3164. No personal judgment shall be rendered against a defend­
ant served by publication only, who has not made an appearance •. But 
· a personal judgment shall be rendered against a defendant whether he 
appear or not who has been served in any mode in this code provided,
other than by publication, whether served within or without this state." 
Conveyance b,,J Oommiuionw. 
SEC. 3165. Real property may be conveyed by a commissioner
appointed by the court- 
! . Where, by judgment in an action, a party is ordered to convey
such propeI1y to another. 
2. Where such property has been sold under a judgment or order of
the court and the purchase money paid. 
SEC. 8166. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer to the judg-
ment, orders and proceedings authorizing the conveyance as that the
same may be readily found. 
SEC, 3167. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment shall 
pass to the grantee the title of the parties ordered to convey the land. 
SEC. 3168. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale ordered by
the court, shall pass to the grantee the title of all the parties to the action 
or proceeding. 
SEC. 3169. A conveyance by a commissioner, shall not pass any
right until it has been examined and approved by the court, which
approval shall be indorsed on the conveyance and recorded with it. 
SEC, 3170. It shall be necessary for the conveyance to be signed by
the commissioner only, without affixing the names of the parties whose 
title is conveyed; but the names of such parties shall be recited in the
body of the conveyance. . 
SEC, 8171. The conveyance shall be recorded in the office in which,
by law, it should have been recorded, had it been made by the parties
whose title is conveyed by it. 
CHAPTER 124. 
ATTACHHENT AND GARNISHMENT. 
[Code-Chapter 109.] 
SEC. 3172. (1846.) The plaintiff in a civil action may cause any
property of the defendant which is not exempt from execution, to be 
attached at the commencement or during the progress of the proceeding,
by pursuing the course hereinafter prescribed. 
SEc. 8173. (1847.) If it be subsequent to the commencement of 
the action, a separate petition must be filed, and in all cases the proceed­
ings relative to the attachment are to be deemed independent of the
ominary proceedings and only auxiliary thereto. 
SEC. 317 4. The petition which asks an attachment must, in all cases,
be sworn to. It must state : I. That the defendant is a foreign corpo- 
ration, or acting as•such ; or, 2. That he is a non-resident of the state ;
or, 3. That he is in some manner about to dispose of or remove his
property out of the state, without leaving sufficient remaining for the
payment of his debts ; or, 4. That he has disposed of his property (in
whole or in part) with intent to defraud his creditors; or, 5. That he
has absconded, so that the ordinary process can not be served upon him ;
or, 6. That he is about to remove permanently out of the county, and
bas property therein not exempt from execution, with which he refuses
to pay or to secure the debt due to the plaintiff residing in such county;
or, . 7. That he is about to remove permanently out of the state and
refuses to pay or secure the debt of the plaintiff. 
SEC. 3175. (1849.) If the plaintiff's demand is founded on con-
tract, the petition must state that something is due, and as nearly as
practicable, the amount, which must be more than five dollars in order
to authorize an attachment. 
SEC. 3176. (1850.) The amount thus sworn to is intended as a
guide to the sheriff, who must, as nearly as the circumstances of the 
case will permit, levy upon property fifty per cent. greater in value than
that amount. 
SEc. 3177. (1851.) If the demand is not founded on contract, the
original petition must be presented to some judge of the supreme or 
district court, or the judge of the county court, who shall make an allow-
ance thereon of the amount in value of the property that may be at-
tached. The provisions of this section apply only to cases in the dis-
trict court. 
SEC. 3178. (1852.) The property of a debtor may be attached pre-
vious to the time when the debt becomes due, when nothing but time is 
wanting to fix an absolute indebtedness and when the petition in addi-
tion to that fact states : 1. That the defendant is about to dispose of his
property with intent to defraud his creditors ; or, 2. That he is about to 
remove from the state, and refuses to make any arrangements for secur-
ing the payment of the debt when it falls due, and which contemplated
removal was not known to the plaintiff at the time the debt was con-
tracted. 
SEC. 3179. If the debt or demand on which the attachment suit is
brought, is not due at the time of the service of the attachment, the 
defendant is not required to file any pleadings until the maturity of such
debt or demand; but he may, in his discretion, do so, and go to trial as
early as the cause is reached. 
SEC. 3180. And no final judgment shall be rendered upon such
attachment, unless the party consents, as in the last section, until the
debt or demand upon which it is based becomes due. But property of
a perishable nature may be sold as in other attachment cases. 
SEC, 8181. Before any attachment can be issued as aforesaid, the
plaintiff must file with the clerk a bond, for the use of the defendant,
with sureties to be approved by the clerk, in a penalty at least double
the value of the property sought to be attached, and in no case less than
two hundred and fifty dollars, in the district court, nor less than fifty
dollars, if in a justice's court, conditioned that the plaintiff will pay all
damages, which the defendant may sustain, by reason of the wrongful
suing out of the attachment. 
SEC. 8182. The defendant may, at any time before judgment, move 
the court for additional security on the part of the plaintiff, and if, oo
such motion, the court is satisfied that the surety in the plaintiff's bond
has removed from this state, or is not sufficient, it may vacate the writ
of attachment, and direct restitution of any property taken under it., 
unless in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the co'Tirt, and within two
clear days thereafter, sufficient security is given by the plaintiff. 
SEC. 8183. In an action on such bond the plaintiff therein may 
recover, if he shows that the attachment wa5 wrongfully sued out, such
damages as he has thereby suffered, and if sued out maliciously as well
as wrongfully, the jury may, on such trial, give vindictive damages, in 
their discretion, nor need he wait until the principal suit jg determined
before he bring suit on the bond. 
SEc. 3184. Where suits are properly commenced in the district
court of any county, the auxiliary process of attachment may run at the 
same time into any other county where property of the defendant can
be found, and several of them may, at the option of the plain~ be
issued at the same time or in succession and subsequently, but only
those executed shall be taxed in the costs, and if more property is
attached in the aggregate than the plaintiff is entitled to bold i.u that
manner, he must abandon the surplus and pay all costs incurred in rela­
tion to it. 
8Ec 8185. (1856.) The clerk shall issue a writ of attachment
directing the sheriff of the county therein named to attach the property
of the defendant to the requisite amount therein stated. 
SEC. 3186. (1857.) The sheriff shall,inall cases.uuaeh the amount
of property directed, if sufficient, not exempt from execution, be found 
in his county, giving that in which the defendant has a legal and un­
questionable title, a preference over that in which his title jg doubtful or
only equitable. 
SEc. 3187. Where there are several writs of attachment against the
same defendant, they shall be executed in the order in which they were
received by the sheriff. 
SEC. 3188. If, after a writ of attachment has been placed in the
bands of the sheriff, uny property of the defendant is removed from the
county, the sheriff may pursue and attach the same in an adjoining
county, within twenty-four hours after the removal. 
SEC. 3189. Whenever it appears by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or
by the return of the writ of attachment, that no property is known to
the plaintiff, or the officer, on which the order of attachment can be
executed, or not enough to satisfy the plaintiff's claim, and it also ap­
pears to the court, by affidavit, that the defendant has property within
the state, not exempt from the writ, the defendant may be required by 
the court to attend before it, and give information on oath respecting his 
property. 
SEC, 3190. The sheriff shall not, on attachment against a member
of a firm, take possession of partnership property : and in executing a 
writ of attachment upon personal property held by the defendant jointly
or in common with another person, he shall not take possession of such
property until there has been executed a bond to such other person, by 
one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, to the effect, that he shall
pay to such person the damages he may sustain by the wrongful suing
out of the attachment, not exceeding double the amount of the plaintiff's
claim, or double the value of the property, if the latter be the larger
sum ; but such owner or such firm may be garnished, and such property
thereby reached. 
SEC. 3191. If the defendant nt any time before judgment causes a
bond to be executed to the plaintiff, by one or more sufficient sureties, to 
be approved by the court, or by the judge, to the effect that the defend-
ant shall perform the judgment of the court, the attachment shall be 
discharged and restitution made of any property taken under it, or the
proceeds thereof. 
SEc. 819~. The bond mentioned in the last section, may, in vace- 
tion, be executed in the presence of the sheriff, having the writ of
attachment in his hands ; or after the return of the writ before the
clerk, with the same effect upon the attachment, as if executed in
court. The sureties in either case to be approved by the officer before
whom taken. 
SEC. 3193. Such bond shall be part of the record, and if judgment
go against the defendant the same shall be entered against him and the 
sureties of said bond.
SEC. 3194. (1859 and 1860.) Stock or interest owned by the de- 
fendant in any company, and also debts due him, or property of his held
by third persons, may be attached, and the mode of attachment must be 
R:i follows: 1. By giving the defendant in the action, if found within
the county, and also the person oocupying, or in possession of the prop-
erty, if it be in the hands of a third person, notice of such attachment.
2. If the property is capable of manual delivery, the sheriff must take
it into his custody, if it can be found. 3. Stock in a company is at-
tached by notifying the president or other bead of the company, or the
secretary, cashier, or other managing agent thereof, of the fact that the 
stock has been so attached. 4. Debts due the defendant, or property
of his held by third persons, and which can· not be found, or the title to
which is doubtful, are attached by gamishmeat thereof. 
SEC. 3195. The attachment by garnishment is effected by informing
the supposed debtor or person holding the property, that he is attached 
lLS garnishee, and by leaving with him a written notice to the effect that
he is required not to pay any debt due by him to the defendant, or
thereafter to become due, and that he must retain possession of all
property of the said defendant then or thereafter being in his custody,
or under his control, in order that the same may be dealt with according
to law, and the sheriff shall summon such persons as garnishees, as the
plaintiff may direct. 
SEc. 8196. A sheriff or constable may be garnished for money of
the defendant in his hands. So may a judgment-debtor of the defend-
ant, when the judgment has not been previously assigned on the record
or by writing filed in the office of the clerk, and by him minuted as an
assignment on the margin of the judgment docket, and also an executor
for money due from the decedent to the defendant may be garnished,
but a municipal or political corporation shall not be garnished. 
Sao. 3197. Where the property to be attached is a fund in court,
the execution of the writ of attachment shall be by leaving with the 
clerk of the court, a copy thereof with a. notice specifying the fund.
SEC. 3198. If the garnishee die after he has been summoned by 
garnishment, and pending the litigation, the proceedings may be re-
vived by or against his heirs or legal representatives. 
SEC. 3199. U nless exempted, as provided in the next section, the
notice must also require the garnishee to appear on the first day of the
next term of the district court, wherein the main cause is depending, or
on the day fixed for trial if' in a justice's court, and answer such
interrogatories as may be then propounded to him, or that he will be 
liable to pay the entire judgment which the plaintiff eventually obtains
against the defendant. 
SEC. 3200. (1864.) The plaintiff may, in writing, direct the sheriff'
to take the answer of the garnishee, and append the same to his re­
turn. 
SEC. 8201. (1865.) In such case the sheriff has power to admin­
isMr an oath to garnishees, requiring them to make true answers to the
questions to be propounded, which questions shall be as follows : 
1. Are you in any manner indebted to the defendant in this suit, or
do you owe him money or property, which is not yet due? If so, state
the particulars. 
2. Have you in your possession, or under your control, any property,
rights or credits of the said defendant? If so, what is the value of the
same, and state all particulars. 
8. Do you know of any debts owing to the said defendant, whether
due or not due, or any property, rights, or credits belonging to him,
and now in the possession or under the control of others? lf so, state
the particulars. 
SEC. 8202. If the garnishee refuses to answer fully and unequivocally
all the foregoing interrogatories, he shall be notified and required to
appear and answer on the first day of the next term of the district
court, or on the day fixed for trial, as above provided, and so he may be
required in any event, if the plaintiff so notify him. 
SEC. 8203. (1867.) The questions propounded to the garnishee in
court, may be such us are above prescribed, to be asked by the sheriff,
and such others as the court may think proper and right. 
SEC. 3204. (1868.) Where the garnishee is required to appear at
court, unless he has refused to answer, as contemplated above, he is
entitled to the pay and mileage of an ordinary witness, and may, in like
manner, require payment before hand, in order to be made liable for
non-attendance. 
SEc. 3205. (1869.) If, when, duly summoned, and his fees ten-
dered, (when demanded.) he fail to nppenr and answer the interroga­
tories propounded to him without sufficient excuse for his delinquency,
he shall be presumed to be indebted to the defendant to the full runount
of the plaintiff's demand, and shall be dealt with accordingly. 
SEC. 3206. ( 1870.) But for a mere failure to appear, he is not 
1iable to pay the amount of the plaintiff's judgment, until he has had 
an opportunity to show cause against the issuing of an execution. 
SEC. 3207. (1871.) A garnishee mny, at any time after answer,
exonerate himself from further responsibility, by paying over to the 
sheriff the amount owing by him to the defendant, and by placing at
the sheriff's disposal the property of the defendant, or so much of said
debts and property as is equal to the value of the property to be at­
tached, all of which may afterwards be treated as though attached in
the usual manner. 
SEC. 3208. When the answer of the garni!;;hec is made, whether at
the district court or before the justice, or before the sheriff, the plaintiff
may controvert by pleading filed, any facts contained in the answer,
and specifically set out by the plaintiff, and issue being thereupon
joined, may be tried in the usual manner. Upon such trial the answer
of the garnishee is competent testimony. 
SEc. 3209. If in any of the above methods, it is made to appear
that the garnishee was indebted to the defendant, or hnd any of the 
defendant's property in his hands, either at the time of being served 
with the garnishee notice aforesaid, or at any time subsequent thereto,
he is liable to the plaintiff, in case judgment is finally recovered by
hirn to the full amount of that judgment, or to the amount of such
indebtedness, and of the property so held by him, and a conditional
judgment shall be entered up against him accordingly, unless he prefers
paying or delivering the same to the sheriff as above provided. 
SEC. 3210. If the debt of the garnishee to the defendant is not due,
execution will be suspended until its maturity. 
SEC. 3211. The garnishee shall not be made liable on a debt due
by negotiable or assignable paper, unless such paper is delivered, or the 
garnishee completely exonerated or indemnified from all liability thereon,
after he may have satisfied the judgment. 
SEC. 3212. The judgment in the garnishment suit, condemning the
property or debt in the hands of the garnishee, to the satisfaction of the 
plaintiff's demand, is conclusive between the garnishee and defendant.
SEC. 3213. The docketing of the original case shall contain a state- 
ment of all the garnishments therein, and when judgment is rendered
against a garnishee, the same shall distinctly refer to the original judg- 
ment.
SEC. 3214. An appeal lies, in all garnishment cases, at the instance 
of the plaintiff, the defendant, the garnishee, or an intervenor claiming
the property or money. 
SEc. 3215. (187 4.) Property attached otherwise than by garnish-
ment is bound thereby, from the time of the service of the attachment 
only.
SEC. 3216. The court before whom the action is pending, or the 
judge thereof, in vacation may, at any time appoint a receiver to take
possession of property attached under the .Provisions of this chapter,
and to collect, manage and control the same, and pay over the proceeds
according to the nature of the property and es.igency of the case. 
SEc. 3217. All money attached by the sheriff, or coming into his
hands by virtue of the proceeding in attachment, shall forthwith be 
paid over to the clerk to be by him retained till the further action of
the court. 
S1..:c. 3218. The sheriff shall make such disposition of other attached
property as may be directed by the court or judge, and where there is 
no direction upon the subject, he shall safely keep the property, subject 
to the order of the court. 
SEC. 3219. The defendant, or any person in whose possession any
attached property is found, or MY person making affidavit that he has 
an interest in it, may, at any time before judgment, discharge the prop-
erty attached, or any part thereof, by giving bond with security, to be
approved by the sheriff, in a penalty at least double the value of the
property sought to be released, but if that sum would exceed three
times the claim, then in such sum as equals three times the claim, con-
ditioned that such property, or its est.imated value, shall be delivered to
the sheriff to satisfy any judgment which may be obtained against the
defendant in that suit, within twenty days after the rendition thereof.
This bond shall be filed with the clerk of the court. 
Sze. 3220. To determine the value of the property in cases where
a bond is to be given, unless the parties agree otherwise, the sheriff shall
summon two disinterested persons having the qualification of jurors,
who, after being sworn by him to make the appraisement faithfully and
impartially, shall proceed to the discharge of their duty, If such per- 
sons disagree as to the value of the property, the sheritr shall decide
between them. 
SEC. 3221. (1879.) In an action brought upon the bond above eon­
templated, it shall be a sufficient defense that the property for the deliv­ 
ery of which the bond was given, did not, at the time of the levy, belong 
to the defendant against whom the attachment was issued.
SEC. 8222. When the sheriff thinks the property attached in danger 
of serious and immediate waste and decay, or when the plaintiff makes
affidavit to that effect, the sheriff may summon three persons having the 
qualifications of jurors, to examine the same. The sheriff shall give
the defendant} if within the county, two clear days' notice of such hear­
ing, and he may appear before such jury and have a personal hearing.
If they are of the opinion that the property requires soon to be disposed
of, they shall specify in writing, a day beyond which they do not deem
it prudent that it should be kept in the hands of the sheriff. H such
day occur before the trial day, he shall thereupon give the same notice
as for goods in execution, and for the same length of time, unless the
condition of the property renders a more immediate sale necessary.
The sale shall be made accordingly. If the defendant gives his written
consent, such sale may be made without sueh finding of three men. 
SEC. 3228. The money arising from such sale shall remain in the
bands of the clerk to abide the event of the suit. 
SEC. 8224. The sheriff shaU return upon every writ of attachment,
what he has done under it. The return must show the property at­ 
tached, the time it was attached, and the disposition made of it, by a
full and particular inventory ; also, the appraisement above contemplated,
when such has been made. Where garnishees are summoned, their
names, and the time each was summoned, must be stated. And where
real property is attached, the sheriff' shall describe it with sufficient cer­
tainty to identify it, and where he can do so, by a reference to the book
and page where the deed under which the defendant holds is recorded.
He shall return with the writ all bonds taken under it. Such return
must be made immediately after he shall have attached sufficient prop­
erty, or all that he can find; or, at latest, on the first day of the term on
which the defendant is notified to appear. 
Speci fie Attachment.. 
8Ec. 8225. In an aetioa to enforce a mortgage of, or lien upon, per­
sonal property, or for the recovery, partition or sale of such property, or
by a plaintiff having a future estate or interest therein, for the security
of his rights, where it satisfactorily appears by the petition, verified on
oath, or by affidavits or the proofs in the cause, that the plaintiff has a 
just claim, and that the property is about to be sold, concealed, or re­
moved from the state, or where the 'Plaintiff states, on oath, that he has
reasonable cause to believe, and does believe, unless prevented by the
court, the property will be sold, concealed or removed from the state,
an attachment may be granted against the property. 
SEC. 3226. In an action by a vendor of property, fraudulently pur­
chased, to vacate the contract and have a restoration of the property, or
compensation therefor, where the petition shows such fraudulent purchase
of property, and the amount of the plaintiff's claim, and is verified by
his oath, an attachment against the property may be granted. 
SEC. 3227. The attachments in the cases mentioned in the two last
sections, may be granted by the court in which the action is brought, or
by the judge thereof, or the judge of the county court, upon such terms 
and conditions as to security on the part of the plaintiff, for the damages
which may be occasioned by them, and with such directions as to the
disposition to be made of the attached property, as may be just and
proper, under the circumstances of each case. 
SEC. 3228. In every case the plaintiff shall be required to give se-
curity for the damages to the defendant, in an adequate sum to be speci · 
fled in the order granting the attachment; and where it may be proper
the court or judge may direct that the defendant in possession of the
attached property, shall be permitted to retain it upon giving such bond
with security, and for such sum as the court or judge may prescribe. 
81.;c. 3229. No writ of attachment shall be issued by the clerk until
the bond on the part of the plaintiff required by the order of the court
or judge, is executed in bis office, by one or more sufficient sureties of
the plaintiff. 
SEC. 3230. The writ of attachment shall describe the specific prop-
erty against which it is issued, and shall have indorsed upon it the di-
rection of the court or judge, as to the disposition to be made of the
attached property. It shall be directed, executed, and returned, as other
writs of attachment. 
SEC. 8231. The court may, in any of the cases mentioned under
this head of specific attachments, direct the terms and conditions of the 
bond to be executed by the defendant, with security, in order to obtain a 
discharge of the attachment. 
SEC, 3232. If judgment is rendered for the plaintiff, the court shall
I 
· · fi · I f.
app y in sans action t iereo . 
1. The money arising from the sales of perishable property.
2. The proceeds of the debts and funds attached in the hands of the 
garnishee. If these are not sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's claim, the
court shall order a sale by the sheriff, of any other attached property
which may be under his control. 
SEC. 8283. The court may, from time to time, make and enforce
proper orders respecting the property, sales, and the application of the 
moneys collected. 
SEC. 3234. The sheriff shall be allowed by the court the necessary
expenses of keeping the attached property, to be paid by the plaintiff 
and taxed in the costs. 
SEC. 3235. Any surplus of the attached property and its proceeds,
shall be returned to the defendant. 
SEC. 3236. If judgment is rendered in the action for the defendant,
the attachment shall be discharged.eand the property attached, or its 
proceeds shall be returned to him. 
SEC, 3237. Any person other than the defendant, may, before the
sale of any attached property, or before the payment to the plaintiff of
the proceeds thereof, or any attached debt, present his petition verified 
by oath, to the court, disputing the validity of the attachment, or stating
a claim to the property or money, or to an interest in, or lien on it,
under any other attachment, or otherwise, and setting forth the facts
upon which such claim is founded; and-the petitioner's claim shall be in
a summary manner investigated. The court may hear the proof or
order a reference, or mny empannel n jury to inquire into the facts. If
it is found that the petitioner has title to, a lien on, or any interest in
such property, the court shall make such order as may be necessary to
protect his rights. The costs of such proceedings shall be paid by either
party, at the discretion of the court. 
SEC. 3238. The fact stated as a cause of attachment, shall not be
contested in the action by a mere defense. The defendant's remedy 
shall be on the bond, but he may, in his discretion, sue thereon, by way
of counter-claim or cross-demand, and in such case, shall recover dam­
ages as in an original action on such bond. 
SEc. 32:39. A motion may be made to discharge the attachment, or
any pnrt thereof, at any time before trial, for insufficiency of statement
of cause thereof, or for other cause making it apparent of record that
the writ should not have issued, or should not have been levied on all
or on some part of the property held. 
SEC. 3240. ,vhen an attachment has been discharged, if the plain-
tiff then announce his purpose to appeal from such order of discharge, 
he shall have two clear days in which to perfect his appeal, and during
that time such discharge shall not operate a return of the property, nor
divest any lien, if such appeal be so perfected at the end thereof. 
SEC. 3:241. But if judgment in the cause of action be also given
against the plaintiff, he must also, within the same time, take his appeal
thereon, or such discharge shall be final. 
SEC. 3242. The attachment law shall be libemlly construed, and the
plaintiff, before or during trial, shall be permitted to amend any defect 
of form, in the affidavit, born], attachment, or other proceeding; and no
attachment shall be dismissed for any defect in, or want of bond, if the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, will at once substitute a sufficient bond,
but the statements of cause of attachment shall not be amended, nor
shall such cause be stated in the alternative but the cause or causes re­ 
lied on shall each be stated in a direct and categorical manner, or shall
be insufficient. 
SEC. 3243. No levy of attachment on real estate shall be notice to
a subsequent bona fide vendee or encumbmncer, unless the sheriff mak­ 
ing such levy shall have entered in a book which shall be kept in the
clerk's office of each county by the clerk thereof, and called incumbrance
book, a statement that the land, describing it, has been attached, and
stating the cause in which it was so attached, and when it was done, and
signed by such sheriff-and such book shall be open as other books kept
by such clerk, to public inspection. 
SEC. 3244-. (1883.) The word "sheriff" as used in this chapter, is
meant to apply to constables when the proceedings are in a justice's 
court or the like officer of any other court. 
SEC. 3245. (188-1.) When the proceedings are in a justice's court,
the justice is to be regarded as the clerk of the court for all the purposes
herein contemplated. 
SECTION 3246. Executions may issue at any time before the judg-
ment is barred by the statute of limitations, and but one execution shall 
be in existence at the same time. 
SEC. 8247. Judgments or orders requiring the payment of money,
or the delivery of the possession of property are to be enforced by exe- 
cution. Obedience to those requiring the performance of any other act,
is to be coerced by attachment for contempt. 
SEC. 3248. (1888.) Executions from the district court may issue in
h 6 
• . hi h h rd • th
t e rst mstance into any county w c t e party o ermg em may 
direct. 
CHAPTER 125. 
[Code-Chapter 110.) 
EXECUTIONS. 
SEC. 3249. When a judgment has been obtained in one county of
this state, and the judgment creditor desires to send an execution into 
another county, he inust also, if it has not been already done, send to be
filed in such county a transcript of such judgment, and the sheriff of 
such county to whom an execution may come from another county, shall
return to the clerk of his county a copy of such execution and all his
doings thereon, which shall be treated by the clerk of such county, and
such entries made in regard thereto, as if such execution had issued in
that case from his office, to the end that the record in his county may
show all incumbrances by attachment or judgment on any lands therein,
and all partial or total discharges of the same. 
SEC. 3250. (1889.) When sent into any county other than that in
which the judgment was rendered, return may be made by mail. But 
money can not thus be sent, except by the direction of the party entitled
thereto, or his attorney. 
SEC. 8251. The execution must intelligibly refer to the judgment,
stating the time and place at which it was rendered, the names of the 
parties to the action as well ¥ to the judgment, its amount, and the
amount still to be collected thereon, if for money ; and, if not for
money, it must state what specific act is required to be performed. If
it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall require the
sheriff to satisfy the judgment and interest out of the property of the
debtor subject to execution. 
SEC, 8252. If it be against real or personal property in the hands
of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real 
property, or trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment
and interest out of such property. 
SEC, 3253. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or
personal property it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of
the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and
may at the same time require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages,
or rents and profits, with interest recovered by the same judgment out
of the property of the party against whom it was rendered, subject to
execution, and the value of the property for which judgment was reeov-
ered, to be specified therein, if a deli very thereof can not be had, and
shall in that respect be deemed an execution against property. 
SEC. 825-l. When it requires the performance of any other act, a
oortified copy of the judgment may be served on the person against 
whom it is given, or upon the person or officer, who is required thereby,
or by law to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced. 
81-:c. 8255. Every officer to whose hands an execution may legally
come, shall give a receipt therefor, if required, stating the hour whea
the same was received, and shall make sufficient return thereof, together
with the money collected, on or before the seventieth day from such
delivery. 
SEC. 8256. (1891.) Where the judgment is against husband and
wife, the execution may issue against the property of either or both of
them. 
SEC. 8257. The officer to whom an execution is legally issued, shall
indorse thereon, the day and hour when he received it, and the levy,
sale, or other act done by virtue thereof, with the date, and the dates 
and amounts of any receipts or payment in satisfaction thereof; the
indorsements must be made at the time of the receipt or act done. 
S1-:c. 3258. When a judgment is against a principal and his surety,
it shall be the duty of the officer having the collection thereof, to exhaust
the property of the principal before proceeding to sell that of the surety. 
SEC. 32[,9. The term "surety," in the foregoing section, shall
embrace accommodation indorsers, stayers, and all other persons whose
liability on the claim is posterior to that of another; but the surety shall,
if requested by the officer, show property of the principal, to entitle
himself to the benefit of this provision. 
b ShEC,d3260.f A1 ftcffir exhaustinb~ the1property of tfbehprinhcipal, it.sh~ll
e t e uty o t 1e o cer to su ~ect t ie property o t e ot er parties m 
the order of their liability in the execution. But the party subsequently
liable, shall, if requested by the officer, show property of the party liable
before him, so as to entitle himself to the benefit of this provision. 
SEC. 3261. But all the parties will be considered as equally liable in
all cases, unless the order of liability is shown to the court, and recited
in the judgment, and the clerk issuing execution on the judgment con­
taining such recital, shall state the order of liability in the execution. 
SEc .. 3262. ,vhen an execution is delivered to an officer, he must
proceed to execute the same with diligence ; if executed, an exact 
description of the property, at length, with the date of the levy, shall be
indorsed upon or appended to the execftt.ion, and if the writ was not
executed, or only executed in part, the reason in such case must be
stated in the return. 
SEC. 8263. An execution may be issued and executed on Sunday,
whenever an affidavit shall be filed by the plaintiff or some person in
his behalf, stating that he believes he will lose his judgment unless pro­
cess issue on that day. 
SEC, 3264. If the sheriff die or go out of office before the return of
any execution, bis successor, or other officer authorized to discharge the
duties of the office in such case, may proceed thereon in the same man­
ner that the sheriff should have done. 
SEC. 3265. Upon the rendition of judgment, execution may be at.
once issued, and shall be by the clerk, on the demand of the party enti­
tied thereto, and upon its issuance, the clerk shall enter on the judgment 
docket the date of its issuance, and to what county and officer issued,
and shall also enter on said docket the return of the officer with the
date of the return, the dates and amount of all moneys received into or
paid out of the office thereon, and these entries shall be made at the
time of the thing done. 
SEc. 3266. The clerk willfully neglecting or refusing to perform 
any one of the duties in this chapter imposed, shall be liable to· a pen­
alty of five hundred dollars, and to damages to the party aggrieved,
and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor in office, and on conviction thereof, 
shall be removed from office. 
Levy. 
SEC. 8267. (1904.) The officer must execute the writ by levying
on the property of the judgment debtor, collecting the things in action
by suit in his own name, if necessary, or by selling the same, selling the
other property and paying to the plaintiff the proceeds, or so much
thereof as will satisfy the execution. 
SEc. 8268. The officer shall in all cases select such property, and in
such quantities, as will be likely to bring the exact amount required to 
be raised, as nearly as practicable, and having made one levy, may at
any time thereafter make other levies if he deem it necessary. 
SEc. 3269. Stock or interests owned by the defendant in any com-.Btoct.
pany, and also debts due him, and property of his in the hands of third per­ 
sons, may be levied upon in the same manner provided for attaching the
same. 
SEC. 8270. In proceedings by garnishment on execution, the gar-
nishee shall be served as in case of attachment; his answer may be 
taken by the officer in the same way and with the same results ; he
may be notified to appear at the term of court in the same way, and
with the same results, and his default shall be attended with the same
consequences. The plaintiff may also, if the garnishee is called into
court, have a case docketed against him without docket fee, and upon his
answer to the officer, issue may be made and notice thereof given him,
or issue may be made on his answer in court without any notice thereon,
if made at the same term ; and in all these and every other particular,
the proceedings shall be the same as under garnishment on attachment,
as near as the nature of the case will allow. 
SEC. 3271. Proceedings by garnishment on execution shall not be
in nny manner affected by the expiration of the execution or its return,
and where parties thereunder have been garnished, the officer shall return
to the next term thereafter a copy of the execution with all his doings
thereon so far as the garnishments thereon are concerned. 
SEC. 3272. Bank bills and other things in action, may be levied
upon and sold, or appropriated as hereinafter provided, and assignments
thereon by the officer shall have the same effect as if made by the
defendant, and may be treated as so made. 
SEC. 3278. (1894.) After the rendition of judgment, any person
indebted to the defendant in execution, may pay to the sheriff the 
amount of such indebtedness, or so much thereof as is necessary to sat-
isfy the execution, and the sheriff's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge
therefor. 
SEC, 327 4. (1895.) Public buildings owned by the state, or any
county, city, school district, or other civil corporation, and any other!=~ 
public property which is necessary and proper for carrying out the gen-
eral purpose for which any such corporation "is organized, are exempt
from execution. The property of a private citizen can in no case be
levied upon to pay the debt of a civil corporation. 
SEC. 3275. (1896. In case no property is found on which to levy,
which is not exempted by the last section, or if the judgment creditor 
elect not to issue execution against such corporation, he is entitled to the 
amount of his judgment, and costs in the ordinary evidences of indebt­
edness issued by that corporation. And if the debtor corporation issues
no scrip or evidences of debt, a tax must be levied as early as praed­
cable, sufficient to pay off the judgment with interest and costs. 
SEC. 8276 .. (1897.) A failure on the part of the officers of the eor-
poration to comply with the requirements of the last section renders
them personally responsible for the debt. 
SEC. 8277. If an officer who levies, or is required t.o levy an exe-
cution on personal property, doubts whether it is subject to the execu- 
tion, he may give the plaintiff therein, or his agent or attorney, notice
that an indemnifying bond is required. Bond may, thereupon, be given,
by or for the plaintiff, with one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved
by the officer, to the effect that the obligors will indemnify him against
the damages which he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale
of the property, and will pay to any claimant thereof the damages he
may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale, and will warrant to
any purchaser of the property, such estate or interest therein as is sold;
and thereupon the officer shall proceed to subject ~e property to the
execution, and shall return the indemnifying bond to the district court
of the county, in which the levy is made. 
SEC. 3278. If the bond mentioned in the last section is not given,
the officer may refuse to levy the execution, or if it has been levied and 
the bond is not given in a reasonable time after it is required by the
officer, he may restore the property to the person from whose pos­ 
session it was taken, and the levy shall stand discharged. 
SEC. 3279. The claimant or purchaser of any property, for the seiz­
ure or sale of which an indemnifying bond has been taken and returned 
by the officer, shall be barred of any action against the officer levying
on the property, if the surety on the bond was good when it was taken.
Any such claimant or purchaser may maintain an action upon the bond,
and recover such damages as he may be entitled to. 
SEC. 3280. Where property, for the sale of which the officer is
indemnified, sells for more than enough to satisfy the execution under 
which it was taken, the surplus shall be paid into the court to which the
indemnifying bond is directed to be returned. That court may order
such disposition or payment of the money to be made temporarily or
absolutely, as may be proper, in respect to the rights of the parties 
interested. · 
SEC. 8281. The sale of personal property on which an execution is
levied, shall be suspended at the instance of any person other than the 
defendant in execution, claiming the property, who shall execute, with
one or more sureties, sufficient for double its value, a bond to the plain­ 
tiff in the execution to the effect that, if it shall be adjudged that the
property or any part of it is subject to the execution, he will pay to the
plaintiff the value of the property so subject, and ten per cent. thereon,
not exceeding the amount due on the execution and ten per cent. thereon. 
SEC. 3282. For the purpose of taking the bond mentioned in the
last section, the officer shall select three disinterested persons having the 
qualifications of jurors, and administer to them an oath, to make a fair
appraisement of each article of the property, whose appraisement in 
writing shall be recited in the bond. The bond, with the appraisement
annexed thereto, shall be returned to the district court of the county in
which the levy was made, at the next term thereafter. 
SEO. 3288. The party to whom the bond is executed may move the
court to which it is returned, for a judgment thereon against all or any 
of the obligors, or their representatives, having given to them ten days'
notice of the motion. The court may cause such issues to be tried as it
may prescribe, and direct which party shall be considered plaintiff in
the issues. If the property or any part of it is found subject to the exe­
cution, judgment shall be rendered in favor of the plaintiff therein for
the value of the property so subject, and ten per cent. thereon, not
exceeding the amount due on the execution and, ten per cent. thereon.
An execution may be issued on the judgment forthwith, on which the
sam,indorsement shall be made as on the execution in virtue of which
the property had been seized. 
SEC. 3284. Upon the trial of the motion, either party may object
ha h 
.c...: l · d d th h · 
t t t e property was not rarr y appraise ; an ereupon t e Jury try-
ing the facts shall hear evidence respecting, and find the value of the 
property. 
SEC. 3285. The giving of the bond mentioned in section 8281 shall
not discharge the levy of the execution upon the property claimed.
But the officer may leave it, subject to the lien of the levy, with the
person in whose possession it is found, pending the proceeding on the
bond; and may, in the mean time, proceed with the execution against
other property of the defendant. 
SEC. 3286. The provisions of the preceding sections of this chapter,
as to bonds, shall apply to proceedings upon executions, issued by justices 
of the peace. Indemnifying bonds shall be returned in such cases, with
the executions under which they are taken, and bonds of claimants of
property may be returned to the justice from whose office the execution
issued, and motion thereon shall be made before him on five days' notice.
He shall cause a jury as in a civil cause, to be impanneled to find whether
the property was subject to the execution, and the judgment shall be
subject to an appeal. 
SEC. 3287. Whenever a sheriff or other officer shall levy an execu-
tion upon the property or effects held jointly or in partnership by the
debtor or debtors in execution, with others, to satisfy the separate debt
of such debtor or debtors, the sheriff or other officers shall not proceed 
to make sale thereof, except as hereinafter provided, if the person or
persons, or any of them holding such joint or partnership interest with
the debtor, shall assert an equitable or other claim thereto, and in writ-
ing, notify the officer of the existence of such claim. 
SEC. 3288. · When a claim is asserted by the joint owners or part-
h I 
· d th ffi hall b · f hi
ners to t e property evie upon, e o eer s not, y virtue o 1s 
levy, deprive the joint owners or partners of the possession of the prop-
erty levied upon, except for the purpose of making an inventory thereof
and having the same appraised. 
SEC. 3289. The officer shall proceed to have the property levied
upon, appraised, as provided in section 3282, unless the value can be 
agreed upon. He shall return the inventory and the appraisement with
the execution, to the office from which it issued, and in his return shall 
· state all the facts connected with the levy by him, and the claim set up
by the joint owner or owners. 
SEC. 3290. The execution creditor shall have a lien upon the prop-
erty levied upon, to the extent of his claim, if the same does not exceed
the interest of the judgment debtor in the property, and which shall con-
tinue until the levy is disposed of. 
SEC. 8291. Upon the execution being returned by the officer, that
he had levied the same upon the property in which the debtor was joint 
owner or partner, and that the same was claimed by the other joint 
owners or partners, the execution creditor may proceed in an action by
equitable proceedings, to subject to the satisfaction of his execution, the 
interest of the debtor so levied upon.
SEC. 8292. If such creditor, at the commencement of his action, or 
afterward, shall file an affidavit thnt he verily believes the property
levied upon will be removed from the county, or sold, or otherwise dis­
posed of, with intent fraudulently to defeat his Iien, the court., or the 
judge thereof, in vacation, may make an order direcwng the officer to
possess himself of the property so levied upon, unless bond with appl9ved
security shall be executed to the plaintiff in the execution, binding the
obligors in said bond to have the same forthcoming in obedience to any
order or judgment of the court in the action, which bond shall be taken
by the officer and returned by him to the court in which the action is
pending. 
Stay of .Execution. 
SEC. 8293. When judgment has been rendered against any one for
the recovery of money, he may, by procuring one or more sufficient 
freehold securities to enter into a recognizance acknowledging themselves
security for the defendant for the payment of the judgment, together
with the interest and costs accrued and to accrue, have a stay of the
execution from the time of rendering judgment, as follows : 
If the sum for which judgment was rendered, inclusive of costs, does
not exceed five dollars, one month. 
If such sum and costs exceed five, but not twenty dollars, two
months. 
If such sum and costs exceed twenty, but not forty dollars, three
months. 
If such sum and costs exceed forty, but not sixty dollars, four
months. 
If such sum and costs exceed sixty, but not one hundred dollars, six
months. 
If such sum and costs exceed one hundred, but not one hundred and
fifty dollars, nine months. 
If such sum and costs exceed one hundred and fifty dollars, twelve
months. 
SEC. 3294. The provisions of the foregoing section· shall not be
enjoyed by any one who does not take such stay within ten days from
the expiration of the term at which judgment is rendered. No appeal
shall be taken after such stay has been obtained, nor shall a stay be
taken on a judgment entered as herein contemplated, against one who .
is surety in the stay of execution, nor shall such stay be allowed to any
judgment obtained by a laboring man or mechanic for his wages. 
SEC. 3295. The surety for stay of execution may be taken and 
approved by the clerk, and the recognizance entered of record. The
undertaking in the recognizance shall be for the payment of the judg­
ment, interest and costs, that may accrue at or before the expiration of
the term of the stay of execution. 
SEC. 8296. When the surety is entered after execution issued, the
clerk shall immediately notify the sheriff of the stay, and he shall forth­ 
with return the execution, with his doings thereon.
SEc. 8297. All property levied on before stay of execution, and all 
written undertakings for the delivery of personal property to the sheriff,
shall be relinquished by the officer, upon stay of execution being en­ 
tered. 
SEC. 3298. Every recognizance taken as above provided, shall have
the effect of a judgment confessed, from the date thereof, against the
property of the sureties. 
SEC. 3299. At the expiration of the stay, it shall be the duty of the
clerk to issue a joint execution against the property of all the judgment
debtors and sureties, describing them as debtors or sureties therein. 
SEC. 8300. When any court shall render judgment against two or
more per5ons, an,-.of whom is surety for any other in the contract on 
which the judgment is founded, there shall be no stay of execution
allowed, if the surety object thereto at the time of rendering the judg-
ment, whereupon it shall be ordered by the court that there be no stay,
unless the surety for the stay of execution will undertake specifically to
pay the judgment, in case the amount thereof can not be levied of the
principal defendant. 
SEC. 8301. Any surety for the stay of execution may file with the
clerk an affidavit, stating that he verily believes he will be liable for 
the judgment, interest and costs thereon, unless execution issues imme-
diately ; and the clerk shall thereupon issue execution forthwith, unless
other sufficient surety M entered before the clerk, as in other cases. 
SEC. 3302. If other sufficient surety be entered, it shall have the
force of the original surety entered before the filing of the affidavit, and 
shall discharge the original surety. 
SEC. 3303. Where a stay of execution has been taken, such con-
fessed judgment shall not release any judgment · lien, by virtue of the
original judgment for the amount then due. The officer holding the said
execution, shaJl return thereon what amount wal3 made from the princi-
pal debtor, and how much from the surety. 
Exemption. 
SEC, 8304. The following property of private individuals is exempt
from execution: A11 wearing apparel kept for actual use, and suitable
to the condition of the party, and trunks and other receptacles to con-
tain the same ; one musket or rifle; the proper tools, instruments, or
books, of any farmer, mechanic, surveyor, clergyman, lawyer, physician,
teacher, or professor; the horse, or the team, consisting of not more
than two horses or mules, or two yoke of cattle, and the wagon, or other
vehicle, with the proper harness or tackle, by the use of which any phy-
sician, public officer, farmer, teamster, or other laborer, habitually earns
his living; all private libraries, family bibles, portraits, pictures and
paintings, not kept for the purpGse of sale; a seat or pew, occupied by
the debtor or his family, in any house of public worship; and an interest
in a public or private burying-ground, not exceeding one acre for any
defendant. 
SEC. 3305. If the debtor is the head of a family, there is further
exempt, his homestead, as provided by law ; one cow and calf; one 
horse, unless a horse has been exempted for him under the last section;
fifty sheep, and the wool therefrom ; five hogs, and all pigs under six
months ; the neces~ary food for all animals exempt from execution, for
sixty days; all flax raised by the defendant, and the manufactures there-
from ; one bedstead, and the necessary bedding, for every two in the
family; all cloth manufactured by the defendant, not exceeding one
hundred yards in quantity; household and kitchen furniture, not exceed-
ing one hundred dollars in value; all spinning wheels and looms, and
other instruments of domestic labor kept for actual use ; and the neces-
sary provisions arid fuel for the use of the family for six months. 
SEC. 3306. The word "family," as used in the last section, does not
include strangers or boarders lodging with the family. 
SEC. 8307. The earnings of such debtor for his personal services, or
those of his family, at any time within ninety days next preceding the
levy, are also exempt from execution and attachment. 
SEo. 3308. None of the exemptions contained in this chapter are
for the benefit of a single man not the head of a family, nor of non-resi­
dents, nor of those who have started to leave this state, but their prop­
erty is liable to execution, with the exception in the two former cases
of ordinary wearing apparel, and trunks to contain the same ; and "in
the latter C88e of such wearing apparel with such property as the de­
fendant may select, not to exceed seventy-five dollars, to be selected by
the debtor, and appraised according to the provisions of section 3220;
but any person coming to this state with the intention of remaining, is a
resident within the meaning of this chapter. 
SEO. 3309. Where a debtor absconds and leaves his family, such
property shall be exempt in the bands of the wife and childre.i, or either 
of them. 
Sak. 
SEC. 8310. The sheriff must give four wee\s notice of the time and
place of selling real property, and three weeks notice of that of personal
property. 
SEO. 3311. Notice shall be given by being posted up in at least
three public places of the county, one of which shall be at the place
where the last district court was held. In addition to which, in case of 
the sale of real estate, or where personal property to the amount of two
hundred dollars or upwards is to be sold, there shall be two publications
of such notice, in some newspaper printed in the county, if there be one. 
In constables' sales, there shall be no newspaper publication, and the
notice shall be posted in three public places of the township of the jus­
tice, and one of them at his office door ;: the time of such notice shall be
two weeks. 
SEo."3312. An officer selling without the notice above prescribed,
shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the defendant in execution, in addi­
tion to the actual damages sustained by either party ; but the validity of
the sale is not thereby affected. 
SEO. 3313. The sale must be at public auction, between nine o'clock
in the forenoon, and four o'clock in the afternoon, and the hour of the 
commencement of the sale must be fixed in the notice. 
SEC. 8314. When there are no bidders, or when the amount offered
is grossly inadequate, or when from any cause the sale is prevented from
taking place on the day fixed, the sheriff may postpone the sale for not
more than three days, without being required to give any farther notice
thereof; but he shall not make more than two such postponements, and
such postponement shall be publicly announced when the sale should
have taken place. 
SEC. 3315. When the property sells for more than the amount re­
quired to be collected, the overplus must be paid to the defendant, unless 
the officer have another execution in bis hands, on which said overplus 
may be rightfully applied.
SEc. 8316. If the property levied on sell for less than sufficient for 
that purpose, the plaintiff may order out another execution, which shall
be credited with the amount of the previous sale. The proceedings 
under this second sale, shall conform to those hereinbeforc prescribed. 
SEC. 331i. When the property is unsold for want of bidders, the
levy still bolds good ; and if there is sufficient time the property may 
again be advertised and sold under the same execution, or the execution
may be returned and a t1tmditi'oni e:,:pon<18 issued. 
SEO. 8318. If the defendant is in actual occupation and possession
of any part of the land levied on, the officer having the execution, shall, 
at least twenty days previous to such sale, serve the defendant with writ-
ten notice stating that the execution is levied on said land, and mention-
ing the time and place of sale j and sales made without the notice
required in this section, may be set aside, on motion made at the same
or the next term thereafter. 
SEO. 3819. An any time before nine o'clock, A. M., of the day of
sale, the defendant may deliver to the officer a plan of division of the 
land levied on, subscribed by him, and it shall in that case, be the duty
of the officer to sell, according to said plan, so much of the land as may
be necessary to satisfy the debt and costs, and no more. If no such
plan is furnished, the officer may sell without any division. 
SEC. 3.320. When the purchaser fails to pay the money when de-
mantled, the plaintiff or his attorney may elect to proceed against him 
for the amount; otherwise . the sheriff shall treat the sale as a nullity,
and may sell the property again on the same day, or after a postpone- 
ment as above authorized. 
SEC. 3321. When any petson bas heretofore, or shall hereafter, pur-
chase at sheriff's sale, any real estate on which the judgment upon which 
the execution issued was not a lien at the time of the levy, and which
fact was unknown to the purchaser, the _district court of the county shall
set aside such sale on motion, notice having been given to the debtor, as
in case of action, and a new execution may be issued to enforce the
judgment, and upon tlie order being made to set aside the sale, the sheriff
or judgment-creditor shall pay over to the purchaser the purchase money;
said motion may also be made by any person interested in the real
estate. 
SEC. 3322. (1914.) Money levied upon may be appropriated with-
out being advertised or sold. The same may be done with bank bills, 
drafts, promissory notes, or other papers of the like character, if the
plaintiff will receive them at their par value, as cash, or if the officer
can exchange them for cash at that value. 
SEC, 8823. When a judgment has been obtained against the execu-
tor of one deceased, which the personal estate of the deceased is insuffi- 
cient to satisfy, the plaintiff may file his petition in the office of the
clerk of the district court, wherein judgment was rendered against the
executor, the heirs and divisees of real estate (if there are such,) setting
forth the facts, and that thve is real estate of the deceased within the
state, describing its location and extent, and praying the court to award
execution against the same. 
SEc. 3824. A notice shall thereupon be indorsed upon said petition,
notifying the persons against whom the petition is filed, to appear on the
first day of the term, and show cause, if any they have, why execution
should not be awarded. . 
SEC. 3325. The petition and notice shall be served and returned in
the ordinary manner, and the same length of time shall be allowed for
appearance, as in civil actions. 
SEC. 8326. (1921.) At the proper time, the court shall award the
execution, unless sufficient cause be shown to the contrary. 
SEC, 3327. (1922.) The non-age of the heirs or devisees shall not
be deemed such sufficient cause. 
SEC. 3328. (1923.) :Mutual judgments, the executions on which are 
in the hands of the same officer, may be set off, the one against the
other ; except that the costs shall be so set off, unless the balance of cash
actually collected on the larger judgment is sufficient to pay the costs
of both judgments, and such costs shall be paid therefrom accordingly. 
SEC. 33:W. (rn24.) When real property has been levied upon, if 
the estate is less than a lease-hold, having two years of an unexpired
term, the sale is absolute. 
SEc. 3330. (1924.) When the estate is of a larger amount, the
property is redeemable, as hereinafter prescribed. 
SEC, 3331. (1925.) At the time of the sale, the sheriff shall give
to the purchaser a certificate containing a description of the property
and the amount of money paid by such purchaser ; and stating that un­
less redemption is made within one year thereafter, according to law, he
or his heirs or assigns, will be entitled to a deed for the same. 
Redemption. 
SEC. 8332. (1926.) The defendant may redeem such property at
any time within one year from the day of sale, as hereinafter pro­
vided ; and will, in the mean time, be entitled to the possession of the 
property. 
SEC. 8333. (1927.) For the first six months after such sale, his
right to redeem is exclusive, but if no redemption is made by him at
the end of that time, any creditor of the defendant, whose demand is
a lien upon such real estate, may redeem the same at any time within
nine months from the day of sale. But a mechanic's lien, before
judgment thereon, is not of such a character as to entitle the holder
to redeem. 
SEC. 3334. (1928.) Any creditor whose claim becomes a lien prior
to the expiration of the time allowed by law for the redemption by
creditors, may redeem. A mortgagee may thus redeem before or after
the debt secured by the mortgage falls due. 
SEC, 3335. (1929.) Creditors having the right of redemption, may
redeem from each other within the time above limited, and in the man­ 
ner herein provided. 
SEC. 3336. (1930.) The terms of redemption in all cases, will be
the reimbursement of the amount paid by the then holder, added to the
amount of his own lien, with interest upon the whole at the rate of ten
per cent. per annum, together with costs, subject to the exception con­
tained in the next section. But where a mortgagee, whose claim is not
yet due, is the person from whom the redemption is thus to be made, a
rebate of interest, at the rate of ten per centl per annum, must be made
by such mortgagee on his claim. 
SEC, 3337. (1931.) When a senior creditor thus redeems from his
junior, he is required to pay off only the amount of those liens which
are paramount to his own, with the interest and costs appertaining to
those liens. 
SEC. 3338. (1932.) But the junior creditor may in all such cases
prevent n redemption by the holder of ·the paramount lien, by paying
off that lien, or by leaving with the clerk before hand the amount nec­ 
essary therefor. 
SEC. 8339. A junior judgment creditor may redeem from a senior
judgment creditor, by paying to the party, the clerk or the sheriff, if
execution has issued, the full sum due, with interest and costs, and
shall become thereby vested with the title to the judgment so redeemed. 
SEC, 3340. If paid to the sheriff, he shall give to the party redeem­
ing, a certificate that he has paid such sum for the redemption of the 
judgment, describing it, which being presented to the clerk, he shall
enter such redemption on the judgment docket, as he shall also do if
the money is paid to himself. 
SEO. 3341. ( 1983.) Whenever a senior creditor redeems from a
junior creditor, the latter may in return, redeem from the former, and
so on, as often as the land is taken from him by virtue of a paramount
lien. 
SEC. 8342. ( 1934.) After the expiration of nine months from the
day of sale, the creditors can no longer redeem from each other, except
as hereinafter provided. But the defendant may still redeem at any 
time before the end of the year, as aforesaid. 
SEC. 3343. (1985.) Unless the defendant thus redeems, the pur-
chaser, or the creditor, who last redeemed, prior to the expiration of the
nine months aforesaid, will hold the property absolutely. 
SEC. 8344. (1986.) In case it is thus held by a redeeming cred-
itor, his lien, and the- claim out of which it arose, will be held to be 
extinguished, unless he pursues the course pointed out in the next
section. 
SEO. 3345. If he is unwilling to hold the property and credit the
defendant therefor, with the full amount of his lien, he must, within ten
days after the nine months aforesaid, enter on the sale book the utmost
amount that he is thus willing to credit on his claim. 
SEC, 3346. ( 1938.) Any unsatisfied lien creditor, within ten days
after the expiration of the time thus allowed to make the entry re- 
quired in the last section, may redeem the property by paying the
amount of the legal disbursements of the I.Mt holder, as hereinbefore
regulated, added to the amount thus entered on the sale book, together
with interests and costs. 
SEC. 3347. (1939.) Such redemptioner shall also credit the defend-
ant with the full amount of his lien, unless within ten days after re­
deeming as aforesaid, he likewise makes a like entry on the sale book,
in which case any unsatisfied lien creditor, may in like manner redeem
within ten days as aforesaid, and so on until there are no more unsat­
isfied liens, or until the expiration of the year for redemption, the
defendant having the final privilege of redeeming from the last redemp- 
tion at the end of the year.
SEO. 3348. (1940.) The mode of making the redemption is by 
paying the · money into the clerk's office for the use of the persons
thereto entitled. The person so redeeming, if not defendant in execu-
tion, must also file his affidavit, or that of his agent or attorney,
stating as nearly as practicable, the amount still unpaid and due on his 
own claim. •
SEC. 3349. (1941.) The clerk shall thereupon give him a receipt 
for the money, stating the purpose for which it was paid. He must
also, at the same time, enter in the sale book a minute of such redemp-
tion, of the amount paid, and the amount of the lien of the last redemp-
tion, as sworn to by him. 
81-:c. 3350. (1942.) A creditor redeeming as above contemplated,
is entitled to receive an assignment of the certificate issued by the sher- 
itf, to the original purchaser, as hereinbefore directed.
SEC. 3:35 l. ( 19 43.) When the property has been sold in parcels, 
any distinct portion may be redeemed by itself. 
81<~0. 3352. (1944.) When the interests of several tenants in com-
mon, have been sold on execution, the undivided portion of any or 
either of them may be redeemed separately. 
SEC. 3858. (1946.) The rights of a defendant in relation to re­ 
demption, are traosferrable, and the assignee has the like power .ro 
~~ . 
SEc. 8854. (1946.) If the defendant or his assignee fail to redeem,
the sheriff must, at the end of the year, execute a deed to the pe1'80D 
who is entitled to the certificate as herein before provided, or to his
assignee. If the person entitled be dead, the deed shall be made to his 
heirs, but the property will be subject to the payment of the debt.s of
the deceased, in the same manner, 88 if acquired during his lifetime. 
SEc. 3355. (1947.) The purchaser of real est.ate at a sale on exe-
cution, need not place any evidence of his purchase upon record, until
twenty days after the expiration of the full time of redemption. Up to
that time the publicity of the proceedings is constructive notice of the
rights of the purchaser, but no longer. 
SEO. 3356. (19•8.) Deeds executed by a sheriff' in pursuance of 
such sales, are prenmptive evidence of the regularity of all previous
proceedings, in the case, and may be given in evidence without prelim­ 
inary proof
SEC. 3357. (1949.) When real estate has been sold on execution, 
the purchaser thereof, or any person who has succeeded to his interest,
may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for any injury
to the property committed after the sale and before posseseioa is deliv-
ered under the cooveyance. 
SEc. 3358. ( l 9a I.) The term " defendant" 88 herein used, is in­
tended to designate the party against whom, and the term "plaintiff"
the party in favor of whom, any execution has issued. 
SEC. 3859. (1952.) The provisions of this chapter are intended to 
embrace proceedings in justices' courts, so far 88 they are applicable ;
and the terms "sheriff," and" clerk," are accordingly to be understood,
as qualified in this chapter, in the same manner, in this respect, 88 in
that relative to attachment. 
.A.ppraisement. • 
An Act to provide for the Appraiscment of Property sold under Execution. 
[.AI.IMI .April 8, 18601 ioolr df•ct .April 21, 1800; Law, of EigW Gnvral Aunnbly1 Olopm 182.J 
SECTION 8860. Be it enacted 11!J tM General .Assemblg of th« State
of Iowa, That no goods, chattels, lands or tenement.s shall be sold on
execution issued from any court, for less than two-thirds of the fair value
thereof, at the t+me of sale, exclusive of all liens, mortgages or incum­ 
brances thereon, except as hereinafter provided. 
SEC. 3361. The officer to whom any such writ shall be delivered to
be executed, shall, before sale unless otherwise directed by the execu­
tion debtor, proceed to ascertain the fair value of such property. 
SEC. 3362. For the purpose of ascertaining the value of property 
to be sold under execution, two disinterested householders of the neigh­
borhood shall be selected as appraisers; one of whom shall be chosen
by the execution debtor, and the other by the plaintiff, his attorney or 
agent, or, in the absence of the plaintiff' his agent and attorney, by the
officer executing such writ; and said appraisers shall forthwith proceed 
t() value such property according to its fair value at the time, and in case
of their disagreement as to such value, they shall choose another disin- 
terested householder of the neighborhood, and with his assistance they
shall complete such valuation. The valuation to be sworn to by the 
appraisers.
SEC. 3363. If the execution debtor shall fail to choose an appraiser 
within three days after notice of such levy served on him or his attor-
ney by copy or reading, such officer shall choose an appraiser for him, 
who shall proceed in all respects as if he had been chosen by the exeou-
tion debtor. 
SEC. 8364. In case any of said appraisers shall fail to complete such
valuation, the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, or the officer, in their
absence, or the execution debtor, or the appraisers if two remain, who
were first chosen, as the case may be, shall choose an appraiser in the
place of the one before chosen by him, or them, and refusing to act ; OT 
if such execution debtor shall in such case fail to choose such appraiser
within two d-ys after notice of such refusal to act by the appraiser
chosen by him, such officer shall choose an appraiser for him, and any
appraiser thus chosen shall proceed in all respects as if he had been
chosen in the first instance. 
SEC. 3365. Upon the completion of such appraisement the said
appraisers shall return to the officer a schedule of the property appraised,
with the value of each lot, tract or parcel of real estate, and of the sev-
eral articles of personal property which may have been levied upon by
virtue of such execution. Whenever any property thus appraised, can 
· not be sold for two-thirds of its valuation, it shall be the duty of the
officer by whom such levy shall have been made, when he returns such 
execution, to return such appraisement therewith, stating in his return
such failure to sell. 
SEc. 3366. Such levy and return shall constitute and remain a lien 
011 the property thus remaining unsold, and a writ of venditioni exponas
may issue for the sale thereof as in other cases. 
SEC. 3367. When any such writ of venditioni exponas shall issue,
either party may have a revaluation of the property levied upon, by 
paying the expense of such revaluation. 
Sim. 3368. The officer to whom such execution may be directed
shall proceed to sell without unnecessary delay, but shall not offer the 
same property 'more than once, under the same execution, unless the
execution creditor will pay the cost and charges of such additional offer 
to sell.
SEC. 3369. Execution shall not issue on any judgment more fre- 
quently than once in six months, unless at the cost and charge of the
plaintiff. 
SEC. 3370. Property conveyed by a debtor with intent to hinder or
delay collection or defraud creditors, shall b~ sold without appraisement, 
SEc. 3371. It shall be lawful for any Judgment debtor to have his
real estate sold on execution subject to redemption as is provided by 
1 d
• h 1 b f 1 h b h ffi 
aw, an m case e so e ects e ore a evy on t e same y t e o cer
having control of the writ, and files his notice in writing, of election,
with the clerk of the court issuing the writ, the officer shall proced to 
sell, subject to redemption, and shall execute to the purchaser a certifi-
cate of purchase. 
SEC. 3372. \Vhen the real estate is sold after appraisement accord- 
, _JI. 
ing to this act, the officer, on the payment of the purchase woney, shall 
execute to the purchaser or purchasers, a deed or deeds, which shall
convey all the interest on which the judgment operated aa a lien, or
which the debtor acquired after the judgment and before the sale, and 
the said deed when executed according to law shall be presumptive evi-
dence of the regularity of the judgment and sale. · 
SEC. 8373. The appraisers provided for in this act shall be allowed
fifty cents in each case for their services: provided, that in all eases
where the time necessarily required exceeds five hours, they shall be
allowed an additional compensation of ten cents per hour. 
SEC. 887 4. All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions
of this act are hereby repealed. 
CHAPTER 126. 
[Cod~hapter 111.] 
PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTAL TO EXECUTION,•• 
SECTION 337 5: When an execution against the property of a judg-
ment debtor, or one of several debtors in the same judgment has been 
issued from the district or supreme court to the sheriff of the county
where such debtor resides, or if he do not reside in the state, to the
sheriff of the county where the judgment was rendered, or a transcript
of a justices' judgment has been filed, and execution issued thereon, is
returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the owner of t~e judgment is
entitled to an order for the appearance and examination of such debtor. 
SEc. 3376. (1954.) The like order may be obtained at any time
after the issuing of an execution upon proof, by ihe affidavit of the
party or otherwise, to· the satisfaction of the court or officer who is to
grant the same, that any judgment debtor has property which he un­
justly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment. 
8Ec. 8377. (1955.) Such order may be made by the court in which
the judgment was rendered, or by any judge thereof in vacation, or by 
county court of the county to which the execution has been issued as
aforesaid, or by the judge thereof. And the debtor may be required to
appear and answer before either of such courts or officers, or before a
referee appointed by the court or judge who issued the order, 
SEC. 3378. The debtor on his appearance, may be interrogated in
relation to any fact calculated to ,how the amount of his property or the 
disposition which has been made of it, or any other matter pertaining to 
the purpose for which the examination is permitted to be made. And
the interrogatories and answers shall be reduced to writing and pre­
served by the court or officer before whom they are taken. All exam­
inations and answers under this chapter shall be on oath, and no person
shall, on examination, pursuant to this chapter, be excused from answer­
ing any question on the ground that his examination will tend to convict
him of a fraud, but his answers shall not be used as evidence against
him in a prosecution for such fraud. 
SEC. 8879. Witnesses may be required by the order of the court
or judge, or by subpcena from the referee to appear and testify upon
any proceedings under this chapter in the same manner as upon the 
trial of an issue.
SEC. 3380. If any property, rights or credits, subject to execution, 
th
• d · be • d, d h b 
are us ascertame , an execution may issue an t ey may e
levied upon accordingly. The court or judge may order any property
of the judgment debtor not exempt by Jaw, in the hands either of him-
self or any other person or corporation, or due to the judgment debtor, 
to be delivered up, or in any other mode applied towards the satisfac-
tion of the judgment. 
SEC. 3881. The court or judge, may also, by order, appoint the
sheriff of the proper county, or other suitable person, a receiver of the
property of the judgment debtor, and may also, by order, forbid a
transfer or other disposition of the property of the judgment debtor,
not exempt by law, or may forbid any interference therewith. 
SEc. 8382. If it shall appear that the judgment debtor has any
equitable interest in real estate in the county in which proceedings are 
had, as mortgagor, mortgagee or otherwise, and the interest of said
debtor can be ascertained as between himself and the person or persons
holding the legal estate, or the person or persons having any lien on, or
any interest in the same, without controversy as to the interest of such
person or persons, holding such legal estate or interest therein, ot lien
on the same, the receiver may be ordered to sell and convey such real
estate, or the debtor's equitable interest therein. Buch sale shall be
conducted in all respects in the same manner as is provided by this code
for the sale of real estate upon execution. 
SEC. 3883. If the sheriff shall be appointed receiver, he and his
sureties shall be liable on his official bond, for the faithful discharge of 
his duties as receiver.
Sao. 3384. The judge or referee actiag under the provisions of this 
chapter, shall have.power to continue his proceedings from time to tim~
until they shall be completed. 
Sso, 338~. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a 
referee appointed by him to report the evidence, or the facts.
SEC. 3386. Should the judgment debtor fail to appear after being 
personally served with notice to that effect, or should he fail to make
full answers to all proper interrogatories thus propounded to him, he
will be guilty of contempt, and may be arrested and imprisoned until
he complies with the requirements of the law in this resp~ And if
any person, puty or witness disobey an order of the court or judge, or 
referee, duly served, such persons, party or witness may be punished as
for· a contempt. 
Sxc. 8387. The order mentioned herein shall be in writing and
signed by the court or judge or referee, making the same, and· shall be
served as an original notice in other cases. 
8888. Sheriffs, referees, receivers and witnesses, shall receive
such compensation as is allowed for like services in other cases, to be
taxed as costs in the case, and the collection thereof from such party, 
or parties as ought to pay the same shall be enforced by an order.
SEC. 8389. (1959.) Upon proof to the satisfaction of the court, or 
officer authorized to grant the order aforesaid, that there is danger that
the defendant will leave the state, or that he will conceal himself, the
said court or officer, instead of the order aforesaid, may issue a warrant
for the arrest of the debtor, and for bringing him forthwith before the
court or officer authorized to take his examination as hereinbefore pro·
vided. After being thus brought before the said court or officer, he
may be examined in the same manner and with the like effect as is
above provided. 
SEC. 3390. Upon being brought before the court or officer, he may
enter into an undertaking in such sum as the court or officer shall pre- 
scribe, with one or more sureties, that be will attend from time to time,
for examination, before the court or officer, as shall be directed, and
will not, in the mean time, dispose of his property, or any part thereof,
in default whereof he shall continue under arrest, and may be com·
mitted to jail on the warrant of such court or officer, from time to time,
for safe keeping, until the examination shall be concluded. 
CHAPTER 127. 
EQUITABLE ACTIONS SUPPLEMENTAL TO EXECUTION. 
3391. After an execution directed to the sheriff of the
county in which the judgment was rendered, or to the sheriff of the
county of the defendant's residence, is returned by -the proper officer,
either as to the whole or part thereof, in substance, no property found
to satisfy the same, the owr.er of the judgment may, in his discretion,
institute an action by equitable proceedings in the court from which the
execution issued, or in any court having jurisdiotion of the cause, for
the discovery of any money, chose in action, equitable or legal interest,
or any other property to which the defendant is entitled, and for subject­
ing the same to the satisfaction of the judgment; and in such actions,
persons indebted to the defendant in the execution, or holding the money
or property in which he has an interest, or holding the evidences or
securities for the same, may be also made defendants. 
SEC. 8392. The answers of all defendants shall be verified by their
own oath, and not by that of an agent or attorney, and the court shall 
enforce full and explicit discoveries in such answers by process of con-
tempt. 
SEC. 8393. In the action mentioned in the preceding sections, the
plaintiff may have an attachment against the property of the defendant 
in the execution, similar to the general attachmenta provided for in the
chapter 124, on attachment, without either the affidavit or bond therein
required. 
SEc. 3394. A lien shall in this case be created on the property of
defendant, by the levy of the attachment and service of the notice,
and copy of petition on the person holding or controlling such prop-
erty. 
SEC. 3395. The court shall enforce the surrender of the money, or
securities therefor, or of any other property of the defendant in the exe- 
cution, which may be discovered in the action, and for this purpose may
commit to jail any defendant or garnishee, failing or refusing to make
such surrender, until it shall be done, or the court is satisfied that it is
out of his power to do so. 
SEC. 3396. The use of the appliances of this equitable action is no
waiver of the use of the remedy of the chapter next preceding. Nor 
is the use of the appliances of that chapter a waiver of the right to also
use the appliances of this, but any party entitled to one may use either
or both as he may deem it desirable. 
CHAPTER 128. 
[Code-Chapter 107 .] 
JUDGMENT BY CONFESSION~ 
SECTION 3397. (1837.) A judgment by confession, without action,
may be entered by the clerk of the district court, or by a justice of the 
peace, if within his jurisdiction, in the manner hereinafter prescribed. 
SEC. 3398. (1888.) Such confession can be only for money due, or 
to become due, or to secure a person against contingent liabilities OD 
behalf of the defendant, and must be for a specified sum.
SRc. 8899. (1839.) A statement in writing must be made and 
signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath to the following effect,
and filed with the clerk or justice of the peace : 
1. If for money due, or to become due, it must state concisely the
facts out of which the indebtedness arose, and that the sum confessed
therefor is justly due, or to become doe, as the case may be. 
2. H for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against a contingent
liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting such liability,
and must show that the sum confessed therefor does not exceed the
same. 
SEC. 3400. If in the district court, the clerk shall thereupon make
an entry of judgment in his court record, for the amount th.us confessed,
and costs, and shall issue execution thereon, as in other cases. 
SEC. 8-101. (184J.) If in a justice's court, the justice shall there-
upon enter a judgment on his docket, with costs, and issue execution as
above directed. If a transcript of such judgment be filed with the
clerk of the district court, a copy of the statement must be filed with it. 
SEC. 8402. (1842.) Upon an authority given before this statute
takes effect, and which was valid when given, judgment may be ren­ 
dered up, as herein n1entioned, or as nearly so as the circumstances of
the case will permit. 
CHAPTER 129. 
OFBEB TO CONFESS. 
SECTION 3403. Before an action for the recovery of money is
brought against any person, he may go into the court of the county of:./: 
his residence, or of that in which the person having the cause of action
resides, which would have jurisdiction of the action, or before the clerk
of either of such courts in his office, and offer to confess judgment in
favor of such person for a specified sum on such cause of action as pro-
vided for in the foregoing chapter. Whereupon, if such person, having
had the same timely notice as if he were defendant in an action, that the
offer would be made, of its amount and of the time and place of making
it, does not attend to accept the confession, or attending, refuses to accept
it, and should afterwards commence an action upon such cause, and not
recover more than the amount so offered to be confessed, he shall pay
all the costs of the action; and on the trial thereof, the offer shall not be
deemed to be an admission of the cause of action or amount to which
the plaintiff is entitled, nor be given in evidence. 
SEC. 3404. After an action for the recovery of money is brought,
the defendant may offer in court to confess judgment, for part of the
amount claimed or part of the causes involved in the action. Where-
upon, if the plaintiff being present, refuses to accept such confession of
judgment, in full of his demands against the defendant in the action, or
having had two clear days notice that the offer would be made, of its
amount, and of the time of making it, fails to attend, and on the trial
does not recover more than was so offered to be confessed, such plaintiff
shall pay all the costs of the defendant, incurred after the offer. The
offer shall not te deemed to be an admission of the cause of action, or
amount to which the plaintiff was entitled, nor be given in evidence upon
the trial. 
OFFER TO COM:PROHISE. 
SECTION 3405. The defendant in an action for the recovery of
money only, may at any time after service of notice, and before the trial,
serve upon the plaintiff or his attorney, an offer in writing, to allow
judgment to be taken against him for the sum of money, or to the effect
therein specified with costs. If the plaintiff accept the offer and give
notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney, within five days after the
offer is made, the offer and an affidavit that the notice of acceptance was
delivered in the time limited, may be filed by the plaintiff, or the defend­
ant may file the acceptance with a copy of the off er verified by affidavit;
and in either case, the offer and acceptance shall be entered upon record,
and judgment shall be rendered by the court accordingly. If the notice
of acceptance is not given in the period limited, the offer shall be deemed
withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence nor mentioned on the trial
If the plaintiff fails to obtain judgment for more than was offered by the
defendant, he can not recover costs, but shall pay the defendant's costs 
from the time of the offer.
Ssc. 84:06. In an action for the recovery of money only, the defend­ 
ant having answered, may serve upon the plaintiff or his attorney, an
offer in writing, that if he fails in his defense, the amount of the recov­
ery shall be assessed as a specified sum. If the plaintiff accepts the
offer and gives notice thereof to the defendant, or his attorney, within
five clear days after it was served, or within two clear days if served in
term time, and the defendant fails in his defense, the judgment shall be
for the amount so agreed upon. If the plaintiff does not so accept the
offer he shall prove the amount to be recovered, as if the off er had not
been made, the offer shall not be given in evidence or mentioned on the
trial. And if the amount recovered by the plaintiff does not exceed the
sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover his coats incur-
red in the defense, in respect to the question of amount to be taxed un­ 
der the direction of the court. 
· SKc. 8407. The making of any offer pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, shall not be a cause for a continuance of an action or a
postponement of a trial, 
SUB.MITTING CONTROVERSIES WITHOUT ACTION, OR IN ACTION. 
[Code-Chapter 108.]
SECTION 3408. Parties to a question in difference which might be 
the subject of a civil action, may without action present an agreed state­
ment of the facts thereof to any court having jurisdiction of the subject 
matter. · 
SEC. 8409. (1844.) It must be shown by affidavit, that the contro-
versy is real, and that the proceeding is in good faith to determine the 
rights of the parties thereto. 
CHAPTER 130. 
CHAPTER 131. 
SEC. 3410. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the case,
d d 
. dgm h if . di
an ren er JU ent t ereon, as I an action were pen ng. 
SEC. 8411. The case, the submission, and the judgment, shall con-
stitute the record. 
SEC. 3412. The judgment shall be with costs, and it may be en­
forced, and shall be subject to review in the same manner, as if it had
been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided for in the submis­
sion. 
SEc-34:13. The same may be also done, at any time before trial in
any action then pending, subject to the same requirements, and attended
by the same results as in a case without action, and such submission of
a stated case shall be an abandonment by both parties of all pleadings
filed in such cause, and the cause shall stand on the agreed case alone, 
. which must provide also for any lien had by any attachment, and for any
property in the custody of the law, else such lien and such legal custody 
will be held waived. • 
SEC. 3414. The parties may, if they think fit, enter into an agree-
ment, in writing, that upon' the judgment of the court being given in the 
affirmative or negative of the question or the questions of law, raised by
such special case, particular property therein described, or a sum of 
money fixed by the parties, or to be ascertained by the court, or in such
manner as the court may direct it, shall be delivered to and vested in
one of the parties by the other, or in case of money shall be paid by one
of such parties to the other of them, either with or without costs of the
action and the judgment of the court may be entered for the transfer
and delivery of such property, or for such sum as shall be so agreed, or
ascertained with or without costs, as the case may be. 
SEC. 3415. In case no agreement shall be entered into as to the
costs of such action, the same shall follow the event, and be recovered
by the successful .party. 
CHAPTER 132. 
[ Code-Chapter 132.] 
SECTION 3416. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination
of a party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money
or property capable of delivery, which is in any degree the subject of
litigation, and which is held by him as trustee for another party, the
court, or judge thereof, may order the same to be deposited in the office
of the clerk, or delivered to such party, with or without security, subject 
to the farther direction of the court. 
DEPOSITS. 
SEC. 3417. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a codrt or
judge has ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other property, 
and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience,
may make an order requiring the sheriff' to take the money or property,
and deposit or deliver it in conformity with the directions of the court or
judge. 
SEC. 8418. (2492.) The sheriff has the same power in such cases, 
a., when acting by authority of a writ of replevin. 
SECTION 3419. On the petition of either party to a civil action or 
proceeding therein he shows that he has a probable right to any of the 
' 
property which is the subject of the controversy, and that such property,
or its rents and profits, are in danger of being lost or materially injured
or impaired, the court, or in vacation, the judge thereof, if satisfied that
the interests of one or both the parties will be thereby promoted, and
the substantial rights of neither unduly infringed upon, may appoint a
receiver to take charge of and control such property under its direction,
during the pend.ency of the.action, and may order and coerce the deliv­ 
ery of it to him. 
CHAPTER 133. 
[ Code-Chapter 98.] 
RECEIVERS. 
• 
SEC. 3420. Before entering upon the discharge of his duties, he
must be sworn faithfully to discharge his trust to the best of his ability, 
and must also file with the clerk a bond with sureties, to be hy him np­
proved, in n penalty to be fixed by the court or judge, and conditioned 
to the faithful discharge of his duties, and that he will obey the orders
of the court in respect thereto. 
SEC. 34:21. (1658.) Subject to the control of the court, a receiver
bu power to bring and to defend actions, to take and keep possession of 
property, to collect debts, to receive the rents and profits of real prop­
erty, and generally, to do such acts in respect to the property commited
to him, as the court may authorize. 
SECTION 8422. Judgments or final orders may be obtained, on mo-
tion, by sureties against their principals, by sureties against their co- 
sureties, for the recovery of money due them, on account of payments
made by them as such ; by clients against attorneys; plaintiffs in execu-
tion against sheriffs, constables and other officers, for the receiving of
money or property collected for them, and damages, and in all other cases 
specially authorized by statute. 
SEC. 3423. Notice of such motion shall be served on the party
11oaainst whom the judgment or order is sought, at least ten days before 
the motion is made. 
SEC. 3424. The notice shall state, in plain and ordinary language,
the nature and grounds of the motion, and the day on which it will be 
made. 
SEC. 8425. Unless the motion is made and filed with the case, on or
before the day named in the notice, it shall be considered as aban- 
doned. 
SEC. 3426. The motion shall be heard and determined without writ-
ten pleadings, and judgment given according to law and the rules 'of 
• equity. 
CHAPTER 134. 
8IDOIARY PROCEEDINGS. 
SECTION 8427. Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered
in writing, and not included in a judgment, is an order. 
SEC. 8428. A motion is a written application for nn order addressed 
to the court, or to a judge, in vacation, by any party to a suit or pro­
ceeding, or by any one interested therein. 
SEC. 3429. When a party is in court be shall, without service of 
• k ' f . d d . I fili f th
notice, ta e notice o any motion ma e unng term on t re mg o e 
same, and notice thereof being entered on the notice book. The same
shall be true of a party constructively in court, who has not in fact
appeared as to any motion made, either in term or during vacation ; but
where a party has in fact appeared, notice of any motion made in vaca­
tion, and copy of motion, shall be served on him or his attorney. 
SEC. 8430. When notice of a motion is required to be served, it
must be in writing, and shall state the names of the parties to the action
or proceeding in which it is made, the name of the court or judge be­
fore whom it is to be made, the place where, and the day on which it
will be heard, and if affidavits are to be used on the hearing, the notice
shall state that fact, and it shall be served ten days before hearing, unless
the court or judge direct shorter notice. 
SEC. 3431. Notices and copies of motions mentioned in this chapter,
may be served by any one who would be authorized to serve an original
notice, and may also be served by the attorney of the party making the
motion. 
SEC. 8432. The service shall be on each of the parties adverse to
the motion, if more than one, or on an attorney of record, of such party. 
SEC. 8433. The service may he personal on such party or attorney,
or may be left at the usual place of residence of the party, in the same 
manner as is provided for the service of the original notice in civil
actions; or it may be served on the attorney, by being left at his office
with any person having the charge thereof. 
SEC. 8434. In cases unprovided for specially, the notice and copy
may, in order to affect the party adverse, be served on the same persons 
as those on whom might be served the original notice in the case. 
SEC. 8485. It shall be the duty of any officer authorized to serve
any notice and copy, and when such notice and copy shall be delivered
to him for service within his county, to serve at once the same, and make
prompt return to the party who delivered the same to him, and a failure
to do so shall be punished as a disobedience of the process of the court. 
SEC. 8436. The return of proof of service must state the manner
in which it was made. . 
SEC. 3437. When the party has no known place of abode in this
state, and no attorney in the county where the action is pending, or where 
the parties, plaintiffs or defendants, are numerous, the court or judge
may direct the mode of serving notices and copies, and to what persons 
they shall be given. 
SEC. 3438. Several objects may be included in the same motion, if
they all grow out of, or are connected with the action or proceeding in 
which it is made, 
CHAPTER 136. 
:MOTIONS AND ORDERS. 
SEC. 8439. Orders made out of court shall forthwith be filed with 
and entered by the clerk in the journal of the court, in the same man­
ner as orders made in the term. 
SEC. 8440. Testimony to sustain or resist a motion, may be presented 
in the form of affidavits, if the· same does not appear otherwise. But:.=~
on the hearing of any motion, it shall be lawful for the court or judge, 
at his discretion, and upon such terms as he may think reasonable, from
time to time, to order such document as he may think fit, to be produced,
and such witnesses as he may think necessary, to appear, and be examined,
viva voce, either before such court or judge. . · 
SEC. 8441. The motions of charter 122 shall not be affected by
the provisions of this chapter, and al motions made in term to dissolve
an attachment in whole or pa.rt, or in any way regarding security for
costs, or to dismiss a. cause for any irregularity, or to change venue, or 
to continue a cause, or to open up a default, shall be served by mere
notice, on the notice book, and may be heard on the morning after that
on which notice thereof is served, and sooner, if sooner reached, and
necessary to be passed upon before trial, any motion made in term affect-
ing an action or proceeding then pending in such court, may be made
on such notice as the court shall direct, or without notice, if the court so 
direct. · 
CHAPTER 136. 
SECURITY FOR COSTS. 
SECTION 8442. If a defendant shall at any time before answering,
make and file an affidavit, stating that he has a good defense in whole or 
in part, the plaintiff, if he be a non-resident of this state, or a corpora-
tion, before any further proceeding in the cause, shall file in the clerk's
office a bond, with a sufficient surety, who most be a resident of the
county where suit is brought, to be approved by the clerk, for the pay- 
ment of all costs which may accrue in the action in the court in which
it is brought, or in any other to which it may be carried, either to the
defendant or to the officers of the court. 
SEC. 3448. An action in which a bond for costs is required by the
last section, and has not been given, shall be dismissed on the motion ofmlaaed. 
the defendant at any time before trial, unless in a reasonable time, to be
allowed by the court, after the motion is made therefor, such bond is
filed securing all past and future costs ; and the action shall not be dis-
missed if a bond for costs is given in such time as the court may allow. 
SEC. 3444. If the plaintiff in an action, after its institution, becomes
a non-resident of this state, he may be required to give security for costs 
in the manner and under the restrictions provided in the preceding sec-
tions of this chapter. 
SEC, 3445. In an action in which a bond for costs has been given,
the defendant may at any time before trial, make a motion for additional 
security on the part of the plaintiff; and if on such motion the court
satisfied that the surety in the plainiiff's bond has removed from the
state, or is not sufficient for the amount thereof, it may dismiss the action
unless in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, sufficient security
is given by the plaintiff. 
SEc. 8446. No attorney or other officer of the court shall be received
as security in any proceeding in court. 
SEc. 8447. After final judgment has been rendered in an action in
which security for costs has been given as required by this chapter, the
court, on motion of the defendant, or any other person having the right 
to such costs, or any part thereof, may render judgment. summarily,
according to the chapter on summary proceedings, in the name of the
defendant or his legal representatives, against the sureties for costs, for
the amount of costs adjudged against the plaintiff, or so much thereof
aa may remain unpaid. 
SEC. 3448. In no other than the cases herein stated, except costs of
the clerk, shall a plaintiff be required to give security for any costs, the
application for such security shall be by motion, in writing. filed with
the case, and the facts supporting it must be shown by affidavits annexed
thereto, which may be responded to by counter affidavits, on or before the
bearing of the motion, and each party shall file all his affidavits at once,
and none thereafter. 
CHAPTER 137. 
COSTS. 
SECTION 3449. Costs shall be recovered by the successful against
the losing party. But where the party is successful as to a part of his
demand, and fails as to part, unless the case is otherwise provided for,
the court may make, on rendering judgment, an equitable apportionment
of costs, 
SEC. 3450. pn all motions the court may give or refuse costs, at its
discretion, to the extent of ten dollars, unless where it is otherwise pro-
vided by Jaw, which costs may be absolute or directed to abide the event
of the action. 
SEc. 3451. In actions where there are several plaintiffs, or several
~efendants, the costs shall be apportioned according to the ~everal judg­ 
ments rendered; and where there are several causes of action embraced
in the same petition, or several issues, the plaintiff' shall recover costs
upon the issues determined ii\ his favor, and the defendant shall recover
costs upon the issues determined in his favor. 
SEC, 8452. All costs accrued at the instance of the successful party,
which can not be collected out of the other party, may be recovered, on 
motion, by the persons entitled to them, against the successful party. 
SEC, 3453. The necessary fees paid by the successful party, in pro­
curing copies of deeds, bonds, wills, or other records filed as part of the 
testimony, shall be taxed in the bill of costs.
SEc. 3454. Postage paid by the officers of the court, or by the parties 
in sending process, depositions and other papers, being part of the
record, by mail, shall be taxed in the bill of costs. 
SEC. 8455. When a pleading contains a defense stating matter
which arose after the commencement of the action, whether such matter
of defense be alone or with other matter of defense which arose before
the action, the party affected by such matter may confess the same, and 
thereupon shall be entitled to the costs of the cause, as to the party
pleading such matter up to the time of such pleading. 
SEC. 8456. When a. plaintiff dismisses his action, or any part there-~
of, or suffers it to abate by the death of the defendant, or other cause, 
or where the suit abates by the death of the plaintiff, and his represent-
atives fail to revive the same, according to law, judgment for costs may
be rendered against such plaintiff or representatives, and if against a 
representative, shall be paid as other claims against the estate. 
SEC. 3457. The co-parties against whom judgment has been reeov-
ered, are entitled as between themselves to a taxation of the costs of
witnesses whose testimony was obtained at the instance of one of the
co-parties, and inured exclusively to his benefit. 
SEC. 8458. Where an action is dismissed from any court for want
of jurisdiction, or because it has not been regularly transferred from an 
inferior to a superior court, the costs shall be adjudged against the party
attempting to institute or bring up the cause. 
SEC. 3459~ When any party recorers costs, the clerk shall include in
tlie cost, for the fee of ntch party·, attorney, ( if he have one,) five dol- 
far,.• The clerk shall tax, in favor of the party recovering costs, the
allowance of his witnesses, the fees of officers, the compensation of
referees, the necessary expenses of taking depositions by commission or
otherwise, and any further sum for any other matter which the court 
may have awarded as costs, in the progress of the cause, or may deem
just to be taxed. 
SEC. 34:60. In actions in which the cause of action shall, by assign- 
t ft h
f
h
. . h 
men ., a er t e commencement o t e action, or m any ot er manner,
become the property of a person not a party to the action, such party
shall be liable for the costs in the same manner as if he were a party. 
SEC. 3461. Any person aggrieved by the taxation of a bill of costs,
may, upon application, have the same re-taxed by the court, or by a 
referee, appointed by the court, in which the application or proceeding
was had, and in such re-taxation all errors shall be corrected ; and if
the party aggrieved shall have paid any unlawful charge, by reason of
the first taxation, the clerk shall pay the costs of re-taxation, and also 
to the party aggrieved, the amount which he may have paid by reason
of the allowing of such unlawful charge. 
SKC. 3462. In cases of appeals from the district court, the clerk
shall make a complete bill of costs, showing the items which shall ac­ 
company the record, and a copy of the same shall be placed upon the
execution docket of the court below. 
Saw. 3463. When the costs accrued in the supreme court and the
court below, are paid to the clerk of the supreme court, he shall pay so 
much of them as accrued in the court below to the clerk of said court,
and take his receipt for the same. 
SEC. 8464. On receiving such costs, the clerk of the court below
shall charge himself with the money upon his execution docket, and 
pay it to the pe~ns entitled to the same. 
SEC. 3465. The law of costs shall be construed remedially, aud not
the penal law. And if any case shall occur not directly or by fair 
implication embraced in the express provisions of the law, the court
may make such disposition of the costs, as in its sound discretion may
seem right. 
SEc. 3466. When the judgment is for the recovery of money, inter­
est from the time of the verdict or report until J0 udgment be finally en­ 
tered, shall be computed by the clerk and added to the costs of the
party entitled thereto. 
CHAPTER .138. 
SURVIVOR AND REVlVOR OF ACTIONS. 
SECTION 3467. No cause of action, ex delicto, dies with either or
both the parties, but the prosecution thereof may be commenced or con­ 
tinued by or against their personal representatives." 
Revivor of Actt'om. 
SEC. 3468. Where there are several plaintiffs or defendauts in an
action, and one of them dies, or his powers as personal representative 
cease, if the right of action survive to or against the remaining parties,
the action may proceed ; the death of the party, or the cessation of his
powers, being stated in the record. 
SEC. 3469. When one of the parties to a~ action dies, or his powers
as a personal representative cease before the judgment, if the right of
action survive in favor of, or against his representatives or successor, the
action may be revived and proceed in their names. 
SEC. 8470. The revivor shall be by a conditional order of the
court, that the action be revived in the names of the representatives or
successors of the party who died, or whose powers ceased, and proceed
in favor of or age.inst them. 
SEo. 8471. The order may be made on the motion of the adverse
· party, or of the representatives or successors of the party who died, or 
whose powers ceased, suggesting his death, or the cessation of his pow­
ers, which, with the names and capacities of his representatives, or suc­
cessor, shall be stated in the order. 
SEC. 3472. · H the order is made by consent of the parties, the action
shall forthwith stand revived; and if not made by consent, the order
shall be served in the same manner, and returned within the same time,
as an original notice, upon the party adverse to the one making the
motion, and if sufficient cause be not shown against the revivor at that
term of court at which the defendant would be bound to appear were the
notice an original one, the action shall stand revived. 
SEC. 3473. Upon the death of a plaintiff in an action, it may be
revived in· the names of his representatives, to whom his right bas
passed. Where his right has passed to his personal representatives, the
revivor shall be in his name; where it has passed to his heirs or devisees
who could support the action if brought anew, the re.vivor may be in
their names. 
SEC, 347 4. Upon the death of a defendant in an action, wherein the
right or any part thereof, survives against his personal representatives,
the revivor shall be against him; and it may also be againat his heirs or
devisees of the defendant, or both, when the right of action, or any part 
thereof, survives against them.
SEc. 3475. Upon the death of a defendant in an action for the 
recovery of real property, only, or whwh concerns only his rights or
claims to such property, the action may be revived against his heirs or
devisees, or both, and an order therefor, may be forthwith• made in the
manner directed in the preceding sections of this title. 
SEC. 3476. An order to revive an action against the representatives,
or successor of a defendant, shall not be made, without the consent of 
such representatives or successor, unless it be made within one year from
the time it could have been first made. 
SEc. 3-177. An order to revive an action in the names of the rep­
resentatives or successor of a plaintiff' may be made forthwith, but
shall not be made without the consent of the defendant after the expira­
tion of one year from the time the order might have been first made;
but where the defendant shall also have died, or his powers have ceased
in the mean time, the order of reviver on both sides may be made in
the period limited in the last section. 
SEC. 3478. When it appears to the court by affidavit, thnt either
party to an action has been dead, or wheres party sues, or is sued as a
personal representative, that his powers have ceased for a period, so long,
that the action can not be revived in the names of his representatives,
or successors, without the consent of both parties, it shall order the
action to be stricken from the docket. 
SEC, 8-179. At any term of the court succeeding the death of the
plaintiff, while the action remains on the docket, the defendant having
given to the plu.intiff's proper representatives, in whose names the action
might be revived, ten days' notice of the application therefor may have
an order to strike the action from the docket, and for costs against the
estate of the plaintiff unless the action is forthwith revived. 
SEC. 8480. When by the provisions of the preceding sections, an 
action stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be postponed by reason
of the revivor , if the action would have stood for trial at the term, the
revivor is complete, had no death, or cessation of powers taken place. 
CHAPTER 139. 
REVIVOR OF JUDGMENTS. 
SECTION 3481. An execution may be issued on a judgment at any
time, until the collection of it is barred by the statute of limitations,
although no execution may have been previously issued thereon. 
SEc. 3482. The death of one or all the plaintiffs shall not prevent
an executionbeing issued thereon, but on such execution, the clerk shall
indorse the death of such of them as are dead, and if all be dead, the
names of the personal representatives, or the wt survivor, if the judg­
ment passed to the personal representatives, or the names of the survi­
vor's heirs, if the judgment was for real property. 
Where judgment has been rendered against all the defendants, without
noticing the death of one, it is proper for the court to order the execution to 
iss~e in the names of the survivors. Simpon, J., Webb's admin'r v. Hill, Ms.
opm., January, 1856. Stanton's Ky. Code. 
SEC. 3483. The sheriff, in acting upon an execution indorsed as
provided in the last section, shall proceed as if the surviving plaintiff or 
plaintiffs, or the personal representatives or heirs, were the only plain­
tiffs ii, the execution, and take bonds accordingly. 
SEC. 3484. Before making the indorsements named above, an affi­
davit shall be filed with the clerk by one of the plaintiffs, or personal
representatives, or heirs, or their attorney, of the death, and that the 
persons named as such, are the personal representatives or heirs, and in
the case of personal representatives, they shall file with the clerk a 
certificate of their qualifications, according to law in this state, 
SEC. 8485. The death of part only of the defendants, shall not pre-
vent execution being issued, which, however, shall operate alone On the 
survivors and their property. 
SEC. 3486. The defendant may move the court to quash an exeeu- 
· h d tha h 1 · h ' f
tion, on t e groun t t e persona representatives, or eirs o a 
deceased plaintiff are not properly stated in the indorsement on the exe- 
cution, and during the vacation of the court, may obtain an injunction, 
upon its being made to appear that the persons named are not entitled 
to the judgment on which the execution was issued. 
CHAPTER 140.* 
WRIT OF CERTIORARI. 
[Code-Chapter 113.] 
SECTION 8487. The writ of certiorari may be granted whenever
specially authorized by law, and especially in all cases where an inferior 
tribunal, board or officer, exercising judicial functions, is alleged to have
exceeded bis proper jurisdiction, or is otherwise acting illegally, when in
the judgment of the court 'applied to for the writ there is no other plain,
speedy and adequate remedy. 
SEC. 34tl8. (1966.) The writ may be granted by the district court
of the proper county, but if to be directed to a district court or the judge
thereof, then by the supreme court-and shall command the defendant
therein to certify fully to the court from which the same issues, at a 
specified time and place, a transcript of the records and proceedings, as 
well as the facts in the case, ( describing and referring to them, or any
of them with convenient certainty) and also to have then and there the 
writ · 
SEC, 8489. (1967.) If a stay of proceedings is sought, the court may
require a bond, and may fix the penalty and conditions thereof. 
SEC. 8490. The petition for this writ must state facts constituting a
case, wherein the writ may issue, and must be sworn to, and the court
may require a notice of the application to be given to the adverse party,
or may make an order to show cause why the writ should not issue, or
may, in its discretion, grant the writ without notice. 
· SEC. 3491. (1909.) The writ must be served and the proof of such
service made in the same manner as is prescribed for the original notice 
1n a civil action, except that the original shall be left. with the defendant
and the return or proof of service made upon a copy thereof. 
SEC. 8492. (1970.) If the return of the writ be defective, the court
may order a. farther return to be made, and may compel obedience to
the writ, and to such fafther order, by attachment, if necessary. 
SEC. 3493. (1971.) When a full return has been made, the court
must proceed to hear the parties, or such of them as may attend for that 
purpose, and may thereupon give judgment affirming or annulling the
proceedings below, or in its discretion, correcting those proceedioga, and 
prescribing the manner in which the defendant shall proceed farther in 
the matter. 
SEC, 3494. {1972.) From the decision of the district court, an ap­
peal lies to the supreme court, 88 in other ca,sea. 
CHAPTER 141. 
[ Code-Chapters 112 ad J 14.] 
. 
PROCEEDINGS TO REVERSE, VA.CATE OR KODIFT JUDGMENTS. 
SECTION 8495. A judgment rendered or order made in the district
court, or by a judge thereof, may be reversed, vacated or modified, either 
by the supreme court or by the district court in which the judgment was
rendered or order made. 
SEC. 3496. A judgment or order may be reversed or modified by
the supreme court for errors appearing on the record. 
SEC. 3497. The proceedings to obtain such reversal or modification
shall be by appeal as prescribed by law. 
SEC. 3498. A mistake of the clerk shall not be ground for an appeal
until the same has been presented and acted upon by the district court. 
SEC. 8499. The district court in which a judgment has been ren­
dered, or by which, or by the judge of which a final order has been 
made, shall have power after the term at which such judgment or order
was made to vacate or modify such judgment or order: 
I. By granting a new trial for the cause, wi*hin the time, and in tb$
manner prescribed by sections on new trials. 
2. By a new trial granted on proceedings against defendants served
by publication only, 88 prescribed in section 31 GO. · 
8. For mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk or irregularity in ob·
taining a judgment or order. 
L For fraud practiced by the suocessful party in obtaining the jndg­
mentor order. 
6. For erroneous proceedings against Bil infant, married woman, or 
person of unsound mind, when the condition of such defendant does not 
appear in the record, nor the errors in the proceedings.
6. For the death of one of the parties before the judgment in the 
action.
7. For unavoidable casualty or misfortune preventing the party from 
prosecuting or defending.
8. For error in a judgment shown by an infant within twelve months 
after arriving at full age. 
SEC. 8500. The proceedings to correct mistakes, or omission of the
clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order shall be, by motion
served on the adverse party, or on his attorney in. the action, and within 
one year, and when made to vacate a judgment because of irregu]arity
in obtaining it, must be made on the second day of the succeeding term. 
SEC. 3501. The proceedings to obtain the benefit of sub-divisions
4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, of section 8499, shall be by petition, verified by affida- 
vit setting forth the judgment or order, the facts or errors constituting a
cause to vacate or modify it, and the facts constituting a defense to the
action if' the party applying was a defendant, and such proceedings must
be commenced within one year after the judgment or order was made,
unless the party entitled thereto be a.u infant, manied woman or person
of unsound mind, and then within one year from the removal of· sucll
disability. 
SEO. 8502. In such proceedings the party shall be brought into
court, in the same way, on the same notice as to time, mode of service, 
and mode of return, and the pleadings shall be governed by the princi- 
ples, and issues be made up by the same formula, and all the proceed·
ings conducted in the same way as near as can be as in an original ae-
tion by ordinary proceedings according to this code, except that def end-
ant shall introduce no new cause, and the cause of the petition shall
alone be tried. 
SEc. 3503. The judgment shall not be vacated on motion or peti- 
tion, until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense to the action in
which the judgment is rendered, or if the plaiiilifF seeks its vacation, 
that there is o. valid cause of action, and when a judgment is modified,
all liens and securities obtained under it shall be preserved to the modi·
fled judgment. 
SEC. 3504. The court may first try and decide upon the grounds to
vacate or modify a judgment or order before trying or deciding upon tho 
validity of the defense or cause of action.
SEc. 3505. The party seeking to vaMte or modify a judgment or 
order, may obtain an injunction suspending proceedings on the whole ot
part thereof, which injunction may be granted by the court or the judge 
thereof, upon its being rendered probable, by affidavit or petition sworn 
to, or by exhibition of the record, that the party is entitled to have
such judgment or order vacated or modified. 
SEO. 8506. In a1I cases of affinnance of the judgment or order,
when the proceedings have been suspended, judgment shall be rendered
against the plaintiff' in error for the amount of the former judgment,
interest and costs, together with damages at the discretion of the court,
not exceeding ten per cent. on the amount of the judgment. 
.Appeal, from the I>utrict Oourt to di, SuprttM Court. 
SEo. 8507. The appeal shall not be ta.ken, except within one year 
from the rendition of the judgment or order, unless the party taking the
same was an infant, married woman, or of unsound mind, at the time of 
its rendition; in which cases, such parties or their legal representatives
may take an appeal within one year after the removal of their disability
or death, whichever may first happen. 
SEC. 8508. The cause shall be docketed as it was in the court below,
and the party taking the appeal shall be called the appellant, and the 
other party the appellee. .
SEC. 3509. An appeal is taken by the service of a notice, in writing, 
on the adverse party, his agent, or any attorney, who appeared for him
in the case in the district court, and also upon the clerk of the court
wherein the proceedings were had, stating the appeal from the same, or
or from some specific part thereof, defining such part. 
SEc. 3510. An appeal from part of an order, or from one of the
judgments of a final adjudication, or from part of a judgment, shall not
disturb or delay the rights of any party to any judgment or part of a
judgment, or order not appealed from, but the same shall proceed, as if 
no such appeal had been taken.
SEc. 3511. An appeal shall not be perfected until the notice thereof 
has been served upon both the party and the clerk, and the clerk paid
or secured, (unless already secured,) bis fees for a transcript; where­ 
upon the clerk shall forthwith transmit by mail, express, or a safe and
less expensive messenger, not a party, nor the attorney of a party, a
transcript of the record in the cause, or of so much thereof as the
appellant in writing in the notice has directed, to which shall be ap­
pended copies of the notices of appeal, and of the supersedeas bond, if 
any.
SEO. 3512. In an action by ordinary proceedings, and in an action 
by equitable proceedings, tried by the second method of trying equitable
actions, all proper entries made by the clerk, and all papers pertaining
to the cause, and filed therein, ( except subpoenas, depositions, and other
papers which are used as mere evidence,) are to be deemed part of the
record. Bat in an action by equitable proceedings tried by the first
method of trying equitable actions, the depositions and all papers which
were used as evidence, are to be certified up to the supreme court, and
shall be so certified, not by transcript, but in the original form. But a
transcript of a motion, affidavit, or other paper, when it relates to a col·
lateral matter, shall not be certified, unless by direction of the appel­
lant. If so certified, when not material to the determination of the
appeal, the court may direct the person blameable therefor to pay the
costs thereof. 
Sze. 3513. The notices of appeal must be served fifteen days
before the first day of the next term of the supreme court, or the same
shall not then be tried, unless the appellee shall give the appellant, ten
days before the term, notice indicating that he will insist on a hearing at
such term, in which event the ca.use shall be heard at such term, unless
the appellant shall, on a sufficient showing, obtain a continuance. 
Sso. 8514. If the appellant having taken an appeal fifteen days
before the term, fails to file a transcript in the supreme court, on the 
morning of the first day of that part of the term devoted to causes from
the district whence comes the appeal, or if not taken as many as fifteen
days before the term, he fail to have the case so filed at the next suc-
ceeding term on the morning aforesaid, in either event, unless the
appellant file at the time, when such transcript should be filed, the cer-
tificate of the clerk stating when he was served with notice, and that
he has not had sufficient time to prepare a transcript, the appellee may
file a transcript of the judgment, and of the notice served on the clerk,
and may, on motion, have the appeal dismissed, or the judgment
affirmed. 
SEC. 8515. If the transcript has been sent up, but the appellant does
not file the same, when the .same should be filed as herein provided, the
appellee may file the same, and may, ori motion, have the appeal dis­
missed, or the judgment affirmed, as the court from the circumstances of
the case shall . determine. 
SEC. 3516. If, the transcript being filed, errors are not assigned by
the morning of the first of those days devoted to causes from the dis- 
trict whence comes the appeal, the appellee may, on motion, have the
appeal dismissed, or the judgment or order affirmed, unless a good cause 
for the failure is shown by affidavit. " 
SEC. 8517. (1979.) A part of several co-parties may appeal, but in
such case they must serve notice of the appeal upon all the other co- 
parties, and file the proof thereof with the clerk of the supreme court. 
SEC. 3518. If the other co-parties refuse to join, they can not nor 
can any of them take an appeal afterwards; nor shall they derive any
benefit from the appeal, unless from the necessity of the case. 
SEC. 8519. Unless they appear and decline t.o join, they shall be
deemed to have joined, and shall be liable for their due proportion of 
costs. 
SEC. 8520. The death of one or all of the parties shall not cause
the proceedings to abate, but the names of the proper persons shall be 
substituted, as is provided in such cases in the district court, and the
cause may proceed. The court may also, in such case grant a continu-
ance, when such a course will be calculated to promote the ends of jus- 
tice. 
SEC. 8521. Where appellant bas no right, or no further right t.o
h
al
h II
dis 
. h al d
prosecute t e appe , t e appe. ee may move t.o miss t e appe , an 
if the grounds of the motion do not appear in the record, or by a writ-
ing, purporting to have been singed by the appellant, and filed, they 
must be verified by affidavit. 
SEC. 3522. The appellee may by answer filed and verified by him-
self, agent or attorney, plead any facts which render the taking of the
appeal improper, or destroy the appellant's right of further prosecuting
the same, to which answer the appellant may file a reply, likewise veri-
fied by himself, his agent or attorney, and the questions of law or fact 
therein shall be determined by the court. 
SEC. 3523. The service of all notices of appeal, or in any way grow-
ing out of such right, or eonnected therewith, and all notices in the supreme 
court, shall be in the way provided for the service of like notices in the
district court, and they may be served by the same person and returned
in the same manner, and the original notice of appeal must be returned,
immediately after service, to the office of the clerk of the district court
where the suit is pending. 
SEC. 8524. It shall be the duty of the appellant to file a perfect 
transcript, and to that end the clerk of the district court must at any
time on his suggestion of the diminution of the record, and on the pay• 
ment of fees, certify up any omitted part of the record, according to the
truth, as. the same appears in his office of record ; and such applicant
shall not be entitled to any continuance, in order to correct the record, 
unless it shall clearly appear to the court that he is not in fault. Sub­
ject to which requirement, either party may, on motion before trial day,
obtain an order on the clerk of the district court, commanding him to
transmit at once to the supreme court, a true copy o{ such imperfect or
omitted part of the record, as shall be in general terms described in the
affidavit or order. Such motion must be supported by affidavit, unless
the diminution be apparent or admitted by the adverse party, and must
not be granted unless the court is satisfied tkat it is not made for delay. 
SEC. 3525. Where a view of an original paper in the action may be
important to a correct decision of the appeal, the court may order the
clerk of the district court to transmit the same, which be shall do in
some safe mode, to the clerk of the supreme court, who shall hold the
same subject to the control of the court. 
SEC. 8526. The appellant may be required to give security for costs,
under the same circumstances as those in which plaintiffs in civil actions
in ehe district court, may be so required. 
SEc. 3527. An appeal shall not stay proceedings on the judgment
or order, or any part thereof, unless a supersedeas is issued, and no ap­
peal or supersedeas shall vacate or aft'ect the lien of the judgment ap­
pealed from. 
SEC. 8528. A snpersedeas shall not be Issued until the appellant
shall cause to be executed before the clerk of the court which rendered
the judgment or order, by one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved
by such clerk, a bond to the effect that the appellant shall pay to the
appellee all costs and damages that shall be adjudged against the appel­
lant on the appeal ; also that he will satisfy and perform the judgment
or order appealed from, in case it shall be affirmed, and any judgment
or order which the supreme court may render, or order to be rendered,
by the inferior court, not exceeding in amount or value the original judg­
ment or order, and all rents, or hire, or damages to property during the
pendency of the appeal, out of the possession of which the appellee is
kept by reason of the appeal. If the bond is intended to stay proceed­
ings, on only a part of the judgment or order, it shall be varied so as to
secure the part superseded alone. When such bond has been approved
by the clerk, and filed, he shall issue a written order commanding the
appellee and all others, to stay proceedings on such judgment or order,
or on such part as is superseded as the case may be. 
SEC. 8529. If the appellee believe the supersedeas bond defective,
h . . ffi . h h if . • 
or t e sureties msu cient, e may move t e supreme court, 1 m session
or in its vacation, on ten days' written notice to the appellant, may move
any judge of said court, or the judge of the district court where the ap­
peal was taken, to discharge the supersedeas, and if the court, or such
judge, shall consider the sureties insufficient, or the bond substantially
defective in securing the rights of the appellee, the court or such judge,
shall issue an order discharging the supersedeas, unless a good bond,
with sufficient sureties, be executed by a day by him fixed. The order,
if made by a judge, shall be in writing, and signed by him, and upon its
filing, or the filing of a certified copy of the order when made in court,
in the office of the clerk of the district court, execution and other pro- 
eeedings for enforcing the judgment or order may be taken, if a new and
good bond is not filed and approved by the day fixed as aforesaid. 
SEc. 3530. But another supersedeas may be issued by the clerk,
upon the execution before him, of a new and lawful bond with sufficient
sureties, as hereinbefore provided. 
SEC. 3531. It the judgment or order is for the payment of money,
the penalty shall be in at least twice the amount of the judgment and
costs. If not for the payment of money, the penalty shall be sufficient 
to save the appellce harmless from the consequences of taking the air
peal. But it shall in no case be less than one hundred dollars. 
SEC. 3532. Tlfe taking of the appeal from a part of a judgment or
order, and the filing of a bond as above directed, does not cause a stay 
of execution as to any part of the judgment or order not appealed
from. · 
SEC. 3533. (1987.) If execution has issued prior to giving the bond
above contemplated, the clerk shall countermand the same. 
SEC. 3534-. (1988.) Property levied upon and not sold at the time
such countermand is received by the sheriff, shall forthwith be delivered 
up to the judgment debtor,
Trial, and Decision; 
SEC, 3535. The clerk shall arrange the appeals upon the docket,
setting a proper number for each day of the term, and placing together
those from the same judicial district . 
• SEC. 3536. The supreme court may reverse or affirm the judgment
or order below, or the part of either appealed from, or may render such
judgment or order as the district court or judge should have done, ao- 
cording as it may think proper.
• SEc. 3537. (1986.) The supreme court, where it affirms the judg- 
ment, shall also, if the appellee moves therefor, render judgment against
the appellant and his sureties on the bond above mentioned, for the
amount of the judgment, damages and costs referred to therein, in case
such damages can be accurately known to the court without an issue and
trial. 
SEC. 3538. Upon the affirmance of any judgment or order for the
payment of money, the collection of which, in whole or part, has been 
superseded by bond, as above contemplated, the court shall award to the
appellee damages upon the amount superseded ; and if satisfied by the
record, that the appeal was taken for delay only, must award such sum
as damages, not exceeding fifteen per cent. thereon, as shall effectually
tend to prevent the taking of appeals for delay only. 
SEC. 3539. H the supreme court affirm the judgment or order, it
may send the cause to the district court to have the same carried into 
effect, or it may itself issue the necessary process for this purpose, nod
direct such process to the sheriff of the proper county, according as the
party thereto may require. 
SEC. 3540. (1992.) If by the decision of the supreme court, the
appellant becomes entitled to a restoration of any pnrt of the money 
or property that was in.ken from him by means of such judgment or
order, either the supreme or district court may direct execution or writ
of restitution to issue for the purpose of restoring to such appellant his
property or value thereof 
SEC. 3541. (1993.) Property acquired by a bona-fide purchaser,
under a judgment subsequently reversed, shall not be affected by such 
reversal. 
SEC. 3542. The supreme court shall have power to enforce its man­
dates opon inferior courts and officers, by fine and imprisonment, which
imprisonment may be continued until obeyed. 
SEc. 3543. If a petition for re-bearing be filed, the same shall sus­
pend the decision or procedendo, if the court, on its presentation, or one
of the judges, if in vacation, shall so order, in either' of which cases
such decision and procedendo shall be suspended until the next term. 
SEc. 3544. The petition for re-hearing shall be the argument of the
applicant therefor, and if the court think that such argument requires a
reply, it shall so indicate to the other party, and he maJ make reply within
such time as said court shall allow, and with a view to a re-hearing, the
court may extend the suspension of proceedings yet farther, if need be. 
SEC. 3545. A judgment or order shall not be reversed for an error
which can be corrected, on motion, in the inferior court, until such mo­
tion bas been made there and overruled. 
SEC. 3546. An assignment of error need follow no stated form, but
must, in a way, as specific as the case will allow, point out the very error
objected to. Among several points in a demurrer, or in a motion, or
instructions, or rulings in an exception, it must designate which is relied
on as an error, and the court will only regard errors which are assigned
with the required exactness j but the court must decide on each error 
assigned. ,
SEC. 3547. All motions must be entered in the motion book, and 
shall stand over till the next morning after that morning on which en­
tered, and till after having been publicly called by the court, unless the
parties otherwise agree, and the adverse party shall be deemed to have
notice of such motion. 
SEC. 3548. The court shall hear all the causes docketed, when not
continued by consent, or for causes shown by the party, and the party
may be heard orally or otherwise, in his discretion. 
SEc. 3549. When the court takes a cause under advisement, it shall
file its opinion at the next term which is held thereafter at the capital. 
SEC. 3550. No cause is decided until the opinion in writing is filed
with the clerk. 
SEC. 3551. If remanded to the district court to be carried into
effect, such decision, and the order of the court thereon, being certified
thereto and entered on the records of that court, shall have the same
force and effect as if made and entered during the session of the court
in that district. 
SEC. 8552. Executions issued from the supreme court shall be the
same as those from the district court, and attended with the same con­ 
sequences, and shall be returnable in the same time. 
CHAPTER 142. 
REPLEVIN.• 
[Code-Chapter 115.] 
SECTION 3553. The petition in replevin must be sworn to, and ii 
must state :
I. A particular description of the property claimed. 
2. Its actual value, and where there are several articles, the actual
value of each. 
8. The facts constituting the plaintiff's right to the present possession
thereof, and must define the extent of his interest in the property, 
whether it be full or qualified ownership.
4. That it was neither taken on the order or judgment of a court 
against him, nor 'l!lder an execution or attachment against him, or
against the property. But if it was taken by either of these modes, 
then it must state the facts constituting an exemption from seizure by
such process. 
6. The facts constituting the alleged cause of detention thereof ac­
cording to his best belief. 
6. The amount of damages which the afflant believes the plaintiff
ought to recover for the detention thereof. t 
SEC. 3554. He shall also execute a bond to the defendant, with
sureties, to be approved by the clerk, in a penalty at least equal to twice
the value of the property sought, conditioned that he will appear at the
next term of the court, and prosecute his suit to judgment, and return
the property, if a return be awarded, and also pay all costs and dam-
ages that may be adjudged against him. This bond shall be filed with
the clerk of the court, and is for the use of any person injured by the
proceeding, and a judgment for money rendered against the plaintiff shall
go against the sureties on the bond.• 
SEC. 3555. ( 1997.) The clerk shall thereupon issue a writ of re-
plevin directed to the sheriff to take the property therein described and
deliver the same to the plaintiff. The ordinary original notice must
also be served on the defendant in the usual manner. 
SEC. 3556. When any of the property is removed· to another county
after the commencement of the action, counterparts of the writ of 
replevin may issue on the demand of the plaintiff, to such other county,
and may be executed upon such goods found in such county, and farther
writs of replevin and the necessary counterparts thereof may issue as
often as may be necessary. 
SEC. 3557. The sheriff must forthwith execute the writ by taking
possession of the property therein mentioned, if it is found in the pos- 
session of the defendant, or of his agent, or of any other person who
obtained possession thereof from the defendant, directly or indirectly,
after the writ was placed in the sheriff's bands, for which purpose be
may break open any dwelling house or other inclosure, having first
demanded entrance and exhibited his authority, if required. 
SEC. 3558. When it appears by affidavit that the property claimed
has been disposed of or concealed, so that the writ can not be executed, 
the court may compel the attendance of the defendant, and examine 
• 
him on oath as to the situation of the property, and punish a willful
obstruction or hindrance of the writ, and a disobedience of the order of
the court in this respect, as in case of contempt. 
SEC. 3559. The sheriff must return the writ on or before the first
day of the trial term, and shall state fully what he has done thereunder.
If he has taken any property he shall describe particularly the same. 
SEc. 8560. The officer having taken the property, or any part 
thereof, shall forthwith deliver the same to the plaintiff. 
SEC. 356 I. If a third person claim the property or any part thereof,
the plaintiff may amend and bring him in as a co defendant, or the 
defendant may obtain his substitution by the proper mode, or the claim­
ant may himself intervene by the process of intervenor. 
SEC, 3562. The judgment shall determine which party is entitled
to the possession of th" property, and shall designate his right therein, 
and if such party have not the possession thereof, shall also determine
the value of the right of such party, which right shall be absolute as to 
an adverse party having no right in such property, and shall also award 
such damages to either party as he may be entitled to, for illegal deten­
tion of such property." 
SEC. 3563. The party entitled thereto, may have execution for the
money found due him, or may, in his discretion, have execution for the
delivery of the property, and if the property, or any article thereof, can
not be obtained on execution, he may have execution for the value of 
such article.] ·
Sim. 3564. When it appears by the return of the officer, or by the 
affidavit of the plaintiff, that any specific property which has been
adjudged to belong to one party, has been concealed or removed by the
other, the court, or a judge may require him to attend and be examined
on oath, respecting such matter, and may enforce its order in tliis respect
as in cases of contempt. 
CHAPTER 143. 
SECTIO~ 3565. An action may be had in which the plaintiff may
claim the delivery of personal property to be made after judgment, or 
the value thereof, in his discretion, if the specific property can not then
be obtained. 
SEc. 3566. The petition must be sworn to, and must conform to the
requirements of sub-divisions one, two, three, four, five and six, of sec- 
tion 3553 of the chapter on replevin. 
DETINUE.• 
SEC. ~567. The judgment shall define and declare the, plaintiff's
title, if he establishes the same, and shall also declare the value of such
right, as in replevin. 
SEC, 3568. The plaintiff having obtained such alternative judgment,
shall stand in the position of a party in replevin, having such judgment,
and shall enjoy the same right of choice and the same appliances to
enforce the same and all his rights therein, which such party in replevin
enjoys. 
ACTIONS TOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY. 
SECTION 8569. (2000.) Any person having a valid subsisting inter­
est in real property and a right to the immediate possession thereof, may
recover the same by action, which may be brought against any pert30n
acting as owner, landlord, or tenant of the property claimed. 
35i0. The petition need but state generally, without stating
the facts constituting the right, that the plaintiff is entitled to the pos­
session of the premises, particularly describing them, also the quantity
of his estate and the extent of his interest therein, and that the defend­
ant unlawfully keeps him out of possession, and the damages, if any,
which he claims for withholding the property ; but if he claims other
damages than rents and profits, he shall state the facts constituting the 
cause thereofr" 
SEC, 3571. Whenever it appears that the defendant is only a tenant,
the landlord may be substituted, notice thereof being given him, as in an
original action. 
SEC. 3572. When the defendant is a non-resident, having an agent
of record for the property in the state, service may be made upon such
agent in the same manner and with the like effect as though made on the
principal. 
SEC. 3578. The answer of the defendant and of each, if more than
one, must set forth what part of the land he claims, and what interest he
c1aims therein, generally and without the tacts constituting the right, and
if as mere tenant, the name and residence of his landlord, and need state
nothing more than this. 
SEC. 357 4. (2006.) The court may grant continuances in cases of
this nature, for reasons of less importance than those required to be set 
forth in ordinary civil actions. 
SEC. 35 7 5. (2007 ) 'Ybere the defendant makes defense, it is not
necessary to prove him in possession of the premises. 
SEC, 3576. (2008.) The plaintiff can not recover for the use and
occupation of the premises for more than six years prior to the com­ 
menceme~t of the action. 
CHAPTER 144. 
[ Code-Chapter 116.] 
SEC, 3577. (2009.) When the plaintiff shows himself entitled to the
immediate possesion of the premises, judgment shall be entered and a 
writ of possession issued accordingly. 
SEC, 3578. An action for the recovery of real property against a
person in possession can not be prejudiced by any alienation made by 
such person either before or after the commencement of the action.
3579. (2010.) If the interest of the plaintiff expire before the 
time in which he could be put in possession, he can obtain a judgment
for damages only. 
SEC. 3580. (2011.) Where there is no proof against some of the
defendants, the court may order a discontinuance as to them before the
testimony in the case is closed. 
SEC, 3581. Where there are two or more plaintiffs or defendants,
any one or more plaintiffs may recover against one or more of the de-
fendants, the premises or any part thereof or any interest therein, or
damages according to the rights of the parties; but the recovery shall
not be for a greater interest than that claimed. 
SEC. 3582. (2012.) Judgments in proceedings of this nature are as
conclusive as those in actions relating to personal property, except as
herein otherwise provided. 
SEC, 3583. (2013.) The preceding section is intended to apply only
to interests existing at the time of the trial, and is not intended to pre­
vent a new action to test the validity of rights acquired subsequently to
the former trial. 
SEC. 3584. (2014.) The court in its discretion may grant a new
trial on the application of a party or those claiming under him, made
at any time within two years after the determination of the former
trial. 
SEC. 3585 •. If the application for a new trial is made after the close
of the term at which the judgment was rendered, the party obtaining a
new trial shall give the opposite party ten days notice thereof before the
term at which the action stands for trial. 
SEC. 8586. (2015.) The result of such new trial if granted after
the close of the term at which the first trial took place, shall in no case
affect the interest of third persons, acquired in good faith for a valuable
consideration, since the former trial. 
SEC, 3587 (2016.) But the party who, on such new trial, shows
himself entitled to lands which have thus passed to a bona-fide pur-
chaser, may recover the proper amount of damages against the other
party either in the same or a subsequent action. 
SEC. 3588. (2017.) The party who has been successful in such new
trial shall (if the case require it) have his writ of restitution to restore
him his property. 
SEO, 3589. (2018.) In an action against a tenant the judgment shall
be conclusive against the landlord who has received notice as hereinbe- 
fore provided. 
SEC, 8590. (2019.) If not notified, he shall be regarded as a de-
fendant who has not been served with the original notice, and shall be
treated accordingly. 
SEC, 3591. .(2020.) The plaintiff must recover on the strength of
his own title. 
SEC. 3592. The court, on motion, and after notice to the opposite
party may, for cause shown, grant an order allowing the party applying 
therefor to enter upon the land in controversy and make survey and ad­
measurement thereof, for the purposes of the action. 
SEC, 3593. (2022.) The order must describe the property and a
copy thereof must be served upon the owner or person having the oc­ 
cupancy and control of the land. 
SEC, 3594. The verdict may specify the extent and quantity of the
plaintiff's estate, and the premises to which he is entitled with reasona- 
ble certainty by metes and bounds, and other sufficient description, ac-
cording to the facts A.S proved. 
Sim. 3595. A general verdict in favor of the plaintiff without such 
specifications, entitles the plaintiff' to the qul\Dtity of interest or estate,
in the premises as set forth and described in the petition. 
SEC. 8596. (2023.) When the plaintiff in an action of this nature i1
entitled to damages, for withholding or using, or injuring his property,
the defendant may set off the value of any permanent improvements
made thereon to the extent of the damages, unless he prefers to avail
himself of the law for the benefit of occupying claimants, 
SEC. 3597. (2024.) In case of wanton aggression on the part of the
defendant the jury may award exemplary damages. 
SEC. 8598. A tenant in possession in good faith, under a lease or
license from another, is not liable beyond the rent in arrear at the time
of suit brought for the recovery of land and that which may aft-er­
wards accrue during the continuance of his possession. 
SEC. 8599. If the defendant aver that he has a crop sowed, planted
or growing on the premises, the jury finding for the plaintiff, and also
finding that fact shall further find the value of the premises from the
date of the trial until the first day of January next succeeding, and no
execution for possession shall be issued until that time, if the defendant
executes with surety to be approved by the clerk, a bond in double such
sum to the plaintiff, conditioned to pay at said date, the sum so assessed.
This bond shall be part of the record, and shall have the force and effect
of a judgment, and if not paid at maturity, the clerk on the application
of the plaintiff shall issue execution thereon against all the obligors. 
8Ec. 3600. The plaintiff may have judgment for the rent of the
poeseseioa which accrues after judgment, and before delivery of pos­ 
session, by motion in the district court in which the judgment was ren­
dered, ten days' notice thereof in writing being given, unless judgment
is stayed by appeal, and bond given to suspend the judgment, in which
case the mot.ion may be made after the aflirmance thereof. 
SEC. 8601. (2025.) An action in the nature of that authorized in
this chapter, may also be brought by one having a reversionary interest,
or by one either in or out of possession, against another who claims
title to real property, although the defendant may not be in the posses­
sion thereof, for the purpose of determining and quieting the quest.ion of
title. 
SEC. 3602. If the plaintiff is In possession, he may file a petition
setting forth his estate, whether of inheritance for life or years, and de­
scribing the premises, and averring that he is credibly informed and be­
lieves that the defendant makes some claim adverse to the estate of the
petitioner, and praying that he may be notified to show cause why he
should not bring an action to try the alleged title, if any, and thereupon
the court shall order notice to be given to the defendant, and upon the
return of such order of notice, duly executed, if the defendant so noti­
fied shall make default, or having appeared, shall disobey the lawful
order of the court to bring an action and try the title, the court shall
enter a judgment that he be forever debarred and estopped from having
or claiming any right or title adverse to the petitioner, and those claim­
ing by or through him, to the premises described. 
SEC. 3603. H the defendant shall appear and disclaim all right and
title adverse to the petitioner, he shall recover his costs; if he shall
claim title, he shall, by answer, show cause why he should not be re­
quired to bring an action and try such title, and the court shall make
such judgment or order respecting the bringing and prosecuting of such
action, as may seem just. 
SEc. 3604. In other particulars, the rules above prescribed shall, 
in the cases in the last three sections contemplated, be observed as far
as they are applicable. . 
SEC, 8605. (2027.) In an action for the recovery of dower before
_ _._ b · • · f l 
muuea8urement, or y a tenant m common, or joint tenant o rea prop-
erty against his co-tenant, the plaintiff must show, in addition to his evi-
dence of right, that the defendant either denied the plaintiff's right, or
did some act amounting to such denial. 
CHAPTER 145. 
PA.llTITION. 
[ Cod&-Cbapter 117.} 
SECTION 3606. (2028.) When the object of the action is to effect a 
partition of real property among several joint owners, the petition must
describe the property and the respective interests of the several owners
thereof, if known. 
SEC. 3607. (2029.) If the number of shares or interests is known
but the owners thereof are unknown, or if there are, or are supposed 
to be, any interests which are unknown, contingent, or doubtful, these
facts must be set forth in the petition with reasonable certainty. 
SEC. 3608. (2030.) Creditors having a specific or general lien upon
all or any portion of the property may or may not be made parties, at
the option of the plaintiff. 
SEC:. 3609. (2031.} If the lien is upon one or more undivided inter­
ests of any of the parties, it shall, after partition or sale, remain a charge
upon those particular interests or the proceeds thereof. But the due
proportion of costs is a charge upon those interests paramount to all
other liens . 
• SEc. 3610. (2032.) The answers of the defendants must state 
among other things, the amount and nature of their respective interests.
They may deny the interest of any of the plaintiffs, and by supple­
mental pleading, if necessary, may deny the interest of any of the other 
defendants. 
SEC. 3611. (2033.) Where there are two or more plaintiffs, they
may reply jointly, or either of them may reply to any or all the answers 
of the defendants. 
SEC. 3612. (2034.) Issues may thereupon be joined and tried
between any of the contesting parties, the question of costs on such
issues being regulated between the contestants agreeably to the princi­
ciples applicable to other cases. 
SEC. 3613. (2035.) Each of the parties appearing, whether as plain­
tiff or defendant, must exhibit hi" documentary proof of title, (if he has
any,) and must file the same, or copies thereof with the clerk. 
SEc. 3614. (2036.) If the statements in the petition and answers 
are not contradicted in the manner aforesaid, or by the documentary
proof exhibited as above required, they shall be taken as true. 
SEc. 8615. (2037.) After all the shares and interests of the parties
have been settled in any of the methods aforesaid, judgment shall be
rendered confirming those shares and interests, and directing partition
to be made accordingly. 
SEC. 3616. (2038.) Upon entering such judgment the court shall
appoint referees to make partition into the requisite number of shares. 
SEC. 3617. (2039.) For good and sufficient reasons appearing to
the court, the referees may be directed to allot particular portions of the
land to particular individuals. In other cages the shares must be made 
as nearly as possible of equal value. · 
SEC. 3618. (2040.) If it appears to the referees that a partition 
can not be made without great prejudice to the owners, they shall so 
report to the court. 
SEC. 3619. (2041.) If satisfied with such report, the court shall
cause an order to be entered directing the referees to sell the premises
so situated, and shall also fix the terms of sale. 
SEC. 3620. (2042.) Before proceeding to sell, the referees shall
each give security, to be approved by the court or judge thereof, condi­
tioned for the faithful discharge of his duties. At any time thereafter,
the court may require farther and better security. 
SEC. 3621. (2043.) The same notice of sale shall he given as when
lands are sold on execution by the sheriff and the sales shall be con­
ducted in like manner. 
SEC. 3622. (2044.) After completing said sale the referees must
report their proceedings to the court, with a description of the different
parcels pf land sold to each purchaser, and the price bid therefor, which
report shall be filed with the clerk. 
SEC. 3623. (2045.) After making the order of sale as aforesaid,
the court shall direct the clerk to report whether there be any general
incumbrance by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, upon any portion of
the property. 
SEC. 3624. (2046.) If deemed advisable, the court may appoint
a referee to inquire into the nature and amount of incumbrance, and to
report accordingly. From that report an appeal lies to the court. 
SEC. 3625. (:.?047.) The referees shall give theparties interested at
least five days' notice of the time and place when he will receive proof
of the amounts of such incumbrances. 
SEC. 3626. (2048.) In taking such proof he may receive, with other
evidence, the affidavit of the parties interested. 
SEC. 3627. (2049.) If any incumbrance be ascertained to exist, the
proceeds of the sale of that portion, ( after the payment of costs,). or so
much thereof as is necessary, shall, if the owner consent, be paid over
to the incumbrancer. 
SEC. 3628. (2050.) If · the owner object to the payment of such
incumbrance, the money shall be retained or irrsested by order of the
court to await final action in relation to its disposition, and notice thereof
shall be forthwith given to the incumbrancer, unless hehas already been
made a party. 
St!:c .' 3629. (2051.) The court may direct an issue to be made up
between the incumbrancer and the owner, which shall be decisive of
their respective rights. 
SEc. 3630. (2052.) If an estate for life or years be found to exist
as an incumbrance upon any part of said property, and if the parties 
can not agree upon the sum in gross which they will consider an equiv-
alent for such estate, the court shall direct the avails of tLe incumbered
property to be invested, and the proceeds to be paid to the incumbrancer
during the lifetime of the incumbrance. 
SEC. 3631. (2053.) The proceedings in relation t.o incumbrances
shall not delay the distribution of the proceeds of other shares in respect
to which no such difficulties exist. 
SEC~ 3632. (2054.) The court, in its discretion, may require all or
any of the parties, before they receive the moneys arising from any sale
authorized in this chapter, to give satisfactory security to refund such
moneys, with interest, in case it afterward appears that such parties were 
not entitled thereto.
SEC. 3633. (2055.) If the sales aforesaid be approved and confirmed 
by the court, an order shall be entered directing the referees, or any two
of them, to execute conveyances pursuant to such sales. But no con-
veyances can be made until all the money is paid, without receiving
from the purchaser a mortgage of the land so sold, or other equivalent
security. 
SEC, 3634. (2056.) Such conveyances so executed, being recorded
in the county where the premises are situate, shall be valid against all
subsequent purchasers, and also against all persons interested at the
time, who were made parties to the proceedings in the mode pointed out 
~~ 
SEC. 3685. (2057.) If the owner of any share thus sold has a bus-
band or wife living, and if such husband and wife do not agree as to the
disposition that shall be made of the proceeds of such sale, the court
must direct it to be invested in real estate, under the supervision of such
person as it may appoint, taking the title in the name of the owner of
the share sold as aforesaid. 
SEc. 3686. (2058.) If the sales are disapproved, the money paid
and the securities given must be returned to the persons respectively
entitled thereto. 
SEC, 3637. (2059.) When a partition is deemed proper the referees
must mark out the shares by visible monuments, and may emp1oy a
competent surveyor and the necessary assistants to aid them therein. 
S1w. 3638. (2060.) The report of the referees must be in writing,
signed by at least two of them. It must describe the respective shares
with reasonable particularity, and be accompanied by a plat of the
premises. 
SEC. 3639. (2061.) Unless the shares arc allotted to their respect­
ive owners by the referees, as hereinbefore contemplated, the clerk shall
number the shares and then draw the names of the future owners by
lot. 
SEC, 8640. (2062.) When partition can be conveniently made of
part of the premises, but not of all, one portion may be partitioned and
the other sold as hereinbefore provided. 
SEc. 3641. (2063.). On good cause shown, the report may be set
aside, and the matter again referred to the same or other referees. 
SEc. 8642. (2064.) Upon the report of the referees being confirmed,
judgment thereon shall be rendered that the partition be firm and effect­
ual. forever. 
SEC. 3643. (2065.) When all the parties in interest have been duly
notified to appear and answer, either by the service of the petition and
notice, or by the publication prescribed by law, any of the proceedings
above authorized shall be binding and conclusive upon them all. If 
only a portion of such parties be served, they only shall be bound by
such proceedings. • 
Ssc. 8644. (2066.) This judgment of partition shall be presumptive
evidence of title in all cases, and as between the parties themselves it is
conclusive evidence thereof, subject however to be defeated by proof of 
a title paramount to, or independent of, that under which the parties
held as joint tenants or tenants in common. 
SEc. 8645. (2067.) All the costs of the proceedings in partition
shall be paid in the first instance by the plaintiffs, but eventually by all
the parties in proportion to their interests, except those costs which are
created by contests above provided for. 
SEc. 3646. (2068.) Any person claiming to hold Bil ineumbranee
upon any portion of the property involved in the suit, may, in default of 
the owner, appear and act ea his representative in any of the proceed­
ings under this act. 
SEC. 3647. (2069.). Pel'BODS having contingent interests in such
property may be made parties to the proceedings, and the proceeds of 
the property so situated, ( or the property itself in case of partition,)
shall be subject to the order of the court until the right becomes fully
vested. 
SEc. 8648. (2070.) The ascertained share of any absent owner
shall be retained, or the proceeds invested for his benefit. 
CHAPTER 146. 
FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES. 
[ Code-Chapter 118.] 
SECTION 3649. Any mortgage of personal property to secure the
payment of money only, and where the time of payment is therein 
fixed, may be foreclosed by notice and sale, as hereinafter provided, un-
less a stipulation to the contrary has been agreed upon by the parties. 
SEc. 3650. ~2072.) The notice must contain a full description of
the property-mortgaged, together with the time, place, and terms of
sale. 
Sso. 3651. Such notice must be served on the mortgagor, and upon
all per5<>ns having recorded liens upon the' same property, which are 
junior to the mortgage, or they will not be bound by the proceedings,
SEC. 3652. (2074.) The service and return must be made in the 
same manner as in case of the original notice by which civil actions are
commenced, except that no publication in the newspapers is necessary
for this purpose, the general publication directed in the next section 
being a sufficient service upon all the parties in cases where service is 
to be made by publication.
SEC. 3653. (2075.) After notice has been served upon the parties, 
n must be published in the same manner and for the same length of
time as is required in cases of the sale of like property on execution,
and the sale shall be conducted in the same manner. 
SEC. 8654. (2076.) The purchaser shall take all the title and inter-
est on which the mortgage operated as a lien. 
SEC. 3655. The sheriff conducting the sale, shall execute to the
purchaser a bill of sale of the personal property, which shall be effectual 
&o carry the whole title and interest purchased.
SEC. 3656. (2079.) Evidence of the service and publication of the 
notice aforesaid, and of the sale made in accordance therewith, together
with any postponement or other material matter, may be perpetuated by
proper affidavits thereof. 
SEC. 3657. Such affidavits shall be attached to the bill of sale, and
shall then be receivable in evidence, to prove the facts they state. 
SEC. 8658. (2081.) Sales made in accordance with the above re-
quirements, are valid in the hands of a bona fide purchaser, whatever
may be the equities between the mortgagor and mortgagee. 
SEC, 3659. (2082.) The right of the mortgagee to foreclose as well
as the amount claimed to be due, may be contested by any one interested 
in so doing, and the proceeding may be transferred to the district court,
for which purpose an injunction may issue if necessary. · 
SEC, 3660. The holder of any mortgage of real estate must proceed
by civil action, in the district court, when he wishes to foreclose the
same. 
SEC, 3661. (2084.) If any thing be found due the plaintiff the court
shall render judgment therefor and must direct the mortgaged property,
or so much thereof as is necessary, to be sold to satisfy the amount due
with interest and costs. A special execution shall issue accordingly. 
SEC. 3662. (2085~) If the mortgaged property does not sell for suf­
ficient to satisfy the execution, a general execution may be issued against
the mortgagor unless the parties have stipulated otherwise. 
SEC, 3663. (2086.) If separate suits are brought on the bond or
note and on the mortgage given to secure it, the plaintiff must elect which
to prosecute. The other will be discontinued at his costs. 
SEC. 3664. (2087.) When a judgment is obtained in an action on
the bond, the property mortgaged may be sold on the execution issued
thereon, and the judgment shall be a lien thereon from the date of the
recording of the mortgage. The mortgagor or any other person having
a lien on the mortgaged premises, or any part thereof, may redeem the
same after sale within the same time and on the same terms as are pro­
vided in chapter 125, in cases of real estate, sold on ordinary or genera.I
execution. 
SEC. 3665. (2088.) At any time prior to the sale made in accord-
ance wJth either of the above modes of foreclosure, a person having a
lien on the property which is junior to the mortgage, will be entitled to
an assignment of all the interest of the holder of the mortgage by pay­
ing him the amount secured with interest and costs, together with the
amount of any other liens of the same holder which are paramount to
his. He may then proceed with the foreclosure or discontinue it at his 
option. , 
SEC, 3666. (2089.) If there is an overplus remaining after satisfy­
ing the mortgage and costs, and if there are no other liens upon the
property, such overplus shall be paid to the mortgagor, 
SEC, 3667. (2090.) If there are any other liens on the property
sold, or other payments secured by the same mortgage, they shall be paid
off in their order. And if the money secured by any such lien is not
yet due, a suitable rebate of interest must be made by the holder there­
of, or his lien on such property will be postponed to those of a junior
date, and if there are none such the balance will be paid to the mort- 
gagor. 
SEC, 3668. (2091.) As far as practicable, the property sold must be
only sufficient to satisfy the mortgage foreclosed in either of the meth­ 
ods aforesaid. 
SEC. 3669. (2092.) The same costs and fees shall be allowed for
services rendered and acts performed under the provisions of this chap- 
. ter, as for like acts and services in other cases, which will be paid out of
the proceeds of the sales made. 
SEC, 3670. (2093.) Whenever the amount due on any mortgage is
paid off, the mortgagee or those legally acting for him must acknowledge 
satisfaction thereof in the margin of the record of the mortgage. If he
fails to do so within six months after being requested, he shall forfeit to
the mortgagor the sum of twenty-five dollars. 
SEC, 3671. (2094.) The vendors of real estate, when part or all the
purchase money remains unpaid after the day fixed for payment, wheth-
er time is or is not the essence of the contract, may file his petition ask-
ing the court to require the purchaser to perform his contract or to fore-
close and sell his interest in the property. 
SEC, 3672. (2095.) The vendee shall in such cases, for the purpose
of the foreclosure, be treated as a mortgagor of the property purchased
and his rights may be foreclosed in a similar manner. 
SEC, 3673. (2096.) Deeds of trust of real or personal property may
be executed as securities for the performance of contracts, and sales 
made in accordance with their terms are valid. Or they may be treated
like mortgages and foreclosed by action in the district court. Be it 
enacted by the General .Assemh'-!J of the State of Iowa, That no deed
of trust, or mortgage, with power of sale on real estate made after the
first day of April, A. D., 1861, for the security of the payment of money,
shall be foreclosed in any other manner than by proceeding in the dis-
trict, state. or federal courts." 
SEC, 367 4. (2097.) Nothing herein contained is intended to prevent
parties from fixing their own terms to any contract and prescribing the
manner in which those contracts shall be enforced; nor to change the
rule, or affect the rights of the vendor of real estate, in those cases
where time is the essence of the contract. 
CHAPTER 147. 
ARBITRATIONS. 
[Code-Chapter 119,l 
SECTION 3G75. (2098.) All controversies which might be the sub-
ject of civil actions, may be submitted to the decision of one or more
arbitrators, as hereafter provided. 
S1w. 3676. (2099.) The parties themselves, or those persons who
might lawfully have controlled a civil action in their behalf for the same 
subject matter, must sign a written agreement specifying particularly
what demands are to be submitted, the names of the arbitrators, and the
court by which the judgment on their award is to be rendered. 
SEC, 3677. (2100.) They shall then appear before some justice of 
the peace of the county and acknowledge the instrument by them signed
to be their free net and deed. 
SEC. 3678. (:HOl.) The submission may be of some particular
matters or demands, or of all demands which the one party hag against
the other, or of all mutual demands on both sides. · 
S1w. 3679. (2102.) A submission to arbitration of the subject mat-
ter of a suit may also be made by an order of court upon agreement of
parties after suit is commenced. 
SEC. 3680. (2103.) All the rules prescribed by law in cases of
referees are applicable to arbitrators except. as herein otherwise express-
ed, or except as otherwise agreed upon by the parties. 
81.:c. 3681. (2104.) Neither party shall have the power to revoke
the submission without the consent of the other. 
SEC. 3682. (2105.) If either party neglect to appear before the
arbitrators after due notice, they may nevertheless proceed to hear and
determine the cause upon the evidence which is produced before them. 
Ssc. 3683. (2106.) If the time within which the award is to be
made is fixed in the submission, no award made after that time shall
have any legal effect unless made upon a recommitment of the matter
by the court to which it is reported. 
SEC. 3684. (2107.) If the time of filing the award is not fixed in
the submission it must be filed within one year from the time such sub­
mission is signed and acknowledged, unless by mutual consent the time
is prolonged, 
81.;c. 368.5. (2108.) The award must be in writing. and shall be
delivered by one of the arbitrators to the court designated in the agree­
ment., or it may be enclosed and sealed by them and transmitted to the
court and not opened until the court so orders. 
SEC. 3GS6. (2109.) The cause shall be entered on the docket of the
court at the term to which the award is returned, and shall be called up 
and acted upon in its order. But the court may require actual notice to
be given to either party when it appears necessary and proper before
proceeding to act on the award. 
SEc. 3687. (2110.) The award may be rejected by the court for
any legal and sufficient reasons, or it may be recommitted for a rehear-
ing to the same arbitrators or any others agreed upon by the parties. 
SEC. 8688. (2111.) When the award has been adopted it shall be
filed and entered on the records, and shall have the same force and
effect as the verdict of a jury. Judgment may be entered and execution
issued accordingly. 
S1w. 3689. (2112.) When an appeal is brought on such judgment,
copies of the submission and award together with all affidavits shall be
returned to the supreme court. 
SEC. 3690. (tl13.) If there is no provision in the submission
respecting costs, the arbitrators may award them nt their discretion. 
SEC. 8691. (2114.) The compensation of the arbitrators shall be
two dollars per day for the time actually and necessarily spent, unless the
court fix a less amount, and the fees of the justice of the pence shall be
twenty-five cents for making out the agreement of submission, (in case
he docs so,) and the like amount for taking and certifying the acknowl-
edgment thereto. 
SEC. 3692. ('il 15.) · Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
affect in any manner the control of the district court over the parties,
the arbitrators, or their award; nor to impair or affect any action upon
an award or upon any bond or other engagement to abide an award. 
CHAPTER 148. 
ACTIONS AGAINST BOATS AND RAFTS, 
[ Code-Chapter 120. J 
SECTION 3i;93. (2116.) Any boat found in the waters of this state 
is liable:
1. For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent, clerk, or 
consignee thereof on account of supplies furnished for the use of such
boat; on account of work done or services rendered for such boat; or
on account of work done or materials furnished in building, repairing,
fitting out, furnishing, or equipping such boat. 
2. For all demands or damages accruing from the non-performance
or mal-performance of any contract of aff raightment, or any contract
relative to the transportation of persons or property, entered into by the
master, owner, agent, clerk, or consignee thereof. 
3. For all injoeies to persons or property by such boat, or by the
officers or crew, done in connection with the business of said boat. 
SEC. 3694. (2117.) Claims growing out of any of the above causes
are liens upon the boat, its apparel, tackle, furniture, and appendages,
including barges and lighters, if owned by the owners of the boat, and
used therewith at the time the suit is commenced. 
SEc. 3695. (2118.) Such liens take preference of any claims against
the boat itself or any or all of its owners, growing out of any other
causes than those above enumerated, and as between themselves they
are to be preferred in the following order: 
1 . Those resulting from wages for services rendered on board of such
boat within the year then passed, provided suit be commenced within
twenty days. after the cessation of such labor. 
2. Those resulting from contracts made within this state. 
3. All other causes.
SEC. 3696. (2119.) Actions against boats under the provisions of 
this chapter can not be brought after the lapse of one year from the
time the cause of action accrued. 
SEC. 3697. (2120.) The lien attaches from the commencement of
the suit, subject only to such other liens as are of a preferred class. 
SEC. 3698. Any raft found in the waters of this state shall be liable
for all debts contracted by the owner, agent, clerk or pilot thereof, on
account of work done or services rendered for such raft. 
SEC. 3699. • Claims growing out of either of the above causes shall
be liens upon the raft, its tackle and appendages, for the term of twenty
days from the time the right of action therefor accrued. 
SEc. 3700. The same rules shall govern and the same process shall
be had, to enforce the lien, that is prescribed for similar liens against 
boats.
SEC. 3701. (2121.) The original petition must be in writing, sworn 
to and filed with the clerk or justice of the pence, who shall thereupon
issue a warrant to the proper officer, commanding him to seize the boat, 
its apparel, tackle, furniture and appendages, and detain the same until
released by due course of law. ~ 
SEc. 3702. And the warrant may be issued on Sunday, if the plain-
tiff, his agent or attorney, shall state in his petition and swear thereto, 
that it would be unsafe to delay proceedings till Monday.
SEC. 3703. (2122.) The usual notice shall also be issued, directed 
to the boat by name, and served upon the master, owner, agent, clerk,
or consignee thereof, and if none of them can be found it may be served
by posting up a copy in some conspicuous part of the boat. The war-
rant shall be served according to the direction it contains. 
SEC. 3704. Any constable or marshal of any corporate town may
serve and execute the warrant provided for in said section, whether the
same issue from the office of the clerk of the district court, or of a
justice. 
SEC. 3705. (2123.) Any person interested in the boat may appear
for the defendant by himself, his agent, or attorney, and conduct the
defense of the suit, and no continuance shall be granted to the plaintiff
while the boat is held in custody. 
SEC. 3706. (2124.) The boat may be discharged at any time before
final judgment by the giving of a bond with sureties, to be approved by 
the officer serving the warrant, or by the clerk or justice who issued it,
in a penalty double the plaintiff's demand, conditioned that the obligors
therein will pay the amount which may be found due to the plaintiff,
together with costs. 
SEC. 3707 .. (2125.) If judgment be rendered for the plaintiff be-
fore the boat is thus discharged, a special execution shall be issued
against it. If it have been previously discharged, the execution shall
issue against the principal and sureties in the bond without farther pro·
ceedlngs. 
SEC. 3708. The officer may sell any of the furniture or appendages
of the boat, if by so doing he can satisfy the demand. If he sell the 
boat itself, he must sell it to the bidder who will advance the amount
required to satisfy the execution, for the lowest fractional share of the 
boat, unless the person appearing (or the boat desire a different and
equally convenient mode of sale. 
SEc. 3709. (2127.) If a fractional share of the boat 1,e thus sold,
the purchaser shall hold such share or interest jointly with the other
owners. 
SEc. 8710. (2128.) If an appeal be taken by the defendant before
the boat is discharged as above provided, the appeal bond, if one be
filed, will have the same effect in discharging the boat as the bond above
contemplated. and execution shall issue against the obligors therein after
judgment in the same manner. 
SEC. 8711. (2129.) Nothing herein contained is intended to affect
the rights of a plaintiff to sue in I he same manner as though the pro-
visions of this chapter had not been enacted. • 
SEc. 8il 2. (il30.) In actions commenced in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, it is sufficient to allege the contract to have
been made with the boat itself 
CHAPTER 149. 
NUISANCE, WA.STE, AND TRESPASS. 
[Code-Chapter 121.) 
SE?· 3718. (2131.) Whatever is injurious to health, or indecent, or
offensive.to the ~cnses, or a!1 obstruction to the free use of property, so 
RB essentiallyto mterfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or prop­
erty is a nuisance and the subject of an action. 
SEC._ 3714. "(2132.) Sueh action may be brought by any person
whose property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment is
lessened by'the nuisance. 
SEc. 3715. (2183.) Where a proper case is made the nuisance may
be enjoined or abated and damages recovered therefor. 
SEC. 3716. (2134.) If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint
tenant or tenant in common of real property commit waste thereon, he
is liable to pay three times the damages which have resulted from
such waste to the person who is entitled to sue therefor. 
SEC~ 3717. (2135.) Judgment of forfeiture and eviction may be 
rendered against the defendant whenever the amount of damages so re- 
covered is more than two-thirds the value of the interest such defendant
has in the property wasted and when the action is brought by the person
entitled to the reversion. 
SEC. 3718. (2136.) Any person whose duty it is to prevent waste
and who has not used reasonable care and diligence to prevent it, is
deemed to have committed it. 
SEC. 3719. (2137.) For willful trespasses in injuring any timber,
tree or shrub on the land of another, or in the street or highway in front
of another's cultivated ground, yard or town lot, or on the public grounds 
of any town, or any land held by this state for any purpose whatever,
the perpetrator shall pay treble damages at the suit of any person enti-
·tled to protect or enjoy the property aforesaid. 
811.:c. 3720. (2188.) Nothing herein contained authorizes the reeov-
ery of more than the just value of timber, taken from uncultivated
wood-land for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon the land
in its immediate neighborhood. 
SEC. 8721. (2189.) The owner of an estate in remainder or rever-
sion may maintain either of the aforesaid actions for injuries done to the
inheritance, notwithstanding any intervening estate for life or years. 
SEC. 3722. (2140.) An heir, whether a minor or of full ~"C, may
maintain these actions for injuries done in the time of his ancestor as
well as in his own time, unless barred by the statute of limitations. 
SEC. 8723. (2141.) Whenever lands or tenements are sold by vir-
tue of an execution, the purchaser at such sale may maintain his action
against any person for either of the causes above mentioned occurring
or existing after bis purchase. 
SEC. 3724. (2142.) This provision is not intended to prevent the
person who occupies the lands in the meantime from using them in the
ordinary course of husbandry or from using timber for the purpose of
making suitable repairs thereon. 
SEC. 8725. (2143.) But if for this purpose be employs timber vastly
superior to that required for the occasion, he will be deemed to have
committed waste and will be liable accordingly. 
SEC. 3726. (2144.) Any person settled upon and occupying any
portion of the public lands held by the state is not liable as a trespasser 
for improving it or cultivating it in the ordinary course of husbandry,
nor for taking and using timber or other materials necessary and proper 
to enable him to do so, provided the timber and other materials be ta.ken
from land properly constituting a part of the" claim" or tract of land so
settled upon and occupied by him. 
CHAPrER 150. 
ACTIONS OF OFFICIAL SECURITIES, AND FOB FINES AND FOR·
FEITURES. 
(Cod&--Chapter 122.] 
SEc. 8727. (2145.) The official bond of a public officer is to be
construed as a security to the body politic or civil corporation of which
he is an officer, and also· to all the members thereof severally who are
intended to be thereby secured. 
SEc. 3728. (2147.) A judgment in favor of a party for one delin­
quency does not preclude the same or another party from an action on
the same security for another delinquency, except that surelies can be
made liable in the aggregate only to the extent of their undertaking. 
SEC, 3729. (2148.) Fines and forfeitures not otherwise disposed of 
go into the treasury of the county where the same are collected, for the
benefit of the school fund. 
SEC. 3730. (2149.) Actions for the recovery thereof may be prose­
cuted by the officers or persons to whom they are by law given in whole
or in part, or by the public officer into whose hands they are to be paid
when collected. 
SEC, 3731. (2150.) A judgment for a penalty or forfeiture rendered
by collusion, does not prevent another prosecution, for the same subject
matter. 
CHAPTER 151. 
INFORMATIONS. 
(Code-Chapter 123.] 
SECTION 8732. (2151.) An information may be filed against any
person unlawfully holding or exercising any public office or franchise 
within this state, or any office in any corporation created by the laws of 
this state, and when any public officer has done or suffered any act which
works a forfeiture of his office; or when any persons act as a corpora­
tion within this state without being authorized by law, or if being incor­
porated they do or omit acts which amount to a surrender or forfeiture
of their rights and privileges as a corporation, or when they exercise
powers not conferred by law. 
SEC. 8733. (2152.) Such information may be filed by the district
attorney of the proper county whenever he deems it his duty so to do. 
SEC, 8784. (2153.) He must file such information when directed to
do so by the governor, the general assembly, or the district court. 
SEC. 8735. If the district attorney, on demand, neglect or refuse to
file an information, any citizen of the state claiming any public office
which is usurped or unlawfully exercised by another, may do so, and he
may prosecute the same in his own name, to final judgment in all other
respects as provided herein. 
SEC. 8736~ (2164.) Such information shall consist of a plain state-
ment of the facts which constitute the grounds of the proceeding ad- 
dressed to the court, which shall stand for an original petition.
SEC, 8737. (2155.) Such statement shall be filed in the clerk's office 
and notice issued and served in the same manner as hereinbefore pro­
vided for. the commencement- of actions in the district court. 
SEC. 8788. (2156.) The defendants shall appear and answer sueh
information in the usual way, and issue being joined it shall be tried in
the ordinary manner. 
SEC, 3789. (2157.) When the defendant is holding an office to which
another is claiming' the right the information should set forth the name 
of such claimant, and the trial must if practicable determine the rights
of the contesting parties. 
SEC, 874:0. (~158.) If judgment be rendered in favor of such claim-
ant he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the office after he has
qualified as required by law. 
SEC. 8741. (2159.) The court, after such judgment, shall order the
defendant to deliver over all books and papers in his custody or under
his control belonging to said office. 
SEC, 8742. (:2160.) When the judgment has been rendered in favor
of the claimant, he may at any time within one year thereafter bring
suit against the defendant and recover the damages he has sustained by
reason of the act of the defendant. 
SEC. 8743. (2161.) When several persons claim to be entitled to
the same office or franchise, an information may be filed against all or 
any portion thereof in order to try their respective rights thereto. 
SEC, 8744. (2162.) If the defendant be found guilty of unlawfully
holding or exercising any office franchise or privilege, or if a corpora- 
tion be found to have violated the law by which it holds its existence or
in any other manner to have done acts which amount to a surrender or
forfeiture of its privileges, judgment shall be rendered that such defend-
ant be ousted and altogether excluded from such office franchise or privi-
lege, and also that he pay the costs of the proceeding. 
SEC, 3745. (2163.) If the defendant be found to have exercised
merely certain individual powers and privileges to which he was not
entitled, the judgment shall be the same as above directed, but only in
relation to those particulars in which he is thus exceeding the lawful ex- 
ercise of his rights and privileges.
SEc. 3746. (2164.) When an information is upon the relation of a 
priftte individual it shall be so stated in the petition and proeeedingP, 
ud such individual shall be responsible for costs ua cue they are not
adjudged against the defendant. In other cases the title of the came
uall be the same as in a criminal prosecution, and the payment of coeta
shall be regulated by the same rule. 
Ssc, 37-17. (2165.) In case judgmeDt is rendered against a pre­
tended, but not real, corporation the costs may be collected from &nJ 
persoe who has been acting as an oiicu or proprietor of such pretended
corporation. 
SEo. 3748. (2166.) If a corporation is ousted and dissoh:ed 1,y the
proceedings herein authorized the court shall appoint three disinterested
persons as trustees of the creditors and stockholden. 
81:c. 3749. (2167r) Said trustees shall eater into bond ila such a
penalty and with such security as ~ court approves,. CODdiboned for the
faithful discharge of their tnlst. 
SEc. 37.50. (2168.) Suit may be brought on such bond by any per­ 
son injured by the negligence or wrongful act of the trustees in the dis­
charge of their duties. 
SEC, 3751. (2169.) 'Fhe trustees shall proceed immediately to ro1-
lecl the debts and pay the liabilities of the corporation, ud to divide the
surplus among those thereto entitled. · 
SEc. 3752. (2170.) The eourt shall, upoo an applicatiol\ for that
purpose, order any officer of such eorporation or any other person bav­
ieg possession of any of the effects, boob, or papers of the corporation
in any wise nece..<w1ry for the settlement of its affairs, to deliver up the
same to the trustees. 
Sze. 3753. (2171.) As soon as practicable after their appointment
the trustees shall make and file in the oiice of the clerk of the court an
inventory of all the effects, rights and credits which come to their pos­
session or knowledge, t1'e truth of which inventory shall be sworn to. 
SEC. 3754. (2172..) They shall sue for and recover the debts and
property of the corporation and shall be responsible to the creditors and
stoekbolders respectively to the extent of the effects which come to their
hands, in the same manner as though they were the executors of a de- 
ceased person. 
SEC. 3755. (2173.) When judgment of ouster ie rendered against
a corporation on account of the misconduct of the directors or officers
thereof, such officers shall be jointly and severally liable to an action by 
any one injured thereby. 
SEc. 37 56. (217 4.) Any person, who without good reason refuses 
to obey any order of the court as herein provided, shall be deemed guilty
of contempt of court and shall be fined in any sum oot exceeding five
thousand dollars and imprisoned in the coonty jail until he comply with
said order, and shall be farther liable for the damages resulting to any
person on account of his refusal to obey sueh order. 
SKc. 8757. (2175.) A. proceeding of this kind may be instituted in
the mffllner above contemplated for the purpose of annulling or vacating 
any letters patent granted by the proper authorities of this state when
there is reason to believe that the same were obtained by fraud, or
through mistake or ignorance of a material fact, or when the patentee· or
those claiming under him have done or omitted an ad in violation of
the terms and conditions on which the letters were granted, or have by
an.y other means forfeited the interest acquired. under the 881ll6. 
CHAPTER 152. 
SCIRE FA.CIA.S, 
(Code-CbapteJ.! 124.] 
SECTION 3758. (2176.) Where a ,cirs jacia, is allowed by law, it 
shall be commenced by petition and notice filed and served as in other
actions. · 
SEC, 3759. The petition must be sworn to by the plaintiff' in the
proceeding, his agent or attorney, and must state that the judgment has
not been= satisfied, to his knowledge, information or belief, and must
specify the amount due thereon. 
SEC. 3760. (2178.) The answer of the defendant must a.lso be
under oath, and the issue joined, if a.ny, shall be tried in the usual
maaner, 
CHAPTER 153. 
A.CTION OF .MANDA.HUS.• 
[Code-Chapter 125.] 
SECTION 3761. The writ of mandamus is an order of a court of 
competent jurisdiction, and issues from the district court commanding 
• .r. • ib 1 · b d d t t d
an mrerior tn una , corporation, oar or pe~on, to o or no o o, an 
act, the performance or omission of which the law specially enjoins as
a duty, resulting from an office, trust or station, and it is granted on the
petition of any private party aggrieved, without the concurrence of the
prosecutor for the state, or on the petition of the state by the district
attorney, when the public interest is concerned, and is in the name of
such private party, or of the state, as the case may be in fact brought. 
SEC. 37 62. The plaintiff in such action shall state his claim, and
shall also state facts sufficient to constitute a cause for such claim, and 
shall also set forth that the plaintiff, if a private individual, is personally
interested therein, nnd that he sustains and may sustain damage by the
non-performance of such duty, and that performance thereof has been
demanded by him; and refused or neglected, and shall pray a writ of
mandamus commanding the defendant to fulfill such duty. 
SEc. 3763. Where a discretion is left to an inferior tribunal, the
writ of mandamus can only compel it to act. It can not control the dis­
cretion of the inferior tribunal. 
SEC. 3764. The writ may also be issued by the supreme court to
any district court, if necessary, and also in any other case where it is
found neces~ary, to enable it to exercise its legitimate power. 
SEC, 3765. It shall not be issued in any case where there 4s a plain,
speedy and adequate remedy, in the ordinary course of the law, except
as herein provided. 
SEO. 3766. The pleadings and other proceedings in any action in
which a mandamus is claimed shall be the same in all respects as nearly 
as may be, and costs shall be recoverable by either party, as in an ordi­
nary action for the recovery of damages. 
Sro, 37 67. The plaintiff, in any action except those of chapters
142, 143 and 144 hereof, may also in aid of such cause of action, pray, 
and have a writ of mandamus to compel the performance of a duty
established in such action. But if such duty, the performance of which
is sought to be compelled, is not one • resulting from an office, trust, or
station, it must be one for the breach of which a legal right to damages
is already complete at the commencement of the action, and must also
be a. duty of which a court of equity would enforce the performance.• 
SEC, 8768. In case judgment be given to the plaintiff that a man-
damus do issue, it shall be lawful for the court in which such judgment
is given, if it shall see fit, besides issuing execution in the ordinary way
for the damages nnd costs, also to issue a peremptory writ of mandamus
to the defendant commanding him forthwith to perform the duty to be
enforced. 
SEC, Si69. The writ shall simply command the performae.ce of the
duty, shall be directed to the party and not to the sheriff, and may be
issued in term or vacation and returnable forthwith, and no return ex­
cept that of compliance shall be allowed, but time to return it may, upon
sufficient grounds be allowed by the cow-tor judge, either with or with­
out terms. 
SEC. 3770. The .court may, upon application of the plaintiff, besides,
or instead of proceeding against the defendant by attachment, direct 
that the act required to be done, may be done by the plaintiff, or some
other person appointed by the court, at the expen~e of the defendant,
and upon the act being done, the amount of such expense may be aseer­
tained by the court, or by a reference appointed by the court, as the
court or judge may order, and the court may render judgment for the
amount of such expenses and costs, and enforce payment thereof b1. 
execution. 
SEC, 3771. During the pendency of the action, the court or judge
in vacation may make temporary orders for preventing damage or injury 
to the plaintiff until the cause is decided. 
Sso. 3i72. When the state is a party, the atwroey may appeal
without security. 
[Codo--Chapter 126.J 
SECTION 3773. (2189.) An injunction may be granted Man inde-
pendent means of relief or as auxiliary to other proceedings, in accord-
ance with the rules heretofore observed, except as herein modified. 
SEC. 377 4. (2190.) When it is a mere auxiliary measure resorted
to during the trial of the principal cause, the terms on which it is allowed 
as well as the kind of notice to be given to the opposite party, shall be
such as the court prescribes. 
SEC. 3775. (2191.) When applied for as an independent means of
relief, the petition must be sworn to and presented to the district court, 
if in session in. the county, for an allowance of the injunction. If not
in session, application for that purpose may be made to any judge of the
supreme or district court, or to the judge of the county court of the
proper county. 
SEC. 3776. (2192.) H the order of allowance is made by the court
in session, the clerk shall make an entry thereof in the court record and 
issue the writ accordingly. H made in vacation the judge must indorse the
said order upon the· petition. 
SEc. 317i. (2193.) In both the cases contemplated in the last sec-
tion, the order of allowance must direct the writ of issue only after the
filing of a bond in the office of the clerk of the district court, in a pen-
alty to be therein fixed, with sureties to be approved 1,y said clerk,
(unless the court or judge granting the said order has previously ap­
proved said sureties,) and conditioned for the payment of all the dam-
ages which may be adjudged against the petitioner by reason of such 
injunction. 
CHAPrER 154. 
INJUNCTION. 
SEC. 3778. (2194.) When proceedings in a civil action are sought 
"to b · • d h · be b l · h h • h
e enjome , t e suit must roug 1t in t e county w erem sue pro- 
ceedings are pending. The bond must also in that case be farther con­
ditioned to pay any judgment that may be ultimately recovered against
the party who seeks the injunction, for the cause of action on which the
suit sought to be enjoined is founded. 
SEC. 3779. (2195.) The penalty of the bond must be fixed by the
court or judge who makes the order, pd must be doubly sufficient to
cover any probable amount of liability to be thereby incurred. 
SEC. 3780. (2196.) Upoa the filing of the bond as required, the
clerk must issue the writ of injunction as directed by the order of allow­
ance. 
SEC. 8781. (2197.) The court or judge before granting the writ
may, if deemed advisable, allow the defendant an opportunity to show
cause why such order should not be granted. 
SEC, 8782. (2198.) If the writ is granted without allowing the
defendant to show cause, he may at any time before the next term of the
court apply to the. judge who made the order to vacate or modify the
same. 
SEC. 8783. (2199.) Such application must be with notice to the
plaintiff and may rest upon the ground that the order was improperly
granted, or it may be founded upon affidavits on the part of the defend­
ant. In the latter case the plaintiff may fortify his application by counter
affidavits and have reasonable time therefor. 
SEC. 3784. (2200.) The judge may thereupon decide the matter at
once, unless some good cause for delay be shown. But the vacation of
the order shall not prevent the cause from proceeding if any thing be
left to proceed upon. 
SEC, 3i85. (2201.) Any judge of the supreme or district court,
being furnished with an authenticated copy of the writ of injunction,
and also with satisfactory proof that such injunction has been violated,
shall issue his precept to the sheriff of the county where the violation of
the injunction occurred, or to any other sheriff, (naming him,) more con­
venient to all parties concerned, directing him to attach said defendant
and bring him forthwith before the same or some other judge, at a place
to be stated in said precept. 
SEC, 3786. (2202.) If, when thus produced, he files his affidavit
denying or sufficiently excusing the contempt charged, he shall be re­
leased and the affidavit shall be filed with the clerk of the court for pres­
ervation. 
SEC. 3787. (2203.) But if he failed to do so, the juc.lge may require
him to give bond, with surety, for his appearance at the next term of
the court, and also for his future obedience to the injunction, which bond
shall be filed with the clerk. 
Ssc, 3788. (2204.) If he fail to give such security, he may be com­
mitted to the jail of the county where the proceedings are pending, 
until the next term of the court.
SEC, 3789. (2205.) If the security be given, the court at the next 
term shall act upon the case, and punish the contempt in the usual
mode. 
SEC, 3790. (2206.) The defendant may move to dissolve the injunc­
tion, either before or after the filing of the answer. 
SEC. 3791. (2207.) Issue mAy be joined on the defendant's answer
and a trial had as in other cases. 
SEC, 3792. (2208.) When practicable, the whole matter connected
with the injunction shall be disposed of on such trial, and complete jus­
tice administered to all parties. 
SEC. 2793. Only one motion to dissolve or modify an injunction upon
the whole case, shall be allowed. 
SEC. 3794. Upon the dissolution, in whole or in part, of an injunc­
tion to stay proceedings upon a judgment or final order, the damages 
shall be assessed by the court, which may hear the evidence and decide
in a summary way, or may, on the request of either party, cause a jury 
to be empaaneled to find the damages. Where money is enjoined, the
damages may be any rate per cent. on the amount released by the dis­
solution, which, in the discretion of the court, may be proper, not exceed­ 
ing ten per cent. And where the delivery of property has been delayed 
by the injunction, the value of the use, hire, or rent thereof shall be
assessed. Judgment shall be rendered against the party who obtained
the injunction, for the damages assessed, and against the surety of such 
party. 
SEC. 3795. (2210.) For good cause shown, a judge's order may
issue in vacation, directing any of the officers of the court in relation to
the discharge of their duties. 
SEO. 3796. (2211.) Such order shall be in force only during the
vacation in which it is granted, and for the first two days of the ensuing 
term.
SEC. 3797. (2212.) The judge granting it may require the filing of 
a bond, as in case of an injunction, unless from the nature of the case, 
such requirement would be clearly unnecessary and improper. 
CHAPTER 155. 
PROHIBITION IN AN ACTION BY ORDINARY PROCEEDINGS,• 
SEOTION 8798. In all cases of breach of contract or other injury,
where the party injured is entitled to maintain, and has brought an 
action by ordinary proceedings, he may, in the same cause, pray and 
have a writ of injunctioll against tihe l'eJ)etition or continuance of 11uch
breach of contract or other injury, or tl1e committal of any breach of
contract or injury of a like kind, arising out of the same contract, or
relating to the same property or right, and he may also, in the same
action, include a claim for damages or other redress. 
SEC. 8799. In such action, judgment may be given for other relief,
and also that the 'writ of injunction do or <lo not issue, as justice may
require; and in case of disobedience, such writ of injunction may be
enforced by attachment by the court, or when such oourt shall not be
sitting, by a judge thereof. 
SEC. 3800. It shall be lawful for the plaintiff, at any time after the
commencement of the action, and whether before or after judgment, to
apply ex parte to the court or a judge, for a writ of injunction to restrain 
the defendant in such action from a repetition or continuance of the
wrongful act, or breach of contract complained of, or the committal of
any breach of contract or injury of a like kind, arising out of the same
contract, or relating to the same property or right ; and such writ may
be granted or denied by the court or judge, upon such terms as to the
duration of the writ, keepiug an account, giving security, or otherwise,
as to such court or judge shall seem reasonable and just, and in case of
disobedience, such writ may be enforced by attachment by the court, or,
when such court shall not be sitting, by the judge thereof: proitided 
al.ways, that any order for a writ of injunction, made by a judge, or any
writ issued by virtue thereof, may be discharged or varied, or set aside
by the court, on application thereto by any party dissatisfied with such
order. 
(Code-Chapter 127.J 
SECTION 8801. (2213.) The petition for the writ of habeas corpus
must be sworn to, and must state : 
1. That the person in whose behalf it is sought is restrained of his 
liberty, and the person by whom and the place where he is so restrained, 
mentioning the names of the parties if known, and if unknown describ­
ing them with as much particularity as practicable ; 
2. The cause or pretense of such restraint according to the best
information of the applicant ; and if it be by virtue of any legal pro­
cess, a copy thereof must be annexed or a satisfactory reason given for
its absence ; 
8. It must state that the restraint fa illegal and wherein;
4. That the legality of the imprisonment has not already been ad­ 
judged uporl a prior proceeding of the same character, to the best knowl·
edge and belief of the applicant; 
5. It must also state whether application for the writ has been before
made to, and refused by, any court or judge, and if such application has
been made, a copy of the petition in that case with the reasons for the
refusal thereto appended must be produced or satisfactory reasons given
for the failure to do so. • 
SEc. 8802. (2214.) This petition must be sworn to by the person
confined or by some one in his behalf, and presented to some court or
officer authorized to allow the writ. 
SEC. 3803. (2215.) The writ of habeas corpus may be allowed by
the supreme or district court, or by any judge of either of those courts. 
In such eases it may be served in any part of the state.
SEC. 3804. (2216.) It may also be allowed by any county court 
except when the commitment was made by order of one of the courts
or officers mentioned in the last section, but when allowed by the
county court it is valid only within the limits of the county where
issued. 
SEC. 3805. (2217.) Application for this writ, when made to the
supreme or district courts or judges thereof, must be made to the court
or judge most convenient in point of distance to the applicant, and the
more remote court or judge, if applied to for the writ, may refuse the
same unless a sufficient reason be stated in the petition for not making
the application to the more convenient supreme or district court, or a
judge thereof. 
SEC. 3806. (2218·) If, from the showing of the petitioner, the plain­
tiff would not be entitled to any relief; the court or judge may refuse to 
allow the writ.
SEc. 3807. (2219.) But if the petition show a sufficient. ground for 
relief, and is in accordance with the foregoing requirements; the writ
shall be allowed and may be substantially as follows: 
THE STATE OF Iows, 
CHAPTER 156. 
HABEAS CORPUS. 
To the sheriff of, &c., [ or to A. B., as the case may be.]
You are hereby commanded to have the body of C. D., by you un­ 
lawfully detained as is alleged, before the court [ or before me, or before 
E. F., judge, &c., RS the case may he] at ---, on ---, [ or imme­
diately after being served with this writ,] to be dealt with according to
law, and have you then and there this writ with a return thereon of your
doings in the premises. 
SEC. 3808. (2220.) When the writ is allowed by a court it is to be
issued by the clerk, but when allowed by a judge he must issue the writ 
himself, subscribing his name thereto without any seal. 
SEC. 3809 .. (2221.) If the writ is disallowed, the court or judge
shall cause the reasons of said disallowance to be appended to the peti- 
tion and returned to the person applying for the writ. 
SEC, 3810. (2222.) Any judge, whether acting individually or RS a
member of a court, who wrongfully and willfully refuses such allowance 
of the writ when properly applied for, shall forfeit to the party aggrieved
the sum of one thousand dollars. 
SEC. 3811. (2223.) Whenever any court or judge authorized to
grant this writ has evidence, from a judicial proceeding before them, that 
any person within the jurisdiction of such court or officer is illegally
imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, it is the duty of such court or
judge to issue or cause to be issued the writ as aforesaid, though no
application be mnde therefor. 
81-:c. 3812. (2224.) The writ may be served by the sheriff or by
any other person appointed for that purpose by the court or judge by
whom it is issued or allowed. If served by any other than the sheriff,
he po.5:-es.~es the same power and is liable to the same penalty for a non·
performance of his duty as though he were the sheriff: 
SEC. 3813. (2225.) The proper mode of service is by leaving the
original writ with the defendant and preserving a copy thereof on which 
to make the return of service. 
SEC. 3814. (222G.) If the defendant can not be found, or if he
h
l
l 
· 'ff ' d h · b .1 
ave not t ie P ainti m custo y, t e service may e maue upon any
person having the plaintiff in his custody, in the same manner and with
the same effect as though he had been made defendant therein. 
SEC. 3815. (2227.) If the defendant conceal himself or refuse
admittance to the person attempting to serve the writ, or if he attempt 
wrongfully to carry the plaintiff out of the county or the state after the
service of the writ as aforesaid, the sheriff or the person who is attempt·
ing to serve or who has served the writ as above contemplated, is au-
thorized to arrest the defendant and bring him together with the plaintiff
forthwith before the officer or court before whom the writ is made return-
able. 
SEC, 3816. (2228.) In order to make such arrest, the sheriff or
other p('rson having the writ, possesses the same power as is given to a
sheriff for the arrest of a person charged with a felony. 
SEC. 3817. (2i29.) If the plaintiff can be found, and if no one
appear to have the charge or custody of him, the person having the
writ may take him into custody and make return accordingly. And to
get possession of the plaintiff's person in such cases, he posses~es the
same power as is given by the last section for the arrest of the defend-
ant. 
SEC. 3818. (2230.) The court or judge to whom the application for
the writ is made, if satisfied that the plaintiff would suffer any irrepara- 
ble injury before he could be relieved by the proceedings as above
authorized, may issue a precept to the sheriff or any other person selected
instead, commanding him to bring the plaintiff forthwith before such
court or judge. 
SEC. 3819. (2231.) When the evidence aforesaid is farther sufficient
to justify the arrest of the defendant for a criminal offense committed in
connection with the illegal detention of the plaintiff, the precept must
also contain an order for the arrest of the defendant. 
SEC. 3820. (:2232.) The officer or perwn to whom the precept is
directed must execute the same by bringing the defendant, and also the
plaintiff if required, before the court or judge issuing it, and thereupon
the defendant must make return to the writ of habeas corpus in the
same manner as if the ordinary course had been pursued. 
SEC. 3821. (22:33.) The defendant may also be examined and
committed, or bailed, or discharged, according to the nature of the
ease. 
SF.c. 3822. (2234.) The writ of habeas corpus must not be diso­
beyed for any defects of form or misdescription of the plaintiff or defend­
ant, provided enough is stated to show the meaning and intent of the
writ. 
SEC. 3823. (2235.) Any per8on served with the writ is to be pre­
sumed to be the person to whom it is directed, although it may be di­
rected to him by a wrong name or description or to another person. 
"SEC. 38:U. (2236.) Service being made in any of the modes here­
inbcfore provided, the defeudant must appear at the proper time and
answer the said petition. 
SEC. 382,,. (2237.) He must also bring up the body of the plaintiff,
or show good cause for not doing so. 
SEC. ::3826. (2238.) A willful failure to comply with the above
requisitions renders the defendant liable to be attached for a contempt,
and to be imprisoned till a compliance is obtained, and also subjects him
to the forfeiture of one thousand dollars to the party thereby aggrieved. 
SRc. 3827. (2239.) Such attachment may be served Ly the sheriff
or any other per:-on thereto authorized Ly the judge, who shall also be
empowered to bring up the body of the plaintiff forthwith, and has for
this purpo,-e the same powers as arc above conferred in similar cases. 
SEC. 382"3. (2:UO.) The court or officer allowing the writ must
cause the prosecuting attorney of the proper county to be informed of
the issuing of the writ and of the time and place when and where it is
made returnable. 
SF.c. 3829. (2241.) The defendant in his answer must state plainly
and unequivocally whether he then has, or at any time has had, the
plaintiff under his control and restraint, and if so the cause thereof. 
Sso. 3830. (2242.) If he has transferred him to another per.-;on he
must state that foct, and to whom, and the time thereof as well as the
reason or authority therefor. 
SEC. 38ill. (2243.) If he holds him by virtue of a legal process or
written authority, a copy thereof must. be annexed. 
Sec, 3832. (:2~44.) The plaintiff may <lemur or reply to the defend­
ant's answer, and all issues joined thereon shall be tried by the judge
or court." 
SEC. 3833. (2245.) Such replication, except when the hearing is
before the judge of the county court may deny the sufficiency of the
testimony to justify the action of the committing magistrate, on the trial
of which issue all written testimony before such magistrate may be
given in evidence before the court or judge in connection with nny other
testimony which mny then be produced: 
SEC, 3834. (2246.) But it is not permissible to question the cor-
rectness of the action of a grand jury in finding a bill of indictment, or
of the petit jury in the trial of a cause, nor of a court or judge when
acting within their legitimate province and in a lawful manner. 
SEC, 3835. (2247.) If no sufficient legal cause of detention is shown
the plaintiff must be discharged. 
81-:c. 3836. (2248.) Although the commitment of the plaintiff may
have been irregular, still if the court or judge is satisfied from the
evidence before them that he ought to be held to bail or committed
either for the offense charged or any other, the order may be made 
accordingly. 
SEC, 3837. (2249.) The plaintiff may also in any case be commit-
ted, let. to bail, or his bail be mitigated or increased, as justice may re-
quire. 
SEC, 3838. (.!250.) Until the sufficiency of the cause of restraint
is determined the defendant may retain the plaintiff in his custody and
may use all necessary and proper means for that purpose. 
SEC. 3839. (2251.) The plaintiff in writing, or his attorney, may
waive his right to be present at the trial, in which case the proceed- 
ings may be had in his absence. The writ will in such cases be modified
accordingly. 
SEC, 3840. (2252.) Disobedience to any order of discharge subjects
the defendant to attachment for a contempt, and also to the forfeiture of
one thousand dollars to the party aggrieved, besides all damages sus- 
tained by him in consequence of such disobedience. 
SEc. 3841. (2253.) If the defendant attempt to elude the service
of the writ of habeas corpus, or to avoid the effect thereof by transfer- 
ring the plaintiff to another, or by concealing him, he shall on conviction
be imprisoned in the penitentiary or county jail not more than one year
and fined not exceeding one thousand dollars, And any person know-
ingly aiding or abetting in any such act shall be subject to the like pun-
ishment. 
SEC. 3842. (2254.) An officer refusing to deliver a copy of any
legal process, by which he detains the plaintiff in custody, to any person
who demands such copy and tenders the fees therefor, shall forfeit two
hundred dollars to the person so detained. 
SEC. 3843. (2255.) When the proceedings are before a judge (ex-
cept when the writ is refused) all the papers in the case, including his 
final order, shall be filed with the clerk of' the district court of the county
wherein the final proceedings were had, and a brief memorandum
thereof shall be entered by the clerk upon his judgment docket. 
CHAPTER 157. 
CHANGING NAHES. 
(Code-Chapter 128.J 
SECTION 8844. (2256.) The district court has power to change
the names of persons in the following manner: 
SEC. 3845. (2257.) The applicant for such change must file his
petition verified by his oath, stating that he is a resident of the county
and has for one year then last past been a bona fide resident of the
state. It must also in a general way give a description of his· person,
stating his age, height, the color of his hair and eyes, the place of his
birth, and who were his parents. 
SEc. 3846. (2258.) An order of the court shall thereupon be made
and entered of record giving a description of the applicant as set forth
in the petition, the new name given, the time at which the change shall
take effect (which shall not be less than thirty days thereafter.) and
directing in what newspaper of general circulation in the county, notice
of such change shall be published. 
SEC. 8847. (2:259.) Previous to the time thus prescribed for the
taking effect of such change, the applicant shall cause notice thereof to 
be published for four successive weeks in the newspaper directed by the
court. 
SEO. 3848. (2260.) The ordinary proof of such publication being
filed in the office of the clerk of the court shall be by him filed for
preservation, and on the day fixed by the court as aforesaid the change
shall be complete. 
CHAPTER 158. 
OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE AND TBEIB COURTS. 
[ Code-Chapter 129.] 
SECTION 3849. (2261.) The jurisdiction of justices of the peace
when not specially restricted, is geographically coextensive with their
respective counties. 
SEC, 3850. Within the prescribed limit, it extends to all civil cases
( except cases by equitable proceedings, and cases where the question of
title to any real estate may arise,) where the amount in controversy
does not exceed one hundred dollars ; and by consent of parties, it may 
be extended to any amount not exceeding three hundred dollars. · 
Where Suit mag be brought. 
SEC, 3851. (2263.) Suits may in all cases be brought in the town­
ship where the defendant, or one of several defendants, resides. 
SEC. 3852. (2264.) They may also be brought in any other town-
ship of the same county, if actual service on one or more of the defend- 
ants is made in Ruch township. ·
Sim. 3853. Actions of replevin and suits commenced by attach- 
t
b
d
• d hi h . 
men may e commence m any county an towns 1p w erem any
portion of the property is found, and justices shall have jurisdiction
therein, within the county. 
SEC, 3854. (2t66.) If none of the defendants reside in the state,unon-ruident.
suit may be commenced in any coonty and township wherein either of
the defendants may be found. 
SEC. 3855. (2267.) On written contracts stipulating for payment at
a particular place suit may be brought in the township where the pay- 
ment was agreed to be made. 
SEC. 3856. (2268.) H there is no justice in the proper township
qualified or able to try the suit, it may be commenced in any adjoining 
township in the same county. 
Tht Jwtice' s Docket. 
SEC. 3857. (2269.) Every justice of the peace shall keep a docket
• hi h h 11 b ed . . d . h h d 
m w re s a e enter m continuous or er, wit t e proper ate to
each act done : 
I. The title to each cause.
2. A brief statement of the nature and amount of the plaintiff's 
demand and defendant's set-off (if any,) giving date to each where dates
exist. 
8. The issuing of the process and return thereof.
4. The appearance of the respective parties.
5. Every adjournment, stating at whose instance and for what time.
6. The trial, and whether by the justice or by a jury. 
7. The verdict and judgment.
8. The execution, to whom delivered, the renewals, if any, and the 
amount of debt, damages, and costs indorsed thereon.
9. The taking and allowance of an appeal, if any.
IO •. The giving a transcript for filing in the clerk's office or for set­ 
off, if one is given.
11. A note of all motions made and whether refused or granted. 
Suits, how brought. 
SEC. 3858. (2270.) The parties to the action may be the same as
in the district court, and all the proceedings prescribed for that court
so far as the same are applicable and not herein changed shall be pur-
sued in justice's courts. The powers of the court are only as herein
enumerated. 
SEO. 3859. (2271.) Ordinary actions in justice's courts are com-
menced by voluntary appearance or by notice, 
SEC. 3860. (2272.) When by notice, no petition need be filed as is
required in the district court except where the petition must be sworn 
to, but the notice must state the cause of action in general terms suffi-
cient to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against him. 
Seo. 3861. (2:273.) It must be addressed to the defendant by name,
but if his name is unknown, a description of him will be sufficient. It
mast be subscribed by the plaintiff or the justice before whom it is re-
turnable. 
SEC, 8862. (2274.) It must state the amount for which the plaintift'
will take judgment if the defendant fail to appear and answer at the time
and place therein fixed. 
SEc. 8868. (2275.) The time thus fixed in the notice must not be
more than fifteen days from the date, and the notice must be served not
less than five days previous to the trial. . 
. SEC. 8864. ('2'276.) The service. and return thereto must be made
in the same manner as in the district court except that no service shall
be made by publication other than is herein provided, nor shall any return
made by another than the sheriff or a constable of the county be valid
unless sworn to. 
The Appearonce of Partie,.
SEc. 3866. (2278.) An agent appearing for another may be required 
by the justice to show his authority if written, or prove it by his own
oath or otherwise if verbal. 
SEC. 3867 .. (2279.) The parties in all cases are entitled to one hour
in which to appear after the time fixed for appearance and neither party
is bound to wait longer for the other. · 
SEC. 8868. (2280.) Upon the return day, if the justice be actually
engaged in other official business he may postpone proceedings in the
case until such business is finished. 
SEC, 8869. (2281.) lf from any cause the justice is unable to attend
to the trial at the time fixed, or if a jury be demanded, he may adjourn
the cause for a period not exceeding three days, nor shall he make more
than two such adjournments. 
SEC, 3870. (2:282.) In case of the absence of witnesses, either party,
at his own cost, may obtain an adjournment not exceeding sixty days, by
filing an affidavit like that required. to obtain a continuance in the dis­
trict court for the like cause. 
SEC. 3871. (2283.) Either party applying for an adjournment must,
if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any wit­
ness of the adverse party who is in attendance be then taken to be used
on the trial of the cause. 
SEC. 3872. (2284.) The pleadings must be substantially the same
as in the district court. They may be written or oral. J f oral, they
must in substance be written down by the justice in his docket, and sworn
to when such verification is necessary. 
SEC. 3873. (2285.) Cross-demands or set-offs must be made, if at
all, at the time the answer is put in. 
SEc. 3874. (2286.) The original or a copy of all written instru­
ments upon which a cause of action or set-off is founded, must be tiled
with the claim founded thereon, or a sufficient reason given for not doing 
so. 
SEC, 3865. (2277.) The defendant may at any time pay to tJie offi-
h ' h h ' ' f h h f h 
cer avmg t e process, or tot e Justice o t e peace, t e amount o t e
claim together with the oosts which have then accrued, and thereupon
the proceedings shall cease, 
SEC. 3875. Either party, before the trial is commenced, may have
h f fili ffid · tl h · · · • di ed 
a e ange o venue, upon mg an a avit 1at t e Justice is preJu c
against him, or is of near relation to the other party, is a material wit·
ness for the afflant, or that the affiant can not obtain justice before him. 
Sim. 3876. When said change of venue is allowed, said justice shall
transmit all the original papers in said case, and a transcript of his pro. 
ceedings, to the next nearest justice in the township, if there be any, if 
not, to the next nearest justice in his county, which said justice shallf,ro­
eeed to try said ease, and if he can not try the same immediate! , he
shall then fix a time therefor, of which all parties shall take notice. 
· SEC. 3877. (2287.) If in a suit for trespass on real property the
defendant justifies by pleading title, it must be in writing. The justice 
shall thereupon make an entry thereof in his docket, and return the ori-
ginal papers and a transcript of all the entries in his docket to the dis-
trict court in the same manner and within the same time as is required
in eases of appeals. 
SEc. 3878. (2288.) When, from the plaintiff's own showing on the
trial, it appears that the determination of the action will necessarily
involve the decision of a question of title to real property, the justice
must dismiss the action, stating in his docket the reason therefor. 
SEC. 3879. (2289.) But when a case is thus transferred or dismissed
on account of the title to lands being involved, if there are other causes
of action not necessarily connected they may be severed and the latter
tried before the justice. 
The 'l'rial. 
. SEC. 3880. (2290.) Unless one of the parties demand a trial by
jury at or before the time for joining issue, the trial shall be by the jus-
tice. 
SEC. 3881. (2291.) If the plaintiff' fails to appear by himself, his
agent or attorney, on the return day, or at any other time fixed for the
trial, the justice shall render a judgment of nonsuit against him with
costs, except in the case provided in the next section. · 
SEC. 3882. (2292.) When the suit is founded on an instrument of
writing purporting to have been executed by the defendant, in which the
demand' of the plaintiff is liquidated, if the signature of the defendant is 
not denied under oath, and if the instrument has been filed with the 
justice previous to the day for appearance, he may proceed with the
cause whether the plaintiff appear or not. 
SEC. 3883. (2293.) In the case provided for in the last section, if 
the defendant does not appear, judgment shall be rendered against him
for the runount of the plaintiff's claim. 
S1-:c. 3884. (2294.) But if, where the plaintiff's claim is not founded
on such written instrument, the defendant does not appear, the justice
shall proceed to hear the allegations and proofs of the plaintiff, and shall
render judgment thereon for the amount to which he shows himself en­
titled, not exceeding the amount stated in the notice hereinbefore re- 
quired. • 
SEC. 3885. (2295.) In the cases contemplated in the last two sec-
tions, if the defendant has previously filed a set-off, founded on a writ­
ten instrument purporting to have been signed by the plaintiff, calling
for a sum certain, the justice shall allow such set-off in the same man­
ner as though the defendant had appeared and shall render judgment
accordingly. 
8Ec. 3886. (2296.) Judgment of nonsuit or by default may be set
aside by the justice, at any time within six days after being rendered,
if the party applying therefor can show a satisfactory excuse for his
default. 
SEc. 3887. (2297.) In such case a new day shall be fixed for trial, 
and notice thereof given to the other party or his agent.
SEC. 3888. (2298.) Such orders shall be made in relation to the 
additional costs thereby created as the justice shall think equitable.
SF.c. 38~9. (2299.) Any execution which may in the mean.time 
have been issued shall be recalled in the same manner as in cases of
appeals. 
SEC. 3890. (2301.) The justice shall thereupon issue his precept to
some constable of the township directing him to summon the requisite
number of jurors possessing the same qualifications as are required in
the district court. 
SEC. 3891. (2302.) The jury shall consist of six jurors unless a. 
smaller number be agreed upon between the parties. Each party is
entitled to three peremptory challenges. · Any deficiency in their num­ 
ber arising from any cause may be supplied by summoning others in the
manner above directed. 
SEC. 3892. (2303.) The justice may discharge the jury when satis­
fied that they can not agree, and shall immediately issue a new precept
for summoning another to appear at a time therein fixed, not more than
three days distant, unless the parties otherwise agree. 
SEC. 3893. (2~04.) No motion in arrest of judgment or to set aside
a verdict can be entertained by a justice of the peace. 
SEC. 3894. (2305 ) The verdict of the jury must be general. But
where there are several plaintiffs or defendants the verdict may be for
or against one or more of them. 
JttdgmeRt, and Pr<H:eedinga incident thereto. 
SEC. 3895. (2306.) In cases of nonsuit, confession, or on the ver-
diet of a jury, the judgment shall be rendered and entered upon the 
docket forthwith. In all other cases the same shall be done within three
days after the cause is submitted to the justice for final action. 
SEc. 3896. (2307.) If the sum found for either party, exceed the
jurisdiction of the justice, such party may remit the excess and take
judgment for the residue, but he can never afterward sue for the amount 
so remitted.
SEC. 3897. (2308.) Instead of so remitting the excess the party 
obtaining such verdict may elect to have judgment of nonsuit entered
against the plaintiff, in which case the plaintiff shall pay the costs. 
SEC. 3898. (2309.) Mutual judgments between the same parties,
rendered by the same or different justices, may be set off against each 
other.
SEC. 3899. (2310.) When rendered by the same court, the same 
course shall be pursued as is prescribed in the district court.
SEC. 3900. (2311.) · If the judgment proposed to be set off was ren- 
dered by another justice, the party offering it must obtain a transcript
thereof with a certificate of the justice who rendered it, indorsed thereon,
stating th.at no appeal has been taken and that the transcript was ob- 
tained for the purpose of being used as a set-off in that case.
S1w. 3901. (2212.) Such transcript shall not be given until the time 
for taking an appeal has elapsed.
SE.c. 3902. (2313.) The justice so giving a transcript shall make 
an entry of the fact in his docket, and all other proceedings in his court
shall thenceforth be stayed. _ 
SEC. 3903. (2314.) Such transcript being presented to the justice
who has rendered a judgment between the same parties as aforesaid, if 
execution has not been issued on the judgment rendered by him, he
shall strike a balance between the judgments and issue execution for
such balance. 
SEC. 3904. (2315.) If execution has already issued, the justice shall
also issue execution on the transcript filed with him and deliver it to the 
same officer who has the other execution. 
SEC. 3905. (2316.) Such officer shall treat the lesser execution as so
much cash collected on the larger, and proceed to collect the balance
accordingly. 
SEc. 3\106. (2317.) The a6ove rules as to set-off are subject to the
same prohibition as to setting off costs, when the effect will be to leave
an insufficient amount of money actually collected to satisfy the costs of
both judgments, as is contained in the rules of proceeding in the district
court. 
SEC. 3907. (2318.) When the judgment of another justice is thus
allowed to be set off, the transcript thereof shall be filed among the pa-
pers of the case in which it is so used and the proper entry made in
the justice's docket. , 
SEC. 3U08. (2319.) If the justice refuses the judgment as a set-oft'Iteet.offrefuled.
he shall so certify on the transcript and return it to the party who offered
it. When filed in the office of the justice who gave it, proceedings may
be held by him in the same manner as thQugh. no such transcript had
been certified by him. 
Filing Transcripts in th« Clerk', Oifice.
SEC. 3909. (2320.) The party obtaining a judgment inn justice's 
court for more than ten dollars may cause a transcript thereof to be cer­
tified to the office of the clerk of the district court in the county. 
SEC. 3~ 10. (2321.) The clerk shall forthwith tile such transcript
and enter a memorandum thereof in his judgment docket, noting the
time of filing the same, and from the time of such filing it shall be
treated in all respects as to its effect and mode of enforcement, 88 a
judgment rendered in the district court 88 of that date. 
Execu.tiom and Proceeding, thereon. 
SEC. 3911. (2322.) Executions for the enforcement of judgments
in a justice's court, except when docketed in the office of the clerk of·
the district court, may be issued by the justice before whom the judg­
ment was rendered, on the application of the party entitled thereto, at
any time within five years from the entry of the judgment. but. not af­ 
terwards.
SEc. 3!)12. (2323.) Such execution shall be against the goods and 
chattels of the defendant therein and shall be directed to any constable
of the county. 
SF.c. 3913. (2324.) It must be dated as on the day on which it is
issued, and made returnable within thirty days thereafter. 
SEC. 3914. (2325.) If not satisfied when returned it may be re­ 
newed from time to time by an indorsement thereon to that effect signed
by the justice and dated of the date of such renewal. 
SEC. 3915. (2326.) Such indorsement must state the amount paid
on such execution (if any) and shall continue the execution in full force
for thirty days from the date of renewal. 
SEc. 3U16. (2327.) Property levied on before such renewal may be
retained by the officer and· sold after renewal. 
Appeal». 
SEC. 8917. (2328.) Any person aggrieved by the finaljudgment of
a justice, may appeal therefrom to the district court in the county. 
S1-;c. 3918. (t329.) The appeal must be taken and perfected within
twenty days after the rendition of the judgment. 
SEC. 3919. (2330.) If within the twenty days the appellant is pre-
pared to take his appeal and is prevented only by the absence or death
of the justice, or his inability to act, he may apply to the clerk of the
district court of the county for the allowance of his appeal. 
S1w. 3~:lO. (2331.) Such application shall be founded on an affida-
vit stating the amount and nature of the judgment, and the time of the 
rendition thereof, as nearly as practicable, and the reason why he thus
applies. 
SEC. 3921. (2332.) The clerk has thereupon the same power to act
in the premises as the justice would have had. He may require the
books and papers of the justice to be delivered to him, for which purpose
he may issue a precept to the sheriff to that effect, if necessary, and
may make out and file the transcript. After this he shall return to the
office of the justice of the peaee all the papers proper to be kept by the 
justice. 
SEC. 3922. (2333.) The appeal shall in no case be allowed until a 
recognizance of the following form or its equivalent is taken and filed 
in the office of the justice, the sureties being approved by him, or by the
clerk acting for him as above authorized, and the sum therein inserted
being sufficient to secure the judgment as well as the costs of the appeal. 
We, the undersigned, acknowledge ourselves indebted to --- in
the sum of --- dollars, upon the following condition. ,vhereas
--- has appealed from the judgment of---, a justice of the
peace, in an action between --- as plaintiff and --- defendant, 
Now if the said appellant pays whatever amount is legally adjudged
against him in the farther progregs of this cause, then this recognizance
is to be void, and otherwise in force. 
Attest, E. F., justice. 
A. B., principal.
C. D., surety. 
SEC. 3923. (2334.) Upon the appeal being taken in accordance with
the foregoing provisions, all farther proceedings in the cause by him
shall be suspended. 
SEC. 3924. (2335 ) If, in the mean time, an execution has been
issued, the justice shall give the appellant a certificate that the appeal 
has been allowed. Upon that certificate being presented to the consta-
ble, he shall cease farther action and release any property that may
have been taken in execution. 
SEC. 3925. (2336.) Upon the taking of any appeal, the justice shall
file in the office of the clerk of the district court all the original papers
relating to the suit, with a transcript of all the entries in bis docket .. 
SEc. 3926. (2337.) Upon the return of the justice being filed in the
office of the clerk, the cause will be desmed in the district court. 
SEC, 3927. (2338.) The district court may by rule compel the jus-
tice to allow an appeal, or to make or amend his return according to 
law. 
SEC. 3928. (2339.) Where an omission or mistake has been made
by the justice in his docket entries, and that fact is made unquestionable,
the district court may correct the mistake or supply the omission, or 
direct the justice to do so. 
SEC, 3929. (2340.) If an appeal is allowed ten days before the next
term of the district court, the justice's return must be made at least five 
days before that term. .All such cases must be tried when reached,
unless continued for cause. 
SEC. 3930. (2341.) If the appeal is not allowed on the day on which
judgment is rendered, written notice thereof must be served upon the 
appellee or his agent at least ten days before the term of the court to
which the cause is returnable, ( provided there be ten days intervening,)
or the suit, on motion of the appellee, shall be continued at the cost of
the appellant. 
Saw. 3931. (2342.) Such notice may be served like the original
notice, and if the appellee or his agent have no place of residence in the
county, it may be served by being left with the justice. 
SEc. 3932. (2343.) An appeal brings up a cause for trial on the
merits, and for no other purpose. All errors, irregularities, and illegal­
ities are therefore to be disregarded under such circumstances, if the
cause might have been prosecuted in the district court. 
SEC. 3933. (2:344.) No new demand or set-off can be introduced
into a case after it comes into the district court, unless by mutual con­
sent. 
Sec, 8934. (2345.) The appellant must pay the costs of the appeal
unless he obtains a more favorable judgment than that from which he
appealed. 
SEC, 3!)35. (2346.) If the judgment below is agairu:1t the appellant.
he may proffer to pay a certain amount with costs, and if the final
amount recovered be less favorable to the appellee than such proffer, he
shall pay the costs of appeal. 
SEc. 3~36. (2347.) Any judgment in the district court against the
appellant shall be entered up against him and his sureties jointly. 
SEC, 3~37. (2348.) If an appeal is taken for delay, the district
court shall award such damages, not exceeding ten per cent. on the
amount of the judgment below, as may seem right. 
Writs of Error. 
SEC. 3938. (2349.) Any per;;on aggrieved by an erroneous decision
in a matter of law, or other illegality in the proceedings of a justice of
the peace, may remove the same or so much thereof as is necessary into
the district. court for correction by writ of error. 
81-:c. 3939. The basis of the proceeding is an affidavit filed in the
office of the clerk, setting forth the errors complained of. Writ of error
must be taken in the same time, and the notice must be the same as in
case of appeal. 
SEC. 3940. (2351.) The clerk shall thereupon issue the writ com­
manding the justice to certify the record and proceedings 80 far as they
relate to the facts stated in the affidavit. 
SEC, 3~ 11. (2352.) A copy of the affidavit shall accompany the
writ and be served upon the justice, who shall, with the least practica­
ble delay, make the return required. 
SEc. 3942. (2353.) All proceedings in the justice's court, subsequent
to judgment, may be stayed by a recognizance, entered into like that
required in cases of appeals, and on which recognizance judgment shall
be entered against the principal and surety in like manner and under
like circumstances. 
SEC, 3943. (~354.) The district court may compel an amended
return when the first is not full and complete. 
SEc. 394-l. (2355.) The district court may render final judgment,
or it may remand the cause to the justice for a new trial or such farther
proceedings as shall be deemed proper, and may prescribe the notice
necessary to bring the parties again before the justice. 
8Ec. 3945. (2356.) If the district court render a final judgment
reversing the judgment of the justice of the peace, after such judgment
has been collected in whole or in part, it may award restitution with
interest, and issue execution accordingly, or it may remand the cause to
the justice for this purpose. 
Repleoin, 
SEC. 3946. (2857.) The proceedings to gain possessisn of personal 
property wrongfully withheld will be the same RS are prescribed in such
cases, in the district court, except as modified in this chapter. 
SEC. 3947. (2358.) Atta: hments are not allowable in justices'
courts if the sum claimed is less than five dollars. And if more is 
claimed and less recovered, the plaintiff shall pay all the costs of the
proceedings so far as they relate to the attachment. 
SEc. 3U48. (2360.) The constable has the same power to administer
an oath to the garnishee and to take his answer as is given to the sheriff
in cases of attachment in the district court. 
SEC. 3949. (2361.) Garnishees may be required to appear and
answer at the time fixed for the appearance of the parties to the action. 
SEC. a950. \Vhen a writ of attachment, or of replcvin, has been
issued by any justice of the peace, in any action, and it shall be found 
that the defendant is absent, so that personal notice of service of pro-
cess can not be had, it shall be the duty of the justice, upon the return
day, unless the defendant appear, to make an order fixing the day for
the trial, not less than sixty days thereafter, and requiring notice to be
given by any constable, as provided in the next section. 
SEC. 3951. Upon Ruch order being made, at least sixty days' notice
of the pendency of such action, shall be given by posting up written or 
printed notices in three public places in the township where the action 
was commenced, and such notices shall have the effect of a service, by
publication in the district court, and the justice shall proceed to hear the
cause upon the day specified for that purpose, but no bond shall be. 
required of the plaintiff after judgment, as may be in the district court. 
Su.mmary Reniedy for Forcible Entry or Detention of Real Property. 
SEC. 3952. (2362.) This proceeding is allowable:
1. Where the defendant has by force or intimidation or fraud or 
stealth entered upon the prior actual possession of another in regard to
real property and detains the same ; 
2. Where a lessee holds over after the termination, or contrary to
the terms of his lease ; 
3. ,vhere the defendant continues in possession after a sale by fore­
closure of a mortgage or on execution, unless he claims by a title para­
mount to the lien by virtue of which the sale was made, or by title
derived from the purchaser at the sale. 
81-:c. 3953. (2:3Ga.) The mere non-payment of rent by the time
stipulated in the lease does not enable a plaintiff to resort to this action
unless expressly so stipulated in the lease. 
SEC. 3~54. (2364.) The legal representative of a person who might
have been plaintiff if alive, may bring this suit after his death. 
SEC, 3955. (2365.) Before suit can be brought in any except the
first of the above classes, three days' notice to quit must be given to the 
defendant in writing. 
.Attacl,mmt. 
SEC. 39fi6. (23G6.) The petition must be in writing and sworn to. 
SEC. 3957. (23H].) The proceedings may be had before a justice of
the peace of the township where the premises are situated, or if there is
no justice therein able or qualified to act, they may be brought before
some justice in any adjoining township. They shall be governed by the
same rules as other cases before justices of the peace except. as herein
modified. 
SEc. 3958. (2368.) The time for appearance and pleading must not 
be less than two nor more than six days from the time the notice is
served on the defendant. 
SEC. 3959. (2369.) No adjournment shall be made for more than
ten days, nor to any other place except by consent of parties. 
SEC. 3UGO. (2370.) If the defendant is found guilty.judgment shall
be entered that he be removed from the premises, and that the plaintiff
be put in possession thereof, and a warrant of removal shall issue
accordingly, to which shall be added a clause commanding the officer to
levy the costs as in ordinary cases. ' 
SEC. 3961. (2371.) The question of title can not be investigated in
this action. And nothing herein contained prevents a party from suing 
for a trespass, or from testing the right of property in any other
manner. 
SEC. 3962. (2372.) Thirty days' peaceable and uninterrupted pos-
session with the knowledge of the plaintiff after the cause of action ac­
crued, is a bar to this proceeding. 
S1w. 3963. (2373.) Au action of this kind can not be brought in
connection with any other, nor can it be made the subject of set-off. 
SEc. 3964. (237 4.) The warrant for removal can be executed only
in the day-time. 
SEC. 396j. An appeal or writ of error, taken in the usual way, if
the proper security is given, suspends the execution for costs, and may,
with the consent of the plaintiff prevent the warrant of removal from
being executed, but not otherwise. 
SEC. 3966. (~376.) The district court on the trial of the appeal
may issue a warrant of removal or restitution, as the case may require. 
General Provisions.
Sue. 3967. (2377.) Every justice of the peace upon the expiration 
of his term of office, must deposit with his successor his official dockets
as well as those of his predecessors which may be in his custody, there 
to be kept as public records, All his official papers shall also be turned
over to hi ... successor, 
Sim. o!J68. (:,W78.) If his office become vacant by death, removal
from the township or otherwise, before his successor is elected, the said
docket and papers shall be placed in the hands of the clerk of the dis-
trict court, to be by him turned over to the successor of the justice
when elected and qualified. • 
SEC. oD69. (2:H9.) The justice with whom the docket of his pre-
decessor is thus deposited, nrny issue execution on, or give n transcript 
of, any judgment there entered in the same manner and with like effect
as the justice who rendered judgment might have done. 
SEC, 3970. (2380.) When two or more justices are equally entitled
to be deemed the successor in office of any justice as aforesaid, the judge 
of the county court shall detennine by lot which is the successor, and
shall certify accordingly. 
SEc. 3971. (238 I.) Such certificate shall be in duplicate, one copy
of which shall be filed in the county office, and the other given to the
said successor, 
SF.c. 3972. (2382.) In case of the sickness, other disability, or ne­
cessary absence of a justice at the time fixed for a trial of a cause or
other proceeding, any ot~«>r justice of the township may at his request
attend and transact the business for him without any transfer of the
business to another office. The entries shall be made in the docket of
the justice at whose office the business j13 transacted, and the same effect
shnll be given to the proceedings as though no such interchanging of
official service had taken place. 
SKc. 3n3. A justice may, in writing, specially depute any discreet
person of suitable age, to perform any particular duty properly devolv­
ing upon a constable. Such person bas the powers of a constable for
that particular purpose, and is subject to the same obligations, and shall
receive the same fees, 
Sim. 8974. (2384.) No process can issue from a justice's court into
another county, except when specially authorized. 
Sec. 3n5. (2385.) The constable is the proper executive officer of
a justice's court, but the sheriff may perform any of the duties required
of him. The powers and duties of the sheriff in relation to the business
of the district court, so far as the same are applicable and not modified
by statute, devolve upon the constable in relation to the justice's court, 
S1-:c. 3976. (2386.) The justice may be regarded as his own clerk,
and performs the duty of both judge and clerk. 
Ssc. 3977. (2387.) When the term of office of a justice of the
peace for nny cause expires, his successor may issue execution, or renew
an execution in the same manner and under the same circumstances as
the former justice might have done, if bis term of office had not ex­
pired. 
CHAPTER 159. 
EVIDENCE. 
[Code-Chapter 130.] 
SECTION 3978. Every human being of sufficient capacity to under-
stand the obligation of an oath, is a competent witness in all cases, both
civil and criminal, except RB herein otherwise declared. 
SEC. 3979. (2389.) Facts which have heretofore caused the exclu-
sion of testimony may still be shown for the purpose of lessening its
credibility. 
SEC, 3980. On the trial of any issue joined, or of any matter, or of
any inquiry arising in any action or other proceeding in any court of jus- 
tice, or before any person, having by law or by consent of parties, au-
thority to hear, receive and examine· evidence, no person shall be dis-
qualified, by reason of his interest in the same, or in the event of the
same whether such interest be as a party thereto or otherwise. But the
party or parties thereto, and the person in whose behalf such action or
other proceeding may be brought or defended shall, except as hereinaf-
ter excepted, be competent and compellable to give evidence, either viva
voce or by deposition, according to the practice of the court, on behalf of
himself or either or any of the parties to the issue, action or proceeding.• 
SEC. 3981. But nothing herein contained shall render any person,
who, in any criminal proceeding is charged with the commission of any 
public offense competent or compellable to give evidence therein, for or
against himself. 
SEC. 3982. No person shall be allowed to testify under the provi-
sion of section 3980, where the adverse party is the executor of a de- 
ceased person, when the facts to be proved transpired before the death
of such deceased person, and nothing in such section contained shall in
any manner affect the laws now existing in relation to the settlement of
estates of deceased persons, infants, or persons of unsound mind ; or the
attestation of any instrument required to be attested. 
SEc."3983. The husband or wife shall in no case be a witness for or
against the other, except in a criminal proceeding far a crime committed
by one against 'the other, or in a civil action or proceeding one against 
the other, but they may in all criminal prosecutions be witnesses for
each other. 
SEC. 398-i. (2392.) Neither husband nor wife can be examined in
any case as to any communication made by the one to the other while
married, nor shall they after the marriage relation ceases, be permitted
to reveal in testimony any such communication made while the marriage
subsisted. 
SEC. 8!)85. (2393.) No practicing attorney, counselor, physician,
surgeon, minister of the gospel; or priest of any denomination, shall be 
allowed in giving testimony to disclose any confidential communication
properly intrusted to him in his professional capacity and necessary and
proper to enable him to discharge the functions of his office according 
to the usual course of practice or discipline. 
SEC. 3986. (2394.) The prohibitions in the preceding sections do
not apply to cases where the party in whose favor the respective provi­
sions are enacted, waives the rights thereby conferred. 
SEC. 3987. (2395.) A public officer can not be examined as to com­
munications made to him in official confidence, when the public interests
would suffer by the disclosure. 
SEC. 8988. (2~96.) No witness is excused from answering a ques­
tion upon the mere ground that he would be thereby subjected to a civil
liability. · 
SEC. 3989. (2397.) But when the matter sought to be elicited
would tend to render him criminally liable or to expose him to public
ignominy, he is not compelled to answer except as provided in the next
section. 
SEC. 3990. (2398.) A witness may be interrogated as to his previ-
ous conviction for a felony. But no other proof of such conviction is 
competent except the record thereof.
SEC. 8991. The general moral character of a witness may be proved 
for the purposes of testing his credibility. 
SEC. 3992. (2399.) What part of an act, declaration, conversation,
or writing is given in evidence by one party, the whole on the same sub­
ject may be inquired into by the other ; thus when a letter is read, all
other letters on the same subject between the same parties may be given.
And when a detached act, declaration, conversation, or writing is given
in evidence, any other act, declaration or writing which is necessary to
make it fully understood or to explain the same may also be given in
evidence. 
SEC. 3993. (2400.) When an instrument consists partly of written
and partly of printed form, the former controls the latter when the two
are inconsistent. 
SEC. 3994. (2401.) When the terms of an agreement have been
intended in a different sense by the parties to it, that sense is to prevail
against either party in which he had reason to suppose the other under­
stood it. 
SEC. 8995. (2402.) Historical works, books of science or art, and
published maps or charts, when made by persons indifferent between the 
parties, are presumptive evidence of facts of general notoriety or in­
terest. 
SEC. 3996. (2403.) When a subscribing witness denies or does not
recollect the execution of the instrument to which his name is subscribed 
as such witness, its execution may be proved by other evidence. 
SEc. 3997. (2404.) Evidence respecting hand-writing may be given
by comparison made by exports or by the jury with writings of the
same person which are proved to be genuine. 
SEC. 3998. (2405.) The entries and other writings of a person de- 
ceased made a.t or near the time of the transaction and . in a position to
know the facts therein stated, are presumptive evidence of such facts
when the entry was .made against the interest of the person so making
it, or when made in a professional capacity or in the ordinary course of
professional conduct, or when made in the performance of a duty spe-
cially enjoined by law. · 
SEc. 3999. (2406.) Books of account containing charges by one
party against the other made in the ordinary course of business, are re- 
ceivable in evidence, only under the following circumstances, subject to 
all just exceptions as to their credibility :
1. The books must show a continuous dealing with person'! generally, 
or several items of charge at different times against the other party in
the same book or set of books. 
2. It must be shown by the party's oath or otherwise "that they are
his boob of original entries. · 
3. It must be shown in like manner that the charges were made at 
or near the time of the transactions therein entered, unless satisfactory
reasons appear for not making such proof. 
4. The charges mast also be verified by the party or the clerk who
made the entries, to the effect that they believe them just and true, or a
sufficient reason must be given why such verification is not made. 
SEC. 4.000. (2407.) Every private writing, except a last will and
testament, after being acknowledged or proved and certified in the man-
ner prescribed for· the proof or acknowledgment of conveyances of real
property, may be rend in evidence without farther proof. 
SEC. 4001. (1227.) Every instrument in writing affecting real es-
tate, which is acknowledged or proved and certified as hereinbefore 
directed, may be read in evidence without farther proof.
SEC. 4002. (1228.) The record of such instrument or a duly authen- 
tieated copy thereof, is competent evidence whenever by the party's own
oath or otherwise the original is shown to be lost, or not belonging to the
party wishing to use the same, nor within his control. And in such case
it is no objection to the record that no official seal is appended to the
recorded acknowledgment thereof, if, when the acknowledgment purports
to have been taken by an officer having an official seal, there be a state-
ment in the certificate of acknowledgment that the same is made under
his hand and seal of office and the record show by a scroll or otherwise
that there was such a seal, which will be presumptive evidence that the
official seal was attached to the original certificate. 
SEC. 4008. (1229.) The provisions of the preceding section are
intended to apply to all instruments heretofore recorded, as well as those
hereafter to be recorded. 
SEC. 4004. (1230.) Neither the certificate, nor the record nor the
• transcript thereof, is conclusive evidence of the facts therein stated. 
SEC. 4005. (2408.) The judge of the court is a competent witness
for either party and may be sworn upon the trial. But in such a case 
it is in his discretion to order the trial to be postponed or suspended and
to take place before another judge. . 
SEC. 4006. (2409.) Except when otherwise specially provided, no
evidence of any of the contracts enumerated in the next succeeding sec- 
tion is competent unless it be in writing and signed by the party charged
or by his lawfully authorized agent. 
SEC. 4007. (2410.) Such contracts embrace:
1. Those in relation to the sale of personal property when no part of 
the property is delivered and no part of the price is paid. 
2. Those made in consideration of marriage, but not including prom­
ises to marry. 
8. Those wherein one person promises to answer for the debt, default,
or miscarriage of another, including promises by executors to pay the
debt of their principal from their own estate. · . 
4. Those for the creation or transfer of any interest in lands except
leases for a term not exceeding one year. 
5. Those that are not to be performed within one year from the malt­
ing thereof. 
SEC. 4008. (241 t.) The provision of the first sub-division of the
preceding section does not apply when the article of personal property
sold is not at the time of the contract owned by the vendor and ready
for delivery, but labor, skill, ormoney are necessarily to be expended in
producing or procuring the same: nor do those of the fourth sub-division
of said section apply where the purchase money or any portion thereof
has been received by the vendor, or when the vendee with the actual or
implied consent of the vendor has taken and held possession thereof,
under and by virtue of the contract, or when there is any other circum­
stance which by the law heretofore in force, would have taken a case out
of the statute of frauds. ' · 
SEC. 4009. (2412.) The above regulations, relating merely to the
proof of contracts, do not prevent the enforcement of those which are 
not denied in the pleadings, unless in cases where the contract is sought
to be enforced or damages to be recovered for the. breach thereof against
some pe~on other than him who made it. 
SEc. 4010. (2413.) Nothing in the above provisions shall prevent
the party himself against whom the unwritten contract is sought to be
enforced, from being called as a witness by the opposite party nor his
oral testimony from being evidence. 
SEC. 4011. The usual protest of a notary public without proof of
his signature, or notarial seal, is prima facie evidence of what it recites
concerning the dishonor and notice of a bill of exchange or promissory
note. 
Bow Testimony is to 'he Procured. 
SEC. 4012. The clerks of the several courts shall, on application of
any person having a cause, or any matter pending in court, issue a sub­
prena for witnesses under the seal of the court, inserting all the names
required by the applicant in one subpcena, which may be served by the
sheriff, coroner, or any constable of the county, or by the party or any
other person. When a subpoena is not served by the sheriff, coroner,
or constable, proof of service shall be shown by affidavit; but no costs
of serving the same shall be allowed. . 
SEC. 4018. The subpoena shall be directed to the person therein .
named, requiring him to attend at a particular time or place, to testify
as a witness, and it may contain a clause, directing the witness to bring
with him any book, writing, or other thing under bis control, which he
is bound by law to produce as evidence. 
SEC. 4014. (2416.) Witnesses in civil cases can not be compelled
to attend the district court out of the state where they are served, nor at
a distance of more than seventy miles from the place of their residence
or from that where they are served with a subpoena, unless within the
same county. No other subpcena but that from the district court can
compel his attendance at a greater distance than thirty miles from his
place of residence or of service if not in the same county. 
SEC. 4016. (2417.) Witnesses are entitled to receive (in advance if 
demanded) their traveling fees to and from the court, together with their·
fees for one day's attendance. At the commencement of each day after
the first they are farther entitled on demand to receive the legal fees for
that day in advance. If not thus paid they are not compelled to attend
or remain as witnesses. 
SEC. 4016. (2418.) For a failure to obey a valid subpcena without 
a sufficient cause or excuse, or for a refusal to testify after appearance,
the delinquent is guilty of a contempt of court. He is also liable to the 
party by whom be was subpoenaed for all consequences of such delin-
quency, together with fifty dollars additional damages. 
SEC. 4017. (2419.) Before a witness is thus liable for a contempt
for not appearing, he must be served personally with the process by read-
ing it to him, and by leaving a copy thereof with him if demanded, and
it must be shown that the fees and traveling expenses allowed by law
were tendered to him if required; or it must appear that a copy of the
subpcena, if left at his usual place of residence, came into his hands
together with the said fees and traveling expenses above mentioned. 
SEC. 4018. (2420.) If a witness conceal himself or in any other
manner attempt to avoid being personally served with a subpoena, any
sheriff or constable having the subpcena may use all necessary and proper
means to serve the same, and for that purpose may break into any build-
ing or other place where the witness is to be found, having first made
known his business and demanded admittance. 
SEC. 4019. A person confined in any prison in this state, may, by
order of any court of record, be required to be produced for oral exami- 
nation in the county where he is imprisoned, and in a criminal case in
any county in the state; but in all other cases his examination must be
by a deposition. 
SEC. 40:lO. While a prisoner's deposition is being taken, he shall
remain in. the custody of the officer having him in charge, who shall
afford reasonable facilities for the taking of the depositions. 
SEC. 4021. (2477.) When by the laws of any other state or eoun- 
t
• b tak . hi b d . h f h 
ry, testimony may e en mt 18 state to e use mt e courts o sue
state or country, and also in all cases herein provided for taking deposi­
tions, the persons authorized to take such depositions have power to
issue subpoenas and compel obedience thereto, to administer oaths, and
do any other act of a court which is necessary for the accomplishment
of the purpose for which they are acting. 
SEC. 4022. - (2478.) Subpcenas issued by them are valid to the same
geographical extent as those emanating from a justice's court, and may 
be served and returned in the same manner. 
SEC. 4023. (2479.) Any sheriff or constable, when called upon for
that purpose, shall serve such subpcenas and make return thereto. 
SEC. 4024. (2421.) In addition to the above remedies, if a party to
a suit in his own right, on being duly subpoenaed, fail to appear and give
testimony, the other party may, at his option, have a continuance of the
cause as in cases of other witnesses, and at the cost of the delin-
quent. 
SEC. 4025. (2422.) Or the party so calling his opponent may, in
such a case, himself become a witness, or, if he shows by his own testi- 
mony or otherwise that he could not have a full personal knowledge of
the transaction, the court may order his pleading to be taken as true;
such order however is subject to be reconsidered during the term of the
court, upon satisfactory reasons being shown for such delinquency. 
SEC. 4026. (2423.) The district court may by rule require the pro-
d 
. f b k l . h "al I . d .
uihon o any papers or oo s w ne are maten to t ie JUSt etermi- 
nation of any cause pending before it, for the putpose of being inspected
and copied by or for the party thus calling for them. 
SEC. 4027. (2424.) The petition for that purpose must state the
facts expected to be proved by such books or papers, and that, as the
petitioner believes, such books and papers are under the control of the
party against whom the rule is sought, and must show wherein they are
material, The rule shall thereupon be granted, to produce the books
and papers or show cause to the contrary, if the court deems such rule
expedient and proper. 
SEC, 40:.!8. (2425.) On failure to obey the rule, or show sufficient
cause for such failure, the same consequences shall ensue as if the party
had failed to appear and testify when subpoenaed by the party now call­
ing for the books and papers. 
SEC, 4029. (2426.) Though a writing called for by one party is by
the other produced, the party thus calling for it is not obliged to use it 
as evidence in the case. 
SEC. 4030. An affidavit is a written <leclaration under oath, made
without notice to the adverse party. 
SEC. 4031. In every affidavit made, the names of the several per­
sons making such affidavit, shall be written in the jural,. 
SEC. 4032. When any affidavit is sworn by any person who from his
signature appears to be illiterate, or a foreigner imperfectly acquainted
with the English language, the officer taking such affidavit shall certify in
the jurat, that the affidavit was read in his presence to the party making
the same, and that such party seemed to understand the same, and that
the said party wrote his mark or signature, in the presence of the
officer taking such affidavit. 
SEC. 4088. All facts authenticated by an oath, should be attended
by the assurance of knowledge, or at least of a belief, and to that end, 
if the facts are stated in a positive manner, the oath may be that the
affiant believes them, but if the facts, or any of them, are stated not 
positively, but as a belief, then the oath must not be of a belief, but of
the truth of them, and no swearing to a belief of a belief shall be a
sufficient oath." 
SEC. 4034. Every affidavit shall be drawn up in the first person,
and the affiant shall, sign his name immediately below the matter 
sworn to. 
Docummtary .&tidence. 
SEC. 4035. An affidavit may be made within or without this state,
before any person authorized to administer oaths. 
SEC. 4086. (2475.) Affidavits taken out of the state before any
judge or clerk of a court of record, or before a notary public or a com­ 
missioner appointed by the governor of this state to take acknowledg­
ment of deeds in the state where such affidavit is taken, are of the same
credibility as if taken within the state. 
SEC. 4037. (247 6.) The signature and seal of such of the officers
herein authorized to take depositions or affidavits "as have a seal, and 
the simple signature of such as have no seal, are presumptive of the
genuineness of such signature as well as of the official capacity of the
officer, except as herein otherwise declared. 
SEC. 4038. (2480.) ··Where a person is desirous of obtaining the
affidavit of another who is unwilling to make the same fully, he may
apply to any officer competent to take depositions 88 herein declared, by
petition, stating the object for which he desires the affidavit. 
SEC. 4039. (2481.) If such officer is satisfied that the object is
legal and proper, he shall issue his subpeena to bring the witness before
him, and if be fails then to make a full affidavit of the facts within his
knowledge to the extent required of him by the officer, the latter may
proceed to take his deposition by question and answer in writing in the
usual way, which deposition may afterwards be used instead of an ordi­
nary affidavit. 
SEC. 4040. (2482.) The officer thus applied to, may in his discre-
tion require notice of the taking of such a.ffidavit or deposition to be 
given to any other person interested in the subject matter and allow him
to be present and cross-examine such witness. 
SEC. 4041. (2483.) The court or officer to whom any ez parte affi- 
davit is presented 88 a basis for some action, in relation to which any
discretion is lodged with such court or officer, may, if deemed proper,
require the witness to be brought before some proper officer and sub- 
jected to cross Interrogatories by the opposite party.
SEc. 4042. (2427.) Publications required by law to be made in a 
newspaper may be proved by the affidavit of any person having knowl-
edge of the fact, specifying the times when, and the paper in which the 
publication was made. But such affidavit must, for the purpose now
contemplated, be made within six months after the last day of publica- 
tion.
SEC. 4048. (2428.) The posting up or service of any notice or 
other paper required by law may be proved by the affidavit of any
competent witness, attached to a copy of said notice or paper, and made 
within six months of the time of such posting up. 
Sso. 4044. (2429.) Any other fact which is required to be shown
by affidavit, and which may be required for future use in any action
or other proceeding, may be proved by pursuing the course above indi-
cated as nearly 88 the circumstanoes of the case will admit. 
SEC. 4045. (2430.) Such proof so made may be perpetuated and
preserved for future use by filing the papers above mentioned in the 
office of the judge of the county court. And the original affidavit
appended to the notice or paper, if there be one, and if not the affidavit
by itself is presumptive evidence of the facts stated therein, but does
not preclude other modes of proof now held sufficient. 
SEC. 4046. (2431.) A copy of the field notes of any surveyor or a. 
plat made by him and certified under oath 88 correct, may be received
as evidence to show the shape or dimensions of a tract of land, or any
other fact whose ascertainment requires only the exercise of scientific 
skill or calculation.
SEC. 4047. (2432.) Duly certified copies of all records and entries 
or papers belonging to any public office or by authority of law filed to
be kept therein, shall be evidence in all cases of equal credibility with 
the original record or paper so filed.
SEC. 4048. It shall be the duty of the recorder, in each of the sev- 
eral counties in this state, to cause to be procured a. book, entitled 
"copies of original entries," to be kept 88 a record, in his office, in which
shall be copied a list of the original entries of lands within bis county,
with name of the person or persons entering the same, and the date of
such entry, for which he shall receive a reasonable compensation, to be
audited and allowed by the county judge of his county. 
SEC. 4049. Said book, containing a copy of such entries, when com-
pared with the originals, and certified to as true copies by the register of
the land office at which such original entries were made, shall be deemed 
a matter of record, and certified copies thereof, under the hand of said
recorder, may be received and read in evidence in all the courts in this
state, with like effect as other certified copies of original papers recorded 
in his office.
SEC. 4050. Said recorder shall from time to time, as he may deem 
it necessary, procure in same manner, copies of any additional entries
under the same restrictions, and with like effect, until all the lands in
his county shall have been entered, and certified copies of the entries
thereof procured • 
. SEC. 4051. (2488.) Every officer having the custody of a public
record or writing is bound to give any person, on demand, a certified
copy thereof on payment of the legal fees therefor. 
SEC. 4052. Copies of all maps, official letters, and other documents
in the office o( the surveyor general of this state, when certified to by 
that officer according to law, shall be received by the courts of this state
as prima facie evidence of the existence of the originals ; and tpat said
copies are copies of the original, notwithstanding such maps, official let-
ters, &c., may them\elves be copied. 
SEC, 4053. (2434.) The certificate of a public officer that he has
made diligent and ineffectual search for a paper in his office, is of the
same efficacy in all cases as if such officer had personally appeared and
sworn to such facts. 
SEC, 4054. (2435.) The usual duplicate receipt of the receiver of
any land office, or if that be lost or destroyed or beyond the reach of the 
party, the certificate of such receiver that the books of his office show
the sale of a tract of land to a certain individual, is proof of title equiv­
alent to a patent, against all but the holder of an actual patent. 
SEC, 4055. The certificate of the register or receiver of any land
office of the United States, as to the entry of land within his district,
shall be prima f acie evidence of the person entering, to the real estate
therein named. 
SEC. 4056. In the cases contemplated in the last seven sections, the
signature of the officer shall be presumed to be genuine, until the con­
trary is shown • 
SEC. 4057. (2438.) A judicial record of this state or of any of the
federal courts of the United States may be proved by the production of
the original, or by a copy thereof certified by the clerk or the person
having the legal custody thereof, authenticated by his seal of office, if 
he have one.
SEC, 4058. (2438.) That of a sister state may be proved by the 
attestation of the clerk and the seal of the court annexed, if there be a 
seal, together with a certificate of a judge, chief justice, or presiding
magistrate that the attestation is in due form of law. 
SEc. 4059. (2439.) The official certificate of a justice of the peace
of any of the United States, to any judgment, and the preliminary pro­ 
ceedings before him, supported by the official certificate of the clerk of 
any court of record within the county in which such justice resides,
stating that he is an acting justice of the peace of that county, and that
the signature to his certificate is genuine, is sufficient evidence of such
proceedings and judgment. 
SEc. 4060. (2440.) Copies of records and proceedings in the courts 
of a foreign country may be admitted in evidence upon being authenti­
cated as follows : 
1. By the official attestation of the clerk or officer in whose custody
such records are legally kept, and 
2. By the certificate of one of the judges or magistrates ,. of such
court, that the person so attesting is the clerk or officer legally entrusted
with the custody of such records, and that the signature to his attestation 
is genuine, and
8. By the official certificate of the officer who has the custody of the 
principal seal of the government under whose authority the court is
held, attested by said seal, stating that such court is duly constituted,
specifying the general nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the seal 
of the court,
SEC. 4061. (2441.) Acts of the executive of the United States, or 
.of this or any other state of the Union, or of a foreign government, are 
proved by the records of the state department of the respective govern-
ments, or by public documents purporting to have been printed by order
of the legislatures of those governments respectively, or by either branch 
thereof.
SEc. 4062. (2442.) The proceedings of the legislature of this or 
any other state of the Union, or of the United States, or of any foreign
government, are proved' by the journals of those bodies respectively, or 
of either branch thereof, and either by copies officially certified by the
clerk of the house in which the proceeding was had, or by a copy pu.t- 
porting to have been printed by their order.
SEc. 4068. (2443.) Printed copies of the statute laws of this or 
any other of the United States, or of Congress, or of any foreign gov-
ernment, purporting or proved to have been published under the author-
ity thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the exist-
ing laws in the courts of such state or government, shall be admitted in
the courts of this state as presumptive evidence of such laws. 
SEC. 4064. (2444.) The public seal of the state or county affixed
to a copy of a written law or other public writing, is also admissible as 
evidence of such law or writing respectively. The unwritten laws of
any other state or government may be proved as facts by parol evidence,
and also by the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts. 
Depositions. 
SEC. 4065. After the commencement of a civil action, or other civil
proceeding, if a witness resides within this state, but in a different county
from the place of trial, or is about to go beyond the reach of a subpcena,
or is for any other cause expected to be unable to attend court at the
time of trial, the party wishing his testimony, may, whenever he judges
it expedient, take his deposition in writing before any person having
authority to administer oaths ; and if the action is by equitable proceed-
ings, and no consent has been entered into to try the same by the second
method of trying equitable actions, then without any other reason there-
for, either party may so take the deposition of any witness. 
SEC. 4066. Reasonable notice of the name of the witness, and of
the time and place, when and where the same will be taken, must be
given to the opposite party. 
SEC. 4067. If the case is in the district court, the deposition of a
witness, residing out of the county, whether within or without the state,
may be taken before one or more commissioners on written interroga- 
tori es.
SEC, 4068. (2448.) The party wishing to take such deposition, may 
select any of the officers mentioned in the next section as such commis­
sioner, or the parties may agree upon, or the court appoint in the com­ 
mission, any other individual for that purpose. 
SEC. 4069. The clerk or any judge of any court of record, or any
commissioner appointed by the governor of this state to take acknowl­
edgements of deeds in another state, or any notary public, or any consul
of the United States may be selected and appointed by the party such
commissioner, either by the name of office of such officer, or by his in­
dividual name and official style, and the name of the court of which
such constituted commissioner is clerk or judge, and the name of the
state and county, or if without the United States and Canada, the name
of the state and town, or city in which such commissioner of deeds, no­
taries, or consul resides, must be stated in the notice and in the commis­ 
sion issued.
SEc. 4070. (2450.) None of the above named officers is permitted 
to take the depositions aforesaid, by virtue of a commission directed to
him merely as such officer, unless taken within the geographical limits
to which his official jurisdiction extends. 
SEc. 4071. (2451.) Reasonable notice must be given to the opposite
party of the time when a commission will be sued out of the office of
the clerk of the district court for taking the deposition of the witness,
(naming him,) which notice must be accompanied with a copy of the
interrogatories to be asked him. 
SEc. 4072. At o1 before the time thus fixed, the opposite party may
file cross-interrogatories-if cross-interrogatories are not filed-the clerk
shall file the following : 
1. Are you directly or indirectly interested in this action ? and if in­ 
terested, explain the interest you have.
2. Are all your statements in the foregoing answers made from your 
personal knowledge? and if not, do your answers show what are made
from your personal knowledge, and what from information, and the
source of that information ? if not, now show what is from information,
and give its source. 
8. State everything you know concerning the subject of this action,
favorable to either party. 
8.Ec. 4073. The reasonable notice hereinbefore mentioned, is at least
when served on the attorney, ten days, and when served on the party,
within the county, five days; if served on the party anywhere else, the
reasonable notice shall be that required under other similar circumstances,
in the service of an original notice ; and when depositions are to be
taken in pursuance of the first of the above methods, one day in addi­
tion must be allowed for every thirty miles travel from the place where
the notice is served, to that where the depositions are to be taken. No
party shall be required to take depositions when the court is in actual
session. 
SEC, 407 4. The notice, or notice and copy of interrogatories may
be served by the same persons, on the same persons, in the same man­
ner, and may be returned, and thE\ return shall be authenticated in the
same way as should be an original notice in the same cause, when served
other than by publication. 
SEc. 4075. ·It may also be served personally on any attorney of the
adverse party of record in the cause. 
SEC. 4076. Whenever the adverse party has been notified by pub­
lication only, and has not appeared, he shall be deemed served with the
notice or the notice and interrogatories, by the filing of the same with
the clerk in the cause, 
SEC. 4077. (2454.) Subject to the regulations herein contained, the
court may establish farther rules f'or taking depositions and all other 
acts connected therewith.
SEC, 4078. The commission issues in the name of the court and 
under its seal. It must be signed by the clerk, and need contain noth-
ing but the authority conferred upon the commissioner, and instructions
to guide him, a statement of the cause in which the testimony is to be
used, and a copy of the interrogatories on each side appended. 
SEC, 4079. (2456.) The person before whom any of the deposi-
tions above contemplated are taken, must cause the Interrogatories 
propounded (whether written or oral) to be written out and the answers 
thereto to be inserted immediately underneath the respective questions.
The answers must be in the Jsnguage, as nearly as practicable, of the
witness, if either party requires it. The whole being read over by or
to the witness must be by him subscribed and sworn to in the usual
manner. 
SEc. 4080. (2457.) All exhibits produced before the person taking 
the deposition, or proved or referred to by any witness, or correct copies
thereof, must be appended to the depositions and returned with them
unless sufficient reasons be shown for not so doing. 
SEC, 4081. (2458.) The person taking the deposition shall attach
his certificate thereto stating that it was subscribed and sworn to by 
the deponent at the time and place therein mentioned. The whole,
including the commission and interrogatories (when any such were is-
sued,) must taen be sealed up and returned to the clerk of the proper
county by mail unless some other mode be agreed upon between the
parties, . 
SEC, 4082. Where a deposition is taken upon interrogatories, neither
hi h U b h . . 
party, nor rs agent or attorney, s a e present at t e examination
of a witness, unless both parties are present, or represented by an agent
or attorney, and the certificate shall state such fact, if party or agent is
present. 
SEC, 4083. (2459.) The depositions when thus returned must. be
opened by the clerk and placed on file in his office; after which he shall 
at any time furnish any person with an attested copy of the same upon
payment of the customary fees, but must not allow them to be taken
from his office previous to the next term of the court unless by the 
mutual written consent of the parties. · '
S&C, 4084. The depositions-when l"etumed by mail, must be directed 
to the clerk of the court. They should state on the outside of the en-
velope the title of the cause in which they are to be used. 
SEC, 4085. (2461.) Unimportant deviations from any of the above
directions shall not cause the depositions to be excluded where no 
substantial prejudice could be wrought to the opposite party by such
deviation. 
SEC. 4086. (2462.) Where depositions are directed to be taken be-
fore a judge or justice of tM peace merely by his name of office the 
return must contain an authentication by the clerk of the proper court
under his seal of office verifying the f~t that the person who took the
deposition is really such officer. 
SEC. 4087. (2468.) The deposition in each of the above cases must 
b h
h
• . ' id t f h h h 
s ow t at t e witness is a non-resi · en o t e county, or sue . ot er
fact as renders the taking of the deposition legal, and no such deposition
shall be read on the trial if at the time the witness himself is produced
in court. 
SEC. 4088. Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing, specifying
the grounds of objection, and flied with the papers in the cause. 
SEC. 4089. No exception other than for incompetency or irrelevancy
shall be regarded, unless made and filed before the commencement. of
the trial. 
SEC. 4090. The court shall, on motion of either party, hear and
decide the questions arising on exceptions to depositions, before the com­
mencement of the trial. 
SEO. 4091. Errors of the court in its decision upon exception to 
depositions, are waived, unless excepted to. 
SEC. 4092. (2465.) In cases in a justice's court, when the deposi­
tion of a witness is to be taken out of the state, the commission shall 
issue from the clerk of the district court under his seal of office. The
appointment of the commissioner shall be in point of form made as from
the district court but the commission shall state in what court it is to be 
used. 
SEC. 4098. (2466.) Depositions taken to be used in a justice's court
shall be transferred to the district court if the case be appealed and 
may be used on the trial there in the same manner as if taken regularly
after the case was in the district court. 
Perpetuat.ing Tutimong. 
SEC. 4094. The testimony of a witness may be perpetuated in the
following manner· 
• 
S1-:c. 4095. The applicant shall file in the office of the clerk of the
district court, a petition to be verified, in which shall be set forth, spe­
cially, the subject matter, relative to which testimony is to be taken, and
the names of the persons interested, if known to the applicant; and if
not known, such general description, as he can give of such persons, as 
heirs, devisees, alienees, or otherwise. The petition shall also state the
names of the witnesses to be examined, and the interrogatories to be
propounded to each ; that the applicant expects to be a party to an ac­
tion in a court of this state, in which such testimony will, as he believes,
be material, and the obstacles preventing the immediate commencement
of the action, where the applicant expects to be the plaintiff. 
SEC. 4096. The court or the judge thereof, may forthwith make an
order allowing the examination of Emch witnesses. The order shall pre- 
scribe the time and place of the examination ; how long the parties
interested shall be notified thereof, and the manner in which they shall 
be notified. 
SEc. 4097. WI1en it appears satisfactorily to the court or judge, that 
the parties interested can not be personally notified, such court or judge
shall appoint a competent attorney to examine the petition and prepare 
and file cross interrogatories to those contained therein. The witnesses
shall be examined upon the interrogatories of the applicant, and upon
cross interrogatories, where they are required to be prepared, and no
others shall be propounded to them; nor shall any statement be received,
which is not responsive to some of them. The attorney filing the cross
interrogatories, shall be allowed a reasonable fee therefor, to be taxed in 
the bill of costs,
SEC. 4098. Such depositions shall be taken before some one author- 
ized by law to take depositions, or before 'some one specially authorized
by the court or judge, and shall be returned to the clerk's office of the 
court, in which the petition was filed. · 
SEC. 4099. The court or judge, if satisfied that the depositions have
been properly taken, and as herein required, shall approve the same and 
order them to be filed; and if a trial be had between the parties named
in the petition, or their privies or successors in interest, such depositions,
or certified copies thereof, may be given in evidence by either party,
where the witnesses are dead or insane, or where their attendance for
oral examination can not be obtained, as required; but such depositions
shall be subject to the same objections for irrelevancy and incompetency,
as may be made to depositions taken, pending an action. 
Otlitr Proeisions, 
SEC. 4100. (2474.) In all cases of taking depositions as hereinbe-
• fore provided the costs thereof must be paid in the first place by the par- 
ty at whose instance they are taken, subject like other costs to be taxed
against the failing party in the suit. . 
Ssc, 4101. (2n97.) Proof of actual penetration into the body is
sufficient to sustain an indictment for rape. 
SEC. 4102. (2988.) A conviction can not be had upon the testimony 
of an accomplice unless he be corroborated by such other evidence as
shall tend to connect the defendant with the commission of the offense; 
and the corroboration is not sufficient if it merely show the commission
of the offense or the circumstances thereof. 
SEc. 4103. (2999.) Upon a trial for enticing or taking away an un­
married female of previously chaste character for the purpose of prosti­
tution, or aiding or assisting therein, or for seducing and debauching any
unmarried woman of previously chaste character, the defendant can not
be convicted upon the testimony of the person injured unless she be cor­ 
roborated by other evidence tending to connect the defendant with the
commission of the offense. 
SEC. 4104. (2484.) The ordinary rules of evidence not incompati­
ble with those herein prescribed are not intended to be hereby changed. 
CHAPTER 160. 
JUDOHENT LIEN. 
[Code-Chapter 131.) 
SECTION 4105. (2485.) Judgments in the supreme or district court
of this state, or in the district or circuit court of the United States, if 
rendered within this state, are liens upon the real estate owned by the
defendant at the time of such rendition, and also upon all he may sub-
sequently acquire before the expiration of the lien as hereinafter pro-
vided. 
SEC. 4106. (2486.) When the lands lie in the county wherein the
judgment was rendered, the lien shall attach from the date of such ren- 
dition.
SEC. 4107. (2487.) If the lands lie in any other county the lien 
does not attach until an attested copy of the judgment ~ filed in the
office of the clerk of the district court of the county in which the land
lies. 
SEC. 4108. (2488.) Such clerk shall, on the filing of a transcript of
the judgment in his office, immediately proceed to docket and index the 
same in the same manner as though rendered in the court of his own
co~~ . 
SEC. 4109. (2489.) The liens above authorized continue in force
for the term of ten years only from the date of the judgment. 
CHAPTER 161. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS. 
[Code-Chapter 134.) 
SECTION 4110. (2500.) The right of civil remedy is not merged in
a public offense, but may in all cases be enforced independently of and
in addition to the punishment of the latter. 
SEC. 4111. ( 2501.) When a wrongful act produces death the per-
petrator is civilly liable for the injury. The parties to the action shall
be the same as though brought for a claim founded on contract against 
the wrong doer and in favor of the estate of the deceased. And the
sum recovered shall be disposed of in the same manner, except that
when the deceased left a wife, child or parent surviving him, it shall not 
be liable tor the payment of debts.
SEC. 4112. (2504.) A person whose religious faith and practice are 
to keep the seventh day of the week as a day set apart by divine com-
mand, and dedicated to rest and religious uses, can not be compelled to
attend as a juror on that day, and shall in other respects be protected in
the enjoyment of his opinions to the same extent as those who keep the·
first day of the week. 
SEc. 4113. (2505.) When security is required by law to be given
and no particular mode is prescribed, it shall be by bond. 
820. 4114. (2506.) Such security, when not otherwise directed,
may, if for the benefit of individuals, be given to the party intended t.o 
be thereby secured. If in relation to the public matters concerning the
inhabitants of one county or part of a county, it may be made payable 
t.o the county ; if concerning the inhabitants of more than one county, it 
may be made payable to the state. Bat a mere mistake in these re. 
spects, will not vitiate the security.
Sso. 4115. (2507.) Where investments of money are directed to 
be made and no mode of investment is pointed out by statute, they must
be made in the stocks of this state or of those of the United States, or
upon bond and mortgage of real property of the clear unincumbered
value of at least twice the investment. 
SEC, 4116. (2508.) When such investment is made by order of 
any court, the security taken shall in no case be discharged, impaired, or
transf erred without an order of the court to that effect entered on the
minutes thereof. 
SEC, 4117. (2509.) The clerk or otber person appointed in such 
cases to make the investment, must receive all moneys as they become
due thereon and apply or reinvest the same under the direction of the 
court, unless the court appoint some other person to do such acts.
SEC. 4118. (2510.) Once in each year, and oftener, if required by 
the court, the person so appointed must render to the court an account
in writing and on oath of all moneys so received by him and of the ap­
plication thereof. 
SEC. 4119. (2511.) No defective bond or other security, or affida-
vit in npy case, shall prejudice the party giving or making it, provided 
it be so rectified within a reasonable time after the defect is discovered
as not to cause essential injury to the other party. 
SEC, 4120. (2512.) The future proceedings of all officers and of all
courts of limited and inferior jurisdiction within this state shall, like
those of general and superior jurisdiction, be presumed regular except 
in regard to matters required to be entered of record, and except where
otherwise expressly declared. 
SEC. 4121. Unless the terms clear days are used, the mode of com­
puting time is by excluding the first day and including the last, and
should the last day fall on Sunday, the length of the time prescribed
shall be extended one day, so as to include the whole of the following
Monday, unless otherwise expressed. 
SEC. 4122. An action for the recovery of money ·in the meaning of 
this code, includes an action for the recovery of damages, as well as of
money due by contract. 
SEC. 4123. The word "clerk" means the clerk of the court in which
the action is brought or is pending, or in which the proceeding is had;
and the words" clerk's office," mean his office. 
SEC, 4124. Degrees of affinity and consanguinity in this act, shall
be computed by the civil law. . 
SEC, 4125. The ministerial officer whose duty it is t.o take a surety
in any bond provided for by this code, shall have the right to require the
person offered as surety to make affidavit of his qualification, which afi­
davit may be made before such officer. The taking of such an affida­
vit shall not exempt the officer from any liability to which he migkt
otherwise be subject, for taking insufficient security. 
SEc. 4126. The surety in every bond provided for by th.is code, 
must be a resident of this state, and worth double the sum to be secured,
beyond the amount of his debts, and have property liable to executicn 
in this state equal to the sum to be secured. Where there are two or
more sureties in the same bond, they must, in the aggregate, have the
qualification prescribed in this section. 
SEC. 4127. No action to obtain a discovery shall be brought, except
that where any person or corporation is liable, either jointly or severally
with others, by the same contract, an action may be brought against any
of the parties who are liable to obtain discovery of the names and resi-
dences of the others who are liable. In such action, the plaintiff shall
state in his petition, in eff'ect., that he has used due diligence, without suc-
cess, to obtain the information asked to be discovered, and that he does
not believe the partlea to the contract, who are known to him, have prop-
erty sufficient to satisfy his claim. The petition shall be verified as
other petitions, and the cost of such action shall be paid by the plaintiff,
unless the discovery be resisted. 
SEC. 4128. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same
contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new cause 
of action has arisen therefrom.
SEC. 4129. In an action where an attachment has been granted, the 
execution by or for the defendant, of a bond whereby the attachment is
discharged, or the possession of the attached property is obtained or re- 
1ained by him, shall be an appearance of such defendant in the action.
SEC. ,4130. In an action against a boat or raft, the execution by or 
for the defendant of a bond whereby the attachment is discharged or
the possession of the boat or raft is obtained or retained by him, shall
be an appearance of such owner as a defendant in the action. 
SECTION 4131. (2522.) No officer is allowed fees or other compensa­
tion for any services farther than is expressly permitted by law. 
SEC. 4132. Any officer legally called upon to perform any of the
following services is entitled to the following compensation : 
For drawing and certifying an affidavit, or for giving a certifi-
cate not attached to any other paper or document, 
For fixing his official certificate to any paper, whether the certi­
., ficate be under seal or not,
For making out a copy or transcript of any public papers or 
records under his control, for the use of a private individ-
ual or company, or recording articles of incorporation, ten
cents for every one hundred words. 
SEO. 4188. (2524.) The secretary of state may take the following
fees in addition to his salary : . 
For making out each commission for a commissioner of deeds, 1.00 
For a copy of laws or records upon the request of any private
person or company, for every one hundred words, 
For recording articles of incorporation, for each one hundred
words, 
For certificate and seal, 
CHAPTER 162. 
COHPENSA.TION 01' OFFICEB8.• 
[Cod&-Chapter 136.] 
Sze, 4134. (2525.) The clerk of the supreme court may take the
following fees as his whole compensation, and where they are payable 
by a party to a suit, they may, (except in criminal ceses.) be required
in advance. If not so paid in advance, the clerk may, at any time after
judgment, issue a fee bill, which shall have the force of a special execn­ 
'tion against the party adjudged to pay costs:
Upon filing each appeal, • 8.00 
Upon entering each judgment where the cause has been decided
upon its merits, . · 
Upon each continuance of a cause,
Upon issuing each execution,
Entering satisfaction of judgment, • •
Upon issuing each writ, rule, or order, to be served upon any 
person not in court,
For copying an opinion to be transmitted to the district court in 
case of a reversal of judgment, ten cents for every one
hundred words, to be paid by the party against whom costs 
$0.25 
.35 
.IQ 
.10 
1.00 
2.00 
1.00 
1.25
.50 
.25 
are adjudged. [He shall be allowed the sum of eight cents
per hundred words for recording the opinion of said court 
to be paid by the state." J 
SEC. 4135. (2526.) In criminal cases the clerk shall charge no fees
against the county or state, except that where a judgment is reversed he
is entitled to the legal fees for a copy of the decision, to be paid from
the county treasury. As against the accused he is entitled to the same
compensation as is allowed in civil cases. 
SEC. 4136. (2527.) The clerk of the district court must, in addition
to the fees elsewhere authorized, charge and collect the following :t 
On the filing of an appeal or the oommencement of an original suit, $2.50
Additional amount on issuing an attachment, 2.00 
On entering a judgment by confession in a case not pending in
court, in all, • 
If the case is already pending, in addition to the first charge at
the commencement of the suit, • 
On the submission of a cause without action,
On entering judgment when not by confession,
On entering a general continuance, • • .
On entering a special continuance at a party's costs and judg- 
ment thereon, • • 2.50
On issuing execution and entering return, 1.25
On entering satisfaction of judgment, .50 
SEC. 4137. (2528.) The above fees of 'the clerk of the district court
must be paid in advance, unless ample security is given to the approval
of the clerk, for the payment thereof, when the suit is determined. 
SEC. 4138. (2529.) Where security is given as contemplated in the
preceding section, if the money is not paid at the time stipulated, the 
security shall be treated as an authority to confess judgment for the
proper amount, and the clerk must enter up judgment, either in term
time or vacation, and issue execution thereon accordingly. And in all
cases heretofore decided in the district court, the clerk is authorized to
issue a fee bill in the same manner as is above provided for the clerk of
the superior court. 
SEc. 4189. (2530.) The above Fees of_ the supreme or district court
clerk must, unless otherwise provided by law, be paid in the first instance, by
the plaintiff or appellant, as the case may be, except in cases where the
services are rendered at the instance and for the benefit of some other
person, in which case the fees must be paid by such person. But unless
otherwise ordered by the court, 'the party paying such fees, if success-
ful in the suit, is entitled to recover them back from the opposite party. 
SEC. 4140. (25.31.)t In criminal cases, where the defendant is ad-Crlmloal
judged to pay the costs, the clerk of the district court must charge fees 
as follows: 
In cases of appeals, the same fees in all respects as are allowed
on appeals in civil cases. 
On an indictment for a misdemeanor where there is no trial, 5.00
Where there is a trial by the court, 7 .00 
3.00 
1.00
2.50
2.50
1.00 
Where by a jury, $10.00 
In cases of indictment for felonies the above fees shall be doubled. 
The same fees for issuing execution and entering satisfaction of
judgment must be charged in criminal as in civil cases. 
Ssc, 4141. (2532.) In criminal cases, whether commenced by indict­
ment or brought up on appeal, the fees shall not be required in advance
but must be collected by execution against the defendant, being added
to and treated as a part of the judgment or fine, in case a judgment for 
money has been rendered against the defendant,
SEC. 4142. (2533.) The county judge shall, in addition to the fees 
elsewhere permitted, charge ten cents for every one hundred words for
all wills and certificates recorded in his office as required by Jaw, and
shall retain pay therefor out of the fi~t money coming into the hands
of the executor after the payment of the charges of the last s\cknea.1
and funeral expenses of the deceased. 
SEc. 1-143. Tbe recorder of deeds must charge for record­
ing each premium note given to a mutual insurance com-
pariy, containing less than fifty words, • • • .25 
For each deed and mortgage containing not more than four hun-
dred words, • • • .50 
For every additional one hundred words or: fraction thereof, in
either case,~ · .10 
SEC. 4144. {2585.) The fees allowed the recorder must be paid
him in advance, and he will· be charged with them as so much money 
actually received by him. 
SEC. 4145. (2536.) The sheriff is entitled to the following fees:
For serving any writ or notice (not including subpcenas.) and 
return thereof-
For the first person served, .50 
For each additional person, .25
For each copy of such writ or notice when required, ten cents 
for each hundred words.
Serving writ with pone comitatus, • 1.50 
Each commitment to prison, .25
Discharge from prison, . .25
Attending with a person before a judge or court when required- 
not at a regular term of the court in his county-for each
day, besides mileage, • • • • • 1.00 
Copy of a pnper required by law, for each one hundred words, .10
Serving and returning subpcena, for each person, • .20
Calling a jury, in each case, • • • • • .10
Summoning a grand or petit jury, for each pannel, including 
mileage, (to be paid out of the county treasury,) • • 8.00
Traveling foes in other cases required by law, going and return- 
ing, per mile, • • • • • • .05
Selling land or other property on execution, per day, • 1.00 
For time actually employed by him as assessor, two dollars per day,
to be regulated by the same rules, and allowed in the same manner as 
the compensation of supervisors of roads. 
Making and executing a deed for land sold on execution,
Serving one person with order of court, besides mileage,
For each additional peI80D embraced in the same order,
Summoning a jury in cases of .forcible entry and detainer, in- 
cluding mileage, ~ • • • •
Serving. an execution or order for the partition of real estate, or 
assigning dower, (besides mileage,)
FQr each bond required by law, • • • •
For summoning a jury to asseee the damages to the owner of 
Iands, taken for any work of internal improvement, and at-
tending upon them, in all, • • • 
If such case occupies more than one day he may charge for
each additional day or fraction thereof, 
For serving each attachment, • • • •
For the, time necessarily employed in making an inventory of 
property attached or levied UPQn, per day, 
For collecting and paying over money on the first two hundred dol­ 
lars, or part thereof, three per cent. 
On the next three hundred dollars, or any part thereof, tw~ per 
cent.
And on all excess over five hundred dollars, one per cent.
But when property is purchased by a plaintiff in execution, so that 
the money does not pass through the sheriff's hands, he is entitled to
only one-half the above named rates. 
Returning a writ not served, • • .05 
Receiving prisoner on surrender by bail, .25 
Talting new bail, • • • .25 
Dieting a prisoner, per day, .25 
S11c. 4146. (2537.) The above items, when chargeable in criminal 
cases where the prosecution fails, or where the money can not be made
from the person liable to pay the same, the facts being certified to by 
the clerk as far as his knowledge extends, and sworn to by the sheriff,
shall be allowed; and paid out of the county treasury. 
SEc. 4147. (2538.) The sheriff is also entitled to receive one-tenth
of the annual salary of the county judge, for delivering notices, (in-
cluding mileage,) and for other- services for which no other compensa- 
tion is allowed by law. 
The above fees are to be paid from the county treasury where the7
can not be obtained from the estate of the deceased. 
For all other services, the same fees as are allowed to sheriff's in simi- 
lar C8Se!.• ' • 
O()'f'<mers Fee,. 
SEC, 4148. For a view uf each body, and for taking and
returning inquest, • • • • • 
For a view_ of each body, and for examination without inquest,
Each subpoena, warrant or venire, • • • •
For each mile traveled to and returning (roman examination or 
inquest, 
$1.00
.50 
.25 
1.50 
2.00
.25 
5.00 
1.50
1.00 
1.00 
$5.00 
8.00 
.25
.10 
On all sums collected on execution and paid over, four per cent.
Seniing subpoena (besides mileage), • .15 
Posting up each notice required by law (besides mileage), .15
Commitment to prison (besides mileage), • .25 
SEC. 4150. (2541.) The fees of a constable for services in criminal
cases where the prosecution fails, or when the money can not be made
from the person liable to pay the same, the facts being certified by the 
justice a,nd sworn to by the constable, shall be allowed and paid out of 
the county t.reasury, 
same, • • • • , . • •
Other services, the same fees as are allowed to other officers for 
like services. 
Justice's Feu. 
SEO. 4152. (2548.) · At the commencement of each suit, •
In case of an attachment or forcible entry and detainer,
On taking judgment by confession after suit is commenced,
If not on suit previously brought, • • • •
On submitting controversies without action the same fees as on • 
suit brought.
The following additional fees are allowed in the cases to which 
they apply:
On entering judgment when not contested,
If contested, . •
If jury is called, additional, • • • • •
On issuing execution (for issuing as well as for return and en- 
tering satisfaction,) 
Oorutahk', Feu. 
SEC. -4149. (2540.) For serving any notice or process, on
each person named therein, 
Copy thereof, when required, • •
For serving an attachment or writ of replevin,
Traveling fees, going and returning, per mile,
Summoning a jury (including mileage),
Attending same on trial, • •
Serving execution (besides mileage), • •
Advertising and selling ·property (besides mileage),
Advertising without selling, • • • • •
Notifying plaintiff of the time of such sale (besides mileage), un- 
less he waives such notice,· •
Return of execution when no levy is made,
On taking bond in any case, 
. Notary', Feu. 
SEC. 4:151. (2542.) For every protest of a bill or note, • $0.75
Noting· a bill of exchange for non-acceptance or non-payment, .25 
Notarial affidavit to an account under seal, • • .25
E.egistering protest of a bill of exchange or promissory note 
for non-acceptance or non-payment,
Certifying power of attorney,
Administering any oath, • 
. Being present at demand, tender, or deposit, and noting the 
$0.25
.10
.50
.05 
.50 
.25
.25
.50
.26 
.20 
.05
.25 
.50
.25 
.05 
.85 
.50
1.00
.50
1.00 
.50
1.00
1.00 
.50 
When any cause consumes more than one entire day of six.
hours, the justice is entitled to one dollar for each day or
fraction of a day thereafter in addition. 
And on all amounts of money coming into the justice's bands
without suit, and by him actually paid over, two per cent.
shall be allowed him therefor. 
For every continuance or adjournment at the request of either
party, • • • • • 
Making and certifying transcript, • • •
On setting aside a judgment of non-suit or by default, •
Justices shall also be allowed the 'following fees in criminal cases:
For process of any kind except subpoenas,
Entering judgment, • •
Taking recognizance or any undertaking,
Order of discharge to jailer, • • • 
The first of the above charges shall be payable by the county
· in cases where the prosecution fails. 
Witneue,. 
. SEO. 4158. (2544.) Each witness for attending before the ,
district court, each day is entitled to • ~ • $1.00 
Before a justice of the peace, • • .50
Mileage for actual travel per mile, each way, • .05 
An attorney or juror or officer who is in habitual attendance on
the court during the term at which he is subpcenaed as a
witness, shall charge for only one day's attendance. 
A witness who is subpoenaed in two or more cases by the same
party, shall be entitled to but one single compensation from
such party for the same day's attendance or traveL 
The court may disallow to the successful party any witness who
without sufficient cause was absent at the trial, or whose
testimony was unimportant or unnecessary. 
For attending before a grand or petit jury in a criminal case,
witnesses are entitled to a like fee, which, when they are
called in behalf of the prosecution, shall be paid out of the
county treasury. But they can not claim their fees in such 
cases in advance. 
Juror,. 
SEC. 4154.• A juror for each day's attendance, whether
as grand or petit juror, • $2.00 
Before justices of the peace, • 1.00
Traveling per mile, going and returning, .05 
OounJy Suroeyor. 
SEO. 4155. (25.&6.) For each day's service actually per-
formed in traveling to and from the place where the survey 
is to be made, making survey and return, • • $8.00
For a certifled copy 'of the plat o~ field notes, .25 
SEC. 4156. (2548.) The township trustees and township clerk shall
each receive at the rate of one dollar per day for services rendered by 
.50
.50
.50 
.50
.50
.25
.25 
them, reckoning six hours as one day. And from week to week when
they perform any services for which they are entitled to compensation
from the county treasury, they must keep a register thereof, and must 
at the time of their settlements with the county court, make oath to the
correctness of their accounts, When serving as fence viewers, they
must be paid by the parties interested. 
SEO. 4157. (2549.) Every officer char~g fees shall, if required
by the person payingJhem, give him a receipt therefor, setting forth the 
items, and the date of each. . 
Sio. 4158. (2550.) Every appraiser of property is entitled to fifty
cents for each day or fraction thereof durin~ which he is employed as 
such, except when a different compensation IS provided.
SEO. 4159. (2551.) "An1. person authorized to marry is entitled to 
charge ~wo "dollars 'for _officiating in each case, and making retum 
thereof.
SEo. 4160. (2552.) Any officer or person taking depositions is &11- 
thorized to charge therefor at the rate of ten cents per hundred words,
exclusive of the certificate. 
SEc.· 4161. (2553.) Where fees are charged against the county as
hereinbefore provided in certain cases, their correctness and the actual
rendition of the services for which they are char~ must be sworn to. 
SEc. 4162. (2554.) .An fees allowed to the county judge, • •
clerk, and recorder, whether in this chapter or elsewhere, are to be
deemed a part of the county revenue and appropria&ed as provided by
law, but are to be paid in cub. 
SEC. 4'168. (2555.) The oounty judge is authorized in his discre­
tion to procure printed blanks neceseary for the use of the ealaried 
officers of the county, as far as can be convelliently done, and to pay 
therefor out of the county treasury. 
SEO. 4164. (2557.) Where no other pnmsion is made on the sub­
ject, the party requiring any service shall pay the fees therefor upon 
the same being rendered, and a bill of particulars being presented if 
required. 
SEO, 4165. (2558.) In all cases where an officer in the discharge
of his duty is required to set up an advertisement, he Bhall, when not
otherwise provided, be allowed twenty-live cents, and if M advertise­
ment is required to be published in a newspaper, the money therefor
shall be paid by the party, and may be taxed in tae bill of costs. 
SEC. 4166. (2559.) Every officer entitled to fees shall keep posted 
up in his office a fair table thereof on pain of forfeiture of two dollars
per day, for the benefit of the county, for each day he fails to keep
such table of fees thus posted up. 
SEc. 4167. (!560.) ·Any officer who willfully takes higher or other
fees than a.re allowed by law, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be
fined therefor a sum not' less than ten nor more than fifty dollars. 
SEc. 4168. (2561.) An attorney appointed by a court to defend a
person indicted for any offense, on account of such person being unable 
to procure counsel, is entitled to receive from the county treasury one of
the following fees : 
For defending in a caseof murder, $25.00 
In cases of other felonies, 10.00 
In cases of misdemeanor, 6.00
SEc. 4169. (2562.) An attomey can not in such case be compelled to 
follow a case into another county or into the supreme court, and if he 
does 80 may recover an enlarged compensation to be graduated on a 
8C8.le corresponding to the prices above allowed. · 
· SEC. 4170. (~563.) Only one attorney in any one case shall
receive the compensation above contemplated, nor is he entitled to this
compensation until he files his affidavit that he has not directly or indi-
rectly received any compensation for such services from any other 
source. 
CHAPTER 163. 
APPLICATIONS, RESTRICTIONS AND QUALIFICATIONS OP' PA.RT 011' TutS
ACT-TUIE WHEN IT T.AIES EFFECT AND WHAT IT REPEALS. 
SECTION 4171. This act shall take effect on the first day of Septem-,
ber, A. D. 1860. 
SEC. 4172. Actions and special proceedings, already commenced: 
h
ll be
. • , , 
B a contmued m accordance with the law heretofore in force except 
as to the provisions of chapter 159. ' 
~EC. 4178. ~e ~Ies of pr~eecling prescribed for civil actions by 
ordinary proceedmgs m the district court, shall be followed in all pro-
ceedings of a special character, whether before the district court or any
other tribunal, 80 far as applicable and not otherwise regulated. 
SEc. 417 4. The rules o. f f roceeding prescribed in this act, for the
commencement and conduct o civil actions, by ordinary proceedings iA 
the district court, shall be followed in every particular, in all actions and
in all proceedings of a special character, unless it is declared that the
same shall be prosecuted by equitable proceedings, or unless in the pro­
visions concerning such action or special proceeding, it is expressly oth ..
erwise provided, and when it is provided that any action or special
proceeding shall be prosecuted by equitable proceedings, the same shall
not differ in the mode of procedure from an action by ordinary proceed­
ings, except as such distinction may in this act be made, or may be in. 
such action or proceeding itself provided, and the general principles of
procedure herein enacted are applied and restricted as follows: 
SEC. 417 5. In replevin there shall be no joinder of any but another
cause of replevin ; nor shall there be .allowed any set-off, counter-claim 
or cross-demand.v
SEC. 4176. A money judgment obtained in replevin for property, 
which property was in whole or part exempt from execution, shall also
be to the same extent exempt from execution to the party obtaining it,
and from all set-off or diminution, either by the party against whom the
same is, or by any other person, and where the facts are so and the 
party · desires it, the record shall state the facts of such total or partial
exemption ; and all the provisions of this and the preceding section 
shall also obtain as to the action of detinue.
SEC. 4177. All actions for the recovery of real property shall be 
by ordinary proceedings. There shall be no joinder, except as therein
contemplated, and of a like action. There shall be no set-off, counter­
claim or cross-demand, »s ordinary proceedings, except as provided
therein]' 
SEc. 4178. The action of partition shall be prosecuted by ordinary
proceeding. No joinder of any other cause shall be allowed therein. 
SEC. 4179. The action on a note, together with a mortgage or deed
or trust, for foreclosure or the same, shall be by equitable proceedings,
and tried by the second method of trying equitable actions. An action
on the bond or note alone, without regard therein to the mortgage or
deed of trust, shall be by ordinary proceedings. 
SEC. 4180. To an information there shall be no joinder of any other
cause of action, nor any set-off, counter-claim, or cross-demand . 
SEC. 4181. When the action of mandamus is by a private person,
there may be joined therewith the injunction of chapter 155, and
such joinder as is provided for in the action of mandamus, and no other;
but there shall be no set-off, counter-claim, or cross-demand, by ordinary
proceedings, and the action shall be by ordinary proceedings. 
SEC. 4182. No verification shall be required in the answer or reply
in habeas corpus. 
SEc. 4183. · The action for mechanic's lien shall be prosecuted by
ordinary proceedings, and therewith shall be no other cause of action 
joined. .
SEc. 4184. An action for divorce shall be prosecuted by equitable 
proceedings of the second method of trial of equitable actions, and no
cause of action, save for alimony, shall be joined therewith. 
SEC. 4185. Actions by sureties, and by occupying claimants, and on
a lost note or bond, shall be by ordinary proceedings. 
SEC. 4186. If a term has a meaning affixed to it by this act, it shall
be held to be used in such sense, except when the contrary is expressed, 
but the use of a term herein, which has at common law a technical mean-
ing, shall not imply its use in such technical sense when the same would
be inconsistent with the general intent of this act; for instance, the term
"count," shall not imply that the proceeding wherein used is law, as 
contradistinguished from equity. The words "defense," "abatement,"
&c., shall not imply the class of rights and forms of procedure associated
with the terms at common law, but such terms, and an other technical
terms, shall be intended to be used in a sense consistent with the spirit
and declared object of this code. 
SEC, 4187. This act includes many sections of part third of the
code of Iowa of 1851 ; some of such sections, to save printing, are in- 
cluded herein by the numerical designation of such sections, and some
are herein printed in full, and some are in part made a part hereof in
only the modified form in which herein found. Now, it is intended that
that portion of part third of the code aforesaid which is incorporated
into this act, either by being set out herein, or by numerical designation
herein as aforesaid, together with what other matter may be herein set
out, shall be substituted for part third of the code of Iowa of 1851, and
to that end every portion of part third of the code of Iowa of 1851,
which is neither literally set out herein nor as a section designated here-
in by the numerical designation of such section, as such section is num-
bered in said code of Iowa of 1851, is hereby repealed, and all parts of
all acts which are within the purview of this act, are also repealed, so
that this act shall be the sole law in civil pleadings and practice, and
when this act is published, the sections of the code aforesaid shall be
printed in full, each in that place now herein designated, by the number
by which such section is now known· in said code, and then all the sec- 
tions of this act shall be consecutively numbered, beginning with the
first, as section one, and the proper numbers as herein indicated shall be
also incorporated into those sections which refer to other sections, either
· of this act or of the code aforesaid.• 