ARTICLE I. SCOPE AND NATURE OF ACT

SECTION 1. (Scope of Act.) The provisions of this Act shall
apply to all civil proceedings, both at law and in equity, unless their
application is otherwise herein expressly limited, in courts of record,
except in attachment, ejectment, eminent domain, forcible entry and’
detainer, garnishment, habeas corpus, mandamus, ne eaxeat, quo warranto,
replevin, or other actions in which the procedure is regulated by special
statutes. As to all matters not regulated by statute or rule of court, the
practice at common law and in equity shall prevail.

§ 2. (Supreme Court to have power to make rules.) (1) The
Supreme Court of this State shall have power to make rules of pleading,
practice and procedure for the City, County, Circuit, Superior, Appellate
and Supreme Courts supplementary to but not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, and to amend the same, for the purpose of making
this Act effective for the convenient administration of justice, and
otherwise, simplifying judicial procedure.

(2) Subject to rules promulgated by the Supreme Court pursuant
to this Act, the City, County, Circuit, Superior and Appellate Courts
may make such rules regulating dockets, calendars, and the conduct of

the business of such courts, as they may deem expedient.

§ 3. (Schedule of rules authorized.) The schedule of rules as
set forth in Article IX of this Act shall be deemed to be the rules of
'court, subject to suspension and amendment in any part thereof, by the
Supreme Court, as experience shall show to be expedient.

§ 4. (Act to be liberally construed.) This Act shall be liberally
construed, to the end that controversies may be speedily and finally
determined according to the substantive rights of the parties, and the
rule that statutes in derogation of the common law must be strictly construed shall not apply to this Act or to the rules made pursuant thereto.

N o statute hereafter enacted shall be construed to limit or affect

the provisions of this Act or the rules adopted in accordance therewith,
unless expressly declared to supersede or take precedence of designated
provisions thereof or designated rules adopted pursuant thereto.

ARTICLE II. PROCESS—VENUE

§ 5. (Commencement of civil actions——Form of process——Alias
writs.) Every civil action, unless otherwise expressly provided by
statute shall be commenced by the issuance of a summons. The clerk
shall issue summons upon request of the plaintiff. The form and substance of such summons, and of all other process, and the issuance of
alias and pluries writs, shall be according to rules of court.

§ 6. (Who authorized to serve writs.) (1) Writs shall be
served by a sheriff, or if he be disqualified, by a coroner of some county
of the State, unless the court shall order service to be made by some
other person. It shall not be necessary that service be made by a sheriff
or coroner of the county in which service is made. If served or sought to
be served by a sheriff or coroner he shall indorse his return thereon.

(2) If any sheriff, coroner or other person to whom any process
shall be delivered, shall neglect or refuse to make return of the same,
the plaintiff may petition the court to enter or file a rule requiring said
sheriff, coroner or other person to make return of such process on a day
to be fixed by the court, or to show cause on that day why he should not
be attached for contempt of the court; and the plaintiff shall thereupon
cause a written notice of such rule to be served on such sheriff, coroner
or other person, and if good and sufficient cause be not shown to excuse
such officer or other person, the court shall judge him guilty of a contempt, and shall proceed to punish him as in other cases of contempt.

§ 7. (Venue-—Defendants in different counties.) Except as
otherwise provided in this Act, every civil action shall be commenced in
the county where one or more defendants reside or in which the transaction or some part thereof occurred out of which the cause of action arose,
but if venue is based on residence in an action to recover money or
damages, a judgment may be rendered against a defendant not residing
within the county only when judgment is also rendered against a defendant ‘residing within the county, unless the defendant not residing
within the county appears generally, and defends the action on its
merits, and not then unless it appears from the record or the evidence
that the defendant residing within the county was joined with probable
cause and in good faith for the purpose of obtaining a judgment against
him and was not joined solely for the purpose of nxing the venue of the
action in that county. If all defendants are non-residents of the State,
an action may be commenced in any county.

'3’ 8. (Venue-—Corporations.) (1) Civil actions may be commenced against any private corporation or against a railroad or bridge
company in the county in which such corporation has its principal office
or is doing business or in which the transaction or some part thereof
occurred out of which the cause of action arose.

(2) Civil actions may be brought against any insurance company
incorporated under the law of this State or doing business in this State,
in any county wherein the plaintiff or one of the plaintiffs may reside.

(3) Actions may be brought against any public, municipal, governmental or quasi-public corporation in any county where the corporation
is located, and actions to recover damage to real estate which may be
overflowed or otherwise damaged by reason of any act of any such corporation may be brought in the county where such real estate is situated, or
in the county where such corporation is located, at the option of the
party claiming to be injured.

§ 9. (Venue~—Local actions.) (1) Any civil action to quiet
title to real estate, or to partition or recover possession thereof or to
foreclose a mortgage or other lien thereon, shall be brought in the county
where the real estate or some part of it is situated.

(2) Any action which is made local by any statute shall be brought
in the county designated in such statute.

(3) Actions for injunctions to stay proceedings at law shall be
brought in the county in which the proceedings at law are had.

§ 10. (Service of writ outside county of venue.) (1) When a
civil action is properly commenced in any county, summons may be
served upon defendants not found in that county wherever they may be
found in the State by any person authorized to serve Writs. An officer
may serve writs of summons in his official capacity outside his county.
but fees for mileage outside the county of the officer cannot be taxed
as costs. The person serving the writ in a foreign county may make
return by mail.

(2) One or more duplicate original summonses may be issued,
marked first duplicate, second duplicate, etc., as the case may be, whenever it will facilitate the service of summons in several counties.

§ 11. (Effect of wrong venue.) Where" the parties appear without making objection to the venue, no order, judgment or decree shall be
deemed void for want of jurisdiction because rendered in the wrong
venue.

§ 12. (Place of trial.) All actions shall be tried in the county in
which they are instituted, except as otherwise provided by law.

ARTICLE III. SERVICE OF PROCESS

§ 13. (Service on individuals.) Except as.- otherwise expressly
provided herein, service of summons upon an individual defendant in
any civil action shall be made (1) by leaving a copy thereof with the
defendant personally or (2) by leaving such copy at his usual place of
abode, with some person of the family, of the age of ten years or upwards, and informing such person of the contents thereof, provided that
the officer making such service shall also send a copy of the summons in a
sealed envelope with postage fully prepaid. addressed to the defendant
at such usual place of abode; the certificate of such ofiicer that he has
sent such copy in pursuance of this section shall be evidence that he has

done so.

§ 14. (Service by publication—Af1"idavit—Mailing—Certificate.)
Whenever, in any civil action affecting property or status within the
jurisdiction of the court, or in any action at law to revive a judgment
or decree, plaintiff or his attorney shall file in the office of the clerk of

the court in which his suit is pending, an affidavit showing that the defendant resides or has gone out of this State, or on due inquiry cannot
be found, so that process cannot be served upon him, and stating the
place of residence of such defendant if known, or that upon diligent
inquiry his place of residence cannot be ascertained, the clerk shall cause
publication to be made in some newspaper published in the county where
the suit is pending, and if there be no newspaper published in such
county then in a newspaper published in an adjoining county in this
State, having a circulation in the county in which suit is pending, containing notice of the pendency of such suit, the title of the court, the
title of the case showing the names of the first named plaintiff and first
named defendant, the number of the case, the names of the parties to be
served by publication, and the date on or after which default may be
entered against him; and he shall also, within ten days of the first publication of such notice, send a copy thereof by mail, addressed to each such
defendant whose place of residence is stated in such affidavit. The
certificate of the clerk that he has sent such copy in pursuance of this
section, shall be evidence that he has done so.

§ 15. (Period of publication—Default.) The notice required in
the preceding section may be given at any time after the commencement of the suit, and shall be published at least once in each week for
three successive weeks and no default or proceeding shall be taken
against any defendant not served with summons, or a copy of the complaint, and not appearing, unless the first publication be at least thirty
days prior to the time when such default or other proceeding is sought
to be taken.

§ 16. (Personal service outside State.) Personal service of
summons and copy of complaint outside of this State, may be made by

any person over twenty—one years of age not a party to the action, and
shall have the same force and effect as service by publication," and no

default shall be entered until the expiration of at least thirty days after
such service; but a default judgment rendered on such service may be
set aside only on a showing which would be suflicient to set aside a
default judgment rendered on personal service within the jurisdiction.
An aflidavit of the server shall be ‘dled showing the manner in which
such service has been made.

§ 17. (Service on private corporations.) An incorporated company may be served with process by leaving a copy thereof with any
officer or agent of said company found in the county; and in case the
oflicer or other person attempting to make service shall make return or
affidavit upon such process that he cannot in his county find any such
officer or agent of said company, then such company may be served in
any other county of this State, in the manner provided in section 10 of
this Act, or may be notified by publication and mail in like manner and
with like effect as is provided in sections 14 and 15 of this Act.

§ 18. (Service on public, municipal, governmental and quasi-public
corporations.) In actions against public, municipal, governmental or
quasi-public corporations, summons may be served by leaving a copy
thereof with the chairman of the county board or county clerk in the

case of a county, with the mayor or city clerk in the case of a city, with

the president of the board of trustees or village clerk in the case of a
village, with the supervisor or town clerk in the case of a town, and With
the president or clerk or other officer corresponding thereto in the case
of any other public, municipal, governmental or quasi-public corporation or body.

§ 19. (Service on receiver or trustee of corporation.) Any receiver or trustee of any incorporated company or its property may be
served with process by leaving a copy thereof with such receiver or
trustee, if found in the county Where the action» is brought, and if not so
found, then by leaving such copy with any agent in the employ of such
receiver or trustee who may be found in the county where the action is
brought; and in case the officer or other person attempting to make
service shall make return or affidavit upon such process that he cannot
in his county find any such receiver, trustee or agent, then such receiver
or trustee may be served in any other county of this State, in the manner
provided in section 10 of this Act, or may be notified by publication and
mail in like manner and with like effect as is provided in sections 14

and 15 of this Act.
ARTICLE IV. APPEARANCE

§ 2(_). (Appearance.) Every appearance in a civil action, whether
general or special and whether in person or by attorney, shall be made
in writing, by filing a pleading or motion in the cause, which said
pleading or motion shall state with particularity an address where service
of notices or papers may be made upon the party or attorney so

appearing.

ARTICLE V. PARTIES

§ 21. (Designation of parties.)
(1) The party commencing a civil action shall be called the plaintiff, and the adverse party shall be called the defendant.

(2) In all appeals the relative position of the parties and their
designation as plaintiffs or defendants shall be the same as in the court
whose action is in question; but they shall be further designated in the
title of the case as appellants and appellees.

(3) Misnomer of parties plaintiff or defendant shall not be

ground for abatement, but the names of any parties may be corrected
at any time, before or after judgment, on motion, upon such terms and

proof as the court shall require.
§ 22. (Who may be plaintiff.) The assignee and owner of a nonnegotiable chose in action may sue thereon in his own name, and he
shall in his pleading on oath, allege that he is the actual bona fide
owner thereof, and set forth how and when he acquired title; but such
action shall be subject to any defense or set-off existing before notice
of the assignment; provided, that in all cases where the chose in action
consists of wages due or to become due to the assignor thereof from the
defendant in such action, at least five days’ written notice of the
pendency of such action shall be served upon the assignor, before the

trial of the same; and upon application of the assignor of such chose in
action the court shall allow such assignor to interplead and be made a
party to such action; and the said assignor, or the defendant to said
suit on behalf of said assignor, shall be allowed to set up or afErmatively maintain any just set-off, discount or defense which said assignor
may have to said assignments of said chose in action, or to the indebtedness the payment of which is secured by the assignment of said chose in
action; and the court, by jury or otherwise, shall ascertain the amount
of such indebtedness remaining due and unpaid from the assignor to the
assignee of such chose in action and the judgment, if any, against the
defendant in said suit shall not exceed the amount so found to be due
and unpaid from the assignor to the assignee of said chose in action, and
judgment for the balance, if any, remaining due from the defendant,
upon said assigned chose in action, shall be rendered in favor of the
assignor and against the defendant in said suit or proceeding; and the
court may make such order as to costs in the proceeding as may be

equitable.
Any civil action hereafter brought under or by virtue of the subrogation provision of any contract or under or by any subrogation by
operation of law shall be brought either in the name of, or for the use
of the subrogee ; provided, the subrogee shall in his pleading on oath, or
by his affidavit where pleading is not required, allege that he is the
actual bona fide subrogee and set forth how and when he became such
subrogee.

§ 23. (J oinder of plaintiffs.) Subject to rules, all persons may
join in one action as plaintiffs, in whom any right to relief in respect
of or arising out of the same transaction or series of transactions is
alleged to exist, Whether jointly, severally or. in the alternative, where
if such persons had brought separate actions any common question of
law or fact would arise: Provided, that if upon the application of any
party it shall appear that such joinder may embarrass or delay the
trial of the action-, the court may order separate trials or make such
order as may be expedient, and judgment may be given for such one or
more of the plaintiffs as may be found to be entitled to relief, for the
relief to which he or they may be entitled.

If any one who is a necessary plaintiff declines to join, he may
be made a defendant, the reason therefor being stated in- the complaint.

§ 24. (Joinder of defendants.) (1) Any person may be made
a defendant Who, either jointly, severally or in the alternative, is
alleged to have or claim an interest in the controversy, or in any part
thereof, or in the transaction or series of transactions out of which the
same arose, or Whom it is necessary to make a party for the complete
determination or settlement of any question involved therein, or against
Whom a liability is asserted either jointly, severally or in the alternative arising out of the same transaction or series of transactions, regardless of the number of causes of action joined.

(2) It shall not be necessary that each defendant shall be interested as to all the relief prayed for, or as to every cause of action
included in an-y proceeding against him; but the court may make such
order as may be just to prevent any defendant from being embarrassed

or put to expense by being required to attend any proceedings in which
he may have no interest.

(3) Where the plaintiff is in doubt as to the person from whom
he is entitled to redress, he may join- two or more defendants, and
state his claim against them in the alternative in the same count or
plead separate counts in the alternative against different defendants, to
the intent that the question which, if any, of the defendants is liable,
and to what extent, may be determined as between the parties.

§ 25. (Bringing in new parties.) Where a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other
parties, the court may direct them to be brought in. Where a person,
not a party, has an interest or title which the judgment may affect, the
court, on application, shall direct him to be made a party. A new
party shall be brought in by the service of a summons, which shall be
drawn in the usual form with the addition of the statement, preceding
the taste thereof, that this summons is issued pursuant to an order of
the said court made on a date named.

§ 26. (Non-joinder and mis-joinder of parties.) No action shall
be defeated by non-joinder or mis-joinder of parties. New parties may
be added and parties mis-joined may be dropped by order of the court,
at any stage of the cause, before or after judgment, as the ends of
justice may require.

§ 27. (Action against joint debtors no bar.) When several joint
debtors are sued, and any one or more of them shall not be served with
process, the pendency of such suit or the recovery of a judgment against
the parties served shall not be a bar to a recovery on the original cause
of action against such as are not served, in any action which may be
thereafter brought. This section shall not be so construed as to allow
more than one satisfaction.

§ 28. (Saving clause as to change of parties.) No change in
parties, made by order of the court, shall impair any previous attachment of the estate or body of any person remaining a defendant in the
action; nor impair bonds or recognizances of any person remaining a
party, either as against himself or his sureties; nor impair receipts to
anoflicer for property attached; and, when parties are changed, the
court may order new bonds it such new bonds are deemed necessary.
Orders of court concerning change in parties may be upon terms at
the discretion of the court.

§ 29. (Unknown parties.)' If in any action there are persons
interested in the same whose names are unknown, it shall be lawful to
make such persons pa.rties to such action by the name an-d description
of unknown owners, or unknown heirs or devisees of any deceased person, who may have been interested in the subject matter of the action
previous to his or her death; but in all such cases an affidavit shall be
filed by the party desiring to make such persons parties stating that the
names of such persons are unknown; and process may issue and publication may be had against such persons by the name and description so
given, and judgments rendered in respect to such parties shall be of the
same effect as though they had been designated by their proper names.

§ 30. (Suits against receivers.) Every receiver of any property
appointed by any court of the State of Illinois may be sued in respect of
any act or transaction of his in carrying on the business connected with
such property, without the previous leave of the court in which such
receiver was appointed; but such suit shall be subject to the general
equity jurisdiction of the court in- which such receiver was appointed,
so far as the same shall be necessary to the ends of justice.

ARTICLE VI. PLEADING

§ 31. (Forms of action.) (1) Neither the names heretofore
used to distinguish the different ordinary actions at law, nor any formal
requisites heretofore appertaining to the manner of pleading in such
actions respectively, shall hereafter be deemed necessary or appropriate,
and there shall be no distinctions respecting the manner of pleading
between such actions at law and suits in equity, other than those specified in this Act an-d the rules adopted pursuant thereto; but this section
shall not be deemed to affect in any Way the substantial averments of
fact necessary to state any cause of action either at law or in equity.

(2) Proceedings in attachment, ejectment, eminent domain, forcible entry and detainer, garnishment, habeas corpus, mandamus, ne
eareat, quo Warranto and replevin, or other actions in which the procedure is regulated by special statutes, shall be in accordance with the
statutes dealing therewith.

§ 32. (Designation and order of pleadings.) The first pleading
by the plaintiff shall be designated a complaint. The first pleading by
the defendant shall be designated an answer. When new matter by
way of defense or counterclaim is pleaded in the answer, a reply shall
be filed by the plaintiff. Further pleadings may be permitted as required by the court.

§ 33. (Form of pleadings.) ( 1) All pleadings shall contain a
plain and concise statement of the pleader’s cause of action, counterclaim, defense, or reply.

(2) Each separate claim or cause of action upon which a separate recovery mightrbe had, shall be stated in a separate count or counterclaim, as the case may be, and each count, counter claim, defense or
reply, shall be separately pleaded, designated and numbered. and each
shall be divided into paragraphs numbered consecutively, each paragraph containing as. nearly as may be, a separate allegation.

(3) Pleadings shall be liberally construed with a view to doing
substantial justice between the parties.

§ 34. (Prayer for relief.) Every complaint and counterclaim '

shall contain specific prayers for the relief to which the pleader deems
himself entitled. Such relief. whether based on one or,more counts.
may be asked in the alternative. Demand for relief which the allegations of the pleading do not sustain may be objected to on motion or
in the answering pleading. Except in case of default, the prayer for
relief shall not be deemed to limit the relief obtainable but where other
relief is sought the court shall, by proper orders, and upon such terms

as may be just, protect the adverse party against prejudice by reason
of surprise.

§ 35. (Verification of pleadings.) (1) Any pleading, although
not required to be sworn to, may be verified by the oath of the party
filing the same or of any other person or persons having knowledge
of the facts pleaded. Corporations may verify by the oath of any odicer
or agent having knowledge of such facts. And where any pleading is
so verified, every subsequent pleading must also be verined, unless such
verification is excused by the court. In pleadings which are verified by
the oath of the party, the several matters stated shall be stated positively
or upon information and belief only, according to the fact. Verified
allegations shall not constitute evidence except by way of admission.

(2) The allegation of the execution or assignment of any instrument in writing shall be deemed to be admitted unless denied by a
pleading verified by oath, unless such verification is excused by the
court. If the party making such denial be not the party alleged to
have executed or assigned such instrument, the denial may be made
on the information and belief of such party.

§ 36. (Exhibits.) Whenever a.n action, defense or counterclaim
is founded upon a written instrument, a copy thereof, or of so much
of the same as is relevant, must be attached to the pleading as an exhibit or recited therein, unless the pleader shall attach to his pleading an
affidavit stating facts showing that such instrument is not accessible to
him. In pleading any written instrument a copy thereof may be attached to the pleading as an exhibit. In either case the exhibit shall
constitute a part of the pleading for all purposes. No profert shall be
necessary.

§ 37. (Bills of particulars.) (1) Where allegations are so wanting in details, that the opposite party should be entitled to a bill of
particulars, the pleader shall file and serve a copy of such bill on being
served with a notice demanding the same, which notice shall point out
specifically the defects complained of or the details desired, and if such
bill he demanded before the expiration of the time for filing a pleading,
the opposite party shall have the same time to plead after receiving
the bill of particulars to which he was entitled at the time of serving
such notice. ,

(2) If the party shall unreasonably neglect to furnish a bill of particulars, or if the bill of particulars delivered be insufficient, the court
may in its discretion strike the pleading, allow further time to furnish
such bill of particulars or require a more particular bill to be delivered.

(3) Whenever a bill of particulars, in an action based on a con-tract,

' contains the statement of items of indebtedness and is verified by oath,

the items thereof shall be deemed admitted except in so far as the opposite party shall file an affidavit specifically denying the same, and as to
each item denied, stating the facts upon which such denial is based,
unless such affidavit is excused by the court.

(4) When the party on whom a demand for a bill of particulars
has been made believes that the party demanding the same is not entitled
to the particulars asked for, he may move the court that the demand
be denied or modified.

§ 38. (Counterclaims.) (1) Subject to rules, any 'demand by
one or more defendants against one or more plaintiffs, or against one
or more co-defendants, whether in the nature of set-off, recoupment;
cross-bill in equity or otherwise, and whether in tort or contract. for
liquidated or unliquidated damages, or for other relief, may be pleaded
as a cross-demand in any action, and when so pleaded shall be called
a counterclaim.

(2). The counterclaim shall be a part of the answer, and shall be
designated as a counterclaim.

(3) Every counterclaim shall be pleaded in the same manner and
with the same particularity as a complaint, and shall be complete in
itself, but allegations set forth in other parts of the answer may be incorporated by specific reference instead of being repeated.

§ 39. (Supplemental pleadings.) Subject to rules, supplemental
pleadings, setting up matters which have arisen after the original pleadings were filed, may be filed within a reasonable time by either party by
leave of court and upon terms, but no pleading in the nature of a plea
puis darrein continuance shall constitute a waiver of other answers or

defenses.

§ 40. (Pleadings to be specific.) (1) General issues shall not
be employed, and every answer and subsequent pleading shall contain an
explicit admission or denial of each allegation of the pleading to which it
relates.

(2) Every allegation, except allegations of damages, not explicitly
denied shall be deemed to be admitted, unless the party shall state in his
pleading that he has no knowledge thereof sufficient to form a belief, and
shall attach an aiiidavit of the truth of such statement of want of knowledge, or unless the party has had no opportunity to deny.

(3) Denials must not be evasive, but must fairly answer the substance of the allegation denied.

(4) If a party wishes to raise an issue as to the amount of
damages only, he may do so by stating in his pleading that he desires to
contest only the amount of the damages.

§ 41. (Untrue statements.) Allegations and denials, made without reasonable cause and not in good faith, and found to be untrue, shall
subject the party pleading the same to the payment of such reasonable
expenses, to be summarily taxed by the court at the trial, as may have
been actually incurred by the other party, by reason of such untrue
pleading.

§ 42. (Insufficient pleadings.) (1) If any pleading is lIlS11fl'lcient in substance or form the court may order a fuller or more particular ‘

statement; and if the pleadings do not sufficiently define the issues the
court may order other pleadings prepared.

(2) N o pleading shall be deemed bad in substance which shall contain such information as shall reasonably inform the opposite party of
the nature of the claim or defense which he is called upon to meet.

(3) All defects in pleadings, either in form or substance, not
objected to in the trial court, shall be deemed to be waived.

§ 43. (Separate counts and defenses.) (1) Parties may plead
as many causes of action, counterclaims, defenses, and matters in reply or

rejoinder as they may have, and each shall be separately designated and
numbered.

(2) When a party is in doubt as to which of two or more statements of fact is true, he may state them in the alternative, or, when they
appear in different counts or defenses (whether legal or equitable) he
may state the counts or defenses which contain them in the alternative,
and a bad alternative shall not affect a good one.

(3) All defenses, whether to the jurisdiction or in abatement or in
bar, may be pleaded together, but the court may order defenses to the
jurisdiction or in abatement to be tried first. An answer containing only
defenses to the jurisdiction or in abatement shall not constitute an
admission of the facts alleged in the plaintiff’s complaint.

(4) The facts constituting any aflirmative defense, such as payment, release, satisfaction, discharge, license, fraud, duress, estoppel,
laches, statute of frauds, illegality, that an instrument or transaction is
either void or voidable in point of law, or cannot be recovered upon by
reason of any statute or by reason of non-delivery, Want or failure of
consideration in whole or in part, and any defense which by other affirmative matter seeks to avoid the legal effect of or defeat the cause of action
set forth in the plainti1f’s complaint, or the defendant’s counterclaim, in
whole or in part, and any ground or defense, whether affirmative or not,
which if not expressly stated in the pleading, would be likely to take the
opposite party by surprise, must be plainly set forth in the answer
or reply.

§ 44. (J oinder of causes of action and use of counterclaims—

«Transfer from one docket to another.) (1) Subject to rules any

plaintiff or plaintiffs may join any causes of action, whether legal or
equitable or both, against any defendant or defendants; and subject to
rules the defendant may set up in his answer any and all crossdemands, whatever, whether in the nature of recoupment, set-off, cross ~

bill in equity or otherwise, which shall be designated counterclaims.
But the court may, in its discretion, order separate trials of any such
causes of action or counterclaims if they cannot be conveniently disposed
of with the other issues in the case. Legal and equitable issues may
be tried together where no jury is employed.

(2) Any cause of action or counterclaim may be transferred at
any time, by order of the court, from the law docket to the equity
docket, or vice versa, as convenience and the nature of such action or
counterclaim may require, and when so transferred shall proceed as
though commenced on the proper side of the court; and any issue may
at any time, by order of the court, be transferred for trial to the proper
side of the court. .

. §45. (Motions to be used in place of demurrers.) (1) All
objections to pleadings heretofore raised by demurrer shall be raised by
motion. Such motion shall point out specifically the defects complained
of, and shall ask for such relief as the nature of the defects may make
appropriate, such as the dismissal of the action or the entry of a judgment where a pleading is substantially insufficient in law, or that a

pleading be made more definite and certain in a specined particular, or s

that designated immaterial matter be stricken out, or that necessary

parties be added, or that designated misjoined parties be dismissed, and
so forth.

(2) Where a pleading or a division thereof is objected to by a
motion to dismiss or for judgment or to strike out the pleading, because
it is substantially insufficient in law, the motion must specify wherein
such pleading or division thereof is insufficient.

(3) After rulings on motions, the court may make such orders as
to pleading over or amending as may be just. a

(4) Upon motions based upon defects in pleadings, substantial
defects in prior pleadings may be considered in so far as they are

material to the ruling sought.

§ 46. (Amendments.)

(1) At any time before final judgment in a civil action, amendments may be allowed on such terms as are just and reasonable,
introducing any party who ought to have been joined as plaintiff or
defendant, discontinuing as to any plaintiff or defendant, changing the
cause of action or defense or adding new causes of action or defenses,
and in any matter, either of form or substance, in any process, pleading
or proceedings, which may enable the plaintiff to sustain the claim for
which it was intended to be brought _or the defendant to make a defense
or assert a cross demand. .

(2) The cause of action, cross demand or defense set up in any
amended pleading shall not be barred by, lapse of time under any statute
or contract prescribing or limiting the time within which an action may
be brought or right asserted, if the time prescribed or limited had not
expired when the original pleading was filed, and if it shall appear from
the original and amended pleadings that the cause of action asserted, or
the defense or cross demand interposed in the amended pleading grew
out of the same transaction or occurrence set up in the original pleading,
even though the original pleading was defective in that it failed to allege
the performance of some act or the existence of some fact or some other
matter which is a necessary condition precedent to the right of recovery
or defense asserted when such condition precedent has in fact been
performed, and for the purpose of preserving as aforesaid such cause of
action, cross demand or defense set up in such amended pleading, and
for such purpose only, any such amendment to any pleading shall be held

to relate back to the date of ,the filing of the original pleading.

so amended.

(3) A pleading may be amended at any time, before or after judgment, to conform the pleadings to the proofs, upon such terms as to
costs and continuance as may be just.

§ 47. (Lost pleadings.) In any action where any pleading or

paper nled in the cause has been lost or mislaid, the court in which saidaction is pending may permit such files to be supplied by the filing of a
copy authenticated by such aflidavits as the court may require.

ARTICLE VII. TRIAL COURT PRACTICE

§ 48. (Involuntary dismissal for certain defects.) Defendant
may, within the time for pleading, file a motion to dismiss the action or
suit, where any of the following defects appear on the face of the complaint, and he may within the same time, file a similar motion supported
by affidavits where any of the said following defects exist but do not
appear upon the face of the complaint:

(a) That the court has not jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant.

(b) That the court has not jurisdiction of the subject matter of
the action or suit, provided the defect cannot be removed by a transfer of
the case to a court having jurisdiction.

(c) That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue.

(d) That there is another action pending between the same
parties for the same cause.

(e) That the cause of action is barred by a prior judgment.

(f) That the cause of action did not accrue within the time
limited by law for the commencement of an action or suit thereon.

(g) That the claim or demand set forth in the plaintift"s pleading
has been released.

(h) That the claim on which the action or suit is founded is
unenforceable under the provisions of the Statute of frauds.

(i) That the cause of action did not accrue against defendant
because of his infancy or other disability.

(2) A similar motion may be made by the plaintiff in case of a
counterclaim, under similar circumstances.

(3) If, upon thehearing of such motion, the opposite party shall
present affidavits or other proof denying the facts alleged or establishing
facts obviating the objection, the court may hear and determine the
same and may grant or deny the motion; but if disputed questions of
fact are involved the court may deny the motion without prejudice and
shall so deny it if the action is one at law and the opposite party demands that the issue be submitted to a jury.

(4) The raising of any of the foregoing defenses to the action by
motion shall not preclude the raising of them subsequently by answer
unless the court shall have made a decision therein; and a failure" to
raise any of them by motion shall not prejudice raising them by answer.

§ 49. (Practice on motions.) The form and contents of motions,
notices regarding the same, hearings on motions, and all other matters
of’ procedure relative thereto, shall be according to rules.

§ 50. (Judgment for or against some of the parties——Default—
Confession.) (1) Judgment may be given for or against one or more
of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants; and the court may determine the ultimate rights of the parties
on each side as between themselves, and grant to the defendant any
aflirmative relief to which he may be entitled on his pleadings and
proofs; and when an action or counterclaim is sustained in favor of, or
against, only a part of the parties thereto, judgment may be rendered
in favor of or against such parties respectively at any stage of the
proceedings. But an unsatisfied judgment against one, or some, of
several joint contractors, shall not discharge the other joint contractors
from liability on the contract. The court shall control the proceedings
so that the plaintiff shall receive but one satisfaction. A writ of execution may issue upon one or more judgments rendered in the same cause.

Judgment may be entered in such form as may be required by the
nature of the case and by the recovery or relief awarded, and more
than one judgment may be rendered in the same cause.

(2) Any party aggrieved by any such judgment may have a review thereof as herein provided, even though said cause remains undisposed of as to other parties. (3) In case a counterclaim is filed, the judgment shall be so
drawn as to protect the interests of both parties, and subject to rules,
no execution shall be issued until all the issues in the case have been
determined by the judgment, except by leave of court.

(4) A judgment for the plaintiff on an issue as to the truth of
any defense in abatement shall be that the defendant answer over.

(5) Any person for a debt bona jtde due may confess judgment by himself or attorney duly authorized either in term time or
vacation, without process. ‘Judgments entered in vacation shall have
like force and effect, and from the date thereof, become liens in like
manner and extent as judgments entered in term.

(6) Judgment by default or a decree pro confesso may be entered
for want of an appearance, or for failure to plead. but the court may in
either case, require the plaintiff to prove the allegations of his complaint.

(7) The court may in its discretion before final judgment, set
aside any default, and may within thirty days after entry thereof, set
aside any judgment or decree upon good cause shown by affidavit, upon
such terms and conditions as shall be reasonable.

(8) When ‘any final decree in chancery shall be entered against
any defendant who shall have been served by publication with notice
of the commencement of the suit and who shall not have been served
with a copy of the complaint, or received the notice required to be
sent him by mail, or otherwise brought into court, and such person,
his heirs. devisees, or personal representatives, as the case may require,
shall, within ninety days after notice in writing given him of such
decree. or within one year after such decree, if no such notice shall
have been given as aforesaid, appear in open court and petition to
be heard touching the matter of such decree, the court shall upon
notice being given to the parties to said suit who appeared therein
and the purchaser at a sale made pursuant to such decree, or their
solicitors, set such petition down for hearing and may allow the parties
and such purchaser to answer such petition. If upon the hearing upon
said petition it shall appear that such decree ought not to have been
made against such defendant, the same may be set aside, altered or
amended as shall appear just; otherwise such petition shall be dismissed at petitioner’s costs; provided, however, that if a sale shall
have been had under and pursuant to such final decree the court,
in altering or amending such decree, may, upon terms just an equitable to such defendant, permit such sale to stand. If upon the hearing
of such petition it shall appear that such defendant was entitled under
the law to redeem in equity from such sale, the court shall enter its
decree permitting such redemption to be made at any time within
ninety days thereafter, upon such terms as shall be equitable and just.

§ 51. (Consolidation and severance of actions.) An action may
be severed, and actions pending in the same court may be consolidated,
as an aid to convenience, whenever it can be done without prejudice to
a substantial right.

§ 52. (Voluntary dismissal.) The plaintiff may, at any time
before trial- or hearing begins, upon notice to the defendant or his attorney, and on the payment of costs, dismiss his action or any part
thereof as to such defendant, without prejudice, by order filed in the
cause. Thereafter he may dismiss, on the same terms, only (1) upon
filing a stipulation to that effect signed by such defendant, or (2) on
the order of the court or judge made on special motion in which the
ground for such dismissal shall be set forth and which shall be supported by affidavit. After a counterclaim has been pleaded by a defendant no dismissal may be had as to him except by consent of the
defendant.

§ 53. (Actions on penal bonds.) In an action on a penal bond
the plaintiff may allege as many breaches as he may think fit and
damages shall be assessed for such of the breaches as are proved, and
the judgment for the penalty shall stand as security for such other
breaches as may thereafter happen, and the plaintiff may at any time
thereafter, by motion, upon 10 days’ notice, have the said cause placed on
the docket for assessment of damages for such subsequent breaches as
are set forth in such motion; and an order shall be made after each
assessment of damages for an execution on said judgment for the
amount of damages so assessed until the full amount of such judgment
shall be paid.

§ 54. (Abatement—Change of interest or liability.) Where by
reason of marriage, death, bankruptcy, assignment, or any other event
occurring after the commencement of a cause or proceeding, either before
or after judgment and in the trial or reviewing court, causing a change
or transmission of interest or liability, or by reason of any person
interested coming into existence after such commencement, it becomes
necessary or desirable that any person not already a party should be
before the court, or that any person already a party should be made
party in another capacity, the action shall not abate, but an order may
be made that the husband or wife, heir, personal representative, trustee,
assignee, or other successor in interest, if any, be made a party in substitution for or in addition _to any other party, and that the cause or
proceeding be carried on with the continuing parties and such new
parties, with or without a change in the title of the cause, on motion of
anyone interested supported by affidavits, and such reasonable notice of
the order to any new parties to be brought in as the court or tribunal
may designate in such order.

§ 55. (Scire facias no longer necessary.) It shall not be necessary to use a writ of scire facias, but any relief which heretofore might
have been obtained by scire facias may be had by employing an ordinary
civil action at law.

§ 56. (Arrest of judgment.) When judgment shall be arrested
for any defect in the record of proceedings after the first process, the
plaintiff shall not be compelled to commence his action anew; but the

court shall order new pleadings to commence with the error which cause
the arrest.

§ 57. (Summary judgments.) Subject to rules, if the plaintiff,
in any action upon a contract, express or implied, or upon a judgment
or decree for the payment of money, or in any action to recover possession
of land, with or without rent or mesne profits, or in any action to recover
possession of specific chattels, shall nle an affidavit or affidavits, on the
afBant’s personal knowledge, of the truth of the facts upon which his
complaint is based and the amount claimed (if any) over and above all
just deductions, credits and set-offs (if any), the court shall, upon
plaintiff’s motion, enter a judgment in his favor for the relief so demanded, unless the defendant shall, by afiidavit of merits filed prior to or
at the time of the hearing on said motion, show that he has a sufficiently
good defense on the merits to all or some part of the plaintiff’s claim to
entitle him to defend the action. If the defense is to a part only of
the plaintiff’s demand a judgment may be entered, and an execution or
other suitable Writ issued, for the balance of the demand, and the case
shall thereafter proceed as to the portion of the plaintiff’s demand in
dispute as though the action had been originally brought therefor; and
in such case the court may make such order as to the costs of the suit
as may be equitable.

§ 58. (Discovery.) (1) Wherever a bill for discovery, or interrogatories in a bill for relief, would heretofore have been available, the
same discovery may hereafter be' had by motion iiled in the cause
wherein the matters sought to be discovered would be used.

(2) Discovery of documents which are or have been in the possession of any other party to the action may be had, admissions as to
any fact may be requested of any other party, and the deposition of any
other party or of any person may be taken, at such times and under
such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by rules.

§ 59. (Extension of time and continuances.) Additional time
may be granted on good cause shown, in the discretion of the court and
on such terms as may be just, for the doing of any act or the taking of
any step or proceeding prior to judgment in any civil action.

The circumstances, terms and conditions under which continuances
may be granted, the time and manner in which application therefor
shall be made, and the effect thereof, shall be according to rules.

§ 60. (Examination of parties at instance of adverse party.)
Upon the trial of any case any party thereto or any person for whose
immediate benefit such action is prosecuted or defended, or the officers,
directors, or managing agents of any corporation which is a party to the
action, may be examined as if under cross examination at the instance

of the adverse party or parties or any of them, and for that purpose ‘

may be compelled, in the same manner and subject to the same rules for
examination as any other witness, to testify, but the party calling for
such examination shall not be concluded thereby but may rebut the
testimony thus given by counter testimony.

§ 61. (References to master or referee.) Subject to rules, the
court may in any chancery action, or in any action at law in which
matters of account are in controversy, on default or upon issue joined,

refer the cause to a master or referee to take testimony and report his
conclusions thereon.

§ 62. (Subpoenas.) The clerk of any court in which an action is
pending shall, from time to time, issue subpoenas for such witnesses and
to such counties in the State as may be required by either party, and
every clerk who shall refuse so to do shall be nned, at the discretion of
the court, in any sum not to exceed $100.00.

§ 63.. (Juries in equity cases.) Subject to rules providing otherwise, the court may in its discretion direct an issue or issues to be tried
by a jury, whenever it shall be judged necessary in any cause in equity
pending therein. In all other cases in equity, the mode of trial shall be
the same as has been heretofore practiced in courts of chancery.

§ 64. (Trial of actions at law without juries—Findings of fact.)

(1) A plaintiff desirous of a trial by jury shall make his demand for
a jury in writing, and file such demand with the clerk at the time suit
is commenced, and a defendant desirous of a trial by jury shall make
such demand and file the same at the time of filing appearance; otherwise
such party shall be deemed to have waived a jury. If the plaintiff files a
jury demand and thereafter waives such demand, the defendant shall be
granted a jury trial upon motion made at the time of such waiver and
upon payment of the proper fees to the clerk.

(2) No special findings of fact or propositions of law shall be
necessary in any case at law tried without a jury to support the judgment or as a basis of review. .

* (3) No special findings of fact or certificate of evidence shall be
necessary in any case in equity to support the decree.

§ 65. (Special interrogatories.) In any case in which the jury
render a general verdict. they may be required by the court, and must be
required on request of any party to the action,'to nnd specially upon any
material question or questions of fact which shall be stated to them in
writing, which questions of fact shall be submitted by the party requesting the same to the adverse party before the commencement of the
argument to the jury. Submitting or refusing to submit a question of
fact to the jury when requested by a party, as above provided, may be
excepted to and be reviewed on appeal, as a ruling on a question of law.
When the special finding of fact is inconsistent with the general verdict,
the former shall control the latter and the court may render judgment
accordingly.

§ 66. (Impanelling the jury.) (1) In all civil actions each
party shall be entitled to challenge five jurors without showing cause for
such challenges. Where there is more than one plaintiff or more than
one defendant, the judge shall allow additional challenges not to exceed
three in number to each additional plaintiff or defendant without
showing cause.

§ 67. (Instructing the jury.) The court shall give instructions to
the jury only as to the law of the case. They shall be in writing, in the
form of a continuous and connected narrative and not a series of separate
instructions. To assist the court in fully and accurately instructing the
jury as to the law, the parties may at any time submit to him suggestions
orally or in writing, and before the case is argued to the jury, the parties

shall be given an opportunity out of the presence of the jury to read the
instructions which he proposes to give, and then to make other or further suggestions as to matters omitted, or to make objection to such parts
thereof as are deemed to be incorrect or misleading, such suggestions or
objections to be specific. All suggestions which are not adopted and all
objections made which are overruled may be made a ground of review,
but all suggestions or objections to the instructions must be made before
the jury retires from the bar, or within such further time as the trial
court may by order allow before the jury retires from the bar, or they

— will be deemed to have been waived. Instuctions shall be taken by the

jury to the jury room, and shall be returned by them with their verdict
into court, and nled as a part of the proceedings in the cause. Papers
read in evidence, other than depositions, may be carried from the bar by
the jury. '

§ 68. (Verdict—-New trial.) (1) It shall be suflicient for the
jury to pronounce their verdict, by their foreman, in open court, without
reducing the same to writing if it is a general verdict, and the clerk
shall enter the same in form, under the direction of the court; and if
either party may wish to move for a new trial or in arrest of judgment or
for a judgment notwithstanding the verdict, he shall, before final judgment be entered, or within ten days thereafter, or within such time as
the court may allow on motion made within ten days, by himself, or
counsel, file the points in writing, particularly specifying the grounds
of such motion, and final judgment and execution thereon shall thereupon be stayed until such motion can be heard by the court.

(2) Whenever there are several counts in a complaint based on
different demands, the court shall, on the demand of either party, direct
the jury to find a separate verdict upon each. But if, in any case, there
are several counts, and an entire verdict is rendered thereon, the same
shall not be set aside or reversed on the ground of any defective count,
if one or more of the counts be sufficient to sustain the verdict.

(3) a. Hereafter in all civil actions at law, in courts of record, if
either party shall at the close of the testimony, and before the case is
submitted to the jury, request the court for a directed verdict in 
favor, the court may reserve his decision thereon, and submit the case to
the jury under proper instructions as to the law applicable to such case.
After the case is thus submitted to the jury, or after receiving and
recording the verdict of the jury and before judgment is entered in said
case, the court may hear arguments of counsel for and against said
request, but in all cases shall receive and record the verdict of the jury
as rendered. If the court shall then decide as a matter of law, that the
party requesting the directed verdict was entitled thereto, the court
shall enter its decision on the record and order judgment in accordance
with such decision notwithstanding the verdict entered. and the party
against whom such judgment is entered shall have an exception to such
action of the court as a matter of course. If such request is denied an
exception in favor of the party making such request shall follow as a
matter of course.

b. If the party against whom the verdict of the jury was rendered
shall assign error in the Appellate or Supreme Court upon the refusal

of the trial court to direct a verdict in his favor or to order judgment
entered notwithstanding the verdict, and the Appellate or Supreme
Court shall be of opinion that the trial court committed such error, the
decision of the trial court shall be reversed and judgment shall be
entered or ordered by the Appellate or Supreme Court notwithstanding
the verdict, unless it shall appear that there was such error on the trial
as would have entitled the party in whose favor the verdict was rendered
to a new trial if such verdict and judgment had been adverse to such
party, in which case a new trial shall be ordered.

If, upon such reversal by the Appellate or Supreme Court, it shall
appear that damages should have been assessed in the trial court a partial
remandment solely for the purpose of assessing such damages, shall be
ordered.

c. If the party in whose favor the verdict of the jury was rendered
shall assign error in the Appellate or Supreme Court upon the order of
the trial court entering judgment notwithstandingthe verdict, and the
Appellate or Supreme Court shall be of opinion that the trial court committed error in ordering or entering judgment notwithstanding the
verdict, such court shall reverse such order and judgment and shall order
or enter judgment in accordance with the verdict of the jury, unless it
shall appear that there was error in the case that would have entitled
the party in whose favor judgment notwithstanding the verdict was
entered, to a new trial if such judgment had not been entered by the
trial court, in which case a new trial shall be ordered.

§ 69. (Affidavits) (1) All aiiidavits read in court during the
progress of any case and relating thereto, shall be filed and preserved by
the clerk.

(2) Whenever in any suit or proceeding at law or in equity in any
court of record, evidence shall be necessary concerning any fact which,
according to law and the practice of the court may now be supplied by
affidavit, the court may, in its discretion, require such evidence to be
presented, wholly or in part, by oral examination of the witnesses in open
court, or, before a master in chancery, upon notice to all parties not in
default, or their attorneys, and whenever such evidence is presented by
oral examination, an adverse party shall have the right to cross examination. This section shall not apply to applications for change of venue. .

§ '70. (Motion to quash.)

A party intending to move, to set aside or quash any execution,
bond or other proceeding, may apply to the court or to the judge at
his chamber for a certificate (and which the said judge may, in his
discretion, grant) certifying that there is probable cause for staying
further proceedings until the order of the court on the motion, and a
service of a copy of the certificate at the time of, or after the service
of the notice of the motion, shall thenceforth stay all further proceedings accordingly. But in no case shall the judge grant such certificate
when the error complained of may, by the direction of the judge to the
clerk issuing the process, be corrected, but the judge shall order the
correction and the clerk shall make the correction in the process, nor
unless the applicant shall have given notice of such motion to the

opposite party, or his attorney of record, if they or either of them
can be found in the county from which the writ issues.

§ 71. (Assessment of damages by court.) In all actions in the
courts of record in this State upon default, when the damages are to
be assessed, it shall be lawful for the court to hear the evidence and
assess the damages without a jury for that purpose. In all cases where
interlocutory judgment shall be given in any action brought upon a
penal bond, or upon any instrument of writing, for the payment of
money only, and the damages’ rest in computation, the court may refer
it to the clerk, to assess and report the damages, and may enter" judgment therefor: Promlded, that either party may have the damages
assessed by a jury.

§ 72. (Correction of errors of fact in judicial records.) The writ
of error comm nobis is hereby abolished, and all errors in fact, committed in the proceedings of any court of record, and which, by the
common law, could have been corrected by said writ, may be corrected
by said writ, may be by the court in which the error was committed,
upon motion in writing, made at any time within five years
after the rendition of final judgment in the case, upon reasonable
notice. When the person entitled to make such motion shall be an infant, non compos mantis or under duress, at the time of passing judgment, the time of such disability shall be excluded from the computation of said five years.

§ 73. (Effect of Act on judgments and supplementary proceedings.) This Act shall not be deemed to affect the enforcement of
judgments or decrees or proceedings supplementary thereto.

ARTICLE VIII. APPELLATE PRACTICE

§ '74. (Method of Appellate review.) (1) Every order, determination, decision, judgment or decree, rendered in any civil proceeding, if reviewable by the Supreme or Appellate Court of this State
by. writ of error, appeal or otherwise, shall hereafter be subject to
review by notice of appeal, and such review shall be designated an appeal and shall constitute a continuation‘ of the proceeding in the court
below. Such appeal shall be deemed to present to the court all issues
which heretofore have been presented by appeal and writ of error.

(2) All distinctions between the common law record, the bill of
exceptions and the certificate of evidence, for the purpose of determining what is properly before the reviewing court, are hereby abolished.
The trial court record -shall include every writ, pleading, motion, order,
affidavit and other document filed or entered in the cause and all matters before the trial court which shall be certified as a part of such
record by the judge thereof. All matters in the trial court record actually before the court on appeal may be considered by the court for all
purposes, but if not properly authenticated the court may order such
further authentication as it may deem advisable. w

§ 75. (Jurisdiction of Appellate and Supreme Courts.) (1) Appeals shall betaken directly to the Supreme Court in all cases in which
a franchise or freehold or the validity of a statute or a construction of

the constitution is involved, and in cases in which the validity of a
municipal ordinance is involved and in which the trial judge shall
certify that in his opinion the public interest so requires, and in all
cases relating to revenue, or in which the State is interested as a party
or otherwise.

(2) In all cases in which their jurisdiction is invoked pursuant
to law, except those wherein appeals are specifically required by the
Constitution of the State to be allowed from the Appellate Courts to
the Supreme Court, the judgments or decrees of the Appellate Courts
shall be final, subject, however, to the following exceptions: (1) In
case a majority of the judges qf the Appellate Court or of any branch
thereof shall be of opinion that a case (regardless of the amount involved) decided by them involves a question of such importance, either
on account of principal or collateral interests, as that it should be
passed upon by the Supreme Court, they may in such case grant leave
to appeal to the Supreme Court on petition of parties to the cause, in
which case the said Appellate Court shall certify to the Supreme Court
the grounds of granting said appeal. (2) In any such case as is hereinbefore made nnal in the said Appellate Courts it shall be competent
for the Supreme Court to grant leave to appeal for its review and determination with the same power and authority in the case, and with
like effect, as if it had been carried by appeal to the said Supreme
Court: Provided, however, that in actions ea: oontractu (exclusive of
actions involving a penalty) and in all cases sounding in damages the
judgment, exclusive of costs, shall be more than fifteen hundred dollars
($1,500.00), or in cases in which the judgment is against the plaintiff
and there is issued by the Appellate Court, or by one of the judges
thereof in vacation, a certificate to the effect that there is fairly involved in the claim of the plaintiff more than fifteen hundred dollars
($1,500.00). And provided also, that application under this Act to the
Supreme Court to cause it to grant leave to appeal‘ for its review and
determination shall be made on or before twenty (20) days before
the first day of the succeeding term of said Supreme Court: Provided,
fifty (50) days shall have intervened between the day on which a rehearing in the Appellate Court shall have been denied or the day on
which the leave to apply for a rehearing shall have expired without any
such application having been made, and the first day of such succeeding

term of said court. But if less than fifty (50) days shall have inter- .

vened as aforesaid, then such application shall be made on or before
twenty (20) days before the first day of thesecond term of the Supreme
Court succeeding the day on which a rehearing in the Appellate Court
shall have been denied or the day upon which the leave to apply for
a rehearing shall have expired without any such application having been
made, otherwise said power of the Supreme Court to review the judgment and decree of the Appellate Court shall cease to exist.

§ 76. (Limitation of review—Perfection of appeal.) (1) No
appeal shall be taken to the Supreme or Appellate Court after the expiration of ninety days from the entry of the order, decree, judgment
or other determination complained of; but, notice of appeal may be
filed after the expiration of said ninety days, and within the period of

one year, by order of the reviewing court, upon motion and notice
to adverse parties, and upon a showing by affidavit that there is merit
in appel1ant’s claim for an appeal and that the delay was not due to
appellant’s culpable negligence. Where an appeal is perfected or allowed more than thirty days after the entry of any order, decree, judgment or other determination in any action, (or when an appeal is perfected within said 30 days, and no supersedeas bond is filed within said
30 days, or within such further extended time as the trial court shall
have allowed within such thirty days, as provided in section 82 of this
Act,) the reversal or modification of such order, decree, judgment or
other determination shall not affect the right, title or interest in or to
any real or personal property of any person, not a party to such action,
acquired after the entry of such order, decree, judgment or other determination but before such appeal operates as a supersedeas under the
provisions of this Act; nor shall such reversal or modification affect any
right of any person not a party to such action under or by virtue of
any certificate of sale issued before such appeal operates as a supersedeas,
pursuant to a sale based on such order, decree, judgment or other determination. Where the appellant was an infant or non compos mentis
or under duress at the time of such entry, the period of disability shall
be excluded from the computation of the said periods of limitation; but
such exclusion shall not apply to, nor affect rights acquired in any such
property or certificate of sale, as in this section hereinbefore set forth,
before such appeal operates as a supersedeas, when the appeal is perfected
or allowed more than thirty days after the entry of such order, decree,
judgment or other determination.

(2) An appeal shall be deemed perfected when the notice of appeal
shall be filed in the lower court. After being duly perfected no appeal
shall be dismissed without notice, and no step other than that by which
the appeal is perfected shall be deemed jurisdictional.

§ 77. (Judgments, decrees and orders subject to review—Leave
to appeal.) (1) Appeals shall lie to the Appellate or Supreme Court, in
cases where any form of review may be allowed by law, to revise the final
judgments, orders or decrees of the Circuits Courts, the Superior Court
of Cook County, the County Courts, the City Courts and other courts
whose judgments, orders and decrees are reviewable therein, under such
limitations and conditions as may be imposed by law and subject to
such rules of court as may be established and promulgated under this
chapter. An order granting a new trial shall be deemed to be a final
order, but no appeal may be taken therefrom, except on leave granted
by the reviewing court, or by a judge thereof in vacation within thirty
days after the entry of the order, on motion and notice to adverse
parties.

(2) Leave to appeal shall first be obtained only where such leave
is expressly required by law.

§ 7 8. (Appeal from interlocutory orders concerning injunctions
and receivers.) Whenever an interlocutory order or decree is entered
granting an injunction, or overruling a motion to dissolve the same, or
enlarging the scope of an injunction order, or appointing a receiver, or
giving other or further powers or property to a receiver already appointed,

an appeal may be taken therefrom to the Appellate Court: Provided,
that such appeal is taken and the record is filed in said Appellate Court
within thirty days from the entry of such interlocutory order or decree,
and provided further that the time for filing such record may be
extended by an order of the Appellate Court _or by a judge thereof in
vacation. The force and effect of such interlocutory order or decree and
the proceedings in the court below shall not be stayed during the pendency of such appeal, except upon order of the Appellate Court or a
judge thereof in vacation. The party taking such appeal shall give bond,
to be approved by the clerk or the judge of the court below, to secure
costs in the Appellate Court. Upon the filing of the record in the
Appellate Court the same shall there be at once docketed, and shall be
ready for hearing under the rules of said court, taking precedence of
other cases in said court. Upon such appeal the Appellate Court may
afhrm, modify or reverse such interlocutory order or decree, and shall
direct such proceedings to be had in the court below as the justice of
the case may require. If such appeal is dismissed, the Appellate Court
may allow to the attorney for appellee a reasonable solicitor’s fee, not
to exceed one hundred dollars, to be taxed as part of the costs of the
appeal. N o appeal shall be taken from the order entered by said
Appellate Court on any such appeal. ~

§ 79. (Regulations of procedure for review.) The Supreme Court
may, by general rules, regulate and determine the practice and procedure
by which cases shall be reviewed in the Appellate and Supreme Court,
including the joinder, severance, adding, dropping and substitution of
parties, the time within which any Act may be done, the manner of giving notices, the specifications of grounds of appeal, cross appeals and
the specification of grounds therefor, hearings and rehearings, the form,
contents, filing and service of records and briefs, and all other matters
of practice in connection with the review of cases.

§ 80. (Exceptions.) No formal exception need be taken to any
ruling or action of the court in any matter or proceeding, in order to
make such ruling or action a ground for review.

§ 81. (Any of several parties may appeal.) In all cases where a
judgment, order or decree, reviewable by. the Appellate or Supreme
Court, shall be rendered in any court of record, in any case or proceeding whatever, against two or more persons, either one of said persons

shall be permitted to take an appeal and for that purpose shall be per- ‘

mitted to use the names of all of said persons, if necessary; but no costs
shall be taxed against any person who shall not join in said appeal. The
right heretofore possessed by any person not a party to the record to
review a judgment or decree by writ of error “shall be preserved by notice
of appeal.

§ 82. (Appeal—Supersedeas—-—Bonds.) (1) An appeal to the
Appellate or Supreme Court shall operate as a supersedeas only if and
when the appellant, after notice duly served, shall give and file a bond,
in a reasonable amount, to secure the adverse party. If the bond is
given before the record is filed in the reviewing court, the amount and
terms thereof shall be fixed and the security approved by the trial judge
or his successor in office, or where this is impossible because of the

absence from the district, sickness or other disability of such judge
then by any other judge of said court, and the bond shall be filed in
said court; if the bond is given after the record is filed in the reviewing court, the amount and terms thereof shall be fixed and the security
approved by the reviewing court or a judge thereof, and the bond shall
be filed in said reviewing court. If the appeal is from a judgment or
decree for the recovery of money, the condition of the bond shall be
for the prosecution of such appeal and the ‘payment of the judgment,
interest, damages and costs in case the judgment is affirmed. In all
other cases the condition shall be directed by the court with reference
to the character of the judgment, order or decree appealed from. If
‘notice of appeal is served within twenty (20) days after the entry of
the order, determination, decision, judgment or decree complained of,
and if bond is given and filed within thirty (30) days after such entry,
or within such further extended time as the trial court may allow within
such thirty (30) days, the notice of appeal shall, upon the approval of
the bond, operate as a supersedeas. After the expiration of such thirty
(30) days, no appeal shall operate as a supersedeas except upon express
order of the reviewing court.

(2) The court may by order authorize the clerk to approve the
security offered upon such bond. r

(3) Where‘ an appeal is prosecuted by a public, municipal, governmental or quasi-public corporation, or by any public oincer in his official
capacity for the benefit of the public, the trial or reviewing court or any
judge thereof, may, without requiring any bond to be given, order that
the appeal shall operate as a supersedeas.

(4) Whenever judgment has been rendered in any Appellate
Court, such court shall have power to stay, upon such terms as the court
shall fix, the issuing of any mandate until the time for filing a petition
in the Supreme Court for leave to appeal shall have expired or if such
petition shall have been nled within the proper time, until said petition
shall have been granted or refused. Whenever leave to appeal shall have
been granted, the issuing or enforcement of any mandate of the Appellate Court pursuant to its judgment, or of any judgment entered in any
court, or standing affirmed in any court, pursuant to the mandate of the
Appellate Court, may be stayed by the Supreme Court upon such terms
as it shall fix.

§ 83. (Examination of surety.) (1) Every court, judge or clerk
of court shall have power to examine on oath the person offering to become surety on any bond, concerning his property and the sumciency of
such surety. If a party who has had no opportunity to examine a surety
shall file objections to the sufficiency of any bond, given or offered, such
court, judge or clerk shall direct the surety to appear to be examined at
a designated place and time not more than five days after service of
notice of such direction upon the party or his attorney, giving or offering to give such bond. If such surety shall not appear at the time fixed
in such order, or shall be found insufficient, the bond,. given or offered,
shall be cancelled or rejected, but the party giving or offering such bond
may file a new and sufficient bond, and if the time limited for the filing

thereof has expired, shall have five days’ additional time for that
purpose. .

§ 84. (Certification of questions of‘ law.) The Supreme Court
may provideby general rules for the certification of questions of law to
the Appellate or Supreme Court in any case reviewable by either of said
courts, and may regulate the practice relating thereto.

§ 85. (Agreed case.) The Supreme Court may by general rules
authorize the making of agreed cases and the certification of the same
to the Appellate or Supreme Court, and may regulate the practice in
regard thereto. ,

§ 86. (Transfer of case appealed to wrong court.) Where an
appeal is taken to either the Supreme or Appellate Court and it is found
or adjudged that the case was wrongly appealed to such court, it shall be
the duty of such court to direct the clerk to transmit the transcript and
all files therein with the order of transfer to the clerk of the proper
court. On the receipt of such record the clerk shall at once file the same
and the case shall then proceed as if the same had been taken there from
the inferior court. Any bond executed in any case which may be transferred as aforesaid, shall be binding on the parties thereto with the same
force and effect as if given in a case taken directly to the court to which
the case was transferred.

§ 87. (Dismissalof appeal—Judgment for damages.) When any
appeal is dismissed or any judgment, decree or order is affirmed for want
of prosecution, the reviewing court shall enter judgment against the
appellant for not less than fifty dollars damages and for not more than
ten per cent of the amount recovered below when such percentage
exceeds fifty dollars.

§ 88. (Transcript of order of reviewing court filed in the trial
court.) ( 1) When an appeal is dismissed, or a judgment, order or
decree is afhrmed, execution may issue and other proceedings may be had
thereon in all respects, as if no appeal had been taken upon the filing of
the mandate of the reviewing court in the ofhce of the clerk of the court
from which the case was originally removed.

(2) When any cause is remanded for a new trial the reviewing
court shall issue its mandate reversing and remanding such cause
directly to such trial court; and upon the filing of such mandate in
the trial court, the cause or proceeding shall be reinstated therein, upon»
ten days’ notice being given to the adverse party or his attorney.
Service of such notice may be made upon any party personally, whether
found within or without the state, or upon the attorney of record of
such party in the trial court in any manner provided for service of
papers upon attorneys, or as the trial court may direct.

(3) No new trial shall be had by reason of the reversal of any
judgment, order or decree, unless the mandate shall be filed in the trial
court within one year after final determination by the reviewing court.

§ 89. (Recital of facts in final order of Appellate Court.) If any
final determination of any cause or proceeding tried without a jury,
except as to equitable issues, shall be made by the Appellate Court, as

the result wholly or in part of the finding of the facts, concerning the matter-in controversy, different from the finding of the court from which

such cause or proceeding was brought by appeal, it shall be the duty of
such Appellate Court to indicate in- its opinion or in its final order,
judgment or decree, the facts as found; and the statement of such facts
by the Appellate Court shall be final and conclusive as to all matters of
fact in controversy in such cause or proceeding. If the facts found by
the Appellate Court sufficiently appear in the opinion or in the final
order, judgment or decree, or from an examination of the two, no such
final order, judgment or decree shall be reversed for failure to recite
such facts. .

§ 90. (Notice of appeal.) Notice of the taking of an appeal
shall be given to the appellee or his attorney in such manner as may be
provided by rules.

§ 91. (Process, in the Supreme and Appellate Courts.) (1) The
form and substance of process, in the Supreme or Appellate Courts shall
be prescribed by rules made by the Supreme Court and shall be uniform
as far as practicable. _

(2) Such process shall be executed by the oflicer or person to
whom it is directed or to whom it is given for service, in any county or
place in this State, and duly returned, in the same manner that process
usually is or may be required to be executed and returned.

§ 92. (Powers of reviewing court.) (1) In all appeals the reviewing court may, in its discretion, and on such terms as it deems
j ust,—

(a) Exercise all or any of the powers of amendment of the trial
court; P

(b) Allow substitution of parties by reason of marriage, death,
bankruptcy, assignment, or any other cause, allow new parties to be
added or parties to be dropped, or allow parties to be rearranged as
appellants or appellees, on such reasonable notice as it may require;

(c) Order or permit the record to be amended by correcting errors
or by adding matters which should have been included;

(d) Permit such further testimony to be taken in or presented
to the reviewing court as it may deem necessary, where evidence has been
erroneously excluded or where there has been an omission of proof at
the trial of some fact which, under the circumstances of the case, may
subsequently beproved without involving any question for a jury and
without substantial injustice to either party.

(e) Draw inferences of fact;

(f) Give any judgment and make any order which ought to have
been given or made, and make such other and further orders and grant
such relief, including a remandment, a partial reversal, the order of a
partial new trial, the entry of a remittitur, or the issuance of execution,
as the case may "require. (2) When the reviewing court shall give final judgment or decree and issue execution thereon, a certificate or certified copy of such
judgment or decree may be filed in the office of the recorder of deeds of
any county in which real estate of the defendant in such execution is
situated and, in case of registered land, a memorial thereof entered upon
the register of the last certificate of the title to be affected, and the
judgment or decree shall thereupon have the same force and effect as a

lien upon said real estate, as if such judgment or decree had been originally rendered by a court of record in said county.

(3) a. Any error of law aEecting the judgment, decree or order
appealed from may be brought up for review in any civil case.

b. Error of fact, in that the judgment, decree or order appealed
from is not sustained by the evidence or is against the Weight of the
evidence, may be brought up for review in any civil case: Provided,
that, except as to equitable issues, the Supreme Court shall re-examine
cases brought to it by appeal from the Appellate Courts, as to questions
of law only. I

§ 93. (Short title.) This Act shall be known as the ‘Civil Practice Act,’ and may hereafter be referred to by that designation.

§ 94. The following Acts and parts of Acts are hereby repealed:

“An Act in relation to practice and procedure in courts of record,”
approved June 3, 1907, as amended; .

“An Act in relation to suits and proceedings against receivers appointed by any court of the State of Illinois,” approved June 23, 1913,
as amended;

Sections 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39.
40, and 43 of “An Act to regulate the practice in courts of chancery,”
approved March 15, 1872, as amended;

Sections 25, 27, 29 and 34 of “An Act to revise the law in relation
to Circuit Courts and the Superior Court of Cook County,” approved
February 16, 1874, as amended;

Sections 9, 10 and 12 of “An Act to revise the law in relation to
the Supreme Court,” approved March 23, 1874, as amended;

Sections 10 and 12 of “An Act to establish Appellate Courts,”
approved June 2, 1877, as amended;

Section 6 of “An Act in regard to evidence an-d depositions in civil
cases,” approved March 29, 1872, as amended;

Sections 14, 21 and 22 of “An Act to revise the law in relation to
abatement,” approved March 2, 1874, as amended;

Section 18 of “An Act to revise the law in relation to injunction,”
approved March 25, 1874, as amended.

All other Acts and parts of Acts inconsistent with this Act are
hereby repealed. Nothing in this provision for repeal shall impair or
affect any action or proceeding commenced before this Act shall have
taken effect.

The provisions of this Act shall take effect January 1, 1934.

ARTICLE IX. SCHEDULE OF RULES OF COURT

§ 95. Rule 1. (Sun1mons—Content and form—Service and return.) (1) The summons shall be issued under the seal of the court,
tested in the name of the clerk of such court and signed with his name,
dated on the day it shall be issued, shall be directed to the defendant
or defendants, and shall be made returnable on a return day designated
by the plaintiff, which day shall not be less than twenty nor more than
sixty days after the date of such summons.

The first and third Mondays in each calendar month shall be return days.

The summons shall be indorsed with the address of plaintiE or his
attorney. .

If no personal judgment or decree is sought against any particular
defendants, that fact and the names of such defendants may be specified in the summons.

(2) The summons must be returned, in person or by mail, by
the omcer or other person to whom it was given for service, with indorsement thereon of service and fees, if any, or of failure to serve the
same, Within five days after the service thereof, and in no event later
than the ‘drst return day named in said summons.

(3) If practicable summons shall be served twenty days before
the first return day mentioned therein, but it may be served at any
time on or before the return day.

(4.) The summons ‘shall be drawn in substantially the following
form:

In the Name of the People of the State of Illinois In the . . . . . . . . .
Court of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . County, Illinois.

A. B., C. D. etc. (Naming all plaintiffs)
Plaintiffs

vs. No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

H. J ., K. L,, etc. (Naming all defendants)
Defendants J

To the above named defendants:

You are hereby summoned to answer the complaint in the above
entitled cause.

Take notice that you must nle your answer or otherwise make your
appearance in said court held in the court house in the city of . . . . . . . .,
Illinois, on or before the first (or third) Monday in the month of
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .., 19. . ., provided this writ shall be served upon
you not less than 20 days prior to said date.

If this writ shall be served upon you less than 20 days before said
date, you will file your answer or otherwise make your appearance in
said court on or before the third (or first) Monday in the month of
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., 19 . . . .

If you do not appear according to the command of this writ, plaintiff may take judgment against you by default.

This summons must be returned, in person or by mail, by the
officer or other person to whom it was given for service, with indorsement
thereon with service and fees, if any, not later than 5 days after service
thereof and in no event later than the date first above named.

Witness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .the clerk of said court and the seal thereof,
at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .., Illinois, this . . . . . . . . .day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..,
19 . . ..

(Seal)

O O O I C O O O O O O I O O C O I O C C O C O O O O O O O O I O O O I C C O I O I C O O

Plaintiff’s attorney (or plaintiff, if he be not represented by attorney)

O O O O O O O O O 0 O O I O O O O 0 O 0 I O I O O O I O 0 U O O O O C O

(5) Process issued from the Supreme’ or Appellate Courts shall
be in the form commonly used in other courts of record so far as the
same is applicable.

§ 96. Rule 2. (Alias Writs.) _ (1) Whenever it shall appear
from the return or affidavit of service, that a Writ has not been served,
the clerk shall issue successive alias writs, on the request of the
plaintiff.

(2) Where the plaintiff fails to show reasonable diligence to obtain '

service through the issuance of alias writs, the action may be dismissed
on the application of the defendant or on the court’s own motion.

§ 97. Rule 3. (Form of papers.) Papers in original proceedings
shall be prepared as follows: °

(1) All papers and the copies thereof for filing and service shall
be fairly and legibly written, typewritten or printed, and be endorsed
as hereinafter provided, and the clerk shall not file such as do not
conform to this rule.

(2) All papers shall be entitled in the court and cause, and the
plaintiff’s name shall be placed first.

(3) In cases where there are two or m_ore plaintiffs or two or
more defendants, it shall be sufficient in entitling papers to name the
first-named plaintiff and the first-named defendant with the usual indication of other parties, providing there be added the oflicial number of
the cause.

(4) All papers for filing or service shall also contain on the back
thereof an abbreviation at least of the title of the court and cause and
the character of the paper.

(5) The first paper filed in any cause or served upon the
opposite party shall have subscribed thereto, or indorsed thereon, the
business address of the attorney filing the same, or of the party who
appears in his own proper person.

§ 98. Rule 4. (Manner of serving and nling papers other than
process). (1) When a party is represented by an attorney of record,
service shall be made upon such attorney, otherwise service may be
made upon the party.

(2) Papers shall be served as follows:

(a) By delivering the same to the attorney or party personally:

(b) Or, by leaving them in the office of the attorney with his
clerk or with a person in charge thereof; or if a party be not represented by counsel, by leaving them at the residence of the party with
some person of the family of the age of ten years or upwards.

(c) Or, by depositing them in a United States post office or post
office box, enclosed in an envelope, plainly addressed to such attorney
at his business address, or to the party at his business address or residence, with postage fully prepaid.

(3) In cases where there are two or more plaintiffs or defendants, who appear by different attorneys, service of all papers shall
be made on the attorney for each of said parties.

§ 99. Rule 5. (Filing and serving papers.) The complaint
shall be filed with the clerk at the time when the summons is issued.

(2) The defendant shall appear on or before the first return day
named in the summons provided the summons shall be served upon him
not less than 20 days prior to said return day, and in case said summons
shall be served upon him less than 20 days before said return day, the
defendant shall appear on or before the next return day.

(3) If the defendant’s appearance shall be made by filing a
motion directed against the complaint or to quash the writ, service or
return, the answer, if required, shall be filed within such time as the
court may direct in the order disposing of such motion; but if such
appearance shall be made in any other manner the answer shall be filed
on or before the last day on which the defendant may appear.

(4) Replies to, and motions directed against answers shall be
filed within 20 days after the last day allowed for the filing of the
answer, and subsequent pleadings shall be filed at such times as the

- court may order.

(5') Unless otherwise provided, a motion attacking a pleading
must be filed and served within 20 days after the last day allowed for
the filing of the pleading attacked.

(6) When one attorney appears for several parties, he shall be
enititled to only one copy of any paper served upon him by the opposite
s1 e.

(7 ) A copy of every pleading shall be nled with the clerk when
the original is filed.

(8) The judge, for good cause shown on special motion after
notice to the opposite party, may extend the time for putting in any
pleading or the doing of any act which is required by the rules to be
done, within a limited time, either before or after the expiration of the
time.

§ 100. Rule 6. (Miscellaneous allegations and defenses.) (1)
Different breaches of a contract, bond or other obligation, and different
breaches. of duty, whether statutory or at common law or both, growing
out of the same transaction, may be set up in the same count, and
where a breach of statutory duty is alleged, the statute shall be cited
in connection with such allegation.

(2) In declaring on a policy of insurance it shall not be necessary
to set forth specifically any more than the execution, the date, the
amount of the policy, the premium paid, or to be paid, the property or
risk insured, the interest of the insured, and the loss.

(3) In pleading a judgment, decree or order of a court or the
decision of an oflicer or a board of special jurisdiction, it shall be sufIicient to describe its general nature and allege generally that the judgment or decision was duly given or made.

(4) In pleading the performance of a condition precedent in a
contract, it shall be sufficient to allege generally that the party performed all the conditions on his part; if the allegation be denied, the

facts must be alleged in connection with such denial showing wherein
there was a failure to perform.

§ 101. Rule 7. (Motions for continuance and practice thereon.)
(1) When either party shall apply for a continuance of a cause on
account of the absence of material evidence, the motion shall be
supported by the affidavit of the party so applying or his authorized
agent, showing that due diligence has been used to obtain such evidence,
or the want of time to obtain it, and of what particular fact or facts
the same consists, and if the evidence consists of the testimony of a
witness, his place of residence, or if his place of residence is not known,
showing that due diligence has been used to ascertain the same, and if
further time is given such evidence can be procured.

(2) Should the court be satisfied that such evidence would not be
material, or if the other party. will admit the affidavit in evidence as
proof only of what the absent witness would testify to if present, the
continuance shall be denied unless the court, for the furtherance of
justice, shall deem a continuance necessary.

(3) It shall be sulhcient cause for the continuance of any action
that, in- time of war or insurrection, a defendant, whose presence is
necessary for the full and fair defense of the action, is in the military
service of the United States or of this State; or that the party applying
therefor or his attorney, solicitor or counsel, if his presence is necessary
for the full and fair trial of the action, is a member of either house of
the General Assembly and then in actual attendance on- the sessions
thereof, provided, in the case of such attorney, solicitor or counsel,
that he was actually employed prior to the commencement of such
session; and it shall be sufficient showing of diligence in seeking to
obtain evidence that the absent witness is in the military service of the
United States or of this State and was in such service prior to the
term of court at which the cause was to be tried.

(4) No amendment shall be cause for continuance, unless the
party affected thereby, or his agent or attorney, shall make affidavit
that in consequence thereof, he is unprepared to proceed to or with the
trial of the cause. And if the cause thereof is the want of material
evidence, such continuance shall be granted only on such further
showing as may be required for continuance for that cause.

(5) The court may on its own motion, or with the consent of the
adverse party, continue a cause for trial to a later day.

(6) No motion for the continuance of a cause made after the
cause has been reached for trial shall be heard, unless a suflicient
excuse is shown for the delay.

(7) When a continuance is granted upon payment of costs, such
costs may be taxed summarily by the court, and on being taxed, shall

be paid on demand of the party, his agent or attorney, and if not so _

paid, on affidavit of the fact, such continuance may be vacated, or the
court may enforce such payment, with the accruing costs, by contempt
proceedings.

§ 102. Rule 8. (Affidavits in proceedings for summary judgmcnt.) (1) The affidavits in support of a motion for summary judgment shall be made on the personal knowledge of the affiants; shall

set forth with particularity the facts upon which the plaintiff’s cause
of action is based; shall have attached thereto sworn or certified copies
of all papers upon which plaintiff relies; shall not consist of conclusions but of such facts as would be admissible in evidence; and shall
affirmatively show that the afliant if sworn as a witness, can testify,
competently thereto. If all the facts to be shown are not within- the
personal knowledge of one person, two or more aflidavits shall be used.

(2) Aiiidavits of merits to prevent the entry of a summary
judgment shall be drawn in the same manner as the affidavits mentioned in the foregoing paragraph of this rule.

(3) Should the affidavit of either party contain a statement that
any of the material facts which ought to appear in such aflidavit are
known only to persons whose affidavits afliant is unable to procure, by
reason of hostility or otherwise, naming such persons and showing
why their afiidavits cannot be procured, and what affiant believes they
would testify to if sworn-, with his reasons for such belief, the court
may make such order as may be just, either granting or refusing the
application for summary judgment, or making an order for a continuance to permit aflidavits to be obtained, or for submitting interrogatories to or taking the depositions of any of the persons so named, or
for producing papers or documents in the possession of such persons
or furnishing sworn copies thereof. The interrogatories and sworn
answers thereto, depositions so taken, and sworn copies of papers and
-documents so furnished, shall be considered as a part of the affidavit
in support of plaintiff’s claim or of the affidavit of merits as the case
may be. '

§ 103. Rule 9. (Discovery of documents an-d books.) (1) Any
party may, without filing an affidavit, by motion seasonably made,
-either before or after issue joined and irrespective of the right to employ
interrogatories in a complaint in equity, or to file a complaint for
discovery, or to employ a subpoena duces tecum, applying for an order
-directing any other party to any cause or matter to file a sworn list of
all the documents, including books, accounts, letters and other papers,
which are, or which have been, in his possession or power, relating to
the merits of the matter in question in said cause. If such order shall
be made, as to any or all of said documents, the documents embraced
in such order shall be listed, with suflicient descriptions for identi13ca—
tion, in two schedules, (1) all those which the party is willing to
"produce, and the name and address of the party in whose possession or
-control such document now is; (2) all those which the party is unwilling to produce, with a statement of the reasons for his objection to
production of the same and with the name and address of the party
in whose possession or control such document now is. Documents pro-duced by the opposite party may be introduced in evidence by the
party demanding them without further proof of genuineness.

(2) As to documents listed in schedule 1, the other party may
inspect and obtain copies of the same at any time not inconvenient for
the party having possession thereof, and if leave so to do is unreasonably
refused by the party listing it or by any other party at the instance of or
fby collusion with the party listing it, a motion may be made for an

order that the party listing such document shall be non-suited or his
declaration or bill dismissed, or that any pleading or part thereof filed
by him shall be stricken out and judgment rendered accordingly, or that
he may be debarred from any particular claim, defense, recoupment,
set-off, counterclaim or replication respectingwhich discovery is sought,
or an order of attachment as for contempt of court may be issued.

(3) As to documents listed on schedule 2, the party wishing discovery may apply to the court by motion for an order that any or all of
the documents so listed shall be produced for inspection and to be
copied, at a time and place and in a manner to be fixed in the order,
and if such order shall be made, and if such production shall be
unreasonably refused by the party listing said documents or by any
other party at the instance of or by collusion with the party listing
them, a motion may be made for an order that the party listing such
document shall be non-suited or his complaint dismissed, or that any
pleading or part thereof filed by him shall be stricken out and judgment
rendered accordingly, or that he may be debarred from maintaining any
particular claim, defense. recoupment, set-off, or counterclaim or replication, respecting which discovery is sought.

(4) N 0 document not listed shall be admissible in evidence at the
instance of the party failing to list it, unless it shall be made to appear
to the court that the failure to list the same was due to the bona. fide
and reasonable belief of the party that such document did not relate to
the cause or matter in litigation.

_ (5) If any document listed in schedule 1 is not produced when
reasonable -demand is made for the same, such document shall not be
admissible in evidence at the instance of the party listing it, (1) where
it is in the possession or control of such party or (2) where it is in
possession or the control of some other party unless the court is satisfied
that the refusal to produce was not due in any degree to the wilful
connivance of the party listing it.

(6) N 0 document listed in schedule 2 shall be admissible in
evidence at the instance of the party so listing it, unless by leave of
court.

(7) Supplemental lists of documents may be filed as further
documents are discovered by the party who has already filed a list,
each supplemental list being supported by an amdavit stating facts
showing in detail why the documents listed therein were not listed
earlier, and if the court shall be of opinion that the party has acted in
good faith and that there was reasonable ground for the delay, the
documents so listed may be introduced in evidence at the instance of the
party so listing them on such terms as may be just. And such supplemental lists of documents shall be nled as additional documents shall

‘ come into the party’s possession after the date of the order and before

trial.

(8) Any party may at any time move for an order directing any
other party or person to show cause why he should not produce specided
documents. relating to the merits of the matter in question in said
cause. for inspection and to be copied or photographed, where no list of
documents has been demanded or where such documents have not been

listed under section 1 of this rule, or produce for inspection or to be
photographed articles or property relative to the merits of the said
matter, such motion to be supported by affidavits showing that such
document or article is in the possession or control of the other party. On
the return or hearing of the order to show cause the court may make
such order as to discovery or inspection as may be just, and, if the other
party claims that the document or article is not in his possession or
control he may be ordered to submit to examination in open court or
by deposition regarding the locating of such document or article.

, (9) The court, on the application of any party to an action, also
may enter an order requiring any other party to state by affidavit
whether any one or more specific documents, to be specified in the application, is or are, or has or have at any time been in his possession or
power, and if not then in his possession, when he parted with the
same, and what has become thereof. Such application shall be made
upon an affidavit stating that in the belief of the deponent the party
against whom the application is made has, or has at some time had, in

, his possession or power the document or documents specified in the

application, and that they relate to the matter in question in the case
or matter, or to some of them. .

(10) An order issued under section 2, section 3, or section 7 of
this rule shall operate to stay all other proceedings in the cause, until
such order shall have been complied with or vacated; and the party
obtaining such order, after the same shall have been complied with or
vacated, shall have the like time to file and serve his complaint, answer,
of replication, to which he was entitled at the time of making the order.

§ 104. Rule 10. (Admissions from adverse party.) (1) Either
party may exhibit to the other or to his attorney at any time before the
trial. any paper material to the action, and request an admission in
writing of its genuineness. If the adverse party or his attorney fail to
give the admission within four days after the request, and the delivery
to him of a copy thereof, if such copy be required, and if the party
exhibiting the paper be afterward required to prove its genuinene~ss, and
the same be finally proved or admitted on the trial, the expense of
proving the same, including a reasonable counsel fee for the time and
attention devoted thereto, to be ascertained and summarily taxed at the
trial, shall be paid by the party refusing the admission, unless it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the court, that there were good reasons
for the refusal, and an attachment or execution may be granted to enforce the payment of such expense.

(2) Any party, by notice in writing, given not later than ten
days before trial, may call on any other party to admit, for the purposes
of the cause, matter or issue only, any specific fact or facts mentioned
in such notice, which can be fairly admitted without qualification or
explanation as stated therein. In case of refusal or neglect to admit the
same within four days after service of such notice, or within such
further time as may be allowed by the court or a judge, the expenses
incurred in proving such fact or facts, including a reasonable counsel
fee for the time and attention devoted thereto, must be ascertained at
the trial and paid by the party so neglecting or refusing, whatever the

result of the cause, matter or issue may be, unless at the trial or hearing,
the court or a judge certify that the refusal to admit was reasonable,
or unless the court or a judge, at any time, shall order or direct otherwise. Any admission made in pursuance of such notice is to be deemed
to be made only for the purposes of the particular cause, matter or
issue, and not as an admission to be used against the party on any
other occasion or in favor of any person other than the party giving the
notice. The court or a judge, at any time, may allow any party to
amend or withdraw any admission so made on such terms as may be
just.

(3) When any public records are to be used as evidence, the party
intending to so use them may prepare a copy, synopsis or abstract
of them in so far as they are to be used, and may seasonably present
such copy, synopsis or abstract to the adverse party by notice in writing, and such copy, synopsis or abstract shall thereupon be admissible
in evidence as admitted facts in the case if otherwise admissible except
in so far as its inaccuracy shall be pointed out under oath by the adverse party in an afiidavit filed and served within ten days after service
of such notice and not less than four days before the case shall be
called for trial.

§ 105. Rule. 11. (Discovery by deposition.) (1) Any party
to a civil action may cause to be taken, on oral or written interrogatories
by deposition before trial, in the manner provided by law, the testimony
of any other party or of any other person, which is relevant to the prosecution or defense of the action, and, if hostile, such person may be examined as though under cross-examination. *

(2) When the party or person to be examined is a corporation,
joint stock company or unincorporated association, the testimony of ‘one
or more of its officers, directors, managing agents, or employees, which
is relevant. may be so taken.

(3) When a party, Without justification, takes or attempts to take
a deposition for discovery not authorized by this rule, the court _may
assess damages as costs.

§ 106. Rule 12. (Disclosure not conclusive.) N o disclosure as
to any matter, whether obtained by complaint for discovery or by motion
under rules, shall be conclusive, but may be contradicted by other testimony.

§ 107. Rule 13. (Trial court dockets.) (1) The clerk of each
court shall keep a docket of all causes pending in his court, in which
shall be entered the names of the parties, the nature of the cause of
action, and the name of the plaintiff’s attorney.

(2) All causes shall be set and apportioned as shall be fixed by
local rules of court.

(3) All causes shall be tried or otherwise disposed of in the order
they are placed upon the docket, unless the court, for good and sufiicient
cause. shall otherwise direct.

§ 108. Rule 14. (Short cause calendar.) Any court shall have
power to provide by local rules for the expedited trial of short causes.

§ 109. Rule 15. (Form and contents of notice of appeal.) ' (1)
The notice of appeal shall be entitled as follows:

(a) At the top shall appear the statement, “Appeal to the
. . . . . . . . . . . .Court,” naming the court to which the appeal is taken,
and below this shall be the statement “From the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,”
naming the court from which the appeal is taken;

(b) It shall be entitled in the cause, naming and designating the
parties in the same manner as in the trial court, and adding to each
the further designation “Appellant” or “Appellee”;

(c) It shall be plainly designated “Notice of Appeal.”

(2) It shall specify and describe the order, determination, decision,
judgment or decree which.is being appealed from, and if the appeal is
from a part thereof only, it shall specify which part.

(3) It shall state what judgments, decrees, orders or proceedings
are desired from the reviewing court by way of relief.

§ 110. Rule 16. (Leave to appeal from the Appellate to the
Supreme Court.) (1) The party applying for leave ‘to appeal from an
Appellate Court to the Supreme Court shall file a petition therefor in
the Supreme Court, stating therein the reasons and grounds of appeal.
The clerk of the Supreme Court shall thereupon transmit of such filing
to the clerk of the Appellate Court who shall transmit to the clerk of
the Supreme Court the original record on appeal of the Appellate Court
and the certificate of its clerk. In case the leave shall not be granted
the record shall be returned forthwith to the clerk of the Appellate

ourt.

The petitioner shall file with his petition an abstract of the record
as prescribed in these rules.

The petition shall contain, nrst, the opinion of the Appellate Court
in full; second, a statement of the points relied upon for a reversal of
-the judgment, together with authorities and suggestions, concisely stated
in support of the points; and, third, a prayer for leave to appeal.
Where the facts are correctly stated in -the opinion of the Appellate
Court they shall not be restated in the petition. Where the petitioner
is of the opinion the facts essential to a proper presentation of the case
are not so stated, he may, preliminary to his statement of points, note the
inaccuracy or insufficiency of the statement of facts by the Appellate
Court and supply or correct the same so far as he deems it necessary.

A petition violating this rule will be stricken. ‘

Fifteen printed copies of the petition and abstract shall be filed
on or before twenty days before the first day of the term, at which
the petition is due, together with proof of service of three copies thereof
on the adverse party or his attorney. It is desirable that the respondent
file fifteen printed copies of an answer to the petition on or before the
first day of the term, stating briefly the points and authorities relied
upon to meet or obviate the points of the petitioner and to sustain the
judgment.

If the petition be granted the case shall be deemed to be pending
on appeal, and briefs shall be filed in the Supreme Court as provided by
rules.

(2) When the Appellate Court has granted leave to appeal to the
Supreme Court on the ground of importance, the clerk of the Appellate
Court shall transmit to the clerk of the Supreme Court the original

record on appeal of the Appellate Court and the certincate of its clerk
together with the certificate of importance of the Appellate Court.

§ 111. Rule 17. (Service of notice of appeal.) A copy of the
notice by which the appeal is perfected shall be served upon each appellee
and upon any co-party who does not appear as appellant, and upon any
other person or officer entitled by law to a notice of appeal, within 5
days after said notice of appeal is filed in the lower court.

(a) Where the appeal is taken as of right, such service shall be
made within the time limited for perfecting the appeal.

(b) - Where leave to appeal has been applied for, the time within
which such service shall be made shall begin to run on the date when the
notice of appeal, with the order of allowance indorsed thereon. is transmitted to and received by the court appealed from. Such service shall
be made within the same number of days thereafter as the number
limited for perfecting said appeal, and with each copy of the notice of
appeal shall be served a copy of the application. ,

(2) Such service may be made upon any party or officer personally,
or by serving the attorney of record of such party in the court below in
any manner provided for service of papers upon attorneys. If anyone
cntitled to service did not appear in the court below by attorney he may
be served in the same manner as provided for service by mail upon
attorneys. If the place of business or residence of neither the party nor
his attorney can be ascertained, service may be made by posting such
copy in a conspicuous place in the ofiice of the county clerk. Service of
notice upon one of two or more partners shall be suiiicient.

(3) Within 5 days after service has been made, evidence thereof
consisting of a return or an acknowledgment or an affidavit of the service
of the notice of appeal and of the application for leave, if any, together
with proof of the facts authorizing posting if such method has been
employed, shall be filed, and no action shall be taken until such evidence
and proof has been filed.

§ 112. Rule 18. (Notice of appearance and cross-appeal.) (1)
Each appellee, and each co-party who did not join as appellant, shall
within ten days after service of notice of appeal, serve a notice of appearance upon each party or attorney or firm of attorneys who signed
the notice of appeal and file a copy thereof in the lower court.

(2) The notice of appearance shall be drawn as follows:

(a) It shall be entitled in the same manner as a notice of appeal
and shall be designated “Notice of Appearance”;

(b) It shall state the fact of the appellee’s appearance or of the
appearance of the co-party as appellant who did not join in the appeal,
and whether such appearance is in person or by attorney;

(c) If the appellee desires to appeal from all or any part of the
judgment, decision, order or decree, he shall so indicate in his notice
of appearance, under a division of such notice entitled “Cross-appeal,”
which division shall be prepared in the same form required for appellant’s notice of appeal, with a specification, except in appeals from the
Appellate to the Supreme Court, of any additional items to be incorporated in the record on appeal.

(3) Any appellee who fails to serve and file a notice of appearance shall be deemed in default, and any co-party not having joined
as appellant who, after being served with notice of appeal, does not
appear and become a co-appellant by serving and filing a notice of
appearance, shall be barred from thereafter prosecuting any appeal
from the said judgment, order or decree. . § 113. Rule 19. (The record on appeal.) (1) (a) In appeals taken directly to the Appellate or Supreme Court, the appellant
shall within 10 days after the notice of appeal has been filed prepare
and file a pmecipe with the clerk of the trial court and serve a copy
thereof on the appellee or his attorney, in which appellant shall designate what parts of the trial court record are to be incorporated in the
record on appeal. And the appellee shall, within 5 days after being so
served, file a praecipe for such additional parts of the record as he may
desire to have incorporated in the record on appeal, and serve a copy

. thereof upon the appellant.

(b) All parts of the record so designated shall be incorporated in
the record on appeal by copies certified by the clerk: Provided, however, that the original copy of the report of proceedings at the trial, as
certified by the trial judge whether in the form of a complete stenographer’s report or a condensed statement, or the original master’s report of
evidence may be incorporated in the record on appeal by stipulation of
the parties.

(c) The report of the proceedings at the trial consisting of the
testimony and the rulings of the trial judge and all matters upon
which such rulings were made, and other proceedings which the appellant desires to incorporate in the record on appeal, shall be procured,
by the appellant and submitted to the trial judge or his successor in
oflice for his certificate of correctness, or where this is impossible
because of the absence from the district, sickness or other disability of
such judge, then to any other judge of said court, and filed in the trial
court within 60 days after the appeal has been perfected. Any judge of
said court may on good cause shown make an order or orders extending
the time allowed for filing such report of the proceedings, but the application for any such order must be made before the expiration of the
original or extended period allowed for such nling.

(d) In lieu of such report of the proceedings, the parties may by
written stipulation agree upon a statement of the facts material to the
controversy, and shall present such statement to any judge qualified to
certify to the correctness of a report of the proceedings in said case, for
his certificate of correctness, and shall file the same in the trial court
within 60 days after the appeal has been perfected, subject to the same
provisions as to extension hereinbefore set forth regarding the filing of
a report of the proceedings.

(e) Failure by the appellant to file a report of the proceedings or
an agreed statement of facts within the time originally allowed or
extended, where the praecipe filed by such appellant has specified any of
the proceedings at the trial. shall authorize a dismissal of the appellant’s
appeal, and an order may be made by the trial court, on the application
of the appellee, dismissing the same.

(2) In all such appeals, as soon as the necessary copies or originals of all the records and documents specified in the praecipes are in
possession of the clerk of the trial court he shall immediately make up
the record on appeal by attaching together all of said records and documents specified in the said pmecipes, in the order named therein as
nearly as maybe, and number the pages consecutively, and he shall
transmit the said record on appeal to the reviewing court as follows :—

(a) When the pmecipes do not specify any proceedings at the
trial, the record on appeal shall be transmitted to the reviewing court
30 days after the notice of appeal has been filed.

(b) When the praecipes specify any proceedings at the trial, the
record on appeal shall be transmitted to the reviewing court 30 days
after the report of the proceedings or agreed statement of facts has been
filed.

(3) Any party who has specihed unnecessary and immaterial

portions of the record, files and proceedings, to be incorporated in thetranscript, may be ordered by the reviewing court, when the appeal is
decided, to bear the entire expense involved in adding such portions to
the transcript as costs in the case, and any party aggrieved by such
specification may in the last division of his brief, or orally at the hearings
of the appeal, ask for said order as to costs, or the reviewing court may
make said order on its own motion. Any order for double or triple
costs may be made in, any case where the court is of opinion that the
specification of immaterial matter was unreasonable and vexatious.

(4) In appeals taken from the Appellate to the Supreme Court,
the same record which was transmitted to the Appellate Court shall be
transmitted to the Supreme Court, with a certified copy of the record
of the Appellate Court appended thereto. The clerk of the Appellate
Court shall only be entitled to receive from the party appealing to the
Supreme Court the fees allowed by law for his certificate and copy of
proceedings had in the Appellate Court and the reasonable cost of
sending the record from his office, either by mail or express, to the clerk
of the Supreme Court.

(5) Whenever any original paper is incorporated in the record on
appeal, it shall be returned to the trial court upon the application of
either party after the cause or proceeding has been finally decided by
the Appellate or Supreme Court.

§ 114. Rule 20. (Supersedeas in reviewing court——Manner of
applying for bond.) (1) If application is made for a supersedeas in
the Supreme or Appellate Court the transcript of the portions of the
record designated in the praecipe iiled in the trial court in accordance
with Rule 19 and upon which application for supersedeas is made, must
be complete and so certified by the clerk of the trial court. On every
such application an abstract of the record, with a brief of the points
and authorities relied upon, referring specifically to those portions of the
record upon which the alleged errors arose, shall be presented, with the
record, to the court of justice to whom the application is made. Every
such application must be accompanied by a proper aiiidavit of some
creditable person showing the sufliciency of the preferred bond, and by

proof of the service of a copy of such bond upon the opposing parties in
the manner provided for the service of briefs and abstracts.

(2) Whenever a bond is executed by an attorney in fact, the
clerk shall require the original power of attorney to be filed in his office
unless it shall appear that the power of attorney contains other powers
than mere power to execute the bond in question, in which case the original power of attorney shall be presented to the clerk and a true copy
thereof filed, certified by the clerk to be a true copy of the original.

(3) When a notice of appeal shall be made a supersedeas by order
of the reviewing court, the clerk thereof shall endorse upon the notice
the following words: “This notice of appeal is made a supersedeas and is
to be obeyed accordingly”, and he shall thereupon nle the notice of
appeal with the transcript of the record, in his office and issue a certiiicate in substance as follows:

. . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . Court of Illinois
I do hereby certify that a notice of appeal has been filed with this court
for the reversal of a (judgment or decree) in the case of . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
against . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..rendered by . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Court of . . . . . . . . .
on the . . . . . . . . .day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .A. D. 19. . . in a certain action
of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Which notice of appeal is made a supersedeas,

and is to operate as a suspension of the execution of the (judgment or
decree), and, as such, is to be obeyed by all concerned.

7 Given under my hand and the seal of the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Court, at
. . . . . . . . . . . . . ..,this.........day D. 19....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .., Clerk.

(4) Such certificate shall be filed with the clerk of the court in
which the judgment or decree complained of is entered. ,

(5) In all cases in which a notice of appeal is made a supersedeas
by the reviewing court, the appellant shall serve notice thereof upon the
opposing parties within five days after the granting of such supersedeas.

§ 115. Rule 21. (Original actions in the Supreme Court.) In
proceeding in the Supreme Court in original actions relating to therevenue, process shall be served on the defendant at least twenty days
before the first day of the term. If there shall not be twenty days
between the day of service and the first day of the term or if a complaint setting forth the cause of action shall not be filed at least twenty
days before the first day of the term, the cause may be continued on
the application of the defendant.

§ 116. Rule 22. (Abstracts.) In all cases the party prosecuting
an appeal in this court shall furnish a complete abstract of the record,
referring to the pages of the record by numerals on the margin. Where
the record contains the evidence it shall be condensed in narrative form
in the abstract so as to present clearly and concisely its substance. The
abstract shall be preceded by a complete index, alphabetically arranged,
indicating the nature of each exhibit and the page where it may be
found, and giving the names of the witnesses and the pages of the direct,
cross and re-direct examination. In cases brought from an Appellate
Court the abstract filed in such court under its rules may be filed in this
court by changing the cover to conform to Rule 24, and including therein
a printed abstract of the record of the Appellate Court, with an index

thereto. The abstract must be sufficient to present fully every error
relied upon, and it will be taken to be accurate and sufficient for a full
understanding of the questions presented for decision unless the opposite party shall file a further abstract, making necessary corrections or
additions. Such further abstract may be filed if the original abstract is
incomplete or inaccurate in any substantial part.

§ 117. Rule 23. (Briefs.) Each party shall file a printed brief
in the cause. The brief of appellant shall contain a short and clear
statement of the case, showing, first, the nature of the action; second.
the nature of the pleading sufficiently to show what the issues were, and
to present any question subject to review arising on the pleadings; third,
in cases depending upon the evidence the leading facts which the evidence
proved or intended to prove, without quotation of evidence, discussion
or argument and without detail but with appropriate references to the
-abstract ; fourth, how the issues were decided upon the trial or hearing
and what the judgment or decree was ; and fifth, the errors relied upon
for a reversal. The statement so made will be taken to be accurate and
suflicient unless the opposite party shall in his brief point out wherein
it is inaccurate or insufficient. The statement of the case shall be followed by the propositions of law and the authorities relied upon to support them. Cases must be ‘cited by the full title, followed by the number and page of the volume of the oflicial report. If the citation is
from a foreign jurisdiction and a case cited is reported in the reporter
system or some selected case system, reference should also be made to
such report, if practicable. No alleged error or point not contained in
such brief shall be raised afterwards, either by reply brief or in oral
or printed argument or on petition for rehearing.

The brief of appellee shall contain a short and clear statement of
the propositions by which he seeks to meet the alleged errors and to
sustain the judgment or decree or by which such errors are obviated.
He may also in such statement point out any insuiiiciency or inaccuracy
in the statement of the opposite party and supply or correct the same.
Such statement shall be followed by the propositions of law and authorities relied upon, in like manner as is required in the brief of appellant.

In all cases brought from an Appellate Court the party bringing
the case to the Supreme Court shall print as an appendix to his brief
in the Supreme Court the opinion in full of such Appellate Court in the
cause. Where it may be important to know what questions were raised
in the Appellate Court, a certined copy of the brief of appellant or
filed and used in that court may be filed in the Supreme Court on motion
and leave granted. The brief filed in the Appellate Court is not to be
received for any other purpose, and the motion for leave to file must
show specifically the reasons why it is important in the consideration of
the case that the Supreme Court know what questions were raised in the
Appellate Court.

The brief of any party may be followed by an argument in support
of such brief, which shall be distinct from but bound with the brief.
The argument shall be confined to a discussion and elaboration of the
points contained in the brief. Evidence shall not be copied at length in

such argument, but reference shall be made by number to the page
or pages of the abstract where such evidence may be found.

§ 118. Rule 24. (Printing and service of abstracts and briefs.)
(1) Abstracts and briefs shall be printed on both sides of the paper
in a neat and workmanlike manner, in small pica type and leaded lines,
upon white paper 6% by 10 inches, as near as may be, bound in book
or pamphlet form, with a suitable cover containing the title of the reviewing court, of the court from which the case is brought and of the
cause as it appeared in the trial court. The name of the trial judge
entering the judgment decree or order to be reviewed, and of the attorney or attorneys appearing for the party filing the same, shall appear
upon the cover of the brief and of the abstract.

(2) In cases appealed directly to the Supreme Court nfteen copies
of the abstracts and briefs shall be filed with the clerk of that court, and
in cases appealed directly to the Appellate Court, six copies thereof shall
be filed with the clerk of that court, and in each case three copies of
such abstracts and briefs shall be served on each attorney or group of
attorneys who appeared in the appeal for the opposite party. Where the
Attorney General and a State’s attorney both appear for the opposite
party in this court the proof of service shall show the service of three
copies on each.

§ 119. Rule 25. (Time of filing and serving abstracts and briefs
and transmitting record.) The abstract and the brief of the appellant,
together with proof of service of copies of such abstract and brief on the
opposite party or his counsel, as required by Rule 24, must be filed in the
clerk’s office on or before twenty days before the first day of the term
at which the cause will stand for hearing, unless the time for filing the
same is extended. In case‘ either the abstract or brief is not filed within
the time prescribed, the judgment or decree of the court below will, on
the call of the docket, be aflirmed. The appellee shall file his brief, with
like proof of service, not later than the first day of the term unless the
time for filing the brief of appellant shall be extended, in which case he
shall have twenty days from the day on which the brief of appellant is
served upon him. Appellant. shall have seven days from the day on
which the brief of appellee is served upon him in which to file a reply
-brief, with like proof of service. Upon good cause shown, further time
to file the abstract or the brief of either party may be granted by the
court in term time or by any justice thereof in vacation, but only upon
written motion filed with the clerk in term time or with one of the
justices in vacation, in accordance with Rule 29. Such motions will be
considered the day following their presentation.

§ 120. Rule 26. (Appeal dockets.) (1) No case on appeal
shall be placed on the docket for hearing unless the record is transmitted
and filed in the reviewing court on or before 20 days before the first
day of the term, except on special application in extraordinary cases.

(2) Causes in which the people are a party shall be placed at the
head of the docket. All other cases shall be docketed and called for
argument in the order in which the records shall have been filed with the
clerk. Causes which in the judgment of the court involve important
public interests may be advanced on the docket. (3) In preparing the docket of the business of the term the clerk
shall place upon the same all cases pending.
(4) Besides the regular docket there shall be a separate docket

. for petitions for rehearing; and in the Supreme Court there shall be

two other separate dockets, one for applications for allowance of appeals
from the Appellate Court and the other for appeals in compensation
cases. .
(5) When a rehearing is granted the cause shall be placed at the
foot of the docket for hearing. The original briefs of the parties, and
the petition for rehearing, answer and reply, shall stand as briefs on the
rehearing. The opposite party shall have fifteen days from the granting
of the rehearing to answer the petition, and the petitioner shall have
five days to file his reply. Copies of each shall be served on opposing
counsel. Oral argument will not be permitted unless ordered by the
court on its own motion.

(6) Cases shall be called numerically and shall be argued, continued or otherwise disposed of as they are called, unless for good cause .

they are placed a.t the foot of the docket.

§ 121. Rule 27. (Transferred causes.) If any cause is appealed
to the Supreme Court which should have gone to the Appellate Court,
or vice versa, it may be transferred to the proper court on motion, and
upon an order for transferrence being made all documents already filed
in the wrong court shall be transmitted by the clerk to the proper court,
and the case shall proceed from that point in all respects as though
the appeal had originally been taken to the proper court.

§ 122. Rule. 28. (Oral arguments.) Oral argument in the

' Supreme or Appellate Court will be heard on behalf of each party who

shall have complied with the rule for filing briefs and who shall state his
intention to argue such cause orally by printing a notice at the bottom
of the cover page of the brief, and also registering in the clerk’s office
on the day of the call. No further brief will be received on behalf of
any party after he shall have argued the cause orally. If either party
has filed such statement of his intention to argue the cause orally, the
opposite party, if he appears at the time the cause is called and ‘has
filed his brief, may argue orally whether he has filed a statement of his
intention to do so or not and whether the other party appears or not,
where, by reason of an extension of time for filing briefs, the brief of the
appellee is not due and is not filed at the time the cause is called for
hearing the cause will be continued, unless a stipulation that the cause
is to be submitted on briefs, without oral argument, is filed. If for a
like reason the reply brief of the appellant is not due and is not filed
at the time the cause is called for hearing and notice of oral argument
has been given by either party the cause will be continued, unless the
appellant shall have given the appellee two days’ notice that he will
waive his reply brief or a stipulation to submit.without oral argument
is filed.

Where the cause is argued orally by both parties the time allowed
for oral argument shall be limited to forty-five minutes on each side
unless otherwise specially permitted, and the appellant shall have an
additional fifteen minutes for reply, but he shall not raise any new point

in reply. Oral argumentmust be confined strictly to the questions at
issue in the cause. Where any cause is argued on one side, only, the
argument shall be limited to thirty minutes. Each party may state
briefly the leading facts which he deems established, but an extended
discussion upon any mere question of fact will not be heard.

Not more than two counsel for each side will be heard in oral
argument, and where a cause is argued on one side, only, not more than
one counsel will be heard. After a cause has been submitted, whether
upon briefs and oral argument or upon briefs, only, no brief or memorandum in relation to the case shall be presented, either directly or

- indirectly, to the court or any judge thereof except upon leave granted

by the court or one of the justices, after notice to opposing counsel.

§ 123. Rule 29. (Motions in reviewing courts.) Motions in the
Supreme or Appellate Court shall be filed with the clerk at least one day
before they are presented to the court and must be submitted at least one
day before the cause stands for hearing. All motions will be presented
by the clerk immediately after the daily announcements of the court
but at no other time during the day, unless in case of necessity or in
relation to a cause when called in course. All motions and suggestions
in support thereof shall be in writing, and when the motion is based on
matter that does not appear of record it shall be supported by affidavit.
Before a motion can be nled, proof that a copy of the motion and suggestions in support thereof have been served on counsel for the opposite
party at least twenty-four hours before the motion is presented for nling
shall be filed with the clerk, unless such service shall be shown by affidavit
to be impracticable. Objections to motions must be in writing and
must be filed within twenty-four hours after the motion is presented to
the clerk for filing. All motions shall be submitted without oral argument upon the written suggestions and affidavits for and against the
motions.

§ 124. Rule 30. (Rehearings in reviewing court.) (1) A party
desiring a rehearing in any cause in either the Supreme or Appellate
Court shall within fifteen (15) days after the nling of the opinion file
with the clerk and deliver to the official reporter a notice in writing of
his intention to ask for a rehearing, and within twenty-five (25) days
after the filing of the opinion he shall file with the clerk fifteen (15)
copies of the petition, printed in accordance with Rule 24, with proof
of service on opposite counsel, and deliver a copy thereof to the official
reporter. The petition shall state briefly the points supposed to have
been overlooked or misapprehended by the court, with proper reference
to the particular portion of the original abstract and brief relied upon,
and with authorities and suggestions, concisely stated, in support of the
points. Argument in support of the petition will not be permitted. Any
petition violating this rule will be stricken.

(2) If a petition for rehearing shall be presented to one of the
justices and he shall be of the opinion the case should be further
considered by the court on such petition he shall stay all further proceedings in the cause until the next term. Such application shall be
presented, if practicable, to the justice who wrote the opinion.

§ 125. Rule 31. (Final process from reviewing court.) N 0 final
process shall issue in any case from the Supreme or Appellate Court
before the close of the term unless for good cause shown the court shall
otherwise order.
§ 126. Rule 32. (Agreed case on appeal.) N o judgment will be
pronounced in any agreed case placed upon the docket of the Supreme
or Appellate Court unless an affidavit shall be filed setting forth that
the matters presented by the record were litigated in good faith about a
matter in actual controversy between the parties, and that the opinion
of the reviewing court is not sought with any other purpose than to
adjudicate and settle the law relative to the matter in actual controversy
between the parties to the record.
§ 127. Rule 33. (Inspection of original papers on appeal.)
Whenever, in the opinion of the trial judge, an inspection of an original
paper in an action on appeal shall be important to a correct decision of
the case, such judge may make such order for the transmission, safe
keeping and return of such original paper as to him may seem proper.
' The clerk of the reviewing court will receive such original paper in connection with the record and hold the same subject to such order.
§ 128. Rule 34. (Security for costs on appeal.) In any appeal
in a civil action at law, upon the filing by the appellee of an ailidavit
that any appellant is not a resident of this State or is insolvent and that
no bond for costs has been filed, with proof of service of a copy of the
affidavit, a rule shall be entered against the appellant, of which he shall
take notice, to show cause why the appeal should not be dismissed.
§ 129. Rule 35. (Taxing printer’s fees for abstracts.) When
copies of the printed abstract are furnished in conformity with the rules
of the court, the clerk shall tax a printer’s fee at the rate of one dollar
and twenty-five cents for each page of one copy of such abstract against
the unsuccessful party as costs, to be recovered by the successful party if
he furnished such abstract. If the appellee shall file an additional
abstract under the rules of this court and shall be successful in the cause
he shall be entitled to have taxed like fees for such additional abstract
on motion, if the court shall be of the opinion that such additional
abstract was necessary.
§ 130. Rule 36. (Removing records from reviewing court.) N 0
record shall be taken from the files of the court except on special leave
granted by the court, and it is made the duty of the clerk to report
promptly to the court every violation of this rule. In cases transferred
to an Appellate Court the clerk shall transmit the record, abstract and
briefs to such Appellate Court. When the original report of proceedings
at the trial shall be incorporated in the record on appeal and the judgment or decree shall be reversed and the cause remanded for another
trial or hearing, such original report of proceedings at the trial shall,
on the written request of either party desiring to use it in another trial
or hearing, be transmitted by the clerk of the reviewing court to’ the
clerk of the court to which such cause has been remanded.
§ 131. Rule 37. (Library of Supreme and Appellate Court.)
The librarian of the Supreme or Appellate Court library shall not permit any person, except the justices, to take from the library any book

without the consent of the court or the chief justice. N 0 books shall
be marked or underlined with pen or pencil, nor shall the pages of the
same be folded down, and anyperson offending against these provisions
shall be considered in contempt of court.

§ 132. Rule 38. (Seniority in Supreme Court—Chief Justice-—
Order of succession.) Seniority among the justices shall be determined
by length of continuous service, but if the terms of two or more justices
shall. begin at the same time they shall determine the seniority as between or among themselves by lot, unless they shall be able to determine
it by agreement. The term of chief justice shall begin on the first Tuesday of June in each year. No justice shall be eligible to act as chief
justice who shall not have served as a justice at least two years. Among
the justices who are eligible, those who have not before served as chief
justice shall be preferred, and among the latter, seniority as determined
by this rule shall control. When all eligible justices shall have theretofore served as chief justice, then the justice whose last term as chief is
most remote shall succeed.

§ 133. Rule 39. (Reporting and publishing decisions.) (1) As
to the time and manner of publishing decisions in the Supreme Court,
the following rules shall be observed:

First—The reporter shall publish in book form all such opinions as
are to be reported, which may be filed hereafter, within three months
after the filing and recording of the same, except where more opinions
of the court shall be filed at the same time than will comprise one volume
of the reports, in which event the reporter shall publish the first volume
of such opinions within three months after the time of the filing and
recording thereof, and the residue shall be published in volumes at the
rate of one volume for every three months.

Second—In order to facilitate the publication of the opinions
hereafter to be filed, as herein prescribed, it shall be the duty of the
clerk of this court to transmit to the reporter, without delay, a copy of
the printed abstracts, briefs and arguments in each case taken by the
court.

Third—In cases where application for rehearing shall be made
under the rules of the court, the reporter shall not publish the opinion
therein until such application shall have been disposed of.

Fourth—Each volume of the reports shall contain at least six
hundred and seventy pages, and shall be of the same general character,
typographically, as those heretofore published by the present reporter,
subject to such changes as the court may from time to time specially
direct. The paper upon which the reports may be printed shall be a
clear, white paper, supersized and calendered, and of not less than fifty
pounds to the ream. The reports shall be bound in a good quality of
art vellum (cloth) and the boards used in binding shall be good tar
boards.

Fifth—The reporter shall prepare a proper and correct headnote
or syllabus in each case, and may publish the briefs of counsel, in his
discretion. He shall furnish a table of cases reported in each volume,
arranged in alphabetical order, and an index of the matter contained in
the volume, distributed under appropriate heads, with cross-references

and numbers. In any volume which shall close a term of court there

shall be published a table of the cases directed not to be reported. Such ,

rules as may be from time to time adopted by the court shall be published in the volume next succeeding their adoption.

Sixth—It is made the duty of the reporter to superintend the
printing of the reports and see that they are accurately and properly
printed. He shall transmit to each of the justices of this court a printed
copy of all the cases reported, before the regular edition shall be printed.

Seventh—The reporter is not required to attend upon the terms
of this court, except as may from time to time be specially directed.

Eighth—It shall be the duty of the reporter to keep constantly on
hand, of the reports hereafter to be published, a sufficient number to
meet promptly any demand of the profession therefor.

(2) Without regard to the amount involved, each division of the
Appellate Court shall designate for publication in full in the Appellate
Court Reports, only such written decisions of such court as contain a
discussion of a new or doubtful question of law, or involve the application of rules of law to a novel state of facts, or decide a new or unsettled
question of practice.

§134. Rule 40. (Admission to the bar.) The State Board of
Law Examiners shall consist of five members of the bar as heretofore
appointed by the Supreme Court to serve for terms of three years and
until their successors are appointed. Successor members hereafter shall
be appointed on the basis of two members from the First Appellate
Court District and one member from each of the Second, Third and
Fourth Appellate Court Districts. The boa.rd shall elect annually, one of
its members president and one secretary and treasurer. The board shall
audit, annually, the accounts of its secretary and treasurer and shall
report to the court at each October term a detailed statement of the
finances of the board, together with such recommendations as shall seem

advisable.
The board shall conduct three examinations an~nually,—In Chicago

on the third Tuesday in March and in July, and in Springfield on the
third Tuesday in November. Such examinations shall be conducted by
printed interrogatories, shall be uniform and shall be supervised by the
members as a body, a majority of the board constituting a quorum. The
board shall certify to the court at each term those who have met the
requirements for admission to the bar and the applicants so certified
shall appear in person before this court and shall be admitted to the
bar on motion in open court.

Each applicant for examination shall present. to the Board of Law
Examiners satisfactory proof that he has a general and legal education
sufficient to qualify him therefor. For those who in good faith began
the study of law prior to July 1, 1924, proof of general education shall
consist of a diploma showing graduation from an accredited four-year
high school. or a certificate of the registrar of the University of Illinois,
or other college or university of equal credit, that the applicant is entitled to enter such college or university, with further proof that this
general education was acquired prior to the beginning of the study of
law. Such applicant must further show that he has within six years

next prior to applying for examination pursued for a period of three
years, during at least thirty-six weeks in each year, a course of law studies covering the law of real and personal property, persons and domestic
relations, torts, contracts, partnership, bailments, negotiable instruments, agency, suretyship, wills, corporations, equity jurisprudence,
crimes, conflict of laws, evidence, common law and equity pleading, the
Federal and State constitutions, and legal ethics, that such law studies
have been pursued in an established law school accredited by the Board
of Law Examiners or under the personal tuition of one or more licensed
attorneys, and that the applicant, if studying under such tuition, has
pursued said studies at least thirty-six weeks in each year and has submitted to regular and satisfactory examinations by such attorney during
said period upon each subject. Students pursuing studies under the
tuition of an attorney shall take the current annual examinations hereinafter required. Proof of legal education shall consist of the affidavit
of the applicant and the certincate of the secretary or one of the professors of the law school showing personal attendance at such law
school, or the affidavit of- the attorney or attorneys under whose tuition
such studies have been pursued; or, if in consequence of the death or
absence from the State of such attorney or attorneys, his or their aflidavit
cannot be procured, such proof may be made by aiiidavit of any credible
witness having knowledge of the facts.

For those beginning the study of law after July 1, 1924, proof of
general education shall consist of a diploma showing graduation from a
four—year high school, or other preparatory school, whose graduates are
admitted on such diploma to the freshmen class of any college or university where the requirements for admission are equal to ‘those required
by the University of Illinois, or the certificate of the registrar of such a
college or university that the applicant is entitled to enter same, and a
certificate of a member of the faculty of a college or university accredited
by the Board of Law Examiners showing completion of at least seventytwo weeks of general college work, or the applicant, in lieu of such
certificate, must pass an examination to be given by or under the direction and supervision of the Board of Law Examiners in a course of
studies to be approved by said board as the equivalent of seventy-two
weeks of college study. The board by rule may recommend certain
subjects which they will regard as such equivalent but they shall not
specifically require any particular group of studies. The high school
education or its equivalent shall be completed before the college studies
begin, and the college education, or its equivalent, shall be completed
before the law studies begin: Provided, however, that as to all applicants
who begin the study of law after July 1, 1924, and prior to July 1, 1926,
only thirty-six weeks of college study or its equivalent shall be required.

For those beginning the study of law after July 1, 1924, proof of
legal education shall be made in one of the modes following:

First, by a certificate from an established law school or schools
accredited by the Board of Law Examiners, showing that the applicant
has pursued a course of law studies in such law school or schools of at
least twelve hundred class room hours, and has passed a satisfactory
examination in each of the law studies required for graduation by such

law school or schools. Such examinations shall include the law subjects
hereinbefore enumerated. The board shall not, however, give credit for
more than four hundred thirty-two class room hours in any period of
thirty-six weeks.

Second, by showing that the applicant has in good faith, while
actually engaged in the office and under the personal tuition of a licensed
attorney or attorneys in active practice, pursued for a period of four
years during at least thirty-six weeks in each year, a course of law
studies to be prescribed by the Board of Law Examiners as the equivalent
of such law school course. Such applicant shall submit to and satisfactorily pass an examination by the Board of Law Examiners once each
year during the first three years of such law office study. Proof of such
study shall be made by an affidavit of such licensed attorney or attorneys
showing that the applicant has pursued the course of studies herein
required and has passed satisfactory examinations in each subject. If
in consequence of the death or absence from the State of such attorney
or attorneys his or their affidavit cannot be procured, such proof, subject
to the approval of the Board of Law Examiners, may be made by an
amdavit of any credible witness having personal -knowledge of the facts.

Third, if an applicant pursued his course of law studies partly in
such accredited law school and partly under the tuition of such licensed
attorney or attorneys, he shall be allowed credit for studies in such law
school upon presentation of a certificate therefrom showing the studies
he has taken therein by personal attendance, the number of class room
hours and of weeks of law study pursued, and that he has satisfactorily
passed examinations in such studies. He shall be allowed credit for such
studies as he pursues under the tuition of a licensed attorney or attorneys
when proof is made as above provided. Such an applicant shall pursue
his law studies for a period of four years during at least thirty-six
weeks in each year.

If an applicant for admission to the bar shall be unsuccessful at an
examination given by the Board of Law Examiners, he shall, before
taking a subsequent examination, furnish evidence satisfactory to the
board that he has diligently pursued the study of law since his last
examination. An applicant who has been rejected at a fifth examination
shall not again be admitted to an examination, unless the Board of Law
Examiners, in its discretion, shall permit him to do so.

Where a licensed attorney requests admission to the bar upon a
license showing his admission as an attorney at law in another state or
country he must present to the board proof that he has been admitted
to practice in the highest court of such state or country and that he has
actually remained in said state or country and practiced in the courts of
record as an attorney at law for at least five years, specifying the name
of the place or places in which he has so practiced. Such proof shall
be supported by a certificate from a judge of the highest court in the
state or country certifying that he has been so admitted, has so practiced,
and is a man of good character, such certificate to be certified by the
clerk of the court and sealed with the seal of the court; provided, however, where the requirements for admission to the bar of such state or
country require less than two years of law study, such attorney shall

furnish proof as above that he has actually practiced in the courts of
record of such state or country for at least eight years. Where the requirements for admission to the bar in such state or country at the time
of the applicant’s admission therein are equivalent to the requirements
in this State in effect at the time of the application for admission here,
the board may recommend for admission to the bar of this State an
attorney licensed in such other state or country. A

At the October term in each year there shall be appointed by th
court a Committee on Character and Fitness in each of the Appellate
Court districts of the State, consisting of not less than three attorneys
at law and the member or members of the Board of Law Examiners
appointed for the respective districts, to which shall be referred all applications for admission to the bar of this State, the members of such
committee to continue in office until ‘their successors are appointed. The
committee shall require the attendance before it or a member thereof of
each applicant with the affidavit of at least three practicing attorneys
personally acquainted with such applicant, residing in the county in
which such applicant resides, testifying to the good character and general
fitness to practice law of such applicant. said affidavits to set forth in
detail the facts upon which the ‘opinion is based.

Each applicant must be a citizen of the United States, an actual
resident of the State of Illinois, and twenty—one years of age or over.. He
must be able to speak and write readily and intelligently the English
language, and must give evidence to the Committee on Character and
Fitness that. he understands and believes in the righteousness of the
principals underlying the Constitutions of the State and of the United
States, and that he has such other qualifications as to character and
general fitness as, in the opinion of the committee, justify his admission
to the bar. N 0 person shall be admitted to practice law in this State
who shall not furnish a certificate of general fitness to practice law
from the Committee on Character and Fitness of his district, a certificate
of good moral character from a court of record of the county of his
residence, a sworn statement showing his full name, age, birthplace, residence, and length of residence in such place; if born in a foreign country,
at what age he came to the United States and when and where he was
naturalized; the name, birthplace, residence and occupation of his parents; the common schools attended by him and the dates when such
attendance began and ended; the name and loca.tion of the college attended by him, if any, together with dates of attendance and degrees
received; the name and location of the law school attended by him, if
any, together with the dates of attendance and degrees received; the
time employed in law offices, if any, together with a list of such oflices
and the dates of employment in each; whether he has applied for admission to practice law in any other state or country, and if so, when
and where, and whether he was admitted to practice and, if so, how
long he practiced; whether he has heretofore applied for admission to
the bar of this State and, if so. when and why he was not then admitted; whether he has been: engaged in any occupation, business or profession and, if so, when and where, giving the names and addresses of
his employers, the positions occupied by him and the period of his

employment; and whether he has ever been a party to any legal action
and, if so, the full details of his interest therein. ,

For each examination given by the board on preliminary education
or on legal subjects where study is being pursued under the tuition of a
licensed attorney, the applicant shall pay to the board in advance a. fee
of five dollars. Each applicant for admission to the bar, whether upon
examination or admission on a foreign license, shall pay to the board
in advance a fee of fifteen dollars. The blanks for all information required shall be furnished by the board. —

§ 135. Rule 41. .(Proceeding to strike attorney’s name from roll.)
In case an application shall be made to strike the name of an attorney
from the roll there shall be filed an information making clear and
specific charges, giving time, place and acts of misconduct with reasonable certainty, signed by the Attorney General, a State’s attorney, the
president and secretary of a regular organized bar association, either incorporated or unincorporated, or any person aggrieved by the misconduct
of the attorney charged. Where the information is signed by such
aggrieved person he shall verify it by an affidavit upon which perjury
can be assigned, and such aggrieved person must be represented, in the
proceeding so instituted, by an attorney whose name then appears upon
the roll of the attorneys of this court. When the information sha1l.be
deemed suflicient the court will enter a rule to show cause on a day
named, and when the rule shall be answered, the court will prescribe
the time of closing proofs by the respective parties, and the cause shall

then stand for hearing.
APPROVED June 23, 1933.

