Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Stale of
Indiana, That the distinction between action at law and suits in
equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits heretofore exist
ing, are abolished,2 and there shall be in this state, hereafter, but
nated a civil action.
Sec. 2. In such action, the party complaining shall be known
ag ^e plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
Sec. 3. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in the next section ;l
but this section shall not be deemed to authorize the assignment of
a thing in action not arising out of contract.1
Sec. 4. An executor, administrator, a trustee of an express trust,
7 ' * '
or a Person expressly authorized by statute, may sue, without joining
Wltn n'm Person for whose benefit the ad ion is prosecuted.2 A
trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this section, shall
be construed to include a person with whom, or in whose name, a
contract is made for the benefit of another.1 It shall not be neces
sary to make an idiot or lunatic a joint party with his guardian or
committee, except as may be required by statute*
Sec. 5. In all cases where actions survive, they may be com-Ac
menced by or against the representatives of the deceased to whom
the interest in the subject matter of the action has passed.3
Sec. 6. When any action is brought by the assignee of a claim
arising out of contract,4 and not assigned by endorsement in writing,
the assignor shall be made a defendant, to answer as to the
assignment, or his interest in the subject of the action.1 And all
actions by assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other
defense existing at the time of, or before notice of the assignment,2
except actions on negotiable promissory notes and bills of exchange,
transferred in good faith and upon good consideration before due.*
Sec. 7. Actions upon official bonds, and bonds payable to the
state, shall be brought in the name of the state of Indiana, upon
the relation of the party interested.4
Sec. 8. When a married woman is a party, her husband must
be joined with her; except:
First. When the action concerns her separate property, she may
sue alone.8
Second. When the action is between herself and her husband, she
may sue or be sued alone ; but in no case shall she be required to
sue or defend by guardian or next friend, except she be under the
age of twenty-one years.*
Sec. 9. If a husband and wife are sued together, and the action
b '
rtiates to her separate property, the wife may defend in her own
right ; and, if the husband neglect to defend, she may defend in his
right also.1
Sec. 10. When an infant shall have a right of action, such infant
shall be entitled to maintain suit thereon, and the same shall not be
delaved or deferred on account of such infant not being; of full age.
J DO
Sec. 11. Before any process shall be issued in the name of an
J *
in&nt, who is a sole plaintiff, a competent and responsible person
shall consent in writing to appear, as the next friend of such infant,
and such next friend shall be responsible for the costs of such action,
and thereupon process shall issue as in other cases ; but where it
shall appear to the court that such next friend is incompetent, or
irresponsible, the court may remove him, and permit some suitable
person to be substituted, without prejudice to the progress of the
action.
Sec. 12. The court in its discretion may require the next friend
* 1
of an infant, in an action for the recovery of any debt or damages,
to execute a written undertaking to such infant, with sufficient sure
ties, to be approved by the court, that the next friend shall duly
account to the infant for all moneys which may be recovered in
such action.
gEC> ^n infant defendant shall appear and defend, by guar
dian appointed by the court, or chosen by such infant with the con
sent of the court.1
Sec. 14. No person appointed as guardian shall be liable for the
costs of the action, unless charged by the special order of the court
for some personal misconduct in the same,
Sec. 15. Any poor person, not having sufficient means to pros
ecute or defend an action, may apply to the court in which the action
is intended to be brought, or is pending, for leave to prosecute or
defend, as a poor person. The court, if satisfied that such person
has not sufficient means to prosecute or defend the action, shall
admit the applicant to prosecute or defend as a poor person, and
shall assign him an attorney to defend or prosecute the cause, and
all other officers requisite for the prosecution or defence, who shall
do their duty therein without taking any fee or reward therefor
from such poor person.1
Sec. 16. If the person so admitted be guilty of any improper
eondjict, or of any unjustifiable delay in the progress of such action,
the court may, in its discretion, annul such order, and he shall
thereafter be deprived of all benefit of the order admitting him to
prosecute or defend as such poor person.
Sec. 17. All persons having an interest in the subject of the
action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, shall be joined as
plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this chapter [article].*
Sec. 18. Any person maybe made a defendant who has, or
claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintiff, or
who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement
of the questions involved.3
Sec. 19. Of the parties in the action, those who are united in
, , * . . i • <• i
interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but, if the con
sent of any one who should have been joined as plaintiff can not be
obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being
stated in the complaint;1 and when the question is one of a common
or general interest of many persons, or where the parties are numer-
■
ous, and it is impracticable to bring them all before the court, one
or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole.1
Sec. 20. Persons severally and immediately liable upon the
' J r
same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of
exchange and promissory notes, may, all or any of them, be included
in the same action, at the option of the plaintiff.2
^Ec* ^* ^° acti°n snall abate by the death, marriage or other
disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if
tne cause of action survive or continue. In case of death, marriage,
or other disability of a party, the court, on motion, or supplemental
complaint, at any time within one year, or on supplemental com
plaint afterwards, may allow the action to be continued by or against
bis representative or successor in interest.* In case of any other
transfer of interest, the action shall be continued in the name of the
original party; or the court may allow the person to whom the
transfer is made to be substituted in the action.4
Sec. 22. The court may determine any controversy between the
parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights
of others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete determi
nation of the controversy can not be had, without the presence of
other parties, the court must cause them to be joined as proper par
ties.1 And when, in an action for the recovery of real or personal
property, a person not a party to the action, but having an interest
in the subject thereof, makes application to the court to be made a
party, it may order him to be made a party, by the proper amend
ment.
Sec. 23. A defendant against whom an action is pending upon
° r 6 r
a contract, or for specific, real or personal property, may, at any
• m nr\ i ■ i «
time before answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the
action, and without collusion with him, makes against him a demand
for the same debt or property, upon due notice to such person,
and the adverse party, apply to the court for an order to substitute
such person in his place, and discharge him from liability to either
party, on his depositing in court the amount of the debt, or delivering
the property, or its value, to such person as the court may direct ;
and the court may, in its discretion, make the order.2
Sec. 24. Any unmarried female may prosecute as plaintiff an
. ,. , 1-11
action for her own seduction, and may recover therein such damages
as may be assessed in her favor.3
Sec. 25. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his
family, or imprisonment, the mother may prosecute as plaintiff for
the seduction of the daughter ; and the guardian, for the seduction
of the ward, though the daughter or ward be not living with, or in
the service of the plaintiff, at the time of the seduction or after
wards, and there be no loss of service. When the action is brought
by the guardian, the damages recovered shall inure to the ward.1
Sec. 26. When a husband or father has deserted his family, or
... , , , - . « . . , .
is imprisoned, the wife or mother may prosecute or defend, in his
name, any action which he might have prosecuted or defended, and
shall have the same powers and rights therein as he might have
had.'
Sec. 27. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his
family, or imprisonment, the mother, may maintain an action for
the injury or death of a child; and a guardian, for the injury or
death of his ward. But when the action is brought by the guar
dian for an injury to his ward, the damages shall inure to the ben
efit of his ward.2
ARTICLE 3.
Actions— Where commenced.
Sec. 28. Actions for the following causes must be commenced
in the county in which the subject of the action, or some part
thereof, is situated :
First. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or inter-
est therein, or for the determination in any form of such right or
interest, and for injuries to real property.1
Second. For the partition of real property.'
Third. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.*
Sec. 29. Actions for the following causes must be commenced
in the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose :
First. For the recovery of a penalty, or forfeiture imposed by
statute, except when imposed for an offense committed on a lake
or river, or other stream of water, situated in two or more coun
ties, the action may be brought in any county bordering on such
lake, river, or stream, and opposite to the place where the offense
was committed.
Second. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed
to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office;
or against a person who, by his command, or in his aid, shall do
anything touching the duties of such officer. In all cases enumer
ated in this and the section immediately preceding it, process may
issue to and be served in any county in the state.4
Sec. 30. When a corporation, company, or an individual, has
an office or agency in any county for the transaction of business,
any action growing out of or connected with the business of such
office, may be brought in the county where the office or agency is
located, at the option of the plaintiff, as though the principal resided
therein, and service upon any agent or clerk employed in the office
or agency, shall be sufficient service upon the principal ; or process
may be sent to any county and served upon the principal.8
Sec. 31. An action to establish or set aside a will, must be
brought in the county in which the will, if valid, ought, according
to law, to be proved and recorded.1
Sec. 32. An action against a railroad or canal corporation, or
company, or owner of a line of stages or coaches, for an injury to
person or property upon the railroad, canal, or line of stages or
coaches of the defendant, or upon a liability as a carrier, may be
brought in any county through or into which such railroad, canal,
or line of stages or coaches passes ; and the summons maybe served
in any county in the state.2
Sec. 33. In all other cases, the action shall be commenced in
'
the county where the defendants, or one of them, has his usual
place of residence. Where there are several defendants residing in
* . ... , . . .
different counties, the action may be brought in any county where
either defendant resides, and a separate summons may be issued to
any other county where the other defendants may be found ; and
in cases of non-residents, or persons having no permanent recidcnce
in the state, action may bo commenced and process served in any
county where they may be found. But any action brought by the
assignee of a claim arising out of contract, whether assigned in
writing or by delivery, shall be commenced in the county where
one or more of the parties immediately liable to judgment and exe
cution reside, and not elsewhere : Provided, that this act shall not
apply to suits pending at the time of the taking effect of this act.*
ARTICLE 4.
Commencement of actions and service of summons.*
Sec 34. A civil action shall be commenced by filing in the
office of the clerk a complaint, and causing a summons to issue
thereon ; and the action shall be deemed to be commenced from the
time of issuing the summons; but, as to those against whom pub
lication is made, from the time of the first publication. The sum
mons shall be issued by the clerk, under the seal of the court, and
directed to the sheriff, and shall notify the defendant of the action
commenced, the parties thereto, and the court where pending.1
Sec. 35. The summons shall be served, either personally on
the defendant, or by leaving a copy thereof at his usual or last
place of residence.2 An acknowledgment on the back of the pro-
cess, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is equivalent to
service.1
Sec. 36. The process against a corporation may be served on
the president, presiding officer, mayor, chairman of the board of
trustees, or if its chief officer is not found in the county, then upon
its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk, general or special agent, or,
if it is a municipal corporation, upon its marshal, or, if it is an
incorporated library company, upon its librarian ; if none of the
officers aforesaid can be found, then upon any person authorized to
transact business in the name of such corporation.*
Sec. 37.. No summons, or the service thereof, 6hall be set aside,
or be adjudged insufficient, where there is sufficient substance about
either to inform the party on whom it may be served, that there i3
an action instituted against him in court.1
Sec. 38. "Where it appears, by affidavit filed, that a cause of
action exists against any defendant, or that he is a necessary party
to an action, in relation to real estate, the clerk, by order of the
court, if in session, or in vacation without such order, shall cause a
notice of the pendency of such action, and the term at which the
same will stand for trial, to be published for three weeks successively
in some newspaper of general circulation printed in the coun-
ty, or if none be printed therein, then in the county in this state
nearest thereto in which any such newspaper is printed, in either
of the following cases, shown by affidavit
First. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has
property within the state, or the cause of action arose therein.*
Second. Where the defendant, being a resident of this state, has
departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid
the service of the summons, or keeps himself concealed therein, with
a like intent.3
Tliird. In all cases where the defendant is not a resident of this
Btate, and the cause of action is founded upon or connected with
a contract, or arises from a duty imposed by law, or the object
of the action is to enforce or discharge a lien, or to obtain a
divorce.4
SEC. 39. When a defendant is a non-resident, personal service
' L
of the summons out of the state is equivalent to publication, and
racb service may be proved by the affidavit of a competent person,
made before any officer authorized to administer oaths; which affi-
■davit shall state the time and place, and mode of giving the notice,
and set forth that the person thus served with notice is the identical
person named in the action or proceeding; or the identity of the
person served may be proved by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or any
other person.
Sec. 40. In cases where it shall be necessary to make any per-
mis defendants to any action, and the names of all or any of them'c
shall be unknown to the plaintiff, and he shall annex to his com
plaint an affidavit of his want of knowledge of their names, and
that their residence is, as he verily believes, not in this state, pro
ceedings may be had against them without naming them ; and the
court shall make such order respecting notice, and the publication
thereof, as may be deemed proper.1
Sec. 41. Where the action is against two or more defendants,
and the summons is served on one or more, but not all of them,1
' '
the plaintiff may proced as follows:2
First. If the» action be against defendants jointly indebted on
contract, he may proceed against the defendant served, and if he
recover judgment, it may be enforced against the joint property of
all, and the separate property of the defendant served ; or,
Second. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he
may proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as
if they were the only defendants, and may afterwards proceed
against those not served.
Third. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may be
taken against any or either of them severally when the plaintiff
would be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defendants,
if the act ion had been against them or any of them alone.
SEC. 42. TVhen there is a return of "not found " as to any of
the defendants, such return shall be suggested on the record, and
and the plaintiff may continue the cause as to them for another
summons at his option ; and he may, in either case, proceed imme
diately against the defendants served in time.1
^EC" ^>art'es against whom a judgment has been rendered
without other notice than the publication in the newspaper herein
required, except in cases of divorce, may at any time within five
years after the rendition of the judgment, have the same opened,
and be allowed to defend.4
"^EC" But before any judgment shall be opened, such party
shall give notice to the original complainant, or his heirs, devisees,
executors or administrators, of his intention to make application to
have the judgment opened as the court, in term, or the judge there
of, in vacation, shall require; and shall file a full answer to the
original complaint, and an affidavit stating that during the penden
cy of the action, he received no actual notice thereof in time to
appear in court and object to the judgment, and shall also pay all
6iich costs of the action as the court shall direct.
Sec. 45. If any property, which was the subject of, or property
sold under any judgment sought to be opened as provided in the
last two preceding sections, shall have passed into the hands of a
purchaser in good faith, he shall not be affected by any proceedings
consequent upon the opening of the judgment.
Sec. 46. The pleadings are formal allegations by the parties of
their respective claims and defenses for the judgment of the court.
Sec. 47. All the distinct forms of pleading heretofore existing,
inconsistent with the provisions of this act, are hereby abolished ;
and hereafter the forms of pleadings in civil actions, in courts of
record, and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings is to
be determined, are modified as prescribed by this act.1
Sec. 48. The only pleadings allowed are,
First. The complaint by the plaintiff;
Second. The demurrer and answer by the defendant ;
Third. The demurrer and reply, by the plaintiff.1
Complaint.
Sec. 49. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff, is the
r . ° . r r '
complaint. The complaint shall contain,* t
First. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court
and county in which the action is brought, and the names of the
parties to the action, plaintiff and defendant.4
Second. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action,
in plain and concise language, without repetition, and in such man
ner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what
is intended.1
Third. Where the complaint contains more than one cause of
action, each shall be distinctly stated in a separate paragraph, and
numbered.1
Fourth. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff may sup
pose himself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the
amount thereof shall be stated.2
Sec. 50. The defendant may demur to the complaint when it
f *
appears upon the face thereof, either,1
First. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant, or the subject of the action ;l or,
Second. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue ;a or,
Third. That there is another action pending between the same
parties for the same cause ;s or,
Fourth. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant f
or,
Fifth. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to con
stitute a cause of action f or,
Sixth. That • several causes of action have been improperly
united ;3
And for no other cause shall a demurrer be sustained ; and, unless
the demurrer shall distinctly specify and number the grounds of
objection to the complaint, it shall be overruled.4
Sec. 51. Whcce a demurrer is sustained on the ground of sev
eral causes of action being improperly united in the same complaint,
the court shall order the misjoinder to be noted on the order book,
and cause as many separate actions to be docketed between the par
ties as there are causes decided by the court to be improperly join
ed ; and each shall stand as a separate action, and the plaintiff shall
thereupon file a complaint in each of the above cases, to which the
defendant shall enter his appearance, and plead and go to trial, or
suffer a default, in the same manner as in the original action.
Sec. 52. No judgment shall ever be reversed for any error committed
in sustaining or overruling a demurrer for misjoinder of
causes of action.1
Sec. 53. If the court sustain a demurrer, the plaintiff may
lit /.i -ill
amend by the payment of the costs occasioned thereby.
Sec. 54. When any of the matters enumerated in section fifty
do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection (except
...... K. . , , ,l T„ i t.
lor misjoinder or causes) may be taken by answer. It no such objection
is taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be
deemed to have waived the same, except only the objection to the
jnrisdiction of the court over the subject of the action, and except
the objection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.2
Sec. 55. The defendant may demur to one or more of the sev,
, * .
eral causes of action alleged in the complaint, and answer as to tne
residue.1
Answer.2
Sec. 56. The answer shall contain.
i.i»in«i»i i •
.Ftrffl!. A denial of each allegation of the complaint controverted
by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof, suf
ficient to form a belief.1
Second. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense,
counter-claim/ or set-off,2 in plain and concise language, without
repititiou.
Tlurd. The defendant may set forth in his answer as many
grounds of defense, counter-claim, and set-off, whether legal or
equitable, as he shall have. Each shall be distinctly stated in a
separate paragraph, and numbered, and clearly refer to the cause of
action intended to be answered.
Sec. 57. The set-off shall be allowed only in actions for money
demands upon contract, and must consist of matter arising out of a
debt, duty, or contract, liquidated or not, held by the defendant at
the time the suit was commenced, and matured, at or before the
time it is offered as a set-off.3
Sec. 58. In all actions upon a note or other contract against
~, . . ii i p
Mveral defendants, any one of whom is principal and the others o
' J l sr o
sureties therein, any claim upon contract in favor of the principal
defendant, and against the plaintiff, or any former holder of the note or
other contract, may be pleaded as set-off by the principal or any
other defendant.1
Sec. 59. A counter-claim is any matter arising out of, or con-co
Eected with the cause of action, which might be the subject of an
action in favor of the defendant, or which would tend to reduce the
plaintiff's claim or demand for damages.1
Sec- 60- If any defendant, personally served with notice, omit
get u^ & counter-claim arising out of the contract or transaction,
set forth in the complaint as the ground of the plaintiffs2 claims, or
Q£ jjjgjjj^ jje can noj. afterwards maintain an action against the
plaintiff therefor, except at his own costs.
®EC" When cross demands have existed between persons
under such circumstances that one could be pleaded as a counter
claim or set-off to an action brought upon the other, neither can be
deprived of the benefit thereof by the assignment or death of the
other, and the two demands must be deemed compensated, so far as
they equal each other.
Sec. 62. Several defendants may answer jointly or severally, as
the facts set forth in the complaint may require.
Sec. 63. When it is necessary for the defendant to bring a new
party before the court, he may state the matter relating thereto in
his answer, and demand relief, and thereupon a summons shall issue,
and other proceedings be had against him as if such matter had
been exhibited in the original complaint.1
Sec. 64. Where the facts stated in the answer are not sufficient
. .
to constitute a cause 01 defense, the plaintin may demur to one or
' r '
more of several defenses, under the same rules and regulations as
heretofore prescribed for demurring to the complaint.2 Unless the
objection be taken by demurrer, it shall be deemed to be waived.3
Sec. 65. It shall be the duty of the guardian of an infant or
_ . ,
committee oi a person ot unsound mind, or attorney appointed for a
prisoner, to file au answer, denying the material allegations of the
complaint, prejudicial to such defendant, without oath.1
Sec. 66. All defenses, except the mere denial of the facts alleged
by the plaintiff, shall be pleaded specially.2
Reply.
gEC> 67. When the answer contains new matter, the plaintiff
_ _ ' '
may reply thereto, denying each allegation controverted by him, or
any knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to form a belief ;
and he may allege in plain and concise language, without repetition,
any new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, and constitu
ting a defense to the answer f the defendant may demur to a reply
for any of the causes specified for demurring to a complaint.
Sec. 68. On the second and each succeeding day of the term,
the court shall call as many of the causes which stand for trial at
such term, for issues, as the business of the court will permit; the
court shall call the causes in the order they stand on the docket,
and shall compel the parties to file their respective pleadings, and
answers to interrogatories, at such time as the court shall deem just,
in no case allowing unreasonable delay ; and the pleadings shall bo
completed at an early day of the term.1
Sec. 69. If, from any cause, either party shall fail to plead or
make up the issues within the time prescribed, the court shall forth
with enter judgment as upon a default, unless for good cause shown,
further time be given for pleading, on the payment of the costs
occasioned by the delay.1
Joinder of causes of action.2
^EC" The plaintiff may unite several causes of action in the
same complaint, where they are included in either one of the follow
ing classes :
First. Money demands on contract
Second. Injuries to property ;
Third. Injuries to person or character;
Fourth. Claims to recover the possession of personal property,
with, or without damages for the withholding thereof, and for inju
ries to the property withheld ;
Fifth. Claims to recover the possession of real property, with
or without damages, rents and profits for withholding thereof; to
make partition of, and to determine and quiet the title to real prop
erty f
Sixth. Claims to enforce the specific performance of contracts,
and to avoid contracts for fraud or mistakes.8
Seventh. Claims to foreclose mortgages ; to enforce or discharge
specific liens ;4 to subject to sale real property, upon demands against
decedents' estates, when such property has passed to heirs, devisees,
or their assigns ; to marshal assets ; and to substitute one person to
the rights of another ; and all other causes of action, arising out of
a contract or a duty, and not falling within either of the foregoing
classes; but causes of action, so joined, must affect all the parties
to the action, and not require different places of trial, and must be
separately stated and numbered.6
Sec. 71. ^\ lien tlio plaintiff desires to recover the possession of
.... . . . , . , title papers, or other instruments ot writing, or correct any mistakes
, \ 1 ' . i i , , - i
therein, a separate action may be brought therefor; or the posses
sion of such title papers, or other instruments of writing, may be
recovered, or mistakes corrected, in any other action, when such
recovery or correction would be essential to a complete remedy.1
Sec. 72. When the action arises out of contract, the plaintiff
. . ... .
may join such other matters in his complaint as may be necessary
for a complete remedy, and a speedy satisfaction of his judgment,
although such other matters fall within some other one or more of
the foregoing classes. When several causes of action are united,
belonging to any of the foregoing classes, the court may order sepa
rate trials for the furtherance of justice.2
Rules of pleading?
Sec. 73. Every pleading in a court of record must be subscribed
_ °
by the party or his attorney.1
Sec. 74. Every material allegation of the complaint, not epecifi-
11 iii i -i ii • /.
cally controverted by the answer, and every material alic<ration or
. .
new matter in the answer, not specifically controverted by the reply,
Bhall, for the purpose of the action, be taken as true, but the allegation
of new matter in a reply is to be deemed controverted by the
adverse party, as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case may
reqtiire. Allegations of value, or amount of damages, shall not be
considered as true by the failure to controvert them, but in actions
upon accounts, in which an itemized bill of particulars, the correct
ness of which is duly affirmed or sworn to by the plaintiff or some
one in his behalf, has been filed with the complaint, a default by
the defendant shall be deemed to admit the correctness of the bill
of particulars as sworn or affirmed to, and judgment may be ren
dered thereon without further evidence.2
Sec. 75. Pleadings sworn to by either party, in any case, shall
not, on the trial, be deemed proof of the facts alleged therein, nor
' . ' ■» ° *
require other or greater proof on the part of the adverse party, than
those not sworn to.1
Sec. 76. When the pleadings show sufficient excuse for not
admitting or denying an allegation, such excuse operates as a denial
of the truth of the allegation, and to require its proof.
Sec. 77. All frivolous demurrers and motions shall be overruled
;2 all sham defenses shall be rejected;3 all surplusage, tautol
ogy, and irrelevant matter shall be set aside, when pointed out by
the party aggrcived.4
Sec. 78. When any pleading is founded on a written instrument,
or on account, the original, or a copy thereof, must be filed with the
pleading. A set-off or a counter-claim is within the meaning of^
this section.1 Such copy of a written instrument, when not copied
in the pleadings, shall be taken as part of the record. The account,
if the items are numerous, shall not be copied in the pleadings, nor
deemed to be part of the record, unless by order of the court. Any
, * ' ' '
variance between any pleading and copy of a written instrument
filed, as to matter of description, or legal effect, may be amended at
any time, as of course, before judgment, without causing a continu
ance.1
Sec. 79. The court, on motion, may order a further bill of part
' » » r
ticulars, when the one delivered is defective; and may, in all prop-
er cases, upon motion, order a bill of particulars of the claim of
either party, and abstracts of title to be furnished.1
Sec. 80. "Where a writing;, purporting to have been executed by
» i . . , „ , . „ , . /
one of the parties, is the foundation of, or referred to in any plead.
. t .
ing, it may be read in evidence on the trial of the cause against
such party, without proving its execution, unless its execution be
denied by affidavit before the commencement of the trial, or unless
denied by a pleading under oath.2 The latter party shall, in all
cases, have inspection of the instrument of writing before pleading>
Sec. 81. A failure or want of consideration in whole or in part,
may be pleaded to any action, set-off, or counter-claim upon or
arising out of any specialty bond or deed,2 except instruments nego
tiable by the law merchant, and negotiated before falling due.'
Sec. 82. In any action or defense founded on a bill or note, or
°ther contract, for the payment of money at a particular place, it
shall not be necessary to aver or prove a demand at the place, but
the opposite party may show a readiness to pay 6uch demand at the
proper place.4
Sec. 83. In pleading a judgment or decision of a court or offi
cer of special jurisdiction, it shall be sufficient to allege, generally,
that the judgment or decision was duly given or made. If the alle
gation be denied, the facts conferring jurisdiction must be proved
on the trial.5
Sec. 84. In pleading the performance of a condition precedent
in a contract, it shall be sufficient to allege, generally, that the par
ty performed all the conditions on his part ; if the allegation be
denied, the facts showing the performance must be proved on the
trial.1
Sec. 85. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived there-
from, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title, and
tie day of its approval, and the court shall take judicial notice
thereof.2
Sec. 86. In an action for libel or slander, it shall be sufficient
'
to state generally that the defamatory matter was published or
spoken of the plaintiff ; and if the allegation be denied, the plain
tiff must prove, on the trial, the facts showing that the defamatory
matter was published or spoken of him.1
Sec. 87. In all actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant
may allege the truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and
mitigating circumstances to reduce the damages, and give either or
both in evidence.2
Sec. 88. Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of which
r r *
judicial notice is taken, need be stated in a pleading.1
Sec. 89. In an action to recover the possession of property dis-
. i i • •■ i i
trained doing damage, an answer that the defendant, or person by
whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property
upon which the distress was made, and that the property distrained
was at the time doing damage thereon, shall be good without set
ting forth the title of such real property.
Sec. 90. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of
1 ° r r
determining its effects, its allegations shall be liberally construed
with a view to substantial justice between the parties;2 but when
the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that ^neu
precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court
may require the pleading to be made definite and certain by amend
ment.3
Sec. 91. Under a mere denial of any allegation, no evidence
shall be introduced which does not tend to negative what the parh
, . . ° » '
making the allegation is bound to prove.1
Sec. 92. All fictions in pleading are abolished, and their use
forbidden in courts of justice in this state,
Sec. 93. If an original pleading or paper be lost or withheld
by any person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed,
and used instead of the original.2
Variances and amendments.
Sec. 94. No variance between the allegations in a pleading and
t • i i • i .
the proof, is to be deemed material, unless it have actually misled
r j .....
the adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or
defense upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has
been so misled, that fact must be proved to the satisfaction of the
court, and it must be shown in what respect he has been misled;
and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended
upon such terms as may be just.s
Sec. 95. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the
, ' *
last section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to
the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment without costs.4
Sec. 96. When, however, the allegation of the claim or defense
• ». t i • i •
to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some particular
or particulars only, but in its general scope and meaning, it is not
to be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a
failure of proof.'
Sec. 97. Any pleading may be amended by either party of
course at any time before the pleading is answered. All other
amendments shall be by leave .of the court. The party amending
shall pay the costs of the leave to amend. When the trial is not
delayed by reason of the amendment, no other costs shall be taxed.
When the amendment causes a delay during any part of the term,
or to another term, the party amending shall pay the costs of such
delay. No cause shall be delayed by reason of an amendment,
' , , . - i
excepting only the time to make up issues, but upon good cause
shown by affidavit of the party or his agent asking such delay.2
Sec. 98. The affidavit shall show distinctly in what respect the
party asking the delay has been prejudiced in his preparation for
trial by the amendment. When the action is continued for such
cause, the party asking the delay shall file his pleadings at such
time as the court may direct* ,
Sec. 99. The court may at auy time, in its discretion, and upon
such terms as may be deemed proper, for the furtherance of justice,
direct the name of any party to be added or struck out,^. mistake
in name, description, or legal effect, or in any other respect, to be
corrected, any material allegation to be inserted, struck out or modified,
to conform the pleadings to the facts proved, when the amend-
mcnt does not substantially change the claim or defense. The court
may also in its discretion allow a party to file his pleadings after
the time limited therefor;1 and shall relieve a party from a judg-
ment taken against him, through his mistake, inadvertence, sur
prise or excusable neglect, and supply an omission in any proceed
ings on complaint or motion filed within two years.'
Sec. 100. When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of the
defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or
proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the
pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly, either before
or after service of the summons.
Sec. 101. The court must in every stage of the action disregard
, - . , . ,. ° ,. i-ii
any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which does not
affect the substantial rights of the adverse party, and no judgment
can be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.2
Sec. 102. The court may on motion allow supplemental plead'
rr i
ings, showing facts which occurred after the former pleadings were
filed.1
ARTICLE 6.
Arrest and bail.2
SEC. 103. A defendant in a civil action can be .irrested and
held to bail only upon the conditions and in the manner prescribed
in this chapter.
Sec. 104. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall be
made by the court in term time, in which the action is brought, or
by the clerk thereof in vacation, at the commencement of the
action, or any time before judgment, when there is filed in the
office of such clerk an affidavit3 of the plaintiff, his agent or attor
ney, specifying the plaintiff's right to recover an existing debt, or
damages from the defendant, and stating that he believes the
defendant is about to leave the state, taking with him property sub
ject to execution, or money or effects which should be applied to
the payment of the plaintiff's debt or damages, with intent to
defraud the plaintiff.
Sec. 105. The order of arrest shall not be issued until there
has been executed and filed, in the office of the clerk of such court>
by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, to be approved
by the clerk or court making the order, a written undertaking to
the effect that the plaintiff shall pay to the defendant all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the arrest if the order is wrong-
fully obtained, not exceeding double the amount of the plaintiff's
claim stated in the affidavit.1
Sec. 106. The order of arrest shall be addressed and delivered
t i
to the sheriff. It shall state the names of the parties to the action,
the court in which the action is brought, and the amount of the
plaintiff's claim specified in the affidavit, and shall require the
sheriff to arrest the defendant and hold him to bail in the sum of
the plaintiff's claim, with the costs of the action, and to make
return of the order on a day to be named therein, with the recog
nizance, if any is taken.2
Sec. 107. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the
defendant, and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.
Sec 108. When an order of arrest and bail is executed, the
sheriff shall take a recognizance of special bail of 6ome responsible
person resident of this state, in substance that the surety acknowl
edges himself special bail for the defendant in the action, which
shall be indorsed on the order of arrest, and signed by the surety,
and shall have the force and effect of a recognizance of special bail,
and be obligatory as such.3
Sec. 109. It shall be the duty of the sheriff to return the order
of arrest to the offiqe whence it issued, immediately upon taking
and approving of the recognizance of special bail, when bail is
taken ; and in all other cases, on the return day. And in all cases
the officer shall indorse his doings thereon.
Sec. 110. Any such recognizance of special bail shall only
amount to an undertaking that the defendant will surrender his
body or the money, property and effects, or the value thereof, held
or owned by him at the time of making such affidavit, and in
default of such surrender the surety in such recognizance shall
only be liable for the amount of the property, moneys and effects,
which the plaintiff may show the defendant to have held or owned
at the time of making such affidavit exceeding the amount exempt
from execution.4
Sec. 111. When any person 6hall be committed to prison on an
order of arrest, for want of special bail, he may sue out a writ of
habeas corpus in any court or before any judge of competent juris-
diction, and on the return thereof, the plaintiff shall be compelled
to .show that the facts alleged in the affidavit, on which the defend
ant is held to bail are true, and on failure to do so, the defendant
shall be discharged.1
Sec. 112. When any person is committed for want of bail, he
• * »
shall be held in prison unless he is bailed or otherwise legally dis
charged, until final judgment in the action in which he is arrested,
and if the judgment be against him, he shall be held for such time
thereafter as the court shall direct, not exceeding ten days.
gEC 113 jf tne plaintiff deem the bail insufficient, he may, at
the term to which the writ is returnable, or at any term thereafter,
before final judgment, object to the sufficiency of the bail by giving
three days' notice of the objection to the sheriff.
Sec. 114. At the time specified in such notice, the court shall
r 7
proceed to hear and determine as to the sufficiency of the bail; if
adjudged insufficient, and other bail, approved by the court, is not
given, the bail shall not be thereby discharged, but may be pro
ceeded against by the plaintiff; and if he can not recover the
amount for which such bail may have become liable, the sheriff
shall be liable on ln3 official bond for the same, or so much as may
> ...
remain unsatisfied, and for the costs of the action against the bail.
Sec- 115> The eheriff sliaI1 not be liable to tne plaintiff on
account of the insufficiency of the bail, if it shall appear that he
acted with due care in accepting the same.
Sec. 116. Affidavits of the plaintiff's right to the debt or dam-
, .
ages which he claims, may be made by any person residing in thi3
or any other state, territory or country, and additional affidavits
may be made by other persons, stating the further grounds neces
sary to obtain an order for arrest and bail, and upon filing such affi
davits, duly authenticated, an order for the arrest and bail may be
entered as in other cases.
Surrender of principal by special bail.
Sec. 117. The bail maybe exonerated either by the death of
.... . .
the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state prison, or by his legal
discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the
process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county where he
was arrested in execution thereof, at any time before final judgment
against the bail on his recognizance.2
Sec. 118. The bail may at auy time take a certified copy of the
. , . . i i
order of arrest and recognizance, by virtue of which he may take
his principal and deliver him into the custody of the proper officer.
Such copy shall be given and certified by the clerk.
Sec 119. If the court to which the order of arrest is return-
able, is in session at the time of the surrender, the same may be
made in open court, and the court shall cause the discharge of the
bail from all further liability, to be entered of record.
Sec. 120. If the court is not in session, the surrender may bes
made to the sheriff or keeper of the jail of the proper county, who
shall receive the prisoner and hold him in custody in like manner
as if he had been committed by virtue of the order of arrest on
which he was held to bail.
Sec. 121. But the sheriff or jailer shall not be bound to receive
any person so surrendered unless the bail shall deliver to him a
copy of the order of arrest and recognizance, certified by the officer
who issued the original order of arrest.
Sec. 122. The sheriff or the keeper of the jail, shall acknowledge
the reception of the principal by an indorsement on the certi-
fied copy of the order of arrest ; and the surrender shall acquit the
bail from all further liability as special bail.
Sec. 123. Every defendant surrendered by his bail, may be
bailed as if arrested by the original order of arrest.
Sec. 124. When the surrender of the principal is made after
final judgment against him, the bail shall, within ten days after,
cause notice of the time and place thereof to be given to the plain
tiff or his attorney, if cither reside in the state, which notice shall
be served by the sheriff, who shall deliver a certified copy of the
notice to the keeper of the jail, on or before the expiration of ten
days from the time of the surrender; but if neither the plaintiff
nor his attorney reside in the state, the notice shall be posted up
ten days in the clerk's office of the county, and a copy of the notice,
certified by the clerk, shall be forthwith thereafter delivered to the
keeper of the jail.
Sec. 125. When the surrender is made after judgment, the
prisoner shall be detained in custody ; but if the plaintiff shall not
proceed to charge him in execution within five days after the
notice, the defendant shall be discharged from custody without any
order for that purpose.
Sec. 126. If any bail shall fail to give the required notice to
the plaintiff or his attorney, and the principal shall be discharged,
no proceedings being commenced to charge him in execution, the
bail shall remain liable to his recognizance,
Sec. 127. Whenever the right of action has accrued aerainst any
. - _. , . _ , ^
special bail, the creditor may at any time within two years alter
final judgment against the principal, and not afterwards, maintain
an action upon the recognizance in his own name.
ARTICLE 7.
Claim and delivery of personal properly.1
Sec. 128. When any personal goods are wrongfully taken 01
unlawfully detained from the owner or person claiming the posses
sion thereof, or when taken on execution or attachment, are claimed
by any other person than the defendant, the owner or claimant may
bring an action for the possession thereof.
Sec. 129. The plaintiff may, at the time of issuing the sum1
J> O
one in his behalf, showing:1
FirA. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property, or that he
is then lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, and particularly
describe it.
Second. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment,
or fine, pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attach
ment against the property of the plaintiff, or if so seized, that it is
by statute exempt from such seizure.1
Third. That the property has been wrongfully taken and is
unlawfully detained by the defendant, or is unlawfully detained;
and,
Fourth. The estimated value of the property, and in what county
the same is believed to be detained.2
Sec. 130. When such affidavit is filed with the clerk, he 6hall
issue an order for the seizure of the property, and delivery thereof
to the plaintiff.
Sec. 131. The order shall be directed and delivered to the sher-
, Tin i /* i • i • -l
iff. It shall state the names of the parties to the action, and the
court in which the action is brought, and direct the sheriff to take
the property, describing it, and stating its value, as in the affidavit,
and deliver it to the plaintiff, and direct him to make return of his
doings thereon.1
Sec. 132. The sheriff shall forthwith proceed to execute the
order by taking possession of the property described in the affidavit,
or so much as can be found ; but before delivering the property
to the plaintiff, the sheriff shall take from him, or some person on
his behalf, a written undertaking, payable to the defendant, with
sufficient surety, to be approved by the sheriff, to the effect that the
plaintiff will prosecute his action with effect and without delay, and
that he will return the property to the defendant, if return be
adjudged by the court, and that he will pay to the defendant all
such sums of money as may be recovered against him by the defend
ant in the action for any cause whatever ; which written underta
king shall be delivered to the sheriff within twenty-four hours after
seiring the property, and in default thereof the property shall be
returned to the defendant, but the action shall not be dismissed or
delayed thereby.2
^EC' ^ *ne property, or any part thereof, be concealed in
a buying or enclosure, the sheriff shall demand its delivery ; if it
shall not be delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to
be broken open, and take the property into his possession ; and if
necessary, he may call to his aid the power of the county : if the
. . _ /. v t ei
sheriff cannot find the property or any part thereof, the action shall
not abate, but be prosecuted to final judgment,
Sec. 134. The sheriff shall safely keep the property during the
_ _ J r r r J o
time prescribed by the statute, and shall be allowed by the court
the necessary expense of doing so, to be paid by the plaintiff, and
taxed in the costs if the property is recovered by the plaintiff;1
when it appears by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or other person on
his behalf, or by the return of the officer, that the property claimed
has been disposed of or concealed, 60 that the order can not be exer
'
cuted, the court may compel the attendance of the defendant, exam
ine him on oath as to the situation of the property, and jmnish a
willful obstruction or hindrance of the execution of the order, and
a disobedience of the orders of the court in this respect, as in cases
of a contempt.2
Sec. 135. When the property is removed to another county
- . » i ■ v .
after the commencement of the action, an order may. at any tune
t , . .
before judgment, be directed to such county for the seizure and
delivery of the property claimed, and several orders to different
counties may issue at the same time, at the option of the plaintiff,
and the costs shall be taxed as the court may direct ; such order to
another county shall be served, and the property be delivered to the
plaintiff and the order returnable in the same manner, and upon
the 6ame terms as above provided.
ARTICLE 8.
Injunctions and restraining orders.
Section 136. Restraining orders and injunction may be granted
by ^he gUpreme court in term time, when necessary and proper for
/ , 1 „......, „ , ,
the due exercise of the jurisdiction and powers of such court, or by
any judge thereof in vacation, and by the circuit court in their
respective counties in term time, or by the judge thereof in vaca
tion, and the said court in term time, or the judge thereof in vaca
tion, may in any county of the circuit, issue restraining orders or
injunctions to operate in any other county in the circuit.3
Sec, 137. "Where it appears by the complaint, that the plaintiff
is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part there
of, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some
act the commission or continuance of which during the litigation,
would produce great injury to the plaintiff; or when, during the
litigation, it appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is
about to do, or is procuring or suffering some act to be done in vio
lation of the plaintiff's rights, respecting the subjeet of the action,
and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, or where 6uch relief,
or any part thereof, consists in restraining proceedings upon any
filial order or judgment, an injunction may be granted to restrain
such act or proceedings, until the further order of the court, which
may afterwards be modified, upon motion. And where it appears
in the complaint, at the commencement of the action, or during
the pendency thereof, by affidavit that the defendant threatens, or
is about to remove, or dispose of his property, with intent to defraud
his creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain the
removal or disposition of his property.1
^EC" '"'n a^ applications for an injunction, the complaint,
or so mUch thereof as pertains to the acts or proceedings to be
enjoined shall be verified by affidavit. The injunction may be
granted at the time of commencing the action, or at any time after
wards, before judgment in that proceeding.1
Sec. 139. No injunction shall be granted until it shall appear N
to the court or judge granting it, that some one or more of the
opposite party concerned, has had reasonable notice of the time
and place of making the application ; except that, in cases of emer-in
gency, to be shown in the complaint, the court may grant a restrain
ing order until notice can be given end hearing thereon.2
Sec. 140. On the hearing of an application for an injunction,
. , „ .
each party may read affidavits.
Sec. 141. Upon the granting or continuing an injunction, such
terms and conditions may be imposed upon the party obtaining it,
as may be deemed equitable.
Sec. 142. No injunction or restraining order shall be granted
until the party asking it shall enter into a written undertaking, with
surety, to be approved by the court or judge, to the adverse party
affected thereby, for the payment of all damages and costs which
may accrue by reason of the injunction or restraining order.3
^Et" ^nen au injunction is granted upoa the hearing,
after a temporary restraining order, the plaintiff shall not be re
quired to enter into a second written undertaking, unless the former
shall be deemed insufficient : but the plaintiff and his surety shall
. i . • i i i •
remain liable upon the original undertaking.
SEC. 144. J* shall not be necessary to issue a writ of injunc
tion, but the clerk shall issue a copy of the order of injunction,
certified by him, which shall be forthwith served by deliver
ing the same to the adverse party.1
Sec. 145. In applications to stay proceedings after judgment,
the plaintiff shall indorse upon his complaint a release of errors in
the judgment, whenever required to do so by the judge or court.'
Sec. 146. An order of injunction shall bind every person and
~ _ n . , «
officer restrained from the time he is informed thereof,
Seo. 147. When notice of the application for an injunction has
, -in i
been given to the adverse party, it shall not be necessary to serve
the order upon him, but he shall be bound by the injunction as soon
as the written undertaking required of the plaintiff is executed and
delivered to the proper officer.
Sec. 148. Money collected upon a judgment afterwards en
joined, remaining in the hands of the collecting officer, shall be
paid to the clerk of the court granting the injunction, subject to
the order of the court.
Sec. 149. Whenever it shall appear to any court granting an
. . . . . *T . . J *J . °
order of injunction, or judge thereof in vacation, by affidavit, that
any person has willfully disobeyed the order, after notice thereof,
such court or judge shall award an attachment for contempt against
the party charged, or a rule to show cause why it should not issue.
The attachment or rule shall be issued by the clerk of the court,
and directed to the sheriff, and shall be served by him.
Sec. 150. The attachment for contempt shall be immediately
served by arresting the party charged and bringing him into court,
if in session, to be dealt with as in other cases of contempt; and
the court shall also take all necessary measures to secure and
indemnify the plaintiff against damages in the premises.
Sec. 151. If the court is not in session, the officer making the
' °
arrest shall cause the person to enter into a written undertaking,
with surety to be approved by the officer, personally to appear in
open court, on the first day of the next term thereof, to answer
such contempt, and that he will pay to the plaintiff all his damages
and costs occasioned by the breach of the order, and in default
thereof he shall be committed to the jail of the county, until he
shall enter into such written undertaking with surety, or be other
wise legally discharged.
Sec. 152. Motions to dissolve or modify injunctions may be
made in open court, at any time after the adverse party has had
reasonable notice.1
Sec. 153. "When an injunction to stay proceedings after iudsr-
. , . i ii i i. i f i i ii i
ment for debt or damages shall be dissolved, the court 6hall award
such damages, not exceeding ten per cent, on the judgment, as the
court may deem right against the party in whose favor the injunc
tion issued.
Sec. 154. If an injunction to stay proceedings after verdict or
judgment in an action for the recovery of real estate, or the posses-
sion thereof, be dissolved, the damages assessed against the party
obtaining the injunction shall include the reasonable rents and
profits of the land recovered, and all waste committed after grant
ing the injunction.
Sec. 155. Upon an order being made dissolving or modifying
an order of injunction, the plaintiff may move the court to rein
state the order, and the court may, in its discretion, allow the
motion and appoint a time for hearing the same before the court,
or a time and place for hearing before some judge thereof; and
upon hearing, the parties may produce such additional affidavits or
depositions as the court shall direct, and the order of injunction
shall be dissolved, modified or reinstated, as the court or judge may
deem right. Until the hearing of the motion to reinstate the order
of injunction, the order to dissolve or modify it shall be suspended.
ARTICLE 9.1
Attachment.
Sec. 156. The plaintiff, at the commencement of an action, or
at any time afterwards, may have an attachment against the prop
erty of the defendant, in tha cases and in the manner hereinafter
stated :
Where the action is for the recovery of money,
First. Where the defendant, or one of several defendants, is a
foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this state
Second. "Where the defendant or one of several defendants, is
secretly leaving, or has left the state with intent to defraud his
creditors; or
Third. So conceals himself that a summons cannot be served
upon him ; or,
Fourth. Is removing or about to remove his property subject to
execution, or a material part thereof, out of this state, not leaving
enough therein to satisfy the plaintiff's claim ; or,
Fifth. Has sold, conveyed or otherwise disposed of his property
subject to execution, or suffered or permitted it to be sold with the
fraudulent intent to cheat, hinder, or delay his creditors ; or,
Sixth. Is about to sell, convey or otherwise dispose of his prop
erty, subject to execution, with such intent.2
Sec. 157. No attachment, except for the causes mentioned in
the fourth, fifth, and sixth clauses of the preceding section, shall
L-sue against any debtor while his wife and family remain settled
within the county where he usually resided prior to his absence, if
he shall not continue absent from the state more than one year
after he shall have absented himself, unless an attempt be made to
conceal his absence.3
Sec. 158. If the wife or family of the debtor shall refuse or
'
be unable to give an account of the cause of his absence, or the
place where he may be found, or shall give a false account of either,
such refusal, inability or false account shall be deemed an attempt
to conceal his absence, within the provisions of this article.4
Sec. 159. The plaintiff or some person in his behalf, shall
make an affidavit showing,6
First. The nature of the plaintiff's claim;
Second. That it is just;
Third. The amount which he believes the plaintiff ought to
recover ;
Fourth. That there exists in the action some one of the grounds
for an attachment above enumerated.
Sec. 160. The plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, shall execute
a written undertaking, with sufficient surety, to be approved by
the clerk, payable to the defendant, to the effect that the plaintiff
will duly prosecute his proceeding in attachment, and will pay all
damages which may be sustained by the defendant, if the proceed
ings of the plaintiff shall be wrongful and oppressive.1
gEC, kjj. Upon the filing of such affidavit and written under-
taking in the office of the clerk, he shall issue an order of attach
ment, which shall be directed and delivered to the sheriff. It shall
require him to seize and take into his possession the property of
the defendant in his county not exempt from execution.1
Sec. 162. Orders of attachment may be issued to the sheriff
* _ .
of any other county ; and several of them may, at the option of
the plaintiff, be issued at the same time or in succession ; but the
costs only of such as have been executed in whole or in part, shall
be recovered against the defendant, unless otherwise directed by
the court. The plaintiff shall not have judgment in any such
4 • C 41. e 11 • ~ -1 "
action except in some one of the following cases, viz :*
First. When the defendant shall have been personally served
with process ; or
Second. When property of the defendant shall have been
attached in the county where the action is brought ; or
Third. When a garnishee shall have been summoned in the
county where the action is brought, who shall be found to be
indebted to the defendant, or to have property or assets in his
hands subject to the attachment.
Sec. 163. An order of attachment may be issued and executed
on Sunday, if the plaintiff will show in his affidavit that the
defendant is about to abscond on that day, to the injury of the
plaintiff.
Sec. 164. The sheriff shall proceed, with the assistance of a
disinterested and credible householder of the county, to attach the
lands and tenements, goods and chattels of the defendant subject to
execution, and shall with the assistance of the householder, make
an inventory and appraisement thereof, and return the same with
the order.
Sec. 165. An order of attachment binds the defendant's property
in the county subject to execution, and becomes a lien thereon
from the time of its delivery to the sheriff, in the same manner as
an execution.1
Sec. 166. The defendant s personal property shall be first
, . . r , , „ . „ ,
taken under an attachment ; it enough thereof is not found to
satisfy the plaintiff's claim, and costs of the action, then his real
estate. If, after an order of attachment is placed in the hands of
t ' 1
the sheriff, any property of the defendant is removed from the
county, the sheriff may pursue and attach the same in any county
within three days after the removal.1
Sec. 1G7. The estate, property and interest, descended to non-
resident heirs or devisees, or vested in the non-resident executors
or administrators of decedents, shall be liable for an attachment
for debt, or other demands against the decedent's estate.2
Sec. 1G8. The defendant, or other person having possession of
property attached, may have the same, or any part thereof,
delivered to him, by executing and delivering to the sheriff
a written undertaking, with surety to be approved by the sheriff,
payable to the plaintiff, to the effect that such property shall be
properly kept and taken care of, and shall be delivered to the
sheriff on demand, or so much thereof as may be required to be
sold on execution to satisfy any judgment which may be recovered
against him in the action, or that ho will pay the appraised value
of the property, not exceeding the amount of the judgment and
costs.1
Sec. 169. Whenever any person, other than the defendant,
shall claim any property attached, the right of property may be
tried as in cases of property taken in execution, and the claimant,
having notice of the attachment, shall be bound to prosecute his
claim as in such cases, or be barred of his right.2
Sec. 170. The defendant, or claimant of any attached property,
may be required by the court to attend before it and give information,
on oath, respecting the property.
Sec. 171. Goods attached in the hands of a consignee shall be
subject to a lien for any debt due him from the consignor.
Sec. 172. If the defendant, or other person in his behalf, at
./..! in . t i .
any tune before judgment, shall execute a written undertaking to
the plaintiff, with sufficient surety, to be approved by the court,
clerk, or sheriff, to the effect that the defendant will appear to the
action, and will perform the judgment of the court, the attachment
shall be discharged and restitution made of any property taken
ander it, or the proceeds thereof.3
Sec. 173. When personal property attached is of a perishable
, . . I i. i i -m
naturc, or its keeping expensive, the court may direct the sheriff to
sell it at public auction upon reasonable notice. If the property is
liable to immediate damage, the sheriff, in vacation, may sell it, by
giving ten days notice, without an order of court, and the proceeds
of all sales shall be deposited with the clerk.
Sec. 174. The sheriff shall be allowed by the court the neces
sary expenses of keeping the attached property, to be paid by the
plaintiff and taxed in the costs.1
Sec. 175. If, at the time an order of attachment issues, or at
' t '
anv t,;me before or afterwards, the plaintiff, or other person in his
behalf, shall file with the clerk an affidavit that he has good reason
to believe that any person (naming him) has property of the defend
ant of any description in his possession, or under his control, which
the sheriff can not attach by virtue of such order ; or that such per
son is indebted to the defendant, or has the control or agency of
any property, moneys, credits, or effects ; or that the defendant has
any shares or interest in the stock of any association or corporation ;
the clerk shall issue a summons notifying such person, corporation,
or association, to appear at the ensuing term of the court and answer
a3 garnishee in the action. The summons shall be directed to the
sheriff, and served and returned by him in the same manner as a
summons is served and returned in other cases. When the sum,
mons issues before an attachment, the affidavit must show some one
of the causes authorizing the attachment.2
Sec. 176. From the day cf the service of the summons, the garnishee
shall be accountable to the plaintiff in the action for the
amount of money, property or credits in his hands, or due and owing
from him to the defendant.1
Sec. 177. It shall be the duty of any officer or agent of an
, , . t' n i i
association or corporation, and or every other person summoned as
i i n
a garnishee, when served, or within five days afterwards, to furnish
°
the sheriff with a certificate of the number of shares or rights of
the defendants in the stock of such corporation or association, or a
description of the property held by such corporation, association,
or person, belonging to or for the benefit of the defendant, or the
amount of the debt owing to the defendant by 6uch association,
corporation, or person, whether due or not ; which certificate shall
be returned by the sheriff with the summons. If such officer,
agent, or person refuses to do so, he may be required by the court
to attend before it, and be examined on oath concerning the same,
and obedience to the orders may be enforced by attachment.2
Sec. 178. Whenever any garnishee, being duly summoned,
. . .
fails to appear and make discovery as required by law, or fails to
answer or demur to the matters set forth against him in the affida
vit, or additional complaint or interrogatories, such matters maj
be taken for confessed, or judgment entered by default, as the case
mav reqU;re ■ or ne may be examined under oath touching all the
matters charged in the affidavit, or additional complaint : and all
0 ' r '
such proceedings, pleadings and process, shall be had, according to
the practice in other cases, as shall be necessary to determine the
rights of the parties, and render a final judgment.
Sec. 179. If any plaintiff, or other person in his behalf, shall
file with the clerk an affidavit that he fears that the garnishee will
abscond before judgment can be had, with intent to defraud the
plaittiff. and that he verily believes that the garnishee has moneys,
» » » & . , .
thingj in action, goods, chattels or effects of said defendant in his
possession, or is indebted to said defendant, the clerk shall issue an
order of arrest against the garnishee, and hold to bail therein as in
a civil action.
Sec. 180. Final judgment shall not be rendered against a garnishee
until the action against the defendant in attachment is deter-
mined; and if the plaintiff fails to recover judgment either against
the defendant or the garnishee, the garnishee shall be discharged
and recover his costs.1
Sec. 181. The return of "no property found" upon the order
. r .
of attachment, shall not affect the proceedings against the garni-
thee.
Sec. 182. If the plaintiff recover judgment against the defend-
ant, and the garnishee deliver up to the sheriff, before judgment
against him, all the defendant's goods and chattels, or other effects
in his possession, subject to execution, or an inventory thereof, and
pay to the sheriff or into court all moneys due from him, or belong
ing to the defendant, the costs in the proceeding against the garni
shee shall be paid by the defendant ; but if the garnishee shall not
appear, or if appearing, shall refuse truly to confess the matter
alleged, and on the trial the plaintiff shall recover judgment against
him, or if he admit that he has moneys, credits or effects belonging
to the defendant in his hands, and shall refuse to pay or deliver the
same as above provided, he shall pay costs.
Sec. 183. A garnishee in attachment shall not be compelled in
o r
any case to pay or perform any contract in any other manner, or at
any other time, than he would be bound to do for the defendant in
attachment.
Sec. 184. A garnishee may pay the money owing to the dcfendant
by him to the sheriff, or into court, and shall be discharged
from liability to the defendant for moneys so paid, not exceeding
the plaintiff's claim.
Sec. 185. A garnishee, or officer of a corporation summoned
° ' , -i • i i
as a garnishee, at any time after being served with the summons
five days, may be examined in open court on oath, and if it be dis
covered on such examination that at the time or after the service
of the summons upon him, he or the corporation was possessed of
any property of the defendant, or was indebted to him, the court
may order the delivery of such property, and the payment of any
6uch indebtedness into the court or the execution of a written under
taking by the garnishee, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by
the court, payable to the plaintiff, to the effect that the indebted
ness shall be paid or the property forthcoming as the court shall
direct.
Sec. 186. Any creditor of the defendant, upon filing his affidavit
_ » , , .in ,
and written undertaking, as hereinbefore required of the attaching
creditor, may, at any time before the final adjustment of the suit,
become a party to the action, file his complaint, and prove his claim
or demand against the defendant, and may have any person eummoned
as garnishee or held to bail, who has not before been pummoncd
or held to bail, and propound interrogatories to the garni
shee and enforce answers thereto, in like manner as the creditor
who is plaintiff.1
Sec. 187. A dismissal of his action or proceedings in attachiii
i.
ment by the first attaching creditor, shall not operate as a dismissal
of the action or proceedings of any subsequent attacliing creditor.'
Sec. 188. Any defendant against whom an order of attachment
has been issued may, after appearing to the action, move to have
the attachment discharged and restitution awarded of any property
taken under it ; but an appearance to the action shall not operate
to discbarge the attachment, unless a written undertaking be filed,
as required in section 172. If the defendant appear and judgment
be rendered in favor of the plaintiff, and any part thereof remain
. m 1 ' » J
uusa'lsned, after exhausting the property attached, such judgment
shall be deemed a judgment against the defendant personally, and
6hall have the same effect as other judgments, and execution shall
issue thereon accordingly, for the collection of such residue. If
, , » *
the plaintiff's undertaking be insufficient, he shall have a reason
able time to file an additional one.1
Sec. 189. If the judgment in the action is rendered for the
defendant, "the attachment shall be discharged, and the property
attached, or its proceeds, returned to him.2
Sec. 190. If judgment in the action be rendered for the plaintiff,
or one or more of several plaintiffs, and sufficient proof be
made of the goods, chattels, rights, credits, moneys and effects in
the possession of the garnishee, the court shall also give judgment
in favor of the plaintiff or creditors against the garnishee, or the
property of the defendant, or both, as the case may require, which
may be enforced by execution.
Sec. 191. After judgment for the plaintiff, or one or more of
several plaintiffs, property attached and remaining unsold may be
sold on execution, as in other cases.
Sec. 192. The money realized from the attachment and the
garnishees shall, under the direction of the court, after paying all
costs and expenses, be paid to the several creditors, in proportion
to the amount of their several claims as adjusted, and the surplus,
if any, shall be paid to the defendant.1
Sec. 193. Every defendant shall be entitled to an action on
the written undertaking of the plaintiff or creditor, by whose pro-°'
ceedings in attachment he shall have been aggrieved, if it shall
appear that the proceedings were wrongful and oppressive, and he
shall recover damages at the discretion of the jury.2
Sec. 194. In all actions in the name of the state of Indiana, or
of any person, agent, or officer, for the use of the state, if process
be returned that any defendant is not found, an order of attach
ment may be issued and proceedings had in like manner, as in
other cases, without filing any affidavit or written undertaking.
Sec. 195. When an order of attachment is fully executed or
discharged, the sheriff shall return the same, with his proceedings
thereon, to the court.
Sec 196. Attachments against the goods and chattels, rights,
credits, moneys and effects of defendants, may be issued in cases
contemplated in the foregoing provisions upon any claim within
the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace upon filing with the jus
tice an affidavit, as prescribed in this chapter [article.] And
the justice shall perform the duties required of the [court and
clerk thereof; and the constable shall perform the duties required
of the] sheriff in the above provisions. The constable shall return
the order of attachment within ten days, with his doings thereon;
and in case where a summons has not been served and property has
keen attacne^j the justice shall give three weeks notice of the
attachment, in some public newspaper, published in the county, if
any is published therein; if not, then by posting up written notiw
thereof in three of the most public places in the township, and fb
the day of trial at the expiration of such notice.1
Sec. 197. If the defendant does not appear and give bond for
the release of the property attached, before the day of trial, the
justice shall proceed to hear and determine the cause, and in case
judgment is given against the defendant, he shall order the prop
erty to be sold to satisfy the judgment, according to the provisions
of this article.4
Sec. 198. Garnishees may be summoned, and the same pro
ceedings had before the justice as provided in the higher courts'
ARTICLE 10.
Receivers and deposits in courts.*
Sec. 199. A receiver may be appointed by the court in the
~ ,, .
following cases :
First. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase
of property, or by a creditor, to subject any property or fund to
bis claim.
Second. In actions between partners or other persons jointly
interested in any property or fund.
Third. In all actions when it is shown that the property, fund
or rent and profits in controversy is in danger of being lost,
removed or materially injured.
Fourth. In actions by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of a
mortgage, and the sale of the mortgaged property, when it appears
that such property is in danger of being lost, removed or materially
injured; or, when such property is insufficient to discharge the
mortgage debt, to secure the application of the rents and profits
accruing before a sale can be had.
Fifth. When a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent,
01 is in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corpo
rate rights.
Sixth. And iu such other cases as may be provided by law ; or
when, in the discretion of the court, it may be necessary to secure
ample justice to the parties.1
Sec. 200. No party or attorney, or other person interested in
<
an action, shall be appointed receiver therein.
Sec. 201. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must
be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or more sureties,
approved by the court, execute a written undertaking payable to
such person as the court shall direct, to the effect that he will faith
fully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and obey the
orders of the court therein.
Sec. 202. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination
of a party, that he has in his possession or under his control, any
money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject
of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or
which belongs or is due to another party, the court may order the
same to be deposited in court or delivered to such party, with or
without security, subject to the further direction of the court.
Sec. 203. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court
shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money, or other thing,
and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the diso
bedience, as for contempt, may make an order requiring the sheriff
to take the money or thing, and deposit or deliver it in conformity
with the direction of the court.
Sec. 204. Money deposited or paid into court in an action,
shall not be loaned out, unless with the consent of all the parties
having an interest in, or making claim to the same.
Sec. 205. The receiver shall have power, under the control of
fj^e court, to bring and defend actions, to take and keep possession
of the property, to receive rents, collect' debts, and generally to do
such acts respecting the property as the court may authorize.
Sec. 206. When the answer of the defendant admits part of
, , . . ™ , . i . i . i,
the plaintiffs claim to be just, the court, on motion, may order the
defendant to satisfy that part of the claim, and may enforce the
order by execution or attachment.
ARTICLE 11.
C/iange of venue.1
Sec. 207. The court in term, or the judge thereof in vacation,
may change the venue of any civil action upon the application of
___
cither party made upon affidavit, showing one or more of the fol-C
■ . ,
<
lowing causes
First. That the judge has been engaged as counsel in the cause
prjor j0 ijjs election or appointment as judge, or is otherwise inter
ested in the cause ; or,1
Second. That the judge is of kin to either party ; or,1
Third. That the opposite party has an undue influence over the
. . i t
citizens of the county, or that an odium attaches to the applicant
• 3 11
or to his cause of action or defense, on account of local prejudice ; or*
Fourth. When the county is a party to the suit ; 3 or
Fifth. Showing to the satisfaction of the court that the conveni
cncc °f witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by
the change : or,
Sixth. That the iudge of the court wherein such action is pend- e
• ° . 11
ing, is a material witness for the party applying for such change ;
or
Seventh. When either party shall make and file an affidavit of
,
the bias, prejudice or interest of the judge before whom the said
cause is pending, the said court shall grant a change of venue.
Sec. 208. When a change of venue is directed for any of the
causes mentioned in the third, fourth and fifth specifications named
in section two hundred and seven, the clerk of the court in which
'
the suit is pending shall forthwith transmit the papers and a transcript
of the proceedings to the clerk of the court to which the
venue is changed,1 the party applying for a change first paying tho
costs thereof, and the clerk of the proper court shall receive the
papers and transcript, giving a receipt therefor, and docket the
action in its order among the other causes of the court, and the
action shall stand for trial at the first term, and shall be tried or
otherwise disposed of in the same manner as if the cause had origin
ated in that court, and if a party applying for a change of venue shall
... „ , ' ; i » i - i i. i
tail to perfect the same ten days beiore the first day 01 the next term
»i i.ii i . i • i • i ,
of the court to which the change is taken, or within such time as the
court shall prescribe in the order granting the change, said party shall
pay all the costs made in tho case up to the time of such failure,
and upon the granting of such change of venue for any of
the causes mentioned in the first, second, sixth and seventh
specifications of section two hundred and seven, the judge shall
appoint a time to hold said trial, which shall not be less than sixty
. i»ii i
from that time ; or it may be tried at the same term the
change is made, and it shall be his duty to call some judge of the
court of common pleas, circuit court, or of the supreme court, if
such case be in the circuit court, and if in the common pleas court,
any judge of the supreme, circuit, or common pleas court to try
said cause, who shall try or continue the 6ame, or change the venue
thereof, as if it had originally been brought before him.2 When a
change of venue is granted by a special judge, the court to which
the change is taken, shall have power to call the same or any other
judge to try the cause at a regular or special term, according to
the provisions of this act, in the same manner as if originally com
menced therein—only one change of venue shall be granted to the
same party.1
Sec. 209. No change of venue shall be granted in vacation,
onless the opposite party has had ten days' notice.
AETICLE 12.
limitation of civil actions.1
Sec. 210. The following actions shall be commenced within six
years after the cause of action has accrued, and not afterwards :
First. On accounts and contracts not in writing.1
Second. For use, rents, and profits of real property.
Third. For injuries to property, damages for any detention
thereof, and for recovering possession of personal property.2
Fourth. For relief against frauds.'
Sec. 211. The following actions 6hall be commenced within
the periods herein prescribed after the cause of action has accrued,
and not afterwards :
First. For injuries to person or character, and for a forfeiture
or penalty given by statute—within two years.4
Second. All actions against a sheriff or other public officer, or
against such officer and his sureties on a public bond, growing out
of a liability incurred by doing an act in an official capacity, or by
the omission of an official duty,—within three years; but an action
mar be brought against the officer or his legal representatives, for
money collected in an official capacity and not paid over, at any
time within six years.1
Third. For the recovery of real property sold on execution,
brought by the execution-debtor, his heirs, or any person claiming
under him, by title acquired after the date of the judgment,—
wthin tea years after the sale.2
Fourth. For the recovery of real property sold by executors,
administrators, guardians or commissioners of a court, upon a judg
ment specially directing the sale of property sought to be recov
ered, brought by a party to the judgment, his heirs, or any person
claiming a title under a party, acquired after the date of the judg
ment—within five years after the sale is confirmed.3
Fifth. Upon contracts in writing,1 judgments of a court of
record,2 and for the recovery of the possession of real estate—
within twenty years.3
Sec. 212. All actions not limited by any other statute shall be
brought within fifteen years. In special cases, where a different
limitation is prescribed by statute, the provisions of this chapter
[article] shall not apply.1
gEC> 213. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon
a mutual, open, and current account between the parties, the cause
of action shall be deemed to have accrued from the date of the last
item proved in the account on cither side.2
^EC" ^ Party to any action may plead or reply a setoff
or payment to the amount of any cause of action or defense, not
withstanding such set-off or payment is barred by the statute.*
Sec. 215. Any person beintr under legal disabilities when the
' 1 ° °
cause of an act accrues, may bring his action within two years
after the disability is removed.4
Sec 216. The time during which the defendant is a non-resi°
.
dent of the state, or absent on public business, shall not be comrated
in any of the periods of limitation but when a cause has
i J 1 . . ... . ....
been fully barred by the laws of the place where the defendant
resided, such bar shall be the same defense here as though it had
arisen in this state ; Provided, That the provisions of this section
shall be construed to apply only to causes of action arising without
this state.2
Sec. 217. If any person entitled to bring, or liable to any
action, shall die before the expiration of the time limited for the
. , „ . i ,T . ...
action, the cause of action shall survive to or against his representatives,
and may be brought at any time, after the expiration of the
time limited within eighteen months after the death of such per
son.'
Sec. 218. If after the commencement of an action, the plaintiff
fliil therein, from any cause except negligence in the prosecution,
or the action abate or be defeated by the death of a party, or judg
ment be arrested or reversed on appeal, a new action may be
brought within five years after such determination, and be deemed
a continuation of the first, for the purpose herein contemplated.3
Sec. 219. If any person liable to an action shall conceal the
fact from the knowledge of the person entitled thereto, the action
may be commenced at any time within the period of limitation,
after the discovery of the cause of action.1
Sec. 220. No acknowledgment or promise shall be evidence
of a new or continuing contract whereby to take the case out of
the operations of the provisions of this chapter [article], unless the
same be contained in some writing, signed by the party to be
charged thereby.2
Sec. 221. The acknowledgment or promise of one joint con.
, 111 j
tractor, executor, or administrator, shall not render any other
> ' ...
joint contractor, executor, or administrator, liable under the pro-b
visions of this chapter [article.]1
Sec. 222. In actions against two or more defendants, where
the plaintiff is barred by the provisions of this chapter [article] as
to one or more of the defendants, and is entitled to recover against
others for any cause, judgment shall be rendered against those
liable, and for those not liable.2
Sec. 223. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall
take away or lessen the effect of any payment made by any per
son f but no indorsement, or memorandum of any payment made
upon any instrument of writing, by or on behalf of the party to
whom the payment shall purport to be made, shall be deemed
sufficient to exempt the case from the provisions of this chapter
[article.]4
Sec. 224. Limitation of actions shall bar the state of Indiana
and the United States as other persons.8
Sec. 225. Every judgment and decree of any court of record
*
of the United States, or of this or any other state, shall be deemed
• c i f 1 • 1* a
satisfied after the expiration of twenty years.0
Sec. 22G. In cases where part only of the persons entitled to
bring an action, are barred by the statute of limitations, all may be
joined as plaintiffs; and when it shall appear to the satisfaction of
the court, by admission or otherwise, that part of the plaintiffs are
barred by the statute, the court upon motion, shall order the names
of such plaintiffs to be struck from from the record, and the action
may be prosecuted by those not barred.1
Sec. 227. Neither a joint debtor or his representatives, in
, , „ , ,. , ,
whose iavor the statute of limitations has operated, shall be liable
1 t '
to a joint debtor or surety, or their representatives, upon payment
by such joint debtor or surety or their representatives, of the debt
or any part of it.
Sec. 228. The statute of limtations shall in no case bar the
right of the husband to join with, and sue for the use of the wife,
at any time during coverture, in any action which would survive to
her after the removal of her disability.
ARTICLE 13.
Witnesses}
Sec. 229. The clerk of the proper court shall issue a summons
f°r witnesses, upon the application of any party to the action. The
summons may be served by the party or any other person, or by
the sheriff. The party or any other person than the sheriff, Bhall
not be entitled to fees for the service. When a summons is served
by the sheriff, his return is proof of the service ; when served by
any other person, the service must be shown by affidavit.1
Sec. 230. The summons shall be issued and attested by the
clerk without seal, and one summons shall include all the witnesses
required at the same time, residing in the same county.
Sec. 231. If any party summon more than three witnesses to
r i i it • t
prove the same fact, he shall pay the costs occasioned by the addi_
> i j j
tional number of witnesses.*
Sec. 232. Witnesses residing in the county where the court is
held shall be compelled to attend in obedience to the summons,
without payment or tender of fees being first made.
Sec. 233. A witness 6hall not be obliged to attend before a
°
court or in^Se ou* °* tne county where he resides, unless his legal
fees for traveling to and from the court, and one days attendance
are paid or tendered before or at the time of the service of the
summons.1
Sec. 234. The attendance of all witnesses when duly sum*
moned, and to whom fees have been paid or tendered, in cases
required by law, may be enforced by attachment.*
Sec. 235. At the commencement of each day after the first
# a "
day, a witness attending a trial out of the county in which he
■" ° •
resides shall be entitled to demand and receive the legal fees for
that day in advance. If not thus paid, he is not compelled to
attend or remain as a witness.
Sec- 236- Before testifying every witness shall be sworn to
testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. The
mode of administering an oath shall be such as may be most con
sistent with, and binding upon the conscience of the person to
whom the oath may be administered. The forms heretofore
observed shall be hereafter observed.8
Sec. 237. Interpreters may be sworn to interpret truly when
ever necessary.4
[Sections 238, 239, 240 and 241 of the code are repealed. The act of 1867 cover*
all the ground embraced in those sections, and is here inserted in their place].
AN ACT defining who shall bo competent witnesses in any court or Judicial proceeding in this state,
and to repeal all lawsand partsof laws in conflict with the provisions of this act*
[Approved March 11, 18G7]
SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Slate of Indiana, [That]
every per80n cf competent age, may be a witness in any civil or criminal cause or
proceeding, and no person shall be disqualified as a witness by reason of interest in
the event of that or any other action, or because such person is a party in said
action or proceeding other than criminal. Any person, party in a civil action,
may testify in his own behalf, or in behalf of any other party or parties therein
and any one person or party in a suit may compel any other person or party
therein to testify under the same regulations as other witnesses may be compelled,
and the interest in the suit of any witness shall be regarded only as to his or her
credibility, and shall not affect his or her competency.1
Sec. 2. Persons insane at the time of examination, children under ten years of
age and incapable of properly understanding the facts about which they are examined,
husband and wife as to matters for or against each other, or as to communi
cations made to each during marriage, except that the wife shall be a competent
Kitncss in cases of prosecution against the husband for assault and battery upon
the person of his wife, and except also that in suits by the husband and wife
jointly for an assault and battery upon the wife, such wife shall be a competent
witness to prove the assault and battery ; 1 attorneys at law, as to confidential communications
from a client, or advice given to such clients; physicians,as to matters
confided to them in course of their profession ;- clergymen, concerning any confes-
sions made to them in course of discipline enjoined by the church, shall not in any case
be competent witnesses, unless with the consent of party making such confidential
communication : Provided, That in all suits where an executor, administrator or guardian,
is a party in a case, where a judgment may render cither for or against the estate
represented by such executor, administrator or guardian, neither party shall be al
lowed to testify as a witness unless required by the opposite party, or by the court try
ing the cause, except in cases arising upon contracts made with the executor,administratoror
guardian of such estate, and in cases where a party to a suit pending in any
court in this state, whose deposition has been taken in such suit,and is on file in such
court, dies,and such suit is prosecuted by or against the executor or administrator of
such deceased party,the opposite party shall be allowed to testify ,on trial of the cause,
on all material points and matters of fact embraced in the deposition, and on no
other facts, and such deposition may be read in evidence by and on behalf of the
representatives of such deceased party j1 And j>rovided further, That in all suits by
or against heirs, founded on a contract with or demand against the ancestor, the
object of which is to obtain title to or possession of land or other property of such
ancestor, or to reach or affect the same in any other way, neither party shall be
allowed to testify as a witness as to any matter which occurred prior to the death
of such ancestor, unless required by the opposite party or by the court trying the
cause, and the assignor of the plaintiff in any such suit, whero there has been an
assignment of the cause of action, shall be deemed and held to be a party within
this provision.2
Sec. 3. All laws and parts of laws now in force and in conflict with the provisions
of this act are hereby repealed.
Sec. 242. No want of belief of a Supreme Being, or in the
christian religion, shall render a witness incompetent. But the
want of such religious belief may be shown upon the trial. In all
questions affecting the credibility of a witness his general moral
« , L • • • J l
character may be given in evidence.1
Sec. 243. Any fact which might heretofore be shown to render
, , « , «. , . i.
a witness incompetent, may be hereafter shown to affect his credibility.
Sec. 244. The party producing a witness, shall not be allowed
to impeach his credit by evidence of bad character, unless it was
_ .
indispensable that the party should produce him, or in case of
manifest surprise, when the party shall have this right ; but he may
in all cases contradict him by other evidence, and by showing that
lie has made statements different from his present testimony.1
Sec. 245. Depositions of witnesses, taken within or without the
* '
state, may be taken according to the regulations hereinafter pro
vided, before any judge, justice of the peace, notary public, mayor
or recorder of a city, clerk of a court of record, or commissioner
appointed by the court to take depositions. But depositions shall
not be taken before any person being of kin to either party, or
interested in the action.1
Sec. 246. A party wishing to take depositions, shall give notice
to the adverse party, if there be only one person ; if there be several.
to any one of them who is a real party in interest, his agent
or attorney.2 Such notice shall specify :
First. The cause or matter in which the deposition is to be
used.
Second. The court or tribunal in which the trial is to be had.
Third. The time and place of taking the deposition.8
Sec. 247. The adverse party shall be allowed a reasonable time
to travel from his usual place of abode to the place of taking the
deposition, by the ordinary route of travel, exclusive of the day of
service, the day of taking the deposition, and intervening Sundays.
If served on an attornev or agent, a reasonable time shall be
" or
allowed him to communicate the same to the party.4
Sec. 248. The notice may be served in the same manner and
by any person authorized to serve a summons for a witness.1 If
neither the party nor his agent or attorney reside in this state, the
notice may be filed in the clerk's office, or published three weeks
successively in the county in which the suit is pending.2
Sec. 249. In all actions the court may order the taking of
depositions, whenever deemed necessary to determine the rights of
, . . . , „ , . „
the parties, or to expedite the trial ot causes, and may, it necessary
for that purpose, order a continuance until the next term,
Sec. 250. In all actions depositions may be taken by either
t ># A * t '
party in vacation, immediately after the service of the summons,
. .
without an order of court, and, in term time, by the agreement of
the parties. They may be used on the trial of all issues in any
action in the following cases :
First. Where the witness does not reside in the county, or in a
county adjoining the one in which the trial is to bo held, or ia
absent from the state.3
Second. When the deponent is so aged, infirm or sick as not to
be able to attend the court or other place of trial, or is dead.4
Third. When the depositions have been taken by the agreement
parties, or by the order of the court trying the cause.1
Fourth. When the deponent is a state or county officer, or a
judge, or practicing physician, or attorney at law, and the trial ia
to be had in any county in which the deponent does not reside.2
In either of the foregoing cases, the attendance of the witness
°
can not be enforced.
Sec. 251. A witness is not obliged to attend for examination
.... , t t o i • • i
upon a deposition in any other county than that of his residence,
but may consent to do so.
Sec. 252. No deposition shall be read in evidence on the trial
tr
of a cause, if at that time the witness himself is produced in court,
unless the deposition has been taken by the agreement of the par
ties, or by the order of the court.
Sec. 253. The officer taking the deposition, shall have power
_ J . 1
to summon and compel the attendance of witnesses.
Sec. 254. The provisions of the last section shall extend to all
1 _ ....
officers and commissioners authorized to take depositions in this
state, to be read in the courts of other 6tates or countries.
Sec. 255. The deponent shall be first sworn by the officer to
A *
testify to the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but tho truth,
relating to the cause or matter for which the deposition is to be
taken f and he shall then be examined by the party producing
him, and then by the adverse party, and by the officer or parties
afterwards, if they see cause.
Sec. 256. The deposition 6hall be written down by the officer,
or by the deponent, or by some disinterested person, in the pres
ence, and under the direction of the officer, and after the 6ame has
been carefully read to or by the deponent, it shall be subscribed byT
him.4
Sec. 257. The officer shall annex a certificate to the deposition,
1 '
stating the following facts f
First. That the deposition was sworn according to law ;
Second. By whom the deposition was written ; and if written by
the deponent, or some disinterested person, that it was written in
the presence, and under the direction of the officer;
Third. Whether or not the adverse party attended ;
Fourth. The time and place of taking the deposition, and the
hours between which the same was taken ; and the officer shall
sign and attest the certificate, and seal the same, if he have a seal
of office.
Sec. 258. The officer taking the deposition shall seal up the
same in a sufficient paper envelope, and direct the same to the clerk
of the court in which the action is pending, indorsing on the envel
ope the names of the parties and of the witnesses whose deposi
tions are enclosed.2
Sec. 259. When a deposition is offered to be read in evidence,
r t '
it must appear to the satisfaction of the court that the cause for
taking and reading it still exists.8
Sec. 260. When a deposition is to be taken within the state,
no commission shall he necessary for taking the deposition. When
taken out of the state, the clerk shall, upon the request of the
party taking the deposition, issue a commission to the officer or
commissioner designated to the deposition. No order of court or
m ■% • i n i i • i ■ • ni .n
amdavit shall be necessary to authorize the issuing of the commistrioii.1
Sec. 261. When thecommision contains the name of the officer
before whom the deposition is to be taken, his attestation, officially
certifying the same, shall be sufficient ; but if the commission do
not specify the name of the officer, and he have no official seal, his
certificate shall be authenticated by the certificate and seal of the
clerk or prothonotary of any court of record of the county in
which the officer exercises the duties of his office.
Sec. 262. When depositions are to be taken in a foreign
country, they shall be taken pursuant to an order of the court
under a commission ; with such reasonable notice of the time and
place of taking the same as the court shall require ; and they shall
be certified and returned by the commissioner in such manner as
the court shall direct.2
Sec. 263. Every deposition intended to be read in evidence
must be filed in court at least one day before the time at which the
• i i v ■■ • i i v ill r>
cause in which the deposition is to be used stands on the docket for
trial ; or if filed afterwards, and claimed to be used on the trial,
the adverse party shall be entitled to a continuance at the costs of
the party filing the deposition, upon showing good cause by affi
davit.
Sec. 264. Depositions, after being filed may be published by
the clerk, at the request of either party, after giving the other, his
agent or attorney, reasonable notice of the time of publication, or
they may be published by the order of court on the motion of
either party.
Sec. 265. Objections to the competency of a deponent, or to
the propriety of any questions proposed to him or answers given
by him, may be made at the time of taking his deposition, or in
court, whether made at the taking of the deposition or not.
^EC. 2C6, ^ objections to the validity of any deposition, or
its admissibility in evidence, shall be made before entering on the
trial, not afterwards. But any deposition after the commencement
of the trial, may be suppressed, if any matter which is not disclosed
in the deposition appears, which is sufficient to authorize such sup
pression.1
Sec. 267. When an action has been dismissed, and another
.11 » , 1 . .
action has been commenced for the same cause, the depositions
4
taken in the first action may be used in the second, or in any other
action between the parties or their representatives for the same
cause ; but it must appear that the depositions have been duly filed
in the court where the previous cause was pending, and have
remained on file from the time the action was dismissed until the
time at which it was proposed to use them.1
Sec. 2G8. Whenever any person shall make affidavit before
. „ , . , , „
anv circuit court, or court or common pleas, or ludfre thereof, or
i i i. i i i i i .
clerk of the court, that such person expects to be made a party in
an}- action thereafter to be commenced, and that the testimony of a
witness, whether residing within or out of the state, to be named
in the affidavit, is material and necessary to the prosecution or
defense thereof, the court or officer before whom the affidavit is
made, shall order reasonable notice to be given to the party expected
to he adverse to the applicant or to his attorney, that on the day
and at the,place in such notice to be expressed, the witness will be
examined conditionally before such officer as shall be specified in
the order.2
^EC> Upon proof that the notice has been given, either by
Personal service, or advertisement, at least three weeks successively
^ some public newspaper published in the proper county, or one
most convenient thereto, (when the person to be notified is not an
inhabitant of the state,) being made to the officer authorized to
take the testimony, he shall proceed to take and certify, seal up
and return the depositions according to the rules provided for other
depositions in this act.
^EC" Every affidavit an<l order, and every deposition so
taken and certified, shall, within thirty days after the deposition
is taken, be filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit court, or
court of common pleas of the county where the subject matter of
such expected suit may be situated. The clerk shall file said depo
sition, and it shall remain sealed until published by order of the
court after commencement of such expected action,
Sec. 271. Upon proof of the death, insanitv or absence from
. , .... . *„
the state of such witness, or inability by reason of age or mfirmitv
.. 3 1 <• 1 1
to attend, the deposition or a certified copy thereof by the clerk of
the court where the same is filed, shall be admitted as evidence in
any court in this state, in any cause between the parties named in
the affidavit, or in any cause between persons claiming under either
of said parties, and shall have like effect as if the witness had been
personally present, and given oral testimony therein, saving the
right of exception in all cases on account of the incompetency of
the witness, or of any part, of the testimony contained in the depo
sition.
Sec. 272. An unimportant deviation from any direction rela-
to taking depositions, 6hall not cause any deposition to be
excluded where no substantial prejudice would be done to the
opposite party.1
Private writings.
^EC' There shall be no difference in evidence between
sealed and unsealed writings ; and every writing not sealed, shall
have the same force and effect that it would have if sealed. A
writing under seal, except conveyances of real estate, or any inter
est therein, may therefore be changed, or altogether discharged by
a writing not under seal. An agreement in writing, without a seal,
for the compromise or settlement of a debt, is es obligatory as if a
seal were affixed.1
Sec. 274. The execution of an instrument is the subscribing
wd delivering it, with or without affixing a seal.2
Sec. 275. Recitals in any written instrument shall have no
greater effect that [than] they have heretofore had in writings not
under seal.
Sec. 276. The last three sections do not repeal or affect any
statute of this state expressly requiring a seal to a deed or other
instrument.*
Of documentary and other written evidence.*
Sec. 277. The printed statute books of this state, and of the P
... . n \ • s\i • ii . . n °
late territory north-west or the river Ohio, and the territories of u
Indiana and Illinois, purporting to be printed under the authority
of said state or territories, shall be •yidence in all courts and places
of the acts therein contained,
Sec. 278. The printed statute books of the several states and
. *
t*mtones °f ™* United States, purporting to be printed under the
authoritj of those states and territories; and any copy of any stat
ute, or part thereof, contained therein, having attached thereto the
certificate of the secretary of state, under the seal of the state, cer
tifying the copy to be complete and correct ; that the statute book,
from which the copy is taken, is deposited in the office of the sec
retary, or in the state library ; and is by him believed to have
been received under the authority of the state or territory purport
ing to have enacted the same ; shall be presumptive evidence in all
courts of the legislative acts, public or private, of those states or
territories respectively.1
^EC* 279- Copies of the proceedings and judgments of any jus^ce
or justices of the peace of any state or territory of the United
States, certified by the justice or justices under his or their hands
*nt^ sca--s> before whom the proceedings were had or judgments ren
dered, or their successors in office or other justices having legal
custody thereof, that the same are true and complete copies of the
proceedings or judgments, with the certificate of the clerk or pro-
thonotary of any court of record of the county or district where said
justice or justices shall hold his or their office or offices, certii'ying
under the seal of said court that the justice or justices was or were
at the time when the proceedings were had or judgment rendered,
and when the copy was taken, duly commissioned and qualified to
act as such, shall be admissible as evidence in any of the courts in
this state*
Sec. 280. Copies of the proceedings and judgments of any justice
of the peace of this state, certified under his hand and seal,
or under the hand and seal of the justice who may have the legal
custody thereof, as true and complete copies of 6uch proceedings or
judgments, shall be received as evidence in the several courts in
this state.1
Sec. 281. Certificates or instruments, either printed or written,
ii n> • f i i- o i •
purporting to be the official act of a notary public ot this etate, or
of any other state or territory of the United States, and purporting
to be under the seal and signature of such notary public, fthtll be
received as such presumptive evidence of the official character of
such instrument and of the facts therein set forth.2
Sec. 282. The certificate of the secretary of state, under the
... „
seal of the state, stating the time when any act or acts of the fren-
' ... .
cral assembly were deposited in his office, or deposited in the
office of the clerk of any circuit court, or court of common pleas,
in this state, as shall appear from the certificate or receipt of any
such clerk, shall be admissible in all the courts of this state as evi
dence of the facts-stated in such secretary's certificate.*
Sec. 283. Exemplifications or copies of records, and records
* 1 '
0 "ee^8 or other instruments, or of office books or parts thereof,
an(j official bonds which are kept in any public office in this state,
shall be proved or admitted as legal evidence in any court or office
in this state, bv the attestation of the keeper of said records, or
' » 1 '
books, deeds or othpr instruments, or official bonds, that the same
are true and complete copies of the records, bonds, instruments or
books, or parts thereof, in his custody, and the seal of office of
said keeper thereto annexed, if there be a seal, and if there be no
official seal, there shall be attached to the attestation, the certificate
of the clerk, and the seal of the circuit court of the proper county
where such keeper resides, that said attestation is made by the
proper officer.1
Sec. 284. The acts and proceedings of corporations may be
* ° 1 J
Prove" "7 a sworQ copy of the record of such acts and proceed-
ings; the oath shall be made by the person having the legal cus
tody of such records and shall state that such transcript is a true
and full copy of the original, and that such original has remained
unaltered from its date, to the best of deponent's knowledge and
belief. Such sworn copies shall be received as evidence in all cases
in which the original would be evidence.1
Sec. 285. Every act of the legislature of any one of the states or
territories of the United States, certified by the secretary, and hav-
<v> 11 i
ing the seal of the state or territory affixed thereto, shall be deemed
authentic, and receive full faith and credit when offered in evidence
in any court within this state.1
Sec. 286. The records and judicial proceedings of the several
courts of record, of or within the United States or the territories
«
thereof, shall be admitted in the courts within this state as evidence,
by attestation or certificate of the clerk or prothonotary, and the
6cal of the court annexed, together with the seal of the chief jus
tice or one or more of the judge*, or the presiding magistrate of
any such court, that the person who signed the attestation or certi
ficate was, at the time of subscribing it, the clerk or prothonotary
of the court, and that the attestation is in due form of law ; and
the records and judicial proceedings, authenticated as aforesaid.
shall have full faith and credit given to them in any court within
this state, as', by law or usage, they have in the courts whence
taken.2
Sec. 287. "When notice is, in any action, proceeding, or sale
\ J_ '_J_ _
under execution, or other matter required by the provisions of law,
to be given by publication in any newspaper, an affidavit of the
printer, or any person in his employ, as a clerk or printer, of a
competent age, annexed to a copy of the notice taken from the
paper in which it was published, may be filed in the clerk's office
by the person whose duty it was to cause the publication to be
made ; such affidavit must specify the county, the time when, and
the paper in which the notice was published.1
Sec. 288. The original affidavit and copy of the notice, filed
pursuit to the provisions of the last section, and copies thereof, duly
certified by the clerk, 6hall be prssumtive evidence in all cases and
before every court, of the facts contained in the affidavit.
Sec. 289. "When an affidavit is taken in another state and certitled
by the officer or justice of the peace taking the same, under
his hand and seal of office, if he have any such seal, and attested
by the clerk of the circuit or district court, or court of common
pleas of the county where such officer exercises the duties of his
office, under the hand of the clerk and the seal of his court, the
clerk also certifying that the officer or justice of the peace, is, hy
the laws of said state, duly empowered to administer oaths and
affirmations, and take affidavits, every such affidavit shall be
deemed sufficiently authenticated, and may be received and used
in any of the courts of this state.1
Sec. 290. The unwritten or common law cf any other of the
, t *
United States, or of the territories thereof, may be proved as facte
by parol evidence, and the books of reports of cases adjudged in
their courts may also be admitted in evidence of such law.2
Sec. 291. The existence and tenor or affect of the laws of anv
. '
foreign county, may be proved as tacts by parol evidence ; but if
it shall appear that the law in question is contained in a written
statute or code, the court may, in their discretion, reject any evi
dence of such law which is not accompanied by a copy thereof*
Sec. 292. The proof of the service of any process issued by
, „ . ,
the court, or of any notice required to be served upon any party,
shal 1 be as fol lo ws :*
First. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof : or,
Second. By any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,8
Third. In case of publication, a printed copy, with the affidavit
of tho printer, his foreman, or clerk, or of any competent witness.5
Fourth. The written admission of the defendant. The affidavit
or admission must state the time and place of service.8
Sec. 293. The clerk shall indorse upon every paper filed in his
n> • , ^ * , i . , .
oflice or in open court, and upon every process returned to hini or
to the court, except summonses, the date of ths filing and return;
and the indorsement shall be presumptive evidence of the time of
the filing and return.1
ARTICLE 15.
Examination of parties.
Sec. 294. No action to obtain discovery under oath, in aid of
the prosecution or defense of another action, shall be allowed,
except in the manner prescribed by the chapter [article].2
Sec. 295. A party to an action may be examined as a witness,
at the instance of the adverse party, or of any one of several
adverse parties, and for that purpose may be compelled, in the
same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination as any
othcr witness, to testify, either at the trial, or conditionally, or
upon commission.
Sec. 296. The examination, instead of being had at the trial,
, , , , „ , ° . '
maj be had at any time before the trial, at the option of the party
claiming it, before any officer authorized to take depositions, on a
previous notice to the party to be examined, and any other adverse
party, of at least five days, unless for good cause shown, the court
order otherwise. But the party to be examined before trial, shall
. . ,
not be compelled to attend in any other county than that of his
residence, or where he may be served with a summons.
Sec. 297. The attendance of the party to be examined, may be
enforced, and the examination shall be taken and filed as a depo-
sition in the cause, and may be read by the party taking it, at his
option ; but if not read, the party causing the examination shall
r » /.
pay the costs thereof.
Sec. 298. The evidence of the party, thus taken, may be rebut,
, . .
ted by adverse testimony.
Sec. 299. Any party refusing to attend and testify as above
provided, may be punished as for a contempt, and hia complaint,
answer, or reply, may be stricken out.3
Sec. 300. A party examined by an adverse party may testify in
his own behalf in respect to any matter pertinent to the issue ; bat
jf ne testify to any new matter not responsive to the inquiries put
to him by the adverse party, such adverse party may offer himself
as a witness on his own behalf in respect to the new matter, and
6hall be so received.1
Sec. 301. A person for whoso immediate benefit the action is
*
prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may be
examined as a witness, in the tame, manner and subject to the same
rules of examination, as if he were named as a party.'
Sec. 302. A party may be examined on behalf of his eo-plainliff,
i<»i • i > i i . ....
or co-defendant as to any matter in which he is not jointly interested,
, J J i
or liable with such co-plaintiff or co-defendant, and as to which a sep-
arate and not joint judgment shall be rendered ; and he may be corn_
_ _ . _ , . • -
pclled to attend in the tame manner as at the instance of an
adverse party ; but the examination thus taken shall not be used in
behalf of the party examined s.t the instance of the adverse party.'
SEc. 303. Either party may propound interrogatories to be filed
with the pleadings relevant to the matter in controversy, and
require the opposite party to answer the 6ame under oath. All
interrogations must be answered within the time limited positively,
and without evasion, and the court may enforce the answer by
attachment or otherwise, and the party may, in addition thereto,
6et forth in his answer all relative matter in avoidance ; the answer
to the interrogatories may be used or not on the trial, at the option
of the party requiring it : Provided, That in the absence of such
opposite party the riling of the interrogatories shall not work a
continuance of the cause, unless it be shown to the court, by aGda.
' . . ,. .
Vit, that the party who files such interrogatories expects to elicit
facts by the answer material to him on the trial, that' he believes
Buch facts to be true, that he can not prove the same by any wit-
ness, and that he files the interrogatories not for delay merely, but
to obtain substantial justice at the trial.1
Sec. 304. If either party at any time before trial allow the
. , „ . . . , , . . .
other an inspection of writing:, material to the action, whether men_
, . . , •.. i , ,. i . , >
in the pleadings or not, and deliver to him a copy thereof,
with notice that he intends to read the same in evidence on the
trial of the cause, it may be so read, without proof of its genuine
ness or execution, unless denied by affidavit before the commence-
ment of the trial ; if such denial be made of any writing, not men'
. .
tioned in the pleadings, the court may give time to either party to
procure evidence when necessary for the furtherance of justice.1
Sec. 305. The court or judge thereof may, upon motion, com,
. , , , <T , . ,
pCl by order, either party to produce, at or before the trial, any
book, paper or document in his possession or power ; the order
may be made upon application of either party, upon reasonable
notice to the adverse party, or his attorney,—if not produced, parol
evidence may be given of their contents.1
Sec. 306. The court, or a judge thereof, may, under proper
restrictions, upon due notice, order either party to give the other,
within a specified time, an inspection and a copy, of any book or part thereof, paper or document in his possession, or under his con
trol, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or
the defense therein; if compliance with tho order be refused, the
court, on 'motion, may exclude such evidence or punish the party
refusing, or both.2
ARTICLE 17.
Tmpamneling jurors*
Sec. 307. In any civil action, where the parties are entitled to
it. • a
a trial by jury, and either party shall demand such trial, the sheriff J
shall call a jury from the regular panel, except as hereinafter pro
vided.1
Sec. 308. The number of jurors to try a civil action shall not
exceed twelve, nor be less than three. The parties may determine
number of jurors by agreement, and in case of their disagree
ment, the number shall be twelve.1
Sec. 309. The parties may agree upon the jurors to compose a
special jury, and notify the court thereof, and the court shall tlicre-
upon direct the sheriff to impannel such special jury, if it can be
done without unreasonable delay of the cause.
Sec. 310. When both parties desire it, the court may direct the
r ' *
sheriff to summon eighteen competent jurors, or a less number, and
the plaintiff first, and then the defendant, shall strike off one juror
in turn, until each has struck off six or more, and the remaining
jurore shall try the cause ; or the parties, when they consent, upon
being furnished with a list of jurors to be summoned, may exercise
the right to strike out any part of the names before the jurors are
summoned, and the remaining jurors only shall be summoned.
Sec. 311. It shall be sufficient cause for challenge to a juror,
that he is interested in another suit, begun or contemplated, involv- s
ing the same or a similar matter.
Sec. 312. Before the commencement of the trial, an oath must
be administered to each juror that he will well and truly try the
matter in issue between the parties, and a true verdict give, accord
ing to law and evidence.1
Sec. 313. In all cases where the iury consists of six or more
persons, each party shall have three peremptory challenges. If
the jury consists of a less number than six, each party shall have
two peremptory challenges.2
Sec. 314. When the regular panel is exhausted, or is insufficien*
^rom any cause, the sheriff shall call the bystanders, or fill the
jury in such a manner as the court may direct.1
ARTICLE 18.
Trial and its incidents.
gEC. 315, Every action shall stand for issue and trial at the
jti_t 11 «
first term after it is commenced, when the summons has been served1
—■
'which of tho parties should succeed ; that his mind was free to decide the case according to the ert-
on the defendant ten days, or publication1 has been made for thirty
» i
days before the first day of the term.
Issues}
Sec. 316. Issues arise on the pleadings where a fact, or conelusion
of law, is maintained by one party, and controverted by
the other. They are of two kinds :
First. Of law.
Second. Of fact.
Sec. 317. An issue of law arises upon demurrer to the com-
, • . , , „,
plaint, answer or reply, or to some part thereof.
Sec. 318. An issue of fact arises:
First. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, denied by
answer
4
the
Second. Upon a set-off or counter claim presented in the answer,
and denied by the reply.5
Third. Upon material new matter in the reply, which shall be
coDsidered as controverted by the opposite party, without further
pleading.6
Sec. 319. The trial is a judicial examination of the issues,
whether of law or of fact, in an action.7
Sec. 320. Issues of law must be tried by the court.1 Issues of
fact must be tried by a jury,2 unless a jury trial is waived.'
Sec. 321. The trial in each action shall be in the order in
■vvliich it stands upon the docket; unless the court, for good cause
shown, shall direct otherwise.4
Sec. 322. A motion to postpone the trial on account of the
absence of evidence, can be made only upon affidavit5 showing the
materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained,1 and that due
diligence5 has been used to obtain it: and where the evidence may
• o i • i/v>i> i
be,' and if it is for an absent witness, the affidavit must show
where the witness resides,4 and the probability of procuring his
testimony within a reasonable time,8 and that his absence has not
been procured by the act or connivance of the party, nor by others
at his request, nor with his knowledge and consent, and what facts
he believes the witness will prove," and that he believes them to
be true,7 and that he is unable to prove such facts by any other
witness whose testimony can be as readily procured.8 If, there-
mi ii • i i> i
upon, the adverse party will consent that on the trial the facts shall
be taken as true, if the absent evidence is written or documentary,
and, in case of a witness, that he will testify to said facts as true,
the trial shall not be postponed for that cause ; and, in such case,
the party against whom such evidence is used shall have the right
to impeach such absent witness, as in case where the witness is
present, or his deposition is used.
Sec. 323. Any court, for good cause shown, may continue any
actiou at anv stage °f tlie proceedings at the cost of the applicant,
to he paid as the court shall direct.1
Trial by jury.
Sec. 324. When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall pro
ceed in the following order, unless the court, for special reasons,
otherwise directs :
First- Tne Party on whom rests the burthen of the issues, may
briefly state his case, and the evidence by which he expects to sus
tain it.2
Second. The adverse party may then briefly state his defense.
r J J J >
and the evidence he expects to offer in support of it.8
Tliird. The party on whom rests the burthen of the issues, may
first produce his evidence;4 the adverse party will then produce fais
evidence.
Fourth. When the evidence is concluded, and either party
. ....
"es'res special instructions to be given to the jury, such instruc
tions shall be reduced to writing, numbered and signed by the
party or his attorney asking the same, and delivered to the court.'
Fifth, When the argument of the cause is concluded, the court
. . . . .
shall give general instructions to the jury, which shall be in writing,
and be numbered and signed by the judge, if required by either
party.1
Sixth. Where either party asks special instructions to be given
to the jury, the court shall either give each instruction as requested,
or positively refuse to do so ; or give the instructions with a modi
fication, in such manner that it shall distinctly appear what instruc
tions were given, in whole or in part, and in like manner those
refused, so that either party may except to the instructions, as
asked for, or as modified, or to the modification. All instructions
given by the court must be signed by the judge, and filed, together
w'tn tnose asked for by the parties, as a part of the record. The
instructions shall not be entered at large on the final record, unless
either party may wish to remove the cause to a superior court.1
®EC- 325- A party excepting to the giving of instructions, or
tne refusal thereof, shall not be required to file a formal bill of
exceptions; but it shall be sufficient to write at the close of each
instruction, " refused and excepted to," or " given and excepted
to," which shall be signed by the party or his attorney.2
^EC. ^26. The parties may either submit or argue the case to
the jury. In the argument, the party having the burthen of the
issue, shall have the opening and closing ; but shall disclose in the
opening all the points relied on in the cause ; and if in the closing
he refer to any new point or fact not disclosed in the opening, the
adverse party shall have the right of replying thereto, which reply
shall close the argument in the case.3
Sec- 327- 14 shall be the duty of court when requested by
either party to take brief notes of the evidence of the parties in
the order in which the same is introduced on the trial.
Sec. 328. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper
for the jury to have a view of real or personal property which is
the subject of litigation, or of the place in which any material fact
occurred, it may order them to be conducted in a body, under the
charge of a sworn officer, to the place, which shall be shown to
them by some person appointed by the court for that purpose.
While the jury are thus absent, no person, other than the person so
appointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected with the
trial.1 "
Sec. 329. Whenever a case is finally submitted to the jury,
. . .
they may decide in court, or retire for deliberation. If they retire,
they must be kept together in some convenient place, under the
charge of a sworn officer, until they agree upon a verdict, or are
discharged by the court, subject to the discretion of the court to
permit them to separate temporarily and at their meals. The offi-
cer having them under his charge shall not suffer any communica°
, , . .»
tion to be made to them, or make any himself, except to ask them it
they have agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the court ;
and he shall not, before the verdict is rendered, communicate to
7 7
any person the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed
upon.2
Sec. 330. If the jury are permitted to separate, either during
the trial or after the cause is submitted to them, they must be
admonished by the court that it is their duty not to converse with,
or suffer themselves to be addressed by, any other person on any
subject of the trial ; and during the trial, that it is their duty not
to form or express among themselves an opinion thereon until the
cause is finally submitted to them.3
Sec. 331. After the iury have retired for deliberation, if there
, J J 7
13 a disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or
if they desire to be informed as to any point of law arising in the
case, they may request the officer to conduct them into court, where
information required shall be given in the presence of, or after
notice to, the parties or their attorneys.1
Sec. 332. The jury may be discharged by the court on account
- »
sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity requiring
their discharge, or by consent of both parties, or after they have
been kept together until it satisfactorily appears that there is no
probability of their agreeing.8
^EC. 333- In a11 cas-es wnere the jury are discharged during
tne trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, it may be tried
again immediately, or at a future time, as the court may direct.
Sec. 334. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, it
must be reduced to writing and signed by the foreman ; and when
returned into court, the foreman shall deliver the verdict, and
either party may poll the jury. If any juror dissent from the ver
dict, they shall again be sent out to deliberate.8
Sec. 335. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. Ao
general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all
or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant.
A special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only,
leaving the judgment thereon to the court.1
Sec. 336. In all actions the iury, unless otherwise directed by
. ....... . . .
the court, may in their discretion render a general or special ver
dict; but the court shall, at the request of either party, direct them
to give a special verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues ;
and in all cases, when requested by either party, shall instruct
them, if they render a general verdict, to find specially upon par
ticular questions of fact to be stated in writiner. This special finding
is to be recorded with the verdict.*
Sec. 337. When the special finding of the facts is inconsistent
with the general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and
the court shall give judgment accordingly.1
Sec. 338. In actions for the recovery of money, the mry must
' •"•»■'
assess the amount oi the recovery.
Sec. 339. In actions for the recovery of specific personal prop-
erty, the jury must assess the value of the property, as also theP
damages for the taking or detention, -whenever, by their verdict,
there will be a judgment for the recovery or return of the property.2
Trial by the court?
Sec. 340. The trial by jury may be waived by the parties in
all actions, in the following manner :4
First. By failing to appear at the trial.1
Second. By written consent in person, or by attorney, filed with
the clerk.
Tliird. By oral consent in open court, entered on the record.1
Sec- 341 • UPon trials of questions of fact by the court, it shall
not be necessary for the court to state its finding, except generally,
for the plaintiff or defendant, unless one of the parties request it,
with the view of excepting to the decision of the court upon the
questions of law involved in the trial, in which case the court shall
first state the facts in writing, and then the conclusions of the law
upon them, and judgment shall be entered accordingly.8
Sec. 342. An exception is an objection taken to a decision of
the court upon a matter of law.
Sec. 343. The party objecting to the decision must except at
. . ...... i i t • i • i
the time the decision is made y but time may be given to reduce
the exception to writing, but not beyond the term, unless by special
leave of the court.2 It shall not be necessary to copy a written
. • w
instrument or any documentary evidence into a bill of exceptions;
* * , r
but it shall be sufficient to refer to such evidence, if its appropri
ate place be designated by the -words " here insert."'
Sec. 344. No particular form of exception is required. The
objection must be stated with so much of the evidence as is neces-
sary to explain it, and no more, and the whole as briefly as pos
sible.1
Sec. 345. Where the decision objected to is entered on the
record, and the grounds of the objection appear in the entry, the
exception may be taken by the party, causing to be noted at the
end of the decision that he excepts.*
Sec. 346. Where the decision is not entered on the record, or
the grounds of objection do not sufficiently appear in the entry,
the party excepting must reduce his exception to writing, and pre
sent it to the judge for his allowance and signature. If true, the
. . . ° '
judge shall sign it, whereupon it shall be filed with the pleadings as
a part of the record, but shall not be spread at large on the order
book. If the writing is not true, the judge shall correct it, or sug
gest the correction to be made and sign it.s
Sec. 347. Either party may reserve any question of law decided
* J J J 1
by the court, during the progress of the cause, for the decision of
the supreme court. Any question of law so reserved, may be taken
to the supreme court upon the bill of exceptions showing the deci
sion ; or, if it arises on demurrer, upon the pleadings involved.
When the question so reserved is shown by bill of exceptions, the
party excepting shall notify the court that he intends to take the
question of law to the supreme court upon the bill of exceptions
only, and the court shall thereupon cause the bill of exceptions to
be so made that it will distinctly and briefly embrace so much of
the record of the cause only, and the statement of the court, as
will enable the supreme court to apprehend the particular question
involved.4
Sec. 348. The party excepting may take the reserved question
... i , . . ... rt
to tne supreme court by appeal, at any time witnm one year after
anal judgment in the cause, and not afterwards. The appeal in
Ench case shall not stay proceedings upon the judgment, unless so
ordered by the supreme court, or some judge thereof.
Sec. 349. All or any of the issues in the action, except in
action for divorce and for the nullification of marriages, whether
those issues be of fact or of law, or both, may be referred upon the
written consent of both parties.1
Sec. 350. The trial by referees is conducted in the same man
ner as a trial by the court. They have the same power to grant
adjournments as the court upon such trial. If required, they must
state the facts found and the conclusions of law separately, and
their decision must be given and may be excepted to and reviewed
in like manner. The report of the referees upon the whole issue
stands as the decision of the court, and judgment may be entered
thereon in the same manner as if the action had been tried by the
court. When the reference is to report the facts, the report has
the effect of a special verdict.2
Sec. 351. In all cases of reference the parties may agree upon
, , , «
a suitable person or persons, not exceeding three, and the reterenceshall
be ordered accordingly ; and if the parties do not agree, the
court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who
shall be free from exception.1
New trials.2
Sec. 352. A new trial may be granted in the following cases,
and upon the following terms :
first Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or pre
vailing party, or any order of court or abuse of discretion, by
which the party was prevented from having a fair trial.3
Second. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.1
Third. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not
have guarded against.2
Fourth. Excessive damages.'
Fifth. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery,
■ whether too large or too small, where the action is upon a contract
or for the injury or detention of property.4
Sixth. That the verdict or decision is not sustained by sufficient
evidence, or is contray to law.1
Seventh. Newly discovered evidence material for the party
applying, which he could not with reasonable diligence have dis
covered and produced at the trial.2
Eighth. Error of law occurring at the trial and excepted to by
the party making the application;1 but not more than two new
trials shall be granted to the same party in the same cause ;s and
the court, in granting new trials, may allow the same at the costs
of the party applying therefor, or on the costs abiding the event of
the suit, or a portion of the costs, as the justice and equity of the
case may require, taking into consideration the causes which may
make such new trial necessary.3
Sec. 353. A new trial shall not be granted on account of the
smallness of the damages in actions for an injury to the person or
reputation, nor in any other action where the damages shall equal
the actual pecuniary injury sustained.4
Sec. 354. The application for a new trial must be made at the
* r
term the verdict or decision is rendered.1
Sec. 355. The application must be by motion, upon written
cause, filed at the time of making the motion.2 The cause menHoned
in the second, third and seventh clauses of section 352, must
be sustained by affidavit showing their truth.
Sec. 356. "Where causes for new trial are discovered, after the
term at which the verdict or decision was rendered, the application
' rr
maybe made by a complaint filed with the clerk, not later than£j
the second term after the discovery, on which a summons shall
issue, as on other complaints, requiring the adverse party to appear
and answer it on or before the first day of the next term. The
application shall stand for hearing at the term to which the sum
mons is returned executed, and shall be summarily decided by the
court, upon the evidence produced by the parties. But no such
application shall be made more than one year after the final iudsr,
, , jo
meat was rendered.
Sec. 357. The provisions of this code respecting trials by jury,
apply, so far as they are applicable, to trials by the court.4
Docketing actions.
Sec. 358. The clerk shall keep an entry docket, wherein he
shall enter all actions in the order in which they are brought, and
the date of issuing the process, and the date of the judgment,
Within three weeks after the adjournment of the court, he shall
make out an issue docket for all actions then pending ; and shall
docket therein all cases which may be commenced previous to the
first day of the next term, in their order, and furnish a copy of the
same lor tuc use of the court.
Sec. 359. The clerk shall docket as many actions for each day
.
as, in his opinion, will be disposed of by the court, and they shall
be called for trial in their order on the docket. By the agreement
J °
0f the parties and the consent of the court, any cause may be set
for any subsequent day, to be noted on the docket opposite the
cause : but any cause so set over, shall be called for trial in its
' » '
order, as docketed by the clerk, on the day to which it is set over,
or as soon thereafter as the business of the court will permit.1
Sec. 360. The trial of any issue of fact shall be on or after the
day on which the cause is set on the docket, unless otherwise agreed
by the parties. The assessment of damages in case of default, shall
_ ' A < ° . *
be on or after the day on which the default is taken.
Sec. 361. The entry on the docket shall show whether or not
J
*ue snmmons nas been fully served, or notice given, in due time
for trial, and whether or not the issues have been formed.2
Sec. 362. When the summons has been served in due time on Part on^ °^ *no defendants, the plaintiffs may dismiss, or continue,
for further proceedings, his action as to those not summoned, or
not summoned in time, and proceed to trial as to the others, or con
tinue as to all of them, at his option.8
ARTICLE 19.
Judgments.
Sec. 363. An action may be dismissed without prejudice :
First. By the plaintiff, before the jury retire ; or when the trial
k kv tue court, at any time before the finding of the court is
announced.''
Second. By the court, when the plaintiff feils to appear on the
trial.
Third. By the court, on the refusal to make the necessary par
ties, after having been ordered by the court.
Fourth. By the court, on the application of some of. the defend
ants, where there are others, whom the plaintiff fails to prosecute
with diligence.
Fijih. By the court, for disobedience by the plaintiff, of an order
concerning the proceedings in the action.1 In all other cases upon
the trial, the decision must be upon the merits.
Sec. 364. The plaintiff may dismiss his action in vacation by
r * J
filing with the clerk a writing to that effect. The clerk shall enter
such written dismissal in the order book, and the court shall enter
judgment accordingly at the next term. The plaintiff shall not be
liable to the defendant for any costs made by him after notice of
the dismissal.2
Sec. 365. In any case, where a set-off or counter-claim has
been presented, which in another action would entitle the defendi
. i ■ • n ini
aut toa judgment against the plaintiff the defendant shall have
. . , , ,
the right of proceeding to the trial of his claim, without notice,
although the plaintiff may have dismissed his action, or failed to
appear.'
Sec. 366. Though all the defendants have been summoned
°
judgment may be rendered against any of them, severally, where
the plaintiff would be entitled to judgments against such defendants,
if the action had been against them severally.4
Sec. 367. If the taking of an account, or the proof of a fact,
° ' r
or ^e assess™611* of damages is necessary to enable the court to
judgment upon a failure to answer, or after a decision
of an issue of law, the court may take the accounts, hear the proof,
and, in actions founded on contracts, assess the damages, or may
refer the same to a commissioner or may direct the same to be
ascertained, or assessed by a jury.1
Sec. 368. Judgment may be given for or against one or more
° .
of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several
r » o
defendants ; and it may, when the justice of the case requires it,
determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side, as between
themselves.2
Sec. 369. In a suit against several defendants, the court may,
In lts discretion render judgment against one or more of them,
leaving the action to proceed against the others, whenever a sev
eral judgment is proper.'
Wnen a trial by jury has been had, and a general
verdict rendered, the judgment must be in conformity to the ver
dict.4
Sec. 371. "Where the verdict is special, or where there has
been a special finding on particular questions of fact, the court
shall render the proper judgment.8
Sec. 372. Where upon the statements in the pleadings one party
is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so
rendered by the court, though a verdict has been found against
such party.6
Sec. 373. If a set-off, established at the trial, exceed the plaintifPs
claim so established, judgment shall be rendered for the excess ;
or, if it appears that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative
relief, judgment shall be given therefor.
Sec. 374. In an action to recover the possession of personal
.„ * itt t>t
property, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the delivery of the
property, or the value thereof in case a delivery can not be had,
and damages for the detention. Where the property has been
delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant claims a return thereof,
judgment for the defendant may be for the return of the property,
or its value in case a return can not be had, and damages for the
taking and -withholding of the property.1
Sec. 375. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff
may claim and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any
damages which he might have heretofore recovered for the same
cause of action.
Sec. 376. The judgment must be entered on the order book,
and specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of
tie action.
Sec. 377. Satisfaction of a judgment, or credits thereon, ma.
•> ° ' ' J
may be ordered for sufficient cause, upon notice and motion.1
Sec. 378. It shall not be necessary in any action upon a mort-
j j r
gage, or lien, to give time for the payment of money, or for doing
any other act ; but final judgment may, in such cases, be given in
the first instance.2
Sec. 379. In the foreclosure of a mortgage, the sale of the
mortgaged property shall in all cases be ordered.8
^ec. 380> Tne relief granted to tne plaintiff, if there be no
answer, can not exceed the relief demanded in his complaint ; but
in any other case, the court may grant him any relief consistent
with the case made by the complaint, and embraced within the
Sec. 381. When a judgment is to be executed without any
relief from appraisement laws, it shall be so ordered in the judg-
mGa^ When a plaintiff has included in one action demands, sub
ject to the appraisement laws, with demands made payable without
any relief from appraisement laws, the court may render separate
. * rr ' ' r
ludcrments upon such demands.
J n *
Sec. 382. The judgment upon overruling a demurrer, shall be
° r °
that the party shall plead over,* and the answer or reply shall not
be deemed to overrule the objection taken by demurrer." But no
abjection taken bv demurrer and overruled, shall be sufficient to
* < * '
reverse the judgment, if it appear from the whole record that the
merits of the cause have been fairly determined.4 If a party fail
to plead after the demurrer is overruled, judgment shall be rendered
against him as upon a default.8
Confessing judgment without action.
Sec. 383. Any person indebted, or against whom a cause of
,• ii • <• . .
action exists, may personally appear in a court of competent juris-
diction, and with the consent of the creditor, or person having such
cause of action, confess judgment therefor; whereupon, judgment
shall be entered accordingly."
Sec. 384. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly stated in
i writing to be filed and copied into the judgment. The confes-
aon shall operate as a release of errors.7
Sec. 385. Whenever a confession of judgment is
_ .
power of attorney or otherwise, the party confessing shall at the
time he executes such power of attorney, or confesses judgment,
make affidavit that the debt is just and owing, and that such confession
is not made for the purpose of defrauding his creditors.
„ , . , , , , . , . ,
lhe affidavit shall be filed with the court.1
Judgment in agreed cases.
Sec. 386. Parties shall have the right in all cases, cither with
° » ,
or without, process, by an agreement to that effect, to submit an?
matter of controversy between them, to any court that would otherwise
have jurisdiction of such cause, upon an agreed statement
•> 1 • 1 1 .
of facts, to be made out and signed by the parties ; but it must
appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and the proceedings
in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties, whereupon
the court shall proceed to try the same, and render judgment as in
otber cases.'
Sec. 387. The statement of the case, the submission and the
judgment shall constitute the record.
Sec. 388. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner
as if it had been rendered in an action, and in like manner shall
be with costs, subject to an appeal, unless otherwise provided in
the submission.
Offer to confess judgments.
Sec. 389. The defendant may at any time before the trial,
sene upon the plaintiff an offer in writing, to allow judgment to
be taken against him for the sum or property, or to the effect,
therein specified, with costs. If the plaintiff accept the offer in
court, in the presence of the defendant, or give notice of accept
ance in writing within five days, and before the trial, judgment shall be
entered accordingly. If the offer is not accepted, or notice of
aceeptance be not given as above directed, the offer is to be deemed
withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence, or commented on
before the jury ; and if the plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable
judgment, the defendant shall recover from the plaintiff the costs
occasioned subsequent to the time of the offer.2
Sec. 390. Before an action for the recovery of money is brought
■gainst any person, he may go into the court of the county of his
residence, or of that in which the person having the cause of action
resides, and offer to confess the judgment in favor of such person
for a specified sum on the cause of action. Whereupon, if the per
son, having had notice that the offer would be made, of its amount
and the time and place of making it, ten days before tho first day
of any term of tbe court, does not at any such term accept the con-
fessiou, and should afterwards commence an action upon such cause,
and not recover more than the amount so offered to be confessed,
he 6hall pay all costs of the action, and on the trial thereof the
offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of action
,
or amoun* *° which the plaintiff is entitled, nor be given in evi
dence.1
AKTICLE 20.
Defendants constructively summoned.2
Sec. 391. A defendant constructively summoned 6hall be
allowed, at any time before judgment, to appear and defend the
action ; and upon a substantial defense being disclosed, time may
be given on reasonable terms, to prepare for trial.'
Sec. 392. The statements of a complaint against a defendant
. * °
constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, except such
ag are for his benefit, shall not be taken as true, but shall be estab
lished by proof. But where the plaintiff files with the complaint
his own affidavit, stating that any of the allegations thereof, recited
in the affidavit are true, and known to be so by the defendant, and
that they cannot be proved or shown otherwise than by his answer,
so far as the plaintiff knows or believes, such allegations, unless
denied by the answer shall be taken as true. And the same role
shall apply to the statements of an answer containing a set-off or
counter-claim, and to an affidavit made by the defendant in snpthereof,
against any plaintiff who will not appear in court for
examination.4
Sec. 393. Before rendering judgment against a defendant con-
structively summoned, and who has not appeared, the court may
cause the plaintiff to appear personally in court, or before a commis
sioner, and answer under oath interrogatories concerning the mat
ters in the complaint or any matters which might be set up in
defense thereto, including matters of set-off or counter-claim, and
. ° '
may order the examination to be reduced to writing, and filed with
the papers of the action.
Sec. 394. If, upon the examination provided in the last section,
any matters of set-off or counter-claim are disclosed, the same may
be adjusted by the judgment.
Sec. 395. No personal judgment shall be rendered against a
defendant constructively summoned, who has not appeared in the
action.1
AKTICLE 21.
Costs?
Sec. 396. In all civil actions the party recovering judgment
shall recover costs, except in those cases in which a different pro
vision is made by law.1
Sec. 397. In actions for money demands on contract, com
menced in the circuit court or court of common pleas, if the plain-
tiff recover less than fifty dollars, exclusive of costs, he shall pay
costs, unless the judgment has been reduced below fifty dollars by a
set-off or counter-claim, pleaded and proved by the defendant, in
■which case the party recovering judgment shall recover costs.
When the judgment is reduced below fifty dollars by proof of pay
ments, the defendant shall recover costs.1
Sec. 398. In all actions for damages solely, not arising out of
contract, if the plaintiff do not recover five dollars damages, he
shall recover no more costs than damages, except in actions for
injuries to character and false imprisonment, and where the title to
real estate comes in question.2
Sec. 399. Relators, and persons and corporations for whose use
an action is brought, whether 6uch use is shown by the pleadings
of the plaintiff or defendant, shall be liable for costs jointly with
the actual parties to the action; but when the state is plaintiff, the
relator only shall be liable, and judgment for costs shall be ren
dered accordingly.*
^EC" ^n ac*i°ns where there are several plaintiffs, or sevcra*
defendants, the costs shall be apportioned according to the judg
ments rendered ; and where there are several causes of action
embraced in the same complaint, or several issues, the plaintiff
s^a^ recover costs upon the issues determined in his favor, and the
defendant shall recover costs upon the issues, determined in his
favor.1
Sec. 401. When the plaintiff shall, at the same court brio?
* ....
several actions against the defendant, upon demands which might
° t r o
have been joined in one action, he shall recover costs only in one
action, unless it shall appear to the court that the actions affect
different rights or interests, or other sufficient reasons exist why
the several demands ought not to have been joined in one action.'
Sec. 402. Plaintiffs who are not residents of this state, before
'
commencing any action, shall file in the office of the clerk a written
undertaking, payable to the defendant, with surety, to be
approved by the clerk, for the payment of all costs which may
accrue in the action, to the proper officer or person ; but the suit
shall not be dismissed for want thereof, if the plaintiff will file, in
open court, upon being ordered to do so, such undertaking, which
shall include all previous costs ; and the sureties shall be liable in
the first instance as parties'
Sec. 403. Whenever in any action, an order shall be made for
» _ '
the payment of any costs at anytime before final judgment, the
court, shall, upon motion of any person interested, render judg
ment for the costs, in favor of the party entitled to receive the
same.
Sec. 404. Fee bills and executions may issue for the collection
. i .
)f costs in the proper cases, against parties to the action, relators,
persons for whose use an action is brought, and sureties on under-
akings for the pavment of costs.1
ARTICLE 22.
\
Executions
Sec. 405. Writs of execution, as now used for the enforcement
)f judgment, are modified in conformity to this chapter (article),
and anv party in whose favor judgment has heretofore been, or may
,„,•,, . ... „ '
hereafter be rendered, may, at any time wjtnin ten years alter the
entry of judgment, proceed to enforce the same, as prescribed in
this chapter [article.]2
Sec. 406. After the lapse of ten years from the entry of judg-
, . J »
nent, an execution can be issued only on leave of court, upon
n t i .... i i i i
notion, after ten days personal notice to the adverse party, unless
ii, •* i. * i e j i • r
ic be absent or non-resident, or can not be iound, when service ol
wtice may be made by publication, as in an original action, or in
uch other manner as the court may direct. Such leave shall not
* given, unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other
atisfactory proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains
msutisfied and due.3
Sec. 407. When a judgment requires the payment of money,
1 _x , f "j
or delivery oi real or personal property, the same mav be enforced
, ' *■ , .1,. i. ,* r • t i
m those respects by execution, as provided in this chapter [article];
where it requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy
„ , , , , , . . .
ot the judgment may be served upon the party against whom it is
£'ven> or uPon the person or officer who is required thereby, or by
law, to cbey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced; if he
refuse, he may be punished by the court as for contempt.1
Sec. 408. There shall be three kinds of execution—one against
the property of the judgment-debtor, one against his person, and
one for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property,
or such delivery, with damages, for withholding the same.*
Sec. 409. No execution against the body shall be issued, while
an execution against the property remains unreturned, nor shall an
execution against the property be issued while there is an execu
tion against the body unreturned.*
Sec. 410. When the Execution is against the property or bodv
° •
judgment-debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any
county in the state. Where it requires the delivery of real or per
sonal property, it must be issued to the sheriff of the county where
the property, or some part thereof, is situated.4
Sec. 411. The execution must issue in the name of the state,
and be directed to the sheriff of the county, scaled with the seal,
and attested by the clerk of the court. It must intelligbly refer
to the judgment; stating the court where, and the time when ren
dered, the names of the parties, the amount, if it be for money,
and the amount actually due thereon, and shall require the sheriff
substantially, as follows.1
First. If it be against the property of the judgment-debtor, it
shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the prop-
erty of the debtor, subject to execution.*
Second. If it be against real or personal property in the hands
. i • i • if. A r. .
of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants ot real
property, or trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judg
ment out of such property.*
Third. If it be against the body of the judgment-debtor, it
shall require the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to
the jail of the county until he shall pay the judgment, or be dis
charged accord ng to law.4
Fourth. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or
• i ii -ii •«• it i
personal property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession
of the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled
thereto; and may at the same time require the sheriff to satisfy
any costs, damasres, or rents and profits, recovered by the same
, • ' » p l . i
judgment out of the property of the party against whom it was
rendered, subject to execution, and the value of the property for
which the judgment was recovered to be specified therein, it aJ
delivery thereof can not be had, and shall, in that respect, be
deemed an execution against property.6
Sec. 412. The execution shall be returnable within one hun^
dred and eighty days from its date.1
Sec. 413. When an execution against the property of any per
son is delivered to an officer to be executed, the goods and chattels
of such person within the jurisdiction of the officer, shall be bound
from the time of the delivery ; but if there be several executions,
, , . . .
-whether issued out of a court of record, or by a justice of the
peace, against the same defendant, in the hands of different officers,
that execution, without regard to the time of its delivery, under
which the first levy is made, shall have the preference, and all
liens created by the prior delivery of any other execution, shall be
divested in favor of the execution first levied.2
Sec. 414. Judgments on bonds payable to the state of Indiana,
shall bind the real estate of the debtor from the commencement
of the action.1
Sec. 415. The sheriff receiving an execution shall indorse
. , ii ii • i • 9
thereon the year, month, day and hour when he received it.'
Sec. 416. If it appear upon the face of an execution, or by the
^ A A * t . . i
indorsement of the clerk, that of those against whom it issued,
' ° *
any one is surety for another, the properly of the principal shall
be first sold, unless the surety shall direct otherwise.3
Sec. 417. An execution may be issued and executed on Sun-
day whenever an affidavit shall be filed by the plaintiff^ or some
person in his behalf, stating that he will lose his judgment, as he
has reason to fear and believe, unless process issue on that day.
Sec. 418. The clerk shall indorse on such execution that the
defendants are not privileged from service on Sunday.
Sec. 419. If the sheriff die, or go out of office, before the
... (v i • i
return of any execution, his successor, or other officer authorized
J ' ' <
to discharge the duties of the office in such case, shall proceed
thereon in the same manner that the sheriff should have done.
Stay of execution.*
Sec. 420. When judgment has been rendered against any per-
son for the recovery of money or sale or property, he may, by procuring
one or more sufficient freehold sureties, to enter into a
recognizance, acknowledging themselves bail for tho defendant for
the payment of the judgment, together with the interest and costs
accrued, and to accrue, have a stay of execution from the time of
signing the judgment, as follows :5
First. If the sum for which judgment was rendered, inclusive
of costs, do not exceed six dollars, for thirty days.
Second. If such sum and costs exceed six, and do not exceed
twelve dollars, sixty days.
Third, If such sum and costs exceed twelve, and do not exceed
7
twenty dollars, ninety days.
Fourth. If such sum and costs exceed twenty, and do not exceed
_ in iiij i
forty dollars, one hundred and twenty days.
Fifth. If such sum and costs exceed forty, and do not exceed
* t^itnist
one hundred dollars, one hundred and fifty days.
Sixth. If such sum and costs exceed one hundred dollars, one
t . .
hundred and eighty days.
Sec. 421. The bail, for stay of execution, may be taken and
approved by the clerk, and the recognizance entered of record, at
any time before the term of 6tay of execution expires.1 The
undertaking in the recognizance shall be for the payment of the
. ? ° tit'
judgment, interest, and costs that may accrue at or before the expi
ration of the term of the stay of execution. The recognizance
shall be written immediately following the entry of the judgment,
and signed by the bail.2
Sec. 422. When the bail is entered after execution issued, the
... . ~,
clerk shall immediately notify the sheriff of the stay, and he shall
forthwith return the execution, noting his doings thereon,
Sec. 423. When execution issues for want of bail, before the
^crm for stay expires, the clerk shall indorse thereon the date of
the judgment, and that the same is repleviable.
Sec. 424. In such case the defendant may have a stay of exe.
■ i_ «i i
tion, for the residue of such term, by putting in bail to be
Sec.
cut ion,
approved by the sheriff, and indorsed thereon, and signed by the
bail.
Sec. 425. The sheriff having taken the bail, shall immediately
° 7
return the execution, with his doiDgs thereon, to the clerk's office,
and the recognizance shall be copied by the clerk in the execution
docket, and shall have the same force as if taken by the clerk.1
Sec. 426. All property levied on before stay of execution, and
1 r » J '
all written undertakings for the delivery of personal property to
the sheriff, shall be relinquished by the officer, upon bail for the
stay of execution being entered.
Sec. 427. Every recognizance of bail, taken as above provided,
shall have the effect of a judgment confessed, from the date thereof,
against the person and property of the bail.2
Sec. 428. At the expiration of the stay, it shall be the duty of
A '
the clerk to issue a ioint execution against the property of all the
J # ° . ,
jndgment-debtors, and replevin-bail ; but the sheriff shall first
levy upon the property of the judgment-defendants, if sufficient
can be found ; if not, he shall then, without delay, levy the execu
tion upon the property of the bail. But no property of the bail
shall be sold while property of the original judgment-debtor, sub
ject to the execution, can be found in the county.8
Sec. 429. No stay of execution shall be allowed upon any
L 4
j udgmcnt recovered against any officer, person or corporation, or
the sureties of any of them, for money received in a fiduciary
capacity, or for a breach of any official duty. The clerk shall
. J . , . / 1.1.1 1 1 •
issue execution upon such judgments forthwith, returnable in
ninety days, and indorse "not repleviable," and it shall be so
ordered in the judgment.1
Sec. 430. When any court shall render judgment against two
„ , . , ,
or more persons, any of whom are sureties for any other or others
in the contract, on which the judgment is founded, there shall be
no stay of execution on the judgment, if the sureties object at the
time of rendering the judgment, and it shall be so ordered by the
court, unless the bail for the stay of execution will undertake
specially to pay the judgment, in case the amount thereof can not
be levied of the principal defendant.2
Sec. 431. Any bail for the stay of execution may file with the
* J J
clerk an affidavit, stating that he verily believes he will be liable
• i.i .
for the judgment, interest, and costs thereon unless execution
issues immediately : and the clerk shall thereupon issue execution
. ,
forthwith, unless other sufficient bail be entered before the clerk
or sheriff, as in other cases.8
Sec. 432. If other sufficient bail be entered, it shall have the
force of the original bail entered before the filing of the affidavit,
and shall discharge the original bail.
Levy.4
Sec. 433. When an execution against the property of any per-
son is issued to the sheriff, he shall serve said execution, upon the
defendant or defendants in said county, and levy the same, if not
paid upon property, and make at least one offer to sell property
levied upon within sixty days after such execution comes to bis
hands, if property cau be found, unless otherwise directed by the
plaintiff or plaintiffs, or his or their agents.1
Sec. 434. Current coin may be levied upon and returned On
execution, without sale, as so much money collected.2
Sec. 435. Bills, notes, drafts and checks, or other evidences of
, . , i , •
debt, issued by any moneyed corporation, or bank, or by this state
or the United States, and circulating as money, may be levied upon
as personal property, and sold on execution.3
Sec. 436. Goods and chattels pledged, assigned or mortgaged
as security for any debt or contract, may be levied upon and sold
on execution against the person making the pledge, assignment or
mortgage, subject thereto, and the purchaser shall be entitled to
^e Possessi°n> upon complying with the conditions of the pledge,
assignment or mortgage.1
Sec. 437. Shares of stock in any corporation or company, may
be levied on and sold in the county where the office and books,
showing the shares of stock and stockholders of the corporation
or company are kept ; and the sheriff shall transfer the stock, sub
ject to the rights of the corporation or company. The sheriff
s^a^ have access to the books of any corporation or company in
his county for the purpose of making the levy, and if refused
access, the court shall enforce the right. The shares of stock sub-
' D
jec*" *° ^e kvied upon, shall be bound by the execution from the
time of the levy, and when such levy is made the sheriff shall
leave the notice thereof with the officers of the company, and such
levy shall constitute a lien upon such stock from the time of such
levy.
Sec. 438. Any debt or thing in action, legally or equitably
assignable, may be levied upon, when given up by the defendant,
and sold on execution, in the same manner as other personal prop
erty.2
Sec. 439. The sheriff making the sale of any such debt, or
thing in action, shall assign and deliver the same to the purchaser.
and the assignment shall have the same effect as if made by the
execution-defendant at the time of making the levy thereon, and
shall be treated as so made.
gEC- 440. In any action in which such assignment is declared
upon or stated, it shall not be necessary to plead or prove any judg-
ment or execution, by virtue of which the sale was made, nor to
prove the execution of the assignment, unless the same be denied
under oath.
Sec. 441. When any execution shall issue against the real or
perSonal property of any person, it shall be the duty of the sheriff
to levy the same first upon that part of the property designated by
such person, if there be no reasonable doubt that he is the owner
thereof, and if designated in time to enable the sheriff to levy and
sell without unnecessary delay.1
Sec. 442. If no property be thus designated, it shall be the
i i i » i .
duty of the sheriff to levy the execution upon any property of
the debtor which can be found, subject to execution.2
Sec. 443. If the property thus designated shall be insufficient
to satisfy the execution, the sheriff shall levy the same upon such
i , . . , ,.,
other property, subject to execution, as can be most readily found,
sufficient, in addition to the property designated, to satisfy the exe
cution.'
Sec. 444. In all cases where the personal estate of the debkr,
...... «i .1!
subject to execution, is lusuffieient to satisfy the execution, the real
0 ' ? t '
estate shall be exempt from levy and sale until the personal estate
is levied upon and sold, unless the debtor shall direct otherwise,
and the principal messuage, lands or tenements of the debtor, or
upon which he may reside, shall not be levied upon unless other
property can not be found sufficient to satify the execution in the
hands of the sheriff.1
Appraisement.
Sec. 445. No property shall be sold on any execution or order
of sale issued out of any court, for less than two-thirds of the
appraised cash value thereof, exclusive of liens and incumbrances,
except where otherwise provided by law.2
Sec. 446. The sheriff, immediately upon levying an execution,
• i 11 /. i '
shall proceed to ascertain the cash value of such personal property.
Sec. 447. For that purpose two disinterested householders of
the neighborhood where the levy is made shall be selected as
appraisers, one of whom shall be selected by each of the parties or
their agent ; or in the absence of either party or his agent, or upon
the refusal ef either party, after three days notice by the sheriff to
make the selection, the sheriff shall proceed to select the apprais
ers. They shall forthwith proceed to appraise the property accord-
ing to its cash value at the time, deducting liens and incumbrances ;
aDtl in case of their disagreement as to the value, they shall select
a like disinterested appraiser, and with his assistance 6hall complete
the valuation, and the appraisement of any two of them shall bo
deemed the cash value.1
Sec. 448. In case any appraiser shall fail to act or complete
such valuation, another shall be chosen in his stead, as above provided.
Sec. 449. It shall not be the duty of the sheriff or appraisers
, „ ,. , . , i . i
to i^certain the amount oi liens and incumbrances ; but either
party may furnish the sheriff with a list thereof, with the amount
and nature of each.
Sec. 450. The sheriff shall furnish the appraisers a schedule
. , ■ i i ■ i ii
ot the property levied on, with the incumbrances made known to
him, and they shall proceed to fix and set down opposite to each
tract, lot or parcel of real estate, and of the several articles of per-
, . t i i i • i • i. i
sonal property, the cash value, deducting liens and incumbrances,
which schedule they shall return to the sheriff,
Sec. 451. The appraisers shall take and subscribe an oath
innexed to such appraisement, to the effect that the property men.
,
tioned in tbe schedule is, to the best of their judgment, worth the
sums specified therein ; that the same is the fair cash value thereof
at the time, exclusive of liens and incumbrances ; which oath the
sheriff is authorized to administer and attest, when taken and sabscribed
by the appraisers.
Sec. 452. When any property shall be sold subject to liens and
. , , J l r j j
incumbrances, the purchaser may pay the liens and incumbrances,
and hold the property discharged from all claims of the execution-
defendant ; or, he may hold the property subject to be redeemed by
. . , n - - . f , .
the execution-detendant, his heirs or assigns, by paying to the purchaser,
his heirs or assigns, the purchase-money, with interest ; when
redeemed the purchaser 6hall have the growing crops, and shall
not be accountable for rents and profits, but he shall account for
waste.1
Sec. 453. When any property levied on remains unsold, it
, , .<£ , , • .
shall bo the duty of the shenfi when he returns the execution, to
*# . . • . i a «i
return the appraisement therewith, stating in his return the failure
to sell, and the cause of the failure.2
Sec. 454. The lien of the levy upon the property, shall con-
tinuc, and the clerk, unless otherwise directed by the plaintiff, shall
forthwith issue another execution, reciting the return of the former
execution, the levy and failure to sell, and directing the sheriff to
satisfy the judgment out of the property unsold, if the same is
sufficient; if not, then out of any other property of the debtor,
subject to execution.
Sec. 455. Whenever any property levied upon remains udsoH
for want cf buyers, the plaintiff may cause tho same to be re-offered
at any time before the return-day of the execution, at his costs, as
often as ho may direct ; but in case of the sale of the property, the
costs of such offer and sale shall bo taxed against the defendant.
Each party may have one re-valuation of the property, at his costs,
after tho first offer to sell.
Sec. 456. Property conveyed by a debtor with intent to hinder,
delav, or defraud creditors shall be sold without appraisement.'
Sec. 457. Any personal property taken in execution, may be
• t i> i i i i •«» i i i-
returned to the execution-defendant by the sheriff, upon the dehv,
' ,
erv by the defendant to him, of a written undertaking, payable to
the execution plaintiff, with sufficient surety to be approved by the
* ' J n j
sheriff, to the effect that the property shall be delivered to the
sheriff at a time and place named in the undertaking, to be sold
according to law, or for the payment to the sheriff of the appraised
value thereof, or when the same has not been appraised, then of
the fair value of the same.2
Sec. 458. Before the sheriff shall deliver any part of the
,,. . . .,.
property to the defendant, he shall cause it to be appraised in
the manner prescribed by law, when an appraisement thereof is
required, and the defendant may sell or dispose of the property,
paving the officer the full appraised value thereof.3
Sec. 459. In case of the non-delivery, of the property accordin?
to the undertaking, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to levy
t? o> J J
upon and sell the same, or any other property of the defendant, as
soon as practicable, at any time before the return day of the execu
tion.
Sec. 460. Upon a forfeiture of the written undertaking:, the
r . 6'
officer shall forthwith return it indorsed " forfeited," to the clerk's
office, for the use of the plaintiff.
Sec. 461. Such undertaking; shall be valid in law, and an
° '
action had thereon whenever the condition thereof is broken, and
on recovery, the value of the property so taken, with damages not
exceeding ten per cent, on such value, shall be assessed in favor of
the plaintiff. But the recovery shall not exceed the amount due
on the execution, and ten per cent, on the principal.4
Sec. 462. On judgment obtained 011 such written undertakine,
. .
execution shall issue forthwith, without stay, returnable in thirty
_ ' ■" 1
days ; and the sheriff shall not return any property to the execu
tion-defendant levied on thereby, except upon the payment of the
judgment.
Sec. 463. The estate or interest of the judgment-debtor in any
real estate, shall not be sold on execution, until the rents and prof-
its thereof, for a term not exceeding seven years shall have been
first offered for sale at public auction ; but if the same shall not
sell for a sum sufficient to satisfy the execution, then the estate or
interest of the judgment-debtor shall be sold by virtue of the exe
cution.1
Sec. 464. Rents and profits may be sold as other property, the
appraisers setting down the value of eacb year separately.1
Sec. 465. So many years, not exceeding such term of seven,
shall be sold as will satisfy the execution, and no more; and the
sheriff shall execute a lease to the purchaser for the term sold.2
Sec. 466. Real estate, taken by virtue of any execution, shall
be sold at public auction at the door of the court house of the
county in which the same is situated;3 and if the estate shall con-
sist of several lots, tracts, and parcels, each shall be offered scparately
; and no more of any real estate shall be offered for sale than
shall be necessary to satisfy the execution, unless the same is not
susceptible of division.4
Six. 467. The time and place of making sale of real estate, on
execution, shall be publicly advertised by the sheriff, for at least
* . . . - ,
twenty days successively, next before the day of sale, by Pos'~ &
ing up written or printed notices thereof, in three public places in
the township in which the real estate is situated, and a like adver
tisement at the door of the court house of the county ; and also by
advertising the same, for three weeks successively, in a newspaper
printed nearest to the real estate, if any such newspaper be printed
within the jurisdiction of the sheriff ; Provided, That if the pub-
lisher of such newspaper shall neglect or refuse to publish such
notice when requested so to do by the sheriff, it shall be lawful for
the sheriff to publish the same in any other newspaper published
within his jurisdiction; or if there be no other such newspaper
published in the county, the sheriff may dispense with the publica
tion of such notice in a newspaper, and the land may be sold with-
out such publication : and the sheriff shall in his return of such
# 1 '
writ, state the refusal of the publisher of such newspaper to pub
lish the notice ; which return shall have the same effect in evidence
as the official returns of sheriffs in other cases.1
Sec. 468. Previous notice of the time and place of the sale of
a^ personal property on execution, shall be given for ten days
successively, by posting up written notices thereof in at least three
of the most public places in the township where the sale is to be
made.2
Sec. 469. Personal property shall not be sold unless the same
shall be present and subject to the view of those attending the
sale, and it shall be sold at public auction in such lots and parcels
as shall be calculated to bring the highest price.1
Sec. 470. If the property levied on shall not sell for a sura
sufficient to satisfy the execution, the sheriff shall make a further
and sufficient levy, if sufficient property can be found, and proceed
as upon the first levy, and return his doings thereon.
Sec. 471. The clerk, upon the return of an execution unsatisfied,
shall issue another execution upon the judgment, and indorse
thereon the amount of money levied, by the former, if any.
Sec. 472. Upon the sale of real estate by virtue of an execu-
tion, and the payment of the purchase money, the sheriff making
the sale, or in case of his death or going out of office, his succes
sor, or any officer authorized to discharge the duties of the office,
shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a deed of conveyance
for the premises,2 which shall be valid and effectual to convey all
the right, title and interest of the execution-debtor therein to the
purchaser, except any right of redemption as provided by law.3
Sec. 473. In case the purchaser of any real estate upon execu-
tion, having paid the purchase money therefor, shall dio before a
deed of conveyance shall have been executed to him, the sheriff
shall convey such real estate to the heirs or devisees of the deceased
person.
Sec. 474. Any sheriff who shall sell any real estate without
giving the previous notice herein directed, or shall sell the same
otherwise than in the manner herein prescribed, shall forfeit and
pay to the party injured, not less than ten, nor more than two iundred
dollars, in addition to such other damages as the party may
have sustained, to be recovered from the sheriff, or from him and
bis sureties in an action on his official bond.
Sec. 475. If any sheriff or his deputy, making sale of property
on execution, shall directly or indirectly, purchase the same,
the sale shall be void.
Sec. 476. Whenever the purchaser of any property, sold on
execution, shall fail or refuse to pay the purchase money, he shall
be liable, on mot ion to be made by the sheriff, or the execution
plaintiff, in the proper court, five days notice being given, to as
judgment for the amount of the purchase money, and damages not
exceeding ten per cent, and interest, with costs, and no stay of execution
shall be allowed upon the judgment.1
Sec. 477. Or the sheriff may re-expose and sell the property,
on the same or any subsequent day, according; to law, and if the
... , ' , * , ,, f. ,
amount bid at the second sale, shall not equal the amount bid at
the first sale, and the costs of second sale, the first purchaser shall
be liable for the deficiency, and damages thereon, not exceeding
ten per cent., and interest and costs, to be recovered by a like
notice and motion as provided in the last section.
Sec. 478. When any execution shall be issued to any county,
other than the one in which the judgment is rendered, return may
be made by mail ; but money can not be thus sent, except by the M
.til i . «
direction or the party entitled thereto, or his attorney.
Sec. 479. When property can be sold on execution for more o
than will satisfy the execution, including interest and costs, the p
sheriff shall pay the overplus to the execution-debtor of whom it
was levied, or to his assigns.*
Sheriff1 to pay over money—His liability and return.
Sec. 480. When the sheriff has collected any money on execu- 6
tion, he shall pay over the same at the earliest opportunity, unless
enjoined.'
Sec. 481. If any sheriff shall neglect br refuse to levy upon or P
6ell any property, justly liable to execution, -when the same might
have been done, he shall be amerced to the value of such property,
not to exceed the amount necessary to satisfy the execution.
Sec- 482- If any sheriff shall neglect or refuse to return any
execution, as required by law, or shall make a false return thereon,
he shall be amerced in such amount as he might and should have
levied by virtue of the execution.1
^ec. 483. If any sheriff shall neglect or refuse, on demand, to
pay over any money collected on execution, to the execution-cred
itor, his agent or attorney, or to the execution-debtor, when he is
entitled thereto, he shall be amerced to the amount thus withheld.1
Sec. 484. In all cases specified in the last three sections, the
plaintiff shall in addition to the amercement, recover of the officer,
legal interest and damages, not exceeding ten per cent on the prin
cipal sum recovered.
Sec. 485. Such recovery may be had by motion, against the
„ » • • t «. i .
officer, in the proper court, ten days notice thereof being given, or
by action on the bond of the sheriff. The proceedings in this sec-
t'on contemplatcd, may be commenced immediately upon the default
of the sheriff cither before or after the return day of the execution.
^E0, 486. Every execution shall be returned forthwith, upon
being satisfied by the collection of the money ; also, upon order of
the plaintiff or his agent indorsed thereon. When the return day
of an execution falls on Sunday, it shall be returned on the follow
ing Monday.
Seo. 487. When the sheriff has sold the property of a nont
v xr J
rcsident, or other person upon an execution issued on a judgment
recovered against him in a case where publication is provided for,
an^ n0 personal notice of the pendency of the action was given to
6UCD defendant^ the plaintiff shall not be entitled to receive any of
the proceeds of such sale, until he has filed in the clerk's office a
written undertaking, with surety, to be approved by the clerk, to
the effect that he will refund the money about to be received by
him, or so much thereof as shall be necessary, if the judgment
shall afterwards be annulled o* set aside, and the defendant shall
show that the plaintiff's claim is unfounded in whole or in part,
But surety to refund shall not be required in cases of attachment.
Sec. 488. The death of the defendant, after the execution is
placed in the hands of the sheriff to be executed, shall not affect
his proceedings thereon, that the amount of property, allowed
absolutely to the widow of the decedent, shall be exempt from
' , , . .
lew and sale under such execution.
Executions against the body?
Sec. 489. No execution shall be issued upon any judgment
against the body of any execution-debtor, except as hereinafter
provided.1
Sec. 490. Before any 6uch execution shall issue, the plaintiff
» ' r
shall file with the clerk an affidavit, charging the debtor with
fraudulently concealing, removing, conveying or transferring his
property, subject to execution, with intent to defraud and delay the
plaintiff, or charging that the debtor has money, rights, credits or
effects, with which the judgment, or some part thereof, might be
paid, and which he fraudulently withholds, or conceals, with a view
to delay or defraud the creditor.2
Sec. 491. The affidavit need not designate, specifically, any
a » j
ProPerty> moneys or effects, fraudulently removed, transferred, con
cealed, conveyed or withheld by the debtor; but the jury or court,
in determining ^he matters in issue between the parties, if the find-
ing be for the creditor, shall designate, in the finding, the moneys,
effects, property, debts or things in action subject to execution,
which have been thus removed, concealed, transferred, conveyed or
withheld, and the value thereof.
£$EC. 492. Upon the filing of the affidavit, the clerk shall issue
a notice, requiring the debtor to appear at the next term of the
court, and show cause why such execution should not issue against
him.
Sec. 493. After ten days notice, or after the return of two
notices of " not found," the court shall hear and determine the
matters and things contained in this affidavit.
Sec. 494. If the debtor shall fail to appear and 6how cause,
the court may hear and determine the same in the absence of the
debtor, or a jury for that purpose may be impanneled, if desired
by the creditor.
Sec. 495. If the debtor appear and plead to the affidavit anv
. ... - , . , . '
sufficient matter to bar the issuing of the execution, and an issue
oe taken thereon, the same may be tried by the court> or a jury, as
in other cases.
Sec. 496. If the issue be determined against the debtor, the
court, unless good cause be shown, shall forthwith order an execu-
tioa against his body, subject to the rules and restrictions of the
next two sections.1
Sec. 497. If the debtor shall surrender such moneys, effects,
' ' '
property, debts or things in action, to the use and for the benefit
of the creditor, or pay the value thereof, as found by the court or
jury, no execution shall for that cause be issued against his body.2
Sec. 498. If the debtor fail to surrender or pay, as provided
„
in the preceding section, upon the return of such finding, an exe-
cution shall forthwith issue against his body upon the judgment.
Sec. 499. The execution against the body shall be served by
arresting the defendant, and, unless discharged by due course of
law, committing him to the common jail of the county.
Sec. 500. If the creditor show in his affidavit, that the debtor
7
has not been held to special bail in the original action, or, having
been thus held, has been surrendered by his bail, and that he has
reason to fear, and does fear, that such debtor will leave the state
before the trial and determination of the matters alleged in the
affidavit, an order of arrest and bail shall issue against the debtor,
' # a '
and be served and returned, as in other cases.3
Sec. 501. The debtor, when arrested on the order of arrest,
. . , /v. . - i .
may enter into a recognizance, with surhcient surety, lor his appear-
ance at the trial of such proceedings, and for the surrender of his
body if an execution be awarded.
Sec. 502. The sheriff may take recognizance in the form and
i, , >ii. I /. -i <. ii.,
by the rules provided in other cases for order of arrest and bail,
either before or after the debtor is committed to prison, and shall
return the same to the proper court. The recognizance shall have
the same force as in other cases, and all subsequent proceedings
nay be had thereon by the parties and persons interested, as are
provided in cases of arrest and bail.
Sec. 503. No female, or soldier of the revolution, shall be
. , . . i , .i
miprisoned upon any order ol arrest and bail, or upon an execution
against the body.
Sec. 504. Any person arrested or imprisoned on execution
.
may discharge himself from custody by delivering to the sheriff i
sufficiency of property, either real or personal, to discharge the
debt or damages due on the execution, together with the interest
an<^ costs thereon ; or by delivering to the sheriff all the property,
both real and personal, which he may have, not included in the
finding of the court or jury, subject to execution, if any, together
with the property, credits and effects included in the finding of
,
the court or jury, and all his choses in action, if any, exceeding,
with other property retained, the amount exempt by law from exe
cution. He shall also make oath that he has no more or other
property, either real or personal, subject to execution, and that he
has no moneys, rights, credits or effects in his possession, or under
his control, or in the possession, or under the control of any other
person for his use, exceeding, with other property retained, the
amount exempt from execution, and that he has neither directly
nor indirectly, disposed of, transferred, or concealed, any of his
property, rights, credits, moneys, or effects, nor confessed or suffered
any judgment with intent to delay or defraud any of his creditors'
Sec. 505. For the purpose of enabling the defendant to take
. . . . _ , .«» i • j
the oath, it shall be the duty of the slierm, upon the prisoners
' ' , . ■• , . •
request, to take him before some person authorized to administer
an oath, who shall reduce the oath to writing, explain it to the
prisoner, and cause him to be sworn to and subscribe it, and, having
certified the oath, deliver it to the sherff, who shall make it a
. part ot his return, by appending it to the execution.
Sec. 506. The execution-creditor shall be notified of the time
, ,
and place at which the oath will be taken : the notice shall be
1 ' _
served upon the creditor, or his agent or attorney, by the sheriff,
if the creditor, his agent or attorney reside in the county ; and, if
neither reside in the county, the sheriff shall post up the notice in
the clerk's office five days.1
Sec. 507. When the oath is administered, the execution-cred7
itor, his agent or attorney, may propound to the prisoner any rele-o
vant question touching the property, moneys, rights, credits and
effects, and the person administering the oath shall reduce the ques.
. , i
tions and answers to writing, and forthwith file the same with the
°'
clerk.
Sec. 508. "When the prisoner has strictly complied with the
foregoing provisions, he shall be discharged.
Sec. 509. Any property given up bv the person under arrest
. „ . . , . n, .
shall be disposed of by the sheriff in the same manner as property
taken on execution against property.2
Sec. 510. The sheriff shall make return of all his doings
therein, the discharge of the debtor and the sale of the property,
according to the facts, to the court.
Sec. 511. The arrest of any person who may die while in custody
shall not discharge the judgment, or any lien upon property,
but the same may be enforced by any legal jorocccdings.3
Sec. 512. Any person escaping from custody may be retaken
hy the same or a new execution against his body, or his property
may be proceeded against in the same manner as if his body had
never been taken in execution.4
^EC. 513, ^ne c^er^ of every court of record shall keep 3
(Jc-dset, in which he shall enter, -within thirty days after each tern
of the court, in alphabetical order, a statement of each judgment
rendered at such term, containing :
First. The names at length of all the parties.
Second. The amount of the judgment and costs, and date of ib
rendition.
Tliird. If the judgment be against several persons, the state
ment shall be repeated under the name of each defendant in alpha
betical order.
Sec. 514. Recognizance of bail for 6tay of execution shall be
. ,1, . _ _ .
entered in such docket immediately after the taking or return
thereof, specifying the judgment, and its amount, the date of tie
recognizance and names of the bail.2
Sec. 515. Such docket shall be a record, and open during the
usual hours of transacting business, to the examination of any per
son desiring it*
Sec. 516. Every clerk, neglecting to enter any judgment or
reco£nizancej 88 herein required, shall be liable to any person
injured, for the amount of damages sustained by such neglect, to
be recovered in an action against the clerk alone, or upon Li*
official bond, against him and his sureties.
Sec. 517. The clerk of every court of record shall keep a
execution docket, in which he shall enter executions, as they ar
issued by him,4 specifying, in proper columns, the names oftto
parties, the amount of the judgment, and the interest due at th
issuing of the execution, and the costs ; and prepare an additional
column, in which ho shall enter at length the return of thesheri^
and such docket entries shall be taken and deemed to be a record
ARTICLE 23.
Proceedings supplementary to execution.6
Sec. 518. When an execution against the property of thejudj
ment-debtor, or any of several debtors in the same judgment
issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides, or if he do
not reside in the state, to the sheriff of the county where the judg-
merit is rendered, is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the
judgment-creditor, after such return is made, shall be entitled to an
order, to be issued by any court of record of the county to which
6uch execution issued, or by the clerk thereof in vacation, requir
ing the judgment-debtor to appear forthwith before the court, if
in session; if the court is not in session, then before the judge
thereof at a time and place to be specified therein, or on the first
day of the next term of the court, to answer concerning his prop
erty within the county, to which the execution was issued.1
Sec. 519. If, after the issuing of an execution against prop.
, , , , 1 *
erty, the cxecution-plaintiii or other person in his behalf, shall
• ' 1 , 1 '
make and file an affidavit with the clerk of any court of record of
h *
anv county> to the effect that any judgment-debtor residing in such
county has property, describing it, which he unjustly refuses to
apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, the court, if ia
session, or the judge or clerk thereof in vacation, shall issue a
order requiring the judgment-debtor to appear forthwith before the
court, if in session; if not, at the next term of the court, or before
the judge thereof, at a time and place to be specified therein, to
answer concerning the same ; and such proceedings may thereafter
be had for the application of the property of the judgment-debtor
towards the satisfaction of the judgment, as provided upon the
return of an execution.1
Sec- 520- Wlien the plaintiff, his agent or attorney shall, at
the time of applying for the order, or at any time afterwards, make
file hig affi^it w;th tne court> or t]je c]crir thereof invaeation,
that there is danger of the debtor leaving the state or con
cealing himself, and that there is reason to believe he has property,
rights, credits, moneys or effects, which he unjustly refuses to apply
to the judgment, with intent to defraud the creditor, the court shall
issue to the sheriff of the county an order to arrest and bail.2
gECi 521. The sheriff, having taken the execution-debtor into
' o
cust0dy upon the order of arrest, shall require him to enter into »
written undertaking to the plaintiff, with surety to be approved by
the officer, that he will attend before the court or judge thereof, as
required, and abide such order as may be made ; and that he will
not, in the meantime, dispose or any part of his property, not
exempt from execution. In default thereof he shall be commita
* m
to prison ; and, upon breach of such undertaking, the plaintiff
shall have his remedy thereon to the amount of the value of the
property unlawfully withheld or disposed of.
Sec. 522. After the issuing or return of an execution against
the property of the judgment-debtor, or any one of the several debtore
in the same judgment, and upon an affidavit that any person or
corporation has property of such judgment-debtor, or is indebted
to him in any amount, which, together with other property claimed
bv him as exempt from execution, shall exceed the amount of
property so exempt by law, such person, corporation, or any mem
ber thereof, may be required to appear and answer concerning the
Bame as above provided.1
Sec. 523. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify in
• i i » • i-i r • i t i • ,
the proceeding provided lor in this chapter [article]; and cither
party may examine the other as a witness in the same manner as
upon the trial of an issue ; or the plaintiff may waive the answer
of the debtor, and rely upon other testimony. All such examina
tions and answers shall be on the oath of the party, except that
when a corporation answers, the answers shall be on the oath of an
~, , »,
omcer thereof.
Sec. 524. Upon the hearing, the judge of the court may order
r . ? , n
any property of the judgment-debtor, not exempt from execution,
in the hands either of himself or any other person or any debt due
to the judgment-debtor, to be applied to the " satisfaction of the
judgment, and forbid transfers of property and choses in action,
and such judge or court shall have full power to enforce all orders
and decrees in the premises, by attachment or otherwise.
Sec. 525. Costs shall be awarded and taxed in this proceeding
as in other cases.*
ARTICLE 24.
Ileal estate subject to judgment and execution.—Sales and restitu
tion tliercof.
Sec. 526. The following real estate shall be liable to all iude-
° .
nients and attachments, and to be sold on execution against the
debtor owing the same, or for whose use the same is holdcn, viz:
First. All lands of the judgment-debtor, whether in possession,
reversion or remainder.8
Second. Lands fraudulently conveyed with intent to delay or
defraud creditors.1
Third. All rights of redeeming mortgaged lands ; also, all lands
held by virtue of any land office certificate.2
Fourtii. Lands, and any estate, or interest therein holden by
any one in trust for, or to the use of another.8
Fifth. All chattels real of the judgment-debtor.
Sec. 527. All final judgments in the supreme and circuit
courts, and courts of common pleas, for the recovery of money or
costs shall be a lien upon real estate, and chattels real, liable to
execution in the county where the judgment is rendered for the
space of ten years after the rendition thereof, and no longer, cxclusivc
of the time during which the party may be restrained from
proceeding thereon by any appeal, or injunction, or by the death
of the defendant, or by agreement of the parties entered of record.4
Sec. 528. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the court render,
*
1Dg any judgment, to make out a certified copy thereof, under the
seal of the court, at the request of any person interested, which
copy if taken from the circuit or supreme court, may be filed in
tllc office °*" tne C^erli of any circuit court, and if taken from the
common pleas, in the office of the clerk of any court of common
pleas of this state, and when so filed, shall be recorded and entered
in the judgment docket in the same manner as judgments rendered
in such court.
^EC- ^uc^ judgment, from the time of filing the copy
a^oresa^> shall 00 a l'cn upon all the real estate of the judgment-
debtor situated in the county where filed, as fully as if such judg
ment had been rendered therein.1
®EC" Every certificate of purchase at a land office of the
United States, shall be evidence of legal title to the land therein
described.2
Sec. $31. Every recognizance shall bind the real estate of the
principal from the time it is taken : but shall only bind the real
* /• i . . , » - - . .
estate of the surety from the time judgment of forfeiture is ren-
dered.1
Sec. 532. An execution against property issued to another
county, shall bind the real estate of the defendant from the time
of the levy.2
Sec. 533. The reversal of any judgment by virtue of which
any real estate has been sold or transferred, or the title thereto
affirmed, shall not avoid the sale, transfer or title, if the person to
be affected thereby shall be, or shall claim under, a purchaser in
good faith, and not a party to the record, or attorney of any party.3
Sec. 534. In every case of a sale, transfer or confirmation of
real estate upon' execution, or by judgment, where the defendant
can not have restitution of his estate, he shall be entitled to recover?
of the judgment-plaintiff the full value of the estate, with interest,
when the judgment-plaintiff has purchased the estate, or had the
same transferred or confirmed to him ; and when the land ha3 been
sold by the sheriff to any other person, he may recover the pro
ceeds of the sale, with interest, deducting the amount applied to
the costs of the judgment-defendant.4
Sec. 535. In every other case of a reversal of any judgment,
by virtue of which any real estate has been sold or transferred, or
me title confirmed, the judgment-defendant shall have restitution
thereof as follows :
Sec. 536. He may notify the purchaser or his tenant, or other
, , i .,, i
person in possession, that at the next term he will move the court
which rendered the judgment, to restore to him the possession of
the premises.
Sec. 537. Upon proof that the notice has been served ten days,
,, ... ,,
the court may proceed to hear and determine the issues made by
the parties, and render judgment accordingly; or the judgmentdefendant
may recover his real estate by the ordinary action.
Sec. 538. No sale of any real estate, made by an executor,
administrator or guardian, shall be avoided, on account of any
. . ' '
irregularity or defect in the proceedings, if it shall appear :
First. That the sale was authorized by a court of competent
jurisdiction.5
Second. That the executor, administrator or guardian gave
bond, as required by law.1
T/iird. That notice of the time and place of sale was given in
the matter prescribed by law f and
Fourth. That the premises were sold accordingly, and are held
by or under one who purchased them in good faith.
ARTICLE 25.
Docketing justices? judgments, and proceedings thereon.
Sec. 539. It shall be the duty of every justice of the peace in
.. , 1111 i
this state, when requested by the plaintiff or his agent, to make out
and certify a true and complete transcript of the proceedings and
judgment in any cause, upon any docket, legally in his possession.
"^ie p'a'n^^" may n^e such transcript in the office of the clerk of
any court of common pleas in this state.
» 1
Sec. 540. It shall be the duty of the clerk forthwith to record
the transcript in the order book, and docket the judgment in the
judgment docket. The judgment set forth in the transcript shall
be a lien upon the real property of the defendant within the
county, to the same extent as judgments of the court of common
, , , . , . .
picas from the time 01 filing the transcript,
Sec. 541. Whenever the plaintiff shall also procure from the
justice a certificate that an execution has been issued upon the
judgment to the proper constable, and by him returned, indorsed
that no goods or chattels could be found, sufficient to satisfy the
judgment, or a part thereof, and file the certificate with the clerk,
he shall record it in the order book with the transcript; and, upon
the plaintiff or his agent also filing with the clerk his affidavit that
the judgment is unpaid, in whole or in part, stating the amount
due, he shall issue an execution upon the judgment, and indorse
the amount to be levied of principal, interest and costs; which
execution shall be issued, served and returned in the same manner
13 executions issued upon judgments of the court of common
* •> 0 s
pleas.1
ARTICLE 26.
Commissioner to convey real estate?
Sec. 542. Real property may be conveyed by a commissioner
Bppointed by the court :
Ls J m .11
First. Where, by the judgment in action, a party is ordered toj
convey real property to another, or any interest therein.
Second. Or where real property, or any interest therein, has
been sold, and the purchase money paid.
Sec. 543. The deed of the commissioner shall 60 refer to the
judgment authorizing the conveyance, that the same may be readily
found ; but need not recite the record in the case generally.
Sec. 544. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment,
shall pass to the grantee the title of the parties ordered to convey
the land.
Sec. 545. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale ordered
by the court, shall pass to the grantee the title of all the parties to
the action or proceeding.
Sec. 546. A conveyance by a commissioner shall net pass any
right, until it has been examined and approved by the court, which
approval shall be indorsed on the conveyance, and recorded with it
Sec. 547. It shall be sufficient for the conveyance to be signed
by the commissioner only, without affixing the names of the par-
ties whose title is conveyed; but the names of the parties shall be
recited in the body of the conveyance.1
Sec. 548. The conveyance shall be recorded in the office in
which, by law, it should have been recorded, had it been made by
the parties whose title is conveyed by it.
Sec. 549. In case of a judgment to compel a party to execute
* ° * * *
a conveyance of real estate, the court may enforce the judgment by
attachment or sequestration, or appoint a commissioner to make the
conveyance.
ABTTCLE 27.
Appeal in civil actions?
Sec. 550. Writs of error are hereby abolished. Appeab may
be taken from the courts of common picas and the circuit courts,
A '
to the supreme court,1 by cither party, from all final judgments,
except in actions originating before a justice of the peace, or mayor
of a city, where the amount in controversy, exclusive of interest
and costs, does not exceed ten dollars.3 The party obtaining judgr
* ° * °
ment shall not take an appeal after receiving any money paid or
collected thereon.
Sec. 551. A part of several co-parties may appeal, but in such
* r -
case they must serve notice of the appeal upon all the other co-parties,
and file the proof thereof with the clerk of the supreme court.
Unless they appear, and decline to join, they shall be regarded as^
having joined, and shall be liable for their due proportion of the
costs. If they decline to join, their names may be struck out, on
motion, and they shall not take an appeal afterwards, nor shall
they derive any benefit from the appeal, unless from the ne
of the case, except persons under legal disabilities.1
Sec. 552. In case of the death of any or all parties to a iudg»
r J o
mcnt before an appeal is taken, an appeal maybe taken by, and
notice of an appeal served upon, the persons in whose favor, and
against whom, the action might have been revived, if death had
occurred before judgment.2
SEC. 553, xhe death of any or all the parties shall not cause
J *
the proceedings to abate; but the names of the proper persons
being substituted, upon consent or upon notice, the cause may pro
ceed.8
^ec. ^^4. If a female who is a party to the judgment, marry,
an<^ an aPPeal De pending, or afterwards taken, the husband mast
be notified and joined as appellant or appellee.4
Sec. 555. When an appeal is taken during the term at which
the judgment is rendered, it shall operate as a stay of all further
proceedings on the judgment, upon an appeal bond being filed by
the appellant, payable to the appellee, with condition that he will
duly prosecute his appeal, and abide by and pay the judgment and
costs which may be rendered, or affirmed against him, with such
penalty and surety as the court shall approve ; to be filed within
such time as the court shall direct, and the transcript shall be filed
*n on<*ce °f *ne clei"k 0I> th° supreme court within sixty days
after filing the bond.6
Sec. 556. After the close of the term at which the iudgment is
* ° .
rendered, an appeal may be taken by the service of a notice in
writing on the adverse party or his attorney, and also on the clerk
of the court in which the proceedings were had, stating the appeal
from the judgment, or some specific part thereof ; or such appeals
may he taken by procuring from the clerk of the court a transcript
of the record, and proceeding in the suit, or so much thereof as is
embraced in the appeal, and filing the same in the office of the
clerk of the supreme court, who shall indorse thereon the time of
filing, and issue a notice of the appeal to the appellee.1
Sec. 557. Whenever it shall appear to the supreme court, by
t 11 * ' *
satisfactory proof, that the appellee, in a cause appealed after the
close of the term, is not a resident of this state, and that a notice
of the appeal can not be served upon the attorney of record in the
court below, the court may order that notice of the pendency of
the appeal bo given in some newspaper printed and published in
this state, for three weeks successively ; after which the court shall
proceed in all respects as if the defendant had been served with
,
process.
®EC- Upon the request of the appellant, or upon being
with notice as aforesaid, and in either case upon the payment of the
proper foe, the clork shall forthwith make out and deliver to the
party, at his request, or transmit to the clerk of the supreme court
a transcript of the record in the cause, or so much thereof as the
appellant, in writing directs, certified and sealed, to which shall be
appended the written directions of the appellant above contem
plated, if any.2
Sec. 559. All proper entries made by the clerk, and all papers
pertaining to a cause, and filed therein, (except a summons for the
. .
defendant, where all persons named in it have appeared to the
action, and summons for witnesses, depositions, and other paper?
which are used as mere evidence) are to be deemed parts of the
record ; but a transcript of motions, affidavits, and other paper?,
when they relate to collateral matters, and depositions, and papers
filed as mere evidence, shall not be certified, unless made a part of
the record by exception, or order of court, and directed to be certi
fied by the appellant. Neither shall the clerk certify any pleading
first filed, when there is an amended pleading of the same matter
subsequently filed, embracing all the pleading first filed, and the
amendments thereto; but shall certify such amended pleading only
Every paper and pleading above excepted, may be made part of
the record by exceptions, or order of the court, on motion. If
clerk should certify matter not material to the determination
of the appeal, the supremo court may direct the person blameable
therefor to pay the costs thereof.3
Sec. 5G0. Every appeal shall stand for trial at the first term
Qf ^Q supreme court after filing the transcript, when taken during
the term of the court below.1 Aud in all other cases when notice
has been served ten days, or publication made thirty days before
the first day of the term.2
Sec. 561. Appeals in all cases hereafter tried, must be taken
within three years from the time the judgment is rendered; in all
eases heretofore tried, must be taken within three years from the
time this act takes clTect ; but the time allowed the appellant by
the pre-existing law, shall not be enlarged. Where the appellant
. .. ........ . . . ,n . . ...
is under legal disabilities at the time the judgment is rendered, ho
may have his appeal at any time within three years after the disa
bility is removed.3
Sec. 5G2. The supreme court, upon beinir satisfied that the statnte
of limitations has barred a part only of the appellants, may strike
' ' ' * ' '
their names from the record, and proceed to affirm, or reverse, or
modify the jndgments, as to those appellants only who are before
the court.4
Sec. 5G3. An appeal taken after the close of the term, shall not
.
stay execution, or other proceedings in the court below, unless an
* ' * ° '
order to that effect be granted by the supreme court in term, or by
any judge thereof in term or vacation, which shall be indorsed on
the transcript. The court or judire shall, at the time of making
1 . °
the order, direct that the appellant give bond to the appellee, with
condition that he will duly prosecute his appeal, and abide by and
pay the judgment and all costs which may be rendered or affirmed
against him.5
Sec. 564. The appeal bond and surety may be approved by the
clerk of the supreme court, or by the clerk of the court below.
And upon the filing of the bond, execution and all other proceed•■•I...
in i i -i .n8
ings on the judgment in the court below, shall bo stayed; and if>
execution has issued, the clerk shall notify the sheriff of the appeal
md order to stay proceedings, and the execution shall be forthwith
returned, and any levy made shall be relinquished.0
Sf.c. 5G5. Whenever an order to stay execution of a judgment
is granted, the clerk of the supreme court shall issue a certified
copy thereof to the clerk of the court below.
Sec. 5GG. Such order shall operate until the determination of
the appeal, provided the appeal is determined in three years, but /
shall not continue in force more than three years from the granting
thereof, nor shall there be a second order to stay the proceedings;
but the proper party in the court below may have execution upoa
s. I L J J r
the judgment without further delay, unless the appeal has been
determined, and other order made in the supreme court.
Sec. 567. Executors, administrators and guardians may have
_ 1 • t .
appeal and stay of proceedings in the court below, without giv
ing an appeal bond.1
Sec. 5G8. No pleadings shall be required in the supreme court
upon an appeal but a specific assignment of all errors relied upon, to
be entered on the transcript in matters of law only, which shall be
assigned on or before the first day of the term at which the cause
stands for trial ; and the appellee shall file his answer thereto.1
Sec. 569. The supreme court may reverse or affirm the iuds-
. ■, _ 1 ,
ment below, in whole or in part, and remand the cause to the court
below ; but the court shall not reverse the proceedings any further
than to include the first error.3 If the court affirm the judgment
after an order of stay of execution has been granted, damages may
be assessed in favor of the appellee, not exceeding ten per cent
upon the judgment, and the court shall remand such cause fome-
cution.4
^EC' When the judgment is reversed, in whole or in part,
the supreme court shall remand the cause to the court below, with
instructions for a new trial, when the justice of the case requires
it;5 but if no new trial is required, with particular instruction}
relative to the judgment to be rendered, and all modification*
thereof.6
Sec. 571. When any cause is determined in the supreme court,
the clerk shall forthwith notify the clerk of the court below, that
it is determined, and whether reversed or affirmed, in whole or in
Par*> or dismissed ; at any time within the sixty days after such
determination, cither party may file a petition for a re-hearing; if
rot so filed, the decision and instructions of the supreme court
. A
shall be certified to the court below, unless otherwise ordered by
the court.1
Sec. 572. If the death of any or all of the parties occur, or
any female beinsr a party marries, after the submission of a cause,
, • , , • , , , . .
judgment shall be rendered as at the term at which the submission
, . , „
rc-as made, without any change of parties.
Sec. 573. When the judgment is affirmed in whole, the appellee
shall recover costs; and when the judgment is reversed inB
whole, the appellant shall recover costs in the supreme court and the
court below, to the time of the first error for which the judgment
is reversed, which shall be pointed out in the opinion of the
supreme court. In all other cases costs shall be awarded as the
court may deem right, following, as nearly as possible, the general
regulation for awarding costs.2
Sec. 574. The fee paid for procuring the transcript, the costs
of serving notice of the appeal, and the printer's fee for publica-
tion, are a part of the costs of the supreme court.
Sec. 575. Whenever, on the hearing of an appeal, one of the
jadges of the supreme court has been of counsel in the cause, or is
otherwise incompetent to participate in its decision, and the remain-
ing judges are equally divided, the cause shall be continued to the
next term, and if then the judges shall bo equally divided, the
judgment shall be affirmed without costs, and in such case, each
judge shall give his written opinion of each point in the case, ari
sing upon the record, which shall be reported among the cases
decided by the supreme court.
Sec. 576. Appeals to the supreme court may be taken from an
11 1 J b
interlocutory order of any court of common pleas, or circuit court,
•or judge thereof, in the following cases:3
First. For the payment of money ; to compel the execution of
any instrument of writing, or the delivery or assignment of any
securities, evidences of debt, documents or things in action.4
Second. For the delivery of possession of real property, or the
sale thereof.5
Tliird. Granting or dissolving, or overruling motions to dis
solve, an injunction in term, and granting an injunction in vaca
tion.1
Fourth. Orders and judgments upon writs of habeas corpw,
made in term or vaction.2
Sec. 577. Such appeal may be taken at the term of the court
at which the order is made ; or when made in vacation, the appeal
may be taken at the time or during the next term ; the appeal
shall not be granted until the appellant has filed an appeal bond,
as in other cases of appeal.3
Sec. 578. Such appeal shall not stay proceedings upon the
or(jor morc than thirty days, unless the supreme court in term, or
some judge thereof in term or in vacation, shall otherwise order.4
Sec. 579. Executions issued from the supreme court, shall be
^e 6ame as those of other courts of record ; and shall be return
able at such common return day as the court shall direct.6
SEC< 530. No judgment shall be stayed or reversed, in whole or
jo •/ '
^n Par*-> 8uPreme court for any defect in form, variance or
imperfections, contained in the record, pleadings, process, entries,
returns or other proceedings therein, which by law might be
amended by the court below ; but such defects shall be deemed to
bo amended in the supreme court;0 nor shall any judgment be
stayed or reversed, in whole or in part, where it shall appear to
the court that the merits of the cause have been fairly tried and
determined in the court below.7
Sec. 581. No appeal shall be dismissed for any informality or
defect in the transcript or appeal bond, if the appellant shall cor-
red the informality or defect within a reasonable time. When an
appeal has been dissmisscd for want of prosecution, the court may
reinstate it at the same or the next term, good cause being shown.
When any appeal has been dissmissed, another appeal may be
taken.1
Sec. 582. All questions of fact to be determined in the supreme
court, shall be tried according to rules to be adopted by the court.*
Sec. 583. The proceedings of the court for every day of the
term shall be drawn up dt full length by the clerk, against the next
sitting of the court, and such corrections being made therein as
shall be necessary and right, and shall be assigned by the chief
judge of the court.
Sec. 584. The clerk shall docket all appeals in the order in
which the transcripts are filed, and they shall be heard in the same
order, unless the court, for good cause shown, direct a different
mode of hearing.
Sec. 585. Any appellate court shall have full power to compel
J L 1
mv inferior court, board, or officer exercising judicial functions, or
*ther person, to certify to such court a full and complete transcript
■ the records and proceedings of any such tribunal, board, officer,
>r person, and the production of any paper, whenever it shall be
iccessary for the proper determination of any cause or proceeding
ending before the appellate court.3 The breach of any order may
* punished as a contempt.4
ARTICLE 28.
Proceedings to review judgments.
Sec. 586. Any person who is a party to any judgment, or tho
^eiTS> devisees, or persoDal representatives of a deceased party, may
file in the court where such judgment is rendered, a complaint for
a review of the proceedings and judgment at any time within three
years next after the rendition thereof. Any person under legal dis-
abilities, may file such complaint at any time within three years
after the disability is removed. But no complaint shall be filed
for a review of judgment of divorce.1
Sec. 587. The complaint maybe filed for any error of law
appearing in the proceedings and judgment, or tor material new
matter, discovered since the rendition thereof, or for both causes,
without leave of court.1
Sec. 588. When the complaint for a review is filed for new
matter discovered since the rendition of the judgment, it shall be
verified by the complainant, and show that the new matter could not
have been discovered before judgment by reasonable diligence ; and
that the complaint is filed without delay after the discovery.2
Sec. 589. At any time after filing the complaint, and before
the final hearing, the court may, upon application of the plaintiff,
stay all further proceedings on the judgment. When proceedings
are stayed, the court shall direct bond and surety to be given as in
cases of appeal.3
Sec. 590. The defendant shall be notified of the filing of such
complaint, and the parties shall proceed to form issues of law and
fact as in other cases.4
Sec. 591. Upon the hearing, the court may reverse or affirm
the judgment, in whole or in part, or modify the same, as the jus
tice of the case may require, and award costs according to the rule
prescribed for the awarding of costs in the supreme court, on
appeal.5
^EC" Person having a valid subsisting interest in real
property, and a right to possession thereof, may recover the same
by action to be brought against the tenant in possession ; if there
is no such tenant, then against the person claiming the title, or
some interest therein.1
Sec. 593. Whenever it appears that the defendant is only a
tenant, the landlord may be substituted, reasonable notice thereof
being given.
Sec. 594. When the defendant is a non-resident, service may
. ,
be had upon his agent for the property residing in the state, with
the like effect as though made upon the principal, or service may
be bad by publication, as in other cases.
Sec. 595. The plaintiff in his complaint shall state that he is
entitled to the possession of the premises, particularly describing
them, the interest he claims therein, and that the defendant unlaw
fully keeps him out of possession.2
Sec. 596. The answer of the defendant Bhall contain a denial
'of each material statement or allegation in the complaint ; under
w^ch denial the defendant shall be permitted to give in evidence
every defense to the action that he may have, either legal or equit
able.1
Sec. 597. "Where the defendant makes defense, it shall
'
DOfc De necesgary to prove him in possession of the prem
ises.2
Sec. 598. The plaintiff can not recover for the use and occupa.
„ . .
tion of the premises for more than six years next before the com
mencement of the action.8
^EC* ^e interest °^ tne plaintiff expire before the time
jn which he could be put in possession, he shall obtain a judgment
for damages only.
Sec. COO. Where there are two or more plaintiffs or defend-
. *
ants, any one or more of the plaintiffs may recover against one or
' J r J °
more or of the defendants, the premises or any part thereof, or any
^n*ercs* therein, or damages according to the right of the parties;
Dut the recovery shall not be for a greater interest than that
claimed.4
Sec. C01. The court rendering the iudgment, at any time
. . ° i? . » ,
within one year thereafter, upon the application of the party
against whom the judgment is rendered, his heirs or assigns or representatives,
and upon the payment of all costs, and of the dam
ages, if the court so direct, shall vacate the judgment and grant a
new trial. The court shall grant but one trial, unless for good
cause shown.6
Sec. C02. If the application for a new trial is made after the
close of the term at which the judgment is rendered, the party
obtaining a new trial shall give the opposite party ten days notice
thereof before the term at which the action stands for trial.
Sec. C03. The result of the new trial, if application therefor is
7 1 r
madc after the close of the term at which the judgment is rendered,
shall in no case affect the interest of third persons, acquired in
good faith for a valuable consideration since the former trial.
Sec. G04. But the party who. on such new trial, shows him-
.
self entitled to the lands which have thus passed to the hands of a
r
purchaser, in good faith, may recover the proper amount of dam
ages against the other party either in the same or in subsequent
actions.
Sec. 605. In an action against a tenant the judgment shall be
, , , , i, , i , . ••
conclusive evidence against the landlord who has received notice
as hereinbefore provided,
Sec. 606. The plaintiff must recover on the strength of his
. .
own title.1
Sec. 607'. The court, on motion, and after notice to the oppo-
t ' 7 B
site party, raay for cause shown, grant an order allowing the party
applying therefor to enter upon the property in controversy, and
make survey and admeasurement thereof for the purposes of the
action.
Sec. 608. The order must describe the property, and a copv
t •
thereof must be served upon the owner or person having the occu
pancy and control of the land.
Sec. G09. "When the plaintiff in an action of this nature k
, , ^ , ...
entitled to damages for withholding or using or miunng his prop-
erty, the defendant may set off the value of any permauent im
provements made thereon, to the extent of such damages, unless
he prefers to avail himself of the law for the benefit of occupying
claimants.2
Sec. 610. In case of wanton aggression on the part of a defend
ant, the jury may award exemplary damages.8
Sec. 611. An actiou may be brought by any person either in
. 1 1 • • , • • J
or out ot possession, or by one having an interest in remainder or
1 ' * . c . . . .
reversion, against another who claims title to, or interest in, real
property adverse to him, although the defendant may not be in
possession thereof, for the purpose of determining and quieting the
question of title.4
gEC- 612. The rules above prescribed shall in such cases be
^
observed as far as they are applicable.8
Sec. 613. If in such cases the defendant disclaims in his
answer any interest or estate in the property or suffer judgment to
be taken against him without answer, the defendant shall recover
costs.0
Sec. 614. In an action by a tenant in common or joint tenant
J ...
of real property, against h'13 co-tenant, the plaintiff must show, in
addition to his evidence of right, that the defendant cither denied
'
the plaintiff's right, or did some act amounting to such denial.1
ARTICLE 30.
Occupying claimants.2
Sec. 615. When an occupant of land has color of title thereto,
,■„.,, iiii. i • i •
and in good faith has made valuable improvements thereon, ana is
. ,
afterwards in the proper action found not to be the rightful owner
thereof, no execution shall issue to put the plaintiff in possession of
the property after filing the complaint hereinafter mentioned, until
the provisions of this chapter [article] are complied with.
Sec. 616. The complaint must set forth the grounds on which
1 D _
the defendant seeks relief, stating, among other things, as accu
rately as practicable, the value of the improvements on the lands,
as well as the value of the lands aside from the improvements.3
Sec. 617. All issues joined thereon shall be tried as in other
°
cases, and the court or jury trying the cause shall assess:
First. The value of all lasting improvements made aforesaid on
the lands in question, previous to the commencement of the action
for the recovery of the land.4
Second. The damages, if any, which the premises may have
sustained by waste or cultivation to the time of rendering judg
ment.
Third. The fair value of the rents and profits which may have
accrued without the improvements, to the time of rendering judg
ment.1
Fourth. The value of the estate which the successful claimant
has in the premises, without the improvements.
SEC- 618. The plaintiff in the main action may thereupon pav
r J r I J
appraised value of the improvements, deducting the value of
^e rents and profits, and the damages sustained, as assessed on the
trial, and take the property.
SEC. gig. Should he fail to do this, after a reasonable time, to
' 1
be fixed by the court, the defendant may take the property upon
paying the appraised value of the land, aside from the improve
ments.2
gEC- 620. If this be not done within a reasonable time, to be
>
fixed by the court, the parties will be held to be tenants in com
mon of all the lands, including the improvements, each holding an
interest proportionate to the value of his property as ascertained
by the appraisement above contemplated.
Sec. 621. The purchaser in good faith at any judicial or texw
-ale, made by the proper person or officer, has color of title within
the meaning of this chapter [article], whether such person or officer
had sufficient authority to sell or not, unless the want of authority
was known to the purchaser at the time of the sale. And the
rights of the purchaser shall pass to his assigns or representatives.
Sec. 622. Any occupant of land who can show a connected title in law or equity, derived from the records of any public
office, or who holds the same by purchase or descent from any per
son claiming title derived as aforesaid, or by deed duly recorded,
has color of title within the meaning of this chapter [article].1
Sec. 623. The occupying claimant may recover the value of
... lii i i i i •
lasting improvements made by the party under whom lie claims, as
sell as of those made by himself ; and any person holding the prem
ises as a purchaser, by an agreement in writing from the party
having color of title, shall be entitled to this remedy.
Sec. 624. The plaintiff shall be entitled to an execution for the
possession of his property, in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter [article], but not otherwise.
. Sec. 625. Whenever any land sold by an , executor, adminis-
trator, guardian, sheriff or administrator of court, is afterwards
recovered in the proper action by any person originally liable, or
iu whose hands the land would be liable to pay the demand or
x J
judgment for which, or for whose benefit the land was sold, or any
<>ne claiming under such person, the plaintiff shall not be entitled
•o the possession of the land until he has refunded the purchase
money, with interest, deducting therefrom the value of the use,
rents and profits, and injury done by waste and cultivation, to be
tossed under the provisions of this act.
ARTICLE 31.
Partition of real estate}
Sec. 626. Actions may be brought for the partition of lands,
. - . ill i 1 • •
enaments and hereditaments, held or possessed by joint tenants, or
tenants in common, in all cases ; and the pleadings and practice in?
such action shall conform to the provisions of this act.
ARTICLE 32.
For waste.1
Sec. 627. Wrongs heretofore remedial by action of waste, shall
be subjects of action as other wrongs in which there may be judg
ment for damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party offending,
and eviction from the premises. Judgment of forfeiture and evic,
*■ a
tion shall only be given in favor of the person entitled to the
reversion against the tenant in possession when the injury to the
estate in reversion shall be adjudged in the action to be equal to the
value of tenant's estate, or unexpired term, or to have been done
in malice.
ARTICLE 33.
For nuisance?
Sec. G28. Whatever is injurious to health, or indecent, or
0g>engjve ^0 ^e senseSj or an obstruction to the free use of prop
erty, so as essentially to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment
of life or property, is a nuisance, and the subject of an action.3
Sec. 629. Such action may be brought by any person who-*
oroperty is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment is
lessened by the nuisance.
Sec. 630. Where a proper case is made, the nuisance may be ^
injoined or abated, and damages recovered therefor.1 a
ARTICLE 34.
Foreclosure of mortgages}
Sec. 631. When default is made in the performance of any ^
jondition contained in a mortgage, the mortgagee or his assigns, m
S
r
may proceed in the court of common pleas or circuit court of the
county where the land lies, to foreclose the equity of redemption
contained in the mortgage.1
Sec. 632. When there is 110 express agreement in the morttr.aee.
. j. °, „ , to ° '
nor any separate instrument given ior the payment of the sum
secured thereby, the remedy of the mortgagee shall be confined to
the property mortgaged.1
Sec. 633. In rendering judgment of foreclosure, the court .'hall
. . . . _ t '
order the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be neces
sary, to be sold to satisfy the mortgage and costs of the action2
The payment of the mortgage-debt with interest and costs at any
» * 00
time before sale, shall satisfy the judgment.1
Sec. 634. When there is an express written agreement for the
1 . , . ,
payment ot the sum of money secured, contained in the mortgage.
or any separate instrument, the court shall direct in the order of
sa'e tnat tne balance due on the mortgage and costs which may
remain unsatisfied after the sale of the mortgaged jjremises, shall be
levied of any property of the mortgage-debtor.1
Sec. 635. A copy of the order of sale, and judgment shall bes
issued and certified by the clerk, under the seal of the court, to
the sheriff, who shall thereupon proceed to sell the mortgaged
premises, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the
judgment, interest and costs, as upon execution, and if any part of
the judgment, interest and costs remain unsatisfied, the sheriff shall
forthwith proceed to levy the residue of the other property of the
defendant.2 *
Sec. 636. The plaintiff shall not proceed to foreclose his mort-
., . . . . „ i ,
gage while he is prosecuting any other action for the same debt or
. . * . .
matter which is secured by the mortgage, or while he is seeking to
obtain execution of any judgment in such other action ; nor shall
he prosecute any other action for the same matter, while he is fore
closing his mortgage, or prosecuting a judgment of foreclosure.3
Sec. 637. "Whenever a complaint is filed for the foreclosure of
f , , . .ii
a mortgage upon which there shall be due any interest, or installa
D r ^ ^ ' _
ment of the principal, and there are other installments not due, if
the defendant pay into court the principal and interest due, with
costs, at any time before final judgment, the complaint shall be
dismissed ;4 if such payment be made after final judgment, proceed-
ings thereon shall be 6tayed, subject to be enforced upon a subse*
' J r
quent default in the payment of any installment of the principal,
or interest thereafter becoming due. In the final judgment, the
. , i
court shall direct at what time and upon what default any subse-
quent execution shall issue.8
Sec. 638. In such cases after final judgment the court shall
J o
ascertain -whether the property can be sold in parcels, and if it can
be done without injury to the interest of the parties, the court shall
direct so much only of the premises to be sold as will be sufficient
to pay the amount then due on the mortgage, with costs, and the
judgment shall remain and be enforced upon any subsequent default.
, , , 1111 . ■■ i ~ . „
unless the amount due shall be paid before execution of the judg
ment is perfected.1
^EC' ^ *ne mortgage<i premises can not be sold in parcels,
*uc C0UTt shall order the whole to be sold, and the proceeds of the
sale shall he applied, first to the payment of the principal due, inter
est and costs, and then to the residue secured by the mortgage, and
not due; and if the residue do not bear interest, a deduction shall
be made therefrom by discounting the legal interest. And in all
•)ases where the proceeds of sale shall be more than sufficient to par
the amount due and costs, the surplus shall be paid to the mortgage
debtor, his heirs or assigns.2
Sec. 640. Whenever an execution shall issue upon a judgment
_ , ,
recovered for a debt secured by mortgage of real property, the
plaintiff shall indorse thereon a brief description of the mortgaged
premises, and the equity of redemption shall in no case be sold on
such execution.
ARTICLE 35.
Fnceedings to enforce judgments against joint debtors and the real
estate of deceased judgment defendants.
Sec. 641. When a judgment shall be recovered against one or
.
more persons lointly indebted upon contract as provided in section
, , . . i, i i
41, those who were not originally summoned to answer the com
plaint may be summoned to show cause why they should not be
bound by the judgment in the same manner as if they had been
originally summoned.1
Sec. 642. In case of the death of any judgment-debtor, the
heirs, devisees or legatees of such debtor or the tenant of real prop-
ertv, owned by him and affected by the judgment, and the personal
„
representatives of the decedent, may, after the expiration of one°
r 'J' *
year from the time of granting letters testamentary, or of adminis-T
tration upon the estate of the decedent, be summoned to show
cause why the judgment should not be enforced against the estate
of the judgment-debtor, in their hands respectively.2
Sec. 643. The judgment-creditor, his representatives or attornev,
shall file an affidavit that the judgment has not been satisfied,
• ' . .
to his knowledge, or information and belief and shall specify the
amount duo thereon, and the property sought to be charged.
Sec. 644. The summons shall describe the judgment, and
J °
require the person summoned to show cause, on the first day of
the next term of the court, and shall be issued, served and returned
in like manner as a summons in an original action.
Sec. 645. The party summoned, after summons has been served
ten days before the first day of any term of the court, may answer,
denying the judgment, or setting up any defense which may have
arisen subsequently, or suffer a default ; and in addition thereto, if
he be proceeded against according to section 641, he may make the
same defense which he might have originally made to the action]
and no other.
®EC> ^ne Partv issuing the summona may demur or reply
*° tne answer> the party summoned may demur to the reply,
and the pleadings shall be verified in like cases and manner as il
an action, and issues may . be tried, and judgment rendered «sJ|
enforced by execution.
AETICLE 36
To enforce mechanics' liens on buildings.1
Sec. 647. Mechanics, and all persons performing labor, a
furnishing materials for the construction or repair of any buildmj
or who may havo furnished any engine or other machinery for an|
mill, distillery or other manufactory may have a lien separately
jointly upon the building which they may have constructed
repaired, or upon any building, mill, distillery, or other manufactoJ
for which they may have furnished materials of any description aa
on the interest of the owner in the lot or land on which it stanJ
to the extent of the value of any labor done or materials furaUutj
or for both.2
Sec. 648. The provisions of this act shall only extend to work
done or materials furnished on new buildings, or to a contract
entered into with the owner of any building for repairs, or to the
engine or other machinery furnished for any mill, distillery or other
manufactory, unless furnished to the owner of the land on which
the same may be situate, and not to any contract made with the
* , , »
tenant, except only to the extent of his interest.
Sec. 649. Any sub-contractor, journeyman, or laborer employed
in the construction or repair, or furnishing materials for any build■•
. , , .,
ing, may give to the owner thereof, or, if said owner is absent, to
nis agent in charge of said building or repairs, notice in writing,
particularly setting forth the amount of his claim, and services rcndered,
for which his employer is indebted to him, and that he holds
the owner responsible for the same; and the owner shall bo liable
for such claim, but not to exceed the amount which may be due,
and may thereafter become due, from him to the employer, which
may be recovered in an action whenever an amount equal to such
claim over other claims having priority shall be due from such
owner to the employer ; and any sub-contractor, by giving notice
as above, setting forth the amount of labor or materials he has
engaged to perform or furnish in the construction or repair of such
. »,, i ii i i . , ■, i. . .-i
building, shall have the same rights and remedies against said
owner for the amount of labor or materials performed or furnished
after said notice as are above secured and provided for those who
serve notice after the work is performed or materials furnished ;
and whenever an action is brought against an owner in pursuance
of the provisions of this section, all sub-contractors, journeymen.
and laborers, who have performed labor or furnished materials, and
given notices as herein required, may become parties to such action,and,
if, upon final judgment against such owner the amount recov-
ered and collected shall not be sufficient to pay said claimants in
^ samo sjja]j jj0 cl IvTI<Tecl among them pro rata}
Sec. 650. Any person wishing to acquire such lien upon any
property, whether his claim be due or not, shall file in the recorder's
office of the county, within sixty days after the completion of the
building or repairs, notice of his intention to hold a lien upon
such property for the amount of his claim, specifically setting forth
the amount claimed : and the recorder shall record the notice, when
. . ..
presented, in a book to be kept for that purpose, for which he shall
receive twenty-five cents ; and the liens so created shall relate to
the time when the work upon said building or repairs began, and
to the time when the person furnishing materials began to furnish
the same, and shall have priority over all liens suffered or created
thereafter, except other mechanics' and material men's liens, over
which there shall be no such priority.2
Sec. 651. Any person having such lien, may enforce the same
by filing his complaint in the circuit court, or court of common
pleas of the county where the work was done or materials furi
"
nished, at any time within one year from the completion of the
work or furnishing the materials, or if a credit be given, from the
expiration of the credit ; and the court rendering judgment shall
order the sale to be made, and the officers making the sale shall
sell the property without any relief whatever from valuation or
appaisement laws.2
Sec. (552. In such actions, all persons whose liens are recorded,
, B At
as herein provided, may be made parties, and issues shall be matie
up, and trials had, as in other cases ; and the court may, by the
judgment, direct a sale of the land and building for the satisfaction
of the liens and costs ; such sale to be without prejudice to the
rights of any prior incumbrancer, owner or other persons not partics
to tlic action. If several such actions be brought by different
claimants, and be pending at the same time, the court may order
them to be consolidated.1
Sec. G53. If the proceeds of the sale be insufficient to pay all
L . « .
the claimants, then the court shall order tnem to be paid in propor
tion to the amount due each.
Sec. 654. In all proceedings commenced under this chapter
[article] the defendant may file a written undertaking, with surety.
to be approved by the court, to the effect that he w ill pay the judg
ments that mav be recovered, and costs, and thereby release his
property from the liens hereby created.
ARTICLE 37.
To enforce liens on boats and other water crafts.2
Sec. 655. All boats, vessels, and water crafts of every description,
found in waters of this state, including wharf-boats and float-
ing warehouses, used for storing, receiving and forwarding of
freights, which are liable to be removed from place to place, at the
pleasure of the owner or owners of the same, are liable—
First. For all debts contracted either within or without this
state, by the master, owner, agent, clerk or consignee thereof, on
n r- • i i> /> i p
account of supplies furnished for use ot the same : on account ot
. ii^i ii •
work done or services rendered for the same, by boatmen, mariners,
laborers, or other persons ; or on account of work done or materi
als furnished in building, repairing, fitting out, furnishing or equip
ping such boat, vessel, wharf-boat, floating warehouse, or water
craft.
Second. For all demands or damages arising out of any con-
tract of affreightment, made either within or without this state, or
any willful or negligent act of the master, owner or agent thereof,
done in connection with the business of such boat, vessel, wharfboat,
floating warehouse, or water craft, either within or without
this state, or any contract relative to the transportation of persons
or property, entered into by the master, owner, agent, clerk or con
signee thereof, either within or without this state.
Third. For all injuries to persons or property by such boat, ves
sel, wharf-boat, floating warehouse or water craft, or by the owners,
officers or crew, done in connection with the business of the same,
either within or without this state.1
Sec. 650. Claims growing out of the above causes, whether
b 6 , '
arising out of contracts made or broken within or without this
state, or wrongs or injuries done or committed within or without
this state, are liens upon the boat, vessel or water craft, their
apparel, tackle, or furniture and appendages, including barges and
lighters belonging to the owners of the boat, vessel or water craft,
and used therewith at the time the action commenced.
Sec. 657. Such liens shall take preference of any claims
aga;nsf. tjje koat jtggjf* or an or any cf fa owners, masters, or
consignees, growing out of any other causes than those above
enumerated ; and as between themselves, mariners and boatmen's
wages shall be first preferred.2
Sec. 658. Any person aggrieved, may have an action, against
such boat, vessel or water craft, in the county where the same may
' ' * , *
be found, or the owners thereof, to enforce any such lien ; and 11
the complaint in such action shows the particulars of the demand,
the amount due, and a demand made upon the owner, master, clerk
or consignee thereof, and refusal of payment, and verified by the
affidavit of the plaintiff, or other person in his behalf, an order of
attachment shall be issued by the clerk against the boat, vessel, or
other water craft, and the tackle and furniture thereof, which shall
be directed, executed and returned as an order of attachment in
other cases.1
Sec. G59. In all actions contemplated in the foregoing section,
. i i a t_ i • •
all or any of the pcrsous having demands of the description
* ... . . ,
therein mentioned, may join in a complaint against such boat orw
vessel, either at the commencement of the action, or at any time
afterwards, before judgment upon filing the requisite complaint
ami affidavit.
Sec. CGO. In such actions, proceedings shall be had, judgment
. *? J ,
rendered and enforced by execution, or other proper means.
Sec. GG1. If the defendant, master, owner or consignee shall,
i * a * • i • . ii* ii i
More iuial judgment, give a written undertaking, payable to the
plaintiff, with surety to be approved by the clerk or sheriff, to the
effect that the defendant will perform the judgment of the court,
the attachment shall be discharged, and restitution made of the
boat or vessel, and all the persons executing said written under
taking shall, by order of the court, be made defendants in such
action i:i lieu of said boat or vessel, and the action shall proceed to
fiual j;id^racnt, as in ordinary actions in personam, and if any
recovery shall be had, by way of the plaintiffs, judgment shall be
rendered against all said defendants for the sum so recovered.2
Sec. G62. In cases arisin<r under section Goo, the summons maj
. . .
be served upon the officer or consignee making the contract ; if
they can not be found, upon the clerk, or if he can not be found,
upon any other officer of the boat, vessel, or water craft, or any
person having charge thereof; if that can not be dpnc, by afSxing
a copy of the summons in some conspicuous place in the boat or
vessel.
^EC> The action may be brought before any justice of the
peace ill the county where the boat, vessel, or other water craft is
found, when the amount claimed is within his jurisdiction, and in
such actions justices of the peace shall have the powers and prrform
the duties prescribed for clerks and courts, and constables
shall have the powers and perform the duties of sheriffs.
ARTICLE 38.
Ne exeat.1
Sec. 664. Actions may be commenced upon anv agreement in
writing, before the time for the performance of the contrect
expires, when the plaintiff or his agent shall make and file an
affida%-it with the clerk of the proper court, that the defendant is
about to leave the state without performing or making provisioM
for the performance of the contract, taking with him property,
moneys, credits or effects, subject to execution, with intent to
defraud the plaintiff.2
Sec. 665. Upon such affidavit beim: filed, the clerk 6hall issue
r . , , . Of _
an order of arrest and bail, directed to the sheriff, which shall be
issued, served and returned, in all respects, as such orders in other
cases; before such order shall issu?, the plaintiff shall file in the
office of the clerk, a written undertaking, with sufficient surety, to
be approved by the clerk, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay
the defendant such damages and costs as he shall wrongfully sus
tain by occasion of the suit.
Sec. GG6. The sheriff shall require the defendant to enter into
1
a recognizance of special bail, with sufficient surety, personally
to appear on the first dav of the court, at its next term and abide
,
thc order of court, and in default thereof, the defendant shall bo
•i t i • i i-
committed to prison until discharged in due course of law ; such
special bail shall be liable for the principal, and shall have a right
ill- i- > i i i i /» l
to arrest and deliver him up as in other cases, and the defendant
may give other bail.1
Sec. GG7. Instead of giving special bail, as above provided,
the defendant shall be entitled to his discharge from custody, if he
will secure the performance of the contract to the satisfaction of
the plaintiff.2
Sec. GG8. This proceediiiEr may be had in favor of any security,
, ? • i i i « i • i i
or other person jointly bound with the defendant ; it may also be
prosecuted by the person in whose favor the contract exists, against
any one or more of the persons bound thereby, upon filing
affidavit. When the co-contractors are non-residents, opprrf
insolvent, or, at the request of any one of them, when the
residents and solvent.
Sec. 6G9. The defendant may have the same remedy by i
of habeas corpus as in other cases of arrest and bail.
^EC" ^'1C Proccc(^n»3 mav k° had before justices*
peace in all cases within their jurisdiction.
Sec. G71. The affidavit and written undertaking may bt
t ° J
an(^ proceedings had in any county where the defendant c
found
ARTICLE 39.
Remedies of sureties against their principals}
Sec. 672. Any person bound as surety upon any cont
writing for the payment of money, or the performance of I
leu the right of action has accrued, may require, by notice in
•king, the creditor or obligee forthwith to institute an action upon
o contract.1
Sec. G73. If the creditor or obligee shall not proceed within a
isonablc time to bring his action upon such contract, and prosete
the same to judgment and execution, the surety shall be dis-
urged from all liability thereon.2
Snc. G74. When anv action is brought against two or more
aonuants upon a contract, any one or more of the defendants
eing surety for the others, the surety may, upon a written com-
hint to the court, cause the question of suretyship to be tried
ad determined, upon the issue made by the parties, at the trial of
.ic cause, or at any time before or after the trial, or at a subsequent
term; but such proceedings shall not affect the proceedings of the
plaintiff.1
Sec. 675. If the finding upon such issue be in favor of the
surety, the court shall make an order directing the sheriff to levy
*. ... . 1 /i i • • i
the execution first upon and exhaust the property of the principal,
beforc a levy shall be made upon the property of the surety ; and
the elerk shall indorse a memorandum of the order on the execu-
Son.1
Sec. 676. "When any defendant-surety in a judgment or special
*
bail or replevin-bail, or surety in a delivery-bond or replevin-bond,
w any person being surety in any undertaking whatever, has been
or shall be compelled to pay any judgment or any part therof, or
shall make any payment which is applied upon such judgment by
reason of such suretyship, or when any sheriff or other officer, or
IDT surety upon his official bond, shall be compelled to pay any
udgnicnt or any part thereof, by reason of any default of such
)fficcr, except for failing to pay over money collected, or for
irasting property levied on, the judgment shall not be discharged
)y such payment, but shall remain in force for the use of the bail,
mrety, officer, or other person making such payment, and after the
>lainti£f is paid, so much of the judgment as remains unsatisfied
nay be prosecuted to execution for his use.2
Sec. 677. Any one of several iud<rment-dcfendants, and any
* . . . , . „ , , . .1
one or several replevin-bail, having paid and satisfied the plaintiff
filial! have the remedy provided in the last section against the co-
defendants or co-sureties, to collect of them the rateable proportion
each is equitably bound to pay.1
^ec. 678. No surety or his representatives shall confess jiulgmcnt>
or suffer judgment by default, in any case where he is noti-
nc(^ tuat there is a valid defense, if the principal will enter himself
defendant to the action, and tender to the surety or his representa
tive good security to indemnify him, to be approved by the court,
Sec. 6/9. Whenever any person seeks a remedy against another,
11 Tii ii i • •
for whom he has discharged a debt, or claim upon contract in
,.11., .. ' .
whole or in part, made payable without any relict from valuation
or appraisement laws, for which he was bound as surety or other
wise, the remedy of such person shall also he enforced without any
relief from such laws.1
Sec. 680. The foregoing provisions of this chapter [article]
... ii- /T,, ,
shall extend to heirs, executors and administrators of the deceased
persons; but the provisions of the G72d section shall not operate
against persons under legal disabilities.
ARTICLE 40.
Against foreign corporations
Sec. 681. Actions may be brought against a corporation ere*
o o I
ated by or under the laws of any other state, government or coun*
. ' o
try, in any court having jurisdiction of the amount demanded by
any person having a cause of action in any county within the state,
where any property, moneys, credits or effects belonging or due to
the corporation may be found.2
Special proceedings.
Sec. 682. The party procuring a special proceeding, shall be
known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
ARTICLE 41.
Assessment of damages.3
Sec 683. The writ heretofore known as the writ of ad quod
1
damnum, shall hereafter be known as the writ of assessment of
damages.
Sec. 684. A writ of assessment of damages may be had by
application to the circuit court or court of common pleas of the
county where the damages to be assessed may be occasioned, under
the regulations and in the cases following:
First. By any person owning the land on one side of a water
course upon which he desires to erect a mill or other machinery to
be propelled by water, to authorize him to take and assess the value
of a portion of land on the opposite bank, not exceeding one acre
belonging to another person whereon to nbut a dam to be erected
across the water course.1
Second. To take and assess the value of such portion of the
land in a like case, upon which a mill dam has been abutted with
the consent of the owner.
Third. To assess the probable amount of damages to the lands,
creek or spring of another, or the improvements thereon, by the
overflow of water or otherwise, which may be occasioned by any
mill dam already erected, or proposed to be erected.
Fourth. To assess the damages which may bo occasioned to any
person by the waters of any river, creek or spring becoming stag
nant by means of any mill dam already erected or proposed to be
erected.
Fifht. To authorize the removal of obstructions in the race and
water course below any mill, and assess the damages to be occa
sioned thereby if any.
Sixth. To determine the height to which any person about to
build, or having built a dam may raise the same at any time with
out causing back water to flow upon any other mill works situated
above on the same water course.
Seventh. To authorize any person being owner of a dam across any
water course, or having a right to build such dam, for the purpose
of propelling a mill or other machinery by water, upon his own
land situated below the dam, where there is intermediate land of
another person, to make a race, excavation or embankment, through
such intermediate land.
EiglUh. To authorize any person to divert water at his own dam,
or upon his own land, from the bed of any water course in which
any other person has an interest, for the purpose of using the water
in propelling machinery upon the land of the person diverting it.
Ninth. To authorize any person injured in any manner by a
mill dam already built, to have the damages assessed or the dam
declared a nuisance, as the case may require.1
Sec. G85. The plaintiff shall particularly describe the locality
of his mill and dam, also, the lands upon which he desires the
damages to be assessed, the object contemplated as the case may
require, and the full name and residence of any person legally
interested, or in whose favor damages may be assessed, and make
them defendants.*
Sec. G86. The jury shall consist of disinterested freeholders'
not less than six, nor more than twelve, the number to be fixed by
the court; but no person owning land adjoining that upon which
the damages are to be assessed, or upon which the mill may besit-
uated, shall serve as juror.1
Sec. C87. Upon the application being made, the court may
order the clerk to issue a writ, reciting the material part of the
application, and directing the sheriff to impannel a jury to meet
upon the land described in the application, on a day to be fixed by
the sheriff, who shall give to the plaintiff and defendant ten (lavs
t ... . .
notice, if they reside within the state ; if not, then to their agent
or attorney, if any reside in the count}-; if not, then notice maybe
given by publication, as in ease of non-residents.2
. .
Sec. 088. When the jury are impanncled and sworn, having
met at the place designated, they shall be charged by the sheriff as to
each duty required oft hem ; and they shall to the best of their skill and
judgment, and according to the exigency of the case when required,
First. View and assess as to its true value the land proposed
for an abutment, and set off the same, not exceeding one acre, by
metes and bounds.
Second. Examine the lands above and below the dam, the prop
erty of the defendants described in the writ, and report whether
the lands, mansion house, gardens, or any improvements or appur
tenances thereto belonging, will be overflowed or otherwise injured,
and assess the amount of damages, if any.
Third. They shall inquire whether the navigation of the stream
will be obstructed, and the health of the neighborhood annoyed
or injured, and if so by what means the obstructions, annoyince
and injury can be prevented.3
Fourth. Whether such proposed mill or machinery will be of
public utility.
Fifth. Assess the damages which may be occasioned by con
structing a race, excavation or embankment through the interme
diate lands of another. *
Sixth. Assess the damages which may be occasioned by divert
ing the water from the bed of a water course.
Seventh. Assess any other damages that may be sustained by
any defendant.
Sec. GS9. When any of the parties to be affected by the appli*
1 , -
cation, ;:rc infants, they shall appear by a guardian appointed by
the court.
Six. COO. The sheriff shall, when the court so directs, employ
. • . .
the county surveyor, or some other competent surveyor, to assist
, . . , . . i-ii. • » i j
the jury in determining any height, distance or quantity oi land,
or any other fact necessary to be determined by the jury
Sec. G91. Either party may challenge jurors, and compel the
, /». .„ , ,
attendance ot witnesses to testily as to any matters to be deter
mined upon by the jury, in like manner as in the trial of civil
actions.
Sec. 692. Either party may attend and point out to the jury
the place where the mill and dam are to be situated,—the high
water and low water marks, and the local extent of the supposed
injury to the land.
Sec. G93. The jury shall in all cases inspect the localities
described in the writ.
Sec. G94. If, from any cause the inquest can not be held on
« i i i ■ .
the day fixed, the sheriff may adjourn to, or fix any subsequent
day, previous to the return day ; and the inquest may be adjourned
from day to day, or to a future day, previous to the return day
when necessary.
Sec. G9o. The inquest shall be signed by the iurors, and forth^
o J J '
with returned by the sheriff to the office of tho clerk of the court.
Sec. G9G. The sheriff shall 6how in his return the service of
the notice required, and no person shall be bound by the proceedings,
unless named in the writ and notified.
Sec. G97. Any defendant may appear and traverse any material
fact therein stated in the inquest, or he may plead or show any
valid matter in bar of- the risiht of the plaintiff to have the benefit
A 1 • 1 ■ 11 1
of such writ, and issues of law and of fact may be made up and
tried, and the court may adjudge costs therein, and proceedings had
as in other actions.1
^Et" "^1C cour' may rendcl* judgment and issue execution
for any amount of damages assessed by the jury against any such
person owning or wishing to build any mill or mill dam, in favor
of the party entitled to damages, if desired by the party thus
entitled.1
Sec- 699- If> !t slia11 aPPear on tlie inquest or other evidence,
tnat any curtilage or garden of any person will be, or has
been, overflowed or injured, or the health of the neighborhood
annoyed, the court shall not give leave to build the mill dam, but
if none of those injuries have accrued, nor will likely accrue, the
court may allow the application, if otherwise proper,
Sec. 700. In case of an application by any person, after hav-
*DS erected his mill dam, no damages shall be allowed, and the
application shall be dismissed, unless the case be such, that leave
would have been given to build a mill, if the application had been
filed before the erection of the mill dam.
Sec. 701. Water shall not, be diverted from the bed of any
water course, by the authority of this act, to the injury of any mill
or machinery already erected, or in the process of erection.
Sec. 702. The plaintiff shall not be invested with any rights
« o
under these proceedings until he pays or tenders the damages
assessed, which must be done within one year after the assessment
is confirmed, and not afterwards.2 On payment being made, be
shall be seized in fee simple, of the land appropriated for abutting a
dam, or for a race, excavation or embankment. If he fails to complete
, . , , ....
the mill and dam, or race, excavation, or embankment, within three
vears after the inquest is confirmed, or to put the same in repair fit for
use, within two years after being destroyed or injured, such land shall
revert to its original owner, his heirs or assigns. If, at the time of
destruction or injury, the owner is under legal disabilities, he may re-
pair the premises within two years after the disability is removed.
Sec 703. Any assessment of damages confirmed by the court,
• i • r\ o • i ii i »
and paid within a year alter confirmation, shall bar a recovery for
the same in any other action.
Sec 704. Where the water, backed up by any mill dam, is
' < J J 'te
about to break the banks of the stream, so as to turn the water
'
thereof out of its ordinary channel, whereby such mill or machinery
will be injured; the owner or occupier thereof, if ho do not own
such banks, or the lands lying contiguous, may, if necessary, enter
thereon, and erect and keep in repair such embankments and other
works as shall be requisite to prevent such injury, comrnittincr no
i t> i /.iii
unnecessary waste or damage, .but the owner oi the bank may
recover the actual damages sustained.
Sec. 705. If any person shall injure, destroy or remove any
such embankment or other works, tho owner or occupier of the
1
mill or machinery may recover or such person all damages which
he may sustain by reason of such injury, destruction or removal.
Sec. 706. "When any person, corporation, or company, design
to construct a canal, or railroad or turnpike, graded, McAdamizcd,
1 1 ° ' >
or plank road, or bridge, or establish a ferry, as a work of public
utility, although for private profit, being authorized by law to take
real property therefor, such person, corporation or company, may
have a writ of assessment of damages.1
^EC" Such person, corporation, or company, may file an
application for a writ in the circuit court, or court of common
pleas, or in vacation in the office of the clerk thereof, setting forth
the precise description of the real estate desired to be taken, the
names of the persons interested therein, making them defendants,
and the purposes to which the same is to be converted, and refer to
the law which authorizes the taking of the property. The cWk
. , ° «
shall thereupon issue to the sheriff! a writ of assessment of dam^
1
ages, reciting therein the material part of the application, and
direct the sheriff to assess the damages by a jury.1
Sec. 708. The court, upon the application, or the clerk in vacadon,
shall determine the number of jurors at not less than six nor
more than twelve, who shall be disinterested free-holders, not own
ing land within one mile of any part of the public way, for which
the land is taken.
Sec. 709. The sheriff shall proceed to hold the inquest, and
his proceedings thereon, and the rights of the parties, and the per
sons interested, and the duty of the jurors, and their proceedings,
shall be in all respects according to the provisions of this chapter
[article], as far as the same arc applicable.1
Sec. 710. Any person havinc; an interest in any land which hasp
' » ° «
been or may be taken for any such public work, may have the
benefit of this writ upon his own application, made as above pro
vided, upon which like proceedings shall be had as in case of
applications made by the corporation, company, or person prose-
cutim; the work.1
Sec. 711. In estimating any damages under this chapter [article]
no deduction shall be made for any benefit that may be supposed to
result to the owner, from the contemplated work.3
Sec. 712. The sheriff shall administer the proper oaths to thco
, , . »ii i i i i .
lurors, surveyor and witnesses, in all cases contemplated by this
iapter [article].
Sec. 713. Costs shall be awarded in all these cases, as in civil
ictions.
ARTICLE 42.
Habeas corpus.*
Sec. 714. Every person restrained of his liberty, under any
>reteucc whatever, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus to inquire
into the cause of the restraint, and shall be delivered therefrom
when illegal.1
SeC, 715, Application for the writ shall be made by complaint,
signed and verified either by the plaintifij or by some person in his
behalf, and shall specify,1
First. By whom the person in whose behalf the writ is
applied for is restrained of his liberty; and the place where;
uning all the parties, if they are known, or describing them
they are not known ;
Second. The cause or pretence of the restraint, according to the
est of the knowledge and belief of the applicant;
Tnird. If the restraint be alleged to be illegal, in what the ille
gality consists.
Sec. 71G. Writs of habeas corpus may be granted by the
mprcme court, circuit court, or court of common pleas, or by any
udge of either court, whether in term or vacation, and upon appliation,
the writ shall be granted without delay.2
Sec. 717. The writ shall be directed to the officer or party
. i. t • i i
laving the person under restraint, commanding nim to have such
ersrni before the court or judge, at such time and placo as the
ourt or judge shall direct, to do and receive what shall be ordered
mcerning him, and have then and there the writ.
Sec. 718. If the writ be directed to the sheriff it shall beci
elivered by the clerk to him without delay.
Sec. 719. If the writ be directed to any other person, it dull
... . .
be delivered to the sheriff, and shall be by him served by delivering
the same to such person without delay.
"^EC" "* ^ tnc l)Crson to whom such writ is directed can id
ho found, or shall refuse admittance to the sheriff, the same mavhi
' ' J
6crvC(l uv leaving it at the residence of the person to whom ill
directed, or by affixing the same on some conspicuous place, citb«
of his dwelling house or where the party is confined or uode
restraint.
Sec. 721. The sheriff or other person to whom the writ
*
directed, shall make irammcdiatc return thereof, and if he rcia
after due service to make return, the court shall enforce obedieM
by attachment.
Sec. 722. The return must be signed and verified by the pa
gou making it, who shall state,
First. The authority or cause of the restraint of the party i
his custody.
Second. If the authority be in writing, he shall return ac
and produce the original on the hearing.1
Third. If he has had the party in his custody or under 1
restraint, and has transferred him to another, he shall statej
whom, the time, place and cause of the transfer. He shall pr<
the party on the hearing, unless prevented by sickness or infin
which must be shown in the return.
Sec. 723. The court or judge if satisfied of the truth oft
allegation of sickness or infirmity, may proceed to decide on
return, or the hearing may be adjourned until the party cm
produced ; or for other good cause. The plaintiff may except
the sufficiency of, or controvert the return or any part thereof,;
allege any new matter in avoidance; the new matter shall ben
ficd, except in cases of commitment on a criminal charge;
return and pleadings may be amended without causing anyi
Sec. 724. The court or jud"o shall thereupon proceed in
. i
raary way to hear and determine the cause : and if no local
be shown for the restraint, or for the continuation thereof, «
discharge the party.2
Sec. 725. No court or judge shall inquire into the legality of
• ° 1 i i .
tny jadgment or process, whereby the party is in custody, or discharge
him when the term of commitment has not expired in cither
of the cases following :
Fint. Upon process issued by any court or judge of the United
states, where the court or judge has exclusive jurisdiction ; or,
Second. Upon any process issued on any final judgment of a
ourt of competent jurisdiction ; or,
Third. For any contempt of any court, officer, or body having
uthority to commit; but an order of commitment as for a consmpt,
upon proceedings to force the remedy of a party is not
jeluded in any of the foregoing specifications.
Fourth. Upon a warrant issued from the circuit court or court
f common pleas, upon an indictment or information.
Sec. 726. No person shall be discharged from an order of com-
titment issued by any judicial or peace officer for want of bail Or
icases not bailable, on account of any defect in the charge or
hi /» ill i - li t
jocess, or for alleged want of probable cause; but in all such
xs the court or judge shall summon the prosecuting witnesses,
vestigate the criminal charge, and discharge, let to bail, rc-com-
it the prisoner, as may be just and legal, and recognize witnesses
ben proper.1
Sec. 727. The writ may be had for the purpose of letting a
. , ., . . ., , . . , .. r r °
isoner to bail in civil and criminal actions.
Sec. 728. When any person has an interest in the detention,
c prisoner shall not be discharged until the person having such
terest is notified.
Sec. 729. The court or judge shall have power to require and
<• . i , ,
compel the attendance ol witnesses, and to do all other acts neces
sary to determine the case,
Sec. 730. No sheriff or other officer shall be liable to a civil action
for obeying any writ of habeas corpus or order of discharge made
thcrCOll.
Sec. 731. "Whenever it shall appear by affidavit that any one
is illegally held in custody or restraint, and that there is good
, ,. . , .,, , . , „ ■ . .
reason to believe that sucli person will be carried out of the juris#
1 *
diction °* tnc court or judge before whom the application is made,
or suffer some irreparable injury before compliance with the
writ can be enforced, such court or judge may cause a warrant to
be issued, reciting the facts and directed to the sheriff or any con
stable of the county, commanding him to take the person held in
custody or restraint, and forthwith bring him before the court or
judge, to be dealt with according to law.
Sec. 732. The court or judge may also, if the same be deemed
J ° ' '
necessary, insert in the warrant a command for the apprehension
of the person charged with causing the illegal restraint.
Sec. 733. The officer shall execute the writ by bringing the
person therein named before the court or judge, and the like return
and proceedings shall be required and had as in case of writs of
. 7
habeas corpus.
Sec. 73-1. The court or judge may make any temporary orders
in the cause or disposition of the party, during the progress of the
proceedings, that justice may require. The custody of any party
restrained may be changed from one person to another by order of
the court or judge.
Sec. 735. Any writ or process authorized by this chapter
[article] may bo issued and served, in cases of emergency, on
Sunday.
Sec. 73G. All writs and other process, authorized by the prov;s;ong
0f this chapter [article] shall be issued by the clerk of the
court, and, except summonses, scaled with the seal of such court;
and sliul 1 be served and returned forthwith unless tho court or
juilgo shall specify a particular time for any such return. And no
writ or other process shall be disregarded for any defect therein, if
enough is shown to notify the officer or person of the purport of
the process. Amendments may be allowed, and temporary com-
. 1 .
mitmcnts, when necessary.
Sec. 737. Y/rits of habeas corpus shall bo granted in favor of
parents, guardians, masters and husbands; and to enforce the
rights, and for the protection of infants and insane persons; end
tho proceedings shall in all 6iich cases, conform to the provisions
of this statute.1
Sec. 738. Writs of mandate and prohibition may issue from
the supreme and circuit courts, and courts of common picas oi this
state ; but such writs shall issue from the supreme court only
when necessary for the exercise of its functions and powers.1
Sec. 739. Writs of mandate may be issued to any inferior tribunal,
corporation, board or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins; or, a duty resulting from
an office, trust or station.2
8ec. 740. The writ shall be issued upon affidavit and motion,
and shall be attested and scaled and made returnable as the court
shall direct ; and the person, body or tribunal to whom the same
shall be directed and delivered, shall make return, and for neglect
to do so, shall be proceeded against as for a contempt.
Sec. 741. The first writ shall be in the alternative or peremp-
toiy, as the court shall direct.1
Sec. 742. "Whenever a return shall be made to any such writ,
issues of law and fact may be joined, and like proceedings shall
bc had for the trial of issues and rendering judgment as in civil
tctions.
Sec. 743. In case a verdict shall be found for the plaintiff
ii • • t* . i i* where
the writ is m the alternative, or if judgment be given for
him, he shall recover damages as in an action for a false return,
against the party making the return, and a peremptory writ shall
be granted without delay.
Sec. 744. The court shall have the same power to enlarge the
time of making a return, and pleading to 6uch writ, and for filing
an/ subsequent pleadings, and to continue such cause as in civil
actions.
Sec. 745. Obedience to such writs may be enforced by attachraeut
and fine, or imprisonment, or both.
Sec. 746. The writ of prohibition shall command the court
* . . „
and party to whom it shall be directed to refrain from any further
proceedings in the matter therein specified, until the return of the
writ and the further order of the court thereon ; and upon the
return, to show cause why they shall not be absolutely restrained
from any further proceedings in the matter,
Sec. 747. The court shall render judgment, either that a pro
hibition absolute, restraining the court and party from proceeding
in the matter, do issue ; or authorizing the court and party to pro
ceed in the matter in question.
Sec. 748. Costs shall be awarded in these proceedings as in
civil actions.1
AKTICLE 44
Informations.
Sec. 749. An information maybe filed against any person or
J © J -1
corporation in the following cases:
First. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully
hold or exercise any public office, or any franchise within this state,
or any office in any corporation created by the authority of this
state.2
Second. Whenever any public officer shall have done or suffered
any act which, by the provisions of law shall work a forfeiture of
his office.
nurd. Where any association or number of persons shall act
within this state as a corporation, without being legally incorpo
rated.8
Fourth. Or where any corporation do or omit acts which
amount to a surrender or a forfeiture of their rights and privileges
as a corporation, or when they exercise powers not conferred by
law.
Sec. 7o0. The information may be filed by the prosecuting
• .
attorney iu the circuit court of the proper county upon his own
relation, whenever he shall deem it his duty to do so, or shall be
directed by the court or other proper authority ; or by any other
person on his own relation, whenever he claims an interest In the
office, franchise or corporation, which is the subject of the infor
mation.1
Sec. 7ol. The information shall consist of a plain statement of
the facts which constitute the grounds of the proceeding addressed
to the court.1
Sec. 752. Whenever an information shall be filed against a
. . 1 • «
person for usurping an office, by the prosecuting attorney, lie shall
also sot forth therein the name of the person rightfully entitled to
the office, with an averment of his right thereto ; and when filed
by any other person, he shall show his interest in the matter, and
he may claim the damages he has sustained,
^EC' Whenever an information is filed, a summons shall
issue thereon, which shall be served and returned as in other
actions. The defendant shall appear and answer, or suffer default,
anJ subsequent proceedings be had as in other cases,
Sec. 754. In every case contesting the right to an office,
. . . „ , * , i . i * . \
judgment shall be rendered upon the rights of the parties, and
for the damages the relator may show himself entitled to, if any,
to the time of the judgment.
Sec. 755. If judgment bo rendered in favor of the relator, he
shall proceed to exercise the functions of the office after he hat
been qualified as required by law ; and the court shall order the
defendant t0 deliver over all the books and papers in his custody
or within his power, belonging to the office from which he shall
have been ousted.
Sec. 756. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver
over the books and papers, pursuant to the order, the court or
judge thereof shall enforce the order by attachment and imprison
ment.
Sec. 757. When the judgment is rendered in favor of the
plaintiff, he may, if he has not claimed his damages in the infonna-
tion, have his action for the damages at any time within one year
after the judgment.
Sec. 758. When several persons claim to be entitled to the
eame office or franchise, one information may be filed against any
or all such persons, in order to try their respective rights to the
office or franchise.
Sec. 759. Whenever any defendant shall be found guilty of
.. « . . . i j» n
any usurpation of, or intrusion into, or unlawfully exercising any
office, or any franchise within this state, or any office in any corpo
ration created by the authority of this state, or when any publio
officer, thus charged, shall be found guilty of having done or suf
fered any act which, by the provisions of law, shall work a forfeit
ure of his office ; or when any association or number of persona
shall be found guilty of having acted as a corporation, without
having been legally incorporated, the court shall give judgment of
ouster against the defendant, and exclude him from the office, fran-
ehise or corporate rights; and in cases of corporations, that the
lame shall be dissolved, and the court shall adjudge costs in favor
of the plaintiff.
Sec. 7G0. If judgment be rendered against any corporation, or
against any persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may
cause the costs to be collected by execution against the persons
11 • 1.
claiming to be a corporation, or by attachment against the directors
or other officers of the corporation, and shall restrain the corpora
tion, appoint a receiver of its property and effects, take an account,
and make a distribution thereof among the creditors ; the prosccuting
attorney shall immediately institute proceedings for that
purpose.
Sec. 7G1. Whenever any property shall escheat, or be forfeited
to the state for its use, the legal title shall be deemed to be in the
state from the time of the escheat or forfeiture ; and an information
may be filed by the prosecuting attorney in the circuit court for the
11 . 1 i i-ii
recovery of the property, alleging the ground on which the recov
ery is claimed ; and like proceedings and judgment shall be had, as
in a civil action for the recovery of property.1
Sec. 7G2. When an information is filed by the prosecuting
attorney, he shall not be liable for costs; but when it is filed upon
the relation. of a private person, he shall be liable for costs, unless
the same arc adjudged against the defendant.
Sec. 7G3. An information may be prosecuted for the purpose
11
of annulling or vacating any letters patent, certificate or deed
granted by the proper authorities of this state, when there is reason
to believe that the same were obtained by fraud or through mis
take or ignoranc? of a material fact, or when the patentee or those
claiming under him, have done or omitted an act in violation of
the terms on which the letters, deed or certificates were granted, or
have by any other means forfeited the interest acquired under tho
same.
Sec. 7G4. In such cases tho information maybe filed by tho
prosecuting attorney, upon his relation, or by any private person
upon his relation, showing his interest in the subject-matter, and
the subsequent proceeding, judgment of the court, and awarding of
costs shall conform to the above provisions, and such letters patent,
deed or certificate, shall be annulled or sustained according to the
right t»f the case.
Sec. 765. A civil action may be prosecuted or defended by a
party in person or by attorney, except tbat a corporation appears
by attorney in all cases.
Sec. 766. Every person of good moral character, being a voter,
on application shall be admitted to practice law in all the courts of
justice. Moral character may be proved by any evidence satisfac
tory to the court.1
^EC" Whenever any person has been admitted to prartioi
law in a court of record in any county, he shall bo encitl*»d to
receive from the clerk a certificate of admission, which shall
authorize him to practice law in all the courts of this state; but
any court may, at any time, inquire into and determine for itself
the moral character of any person practicing or offering to practic*
law in such court.
Sec. 7G8. Any court may permit an atrorney who is not a resi,
* * 1 . , .
dent of this state to practice law therein, during any term of such
court, upon his taking an oath for the faithful discharge of his
duties.
Sec. 7G9. Every person, before proceeding to discharge the
duties of an attorney, shall take an oath to support the constitution
of the United States, and of this state, and that he will faithfully
and honestly discharge the duties of an attorney at law. which oath
shall be entered in the order bonk of the court.
Sec. 770. At each term of the court, the clerk shall furnish
, ....
the court with a list of the names of all the attorneys having busi
ness in such court.
Sec. 771. It shall be the duty of an attorney,
Firsf. To support the constitution and laws of the United
States, and of this state. - *
Second. To maintain the respect that is due to the courts of
justice and judicial officers.
Tliird. To counsel or maintain 6uch actions, proceedings or
defences, only, as appear to him legal and just ; but this section
shall not be construed to prevent the defense of a person charged
with a crime, in any case.
Fourth. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the causes
confided to him, such means, only, as are consistent with truth, and
never seek to mislead the court or jury by any artifice or false
statement of fact or law.1
Fijlh. To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every peril
to himself, to preserve the secrets of his client.'
Sixth. To abstain from all offensive personality, and to advance
no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or wit
ness, unless required by the justice of the cause with which he is
charged.
Seventh. Not to encourage either the commencement or the con
tinuance of an action or proceeding from any motive of passion or
interest.
Eighth. Never to reject, from any consideration personal to
himself, the cause of the defenceless or oppressed.
Sec. 772. An attorney has authority, until discharged or superseded
by another.
First. To bind his client in an action or special proceeding, by
his agreement, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes of
the court, and not otherwise.1
Second. To receive money claimed by his client in an action or
special proceeding, during the pendency thereof or afterwards ; and
upon the payment thereof, and not otherwise, to discharge the claim,
or acknowledge satisfaction of the judgment,
Sec. 773. No judgment shall be rendered against any party
jo © </ c j
uPon the agreement of an attorney, nor any judgment by default,
where the party has not been notified, or personally entered his
appearance, unless the written authority of the party be first pro
duced, and its execution proved to the satisfaction of the court.1
Sec. 774. The court or iudge may, on motion of either party
•> ° J ' r j
and on showing reasonable ground therefor, or without such
motion, require an attorney to produce and prove the authority
un(^er which he appears ; and until he does so may stay all pro
ceedings by him on behalf of the party for whom he assumes to
appear.4
^EC. ^ he alleged by a party for whom an attorney
appears, that he does so without authority, the court may at any
stage of the proceedings, relieve such party from the consequences
of the attorney's act. It may, also, summarily upon motion, compel
the attorney to repair the injury consequent upon his assumption
of authority.8
Sec. 776. An attorney who is guilty of deceit or collusion, or
, ... , . ,
consents thereto, with intent to deceive a court or judge, or a party
to an action or judicial proceeding, is punishable for a misdemeanor,
and shall also forfeit to the party injured, treble damages, recover
able in a civil action. *
Sec. 777. Any court of record may suspend an attorney from
practicing therein for any of the following causes :
£ f 1
First. When he has been convicted of a felony, or of a misde
meanor, involving moral turpitude, in either of which cases the
record of conviction is conclusive evidence.
Second. When he is guilty of a willful disobedience or violation
of the order of court, requiring him to do or forbear an act con
nected with, or in course of his profession.1
Third. For a willful violation of any of the duties of an attorney,
as hereinbefore prescribed.
Sec. 778. When an attorney, on request, refuses to deliver over
™ , > i r i_
money or papers to a person irom whom, or tor whom he has
received them, in the course of his professional employment,
whether in an action or not, he may be required, after reasonable
notice, on motion of any party aggrieved, by an order of the court
in which an action, if any, was prosecuted, or if no action was
prosecuted, then by the order of any court of record, to do so,
within a specified time, or show cause why he should not be pun
ished for contempt.2
Sec. 779. In cases contemplated in the last preceding section,
on such motion, or in an action brought by the party aggrieved,
the court may suspend the attorney from practice in any of the
courts of this state, for any length of time, in its discretion ; judg
ment may also be rendered for the amount of money withheld,
deducting fees, if any are due, and costs paid by the attorney, with
ten per cent, damages, which may be enforced by execution, with
out the benefit or stay of appraisement laws, and returnable within
thirty days. The court may also render any judgment, and make
any order respecting papers or property withheld, that may be ne
cessary to enforce the right of the party aggrieved, subject to any
liens the attorney may have thereon for fees.'
Sec. 780. The proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney
may be commenced by the direction of the court, or on motion of
an individual. In the former case, the court must direct some
attorney to draw up and prosecute the accusation ; in the latter case
it may be drawn up by any person, and sworn to by the person
making it. Such accusation may be filed in any court in which the
attorney practices, and after five days' notice of the filing, the
attorney shall be bound to appear and plead to the same, or suffer
judgment by default. If he appear, pleadings may be filed and
trial had as in other cases.1
Sec. 781. In proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney, a
judgment of acquittal shall be final and without appeal.2 But
from a judgment of suspension or removal, or any other judgment
against an attorney, the accused may appeal to the supreme court,
in the same manner as from a judgment in a civil action.3 A
motion may be made at any time to reinstate an attorney who has
been suspended or removed.
ARTICLE 46.
Comes of action that survive.*
Sec. 782. A cause of action arising out of an injury to the
... . , . .
person, dies with the person of either party, except in cases in
which an action is given for an injury causing the death of any
person, and actions for seduction and false imprisonment.
Sec. 783. All other causes of action survive, and may be
brought by or against the representatives of the deceased party,
. . « . . k
except actions tor promises to marry.
Sec. 784. When the death of one is caused by the wrongful
act or omission of another, the personal representatives of the for-
mer may maintain an action therefor against the latter, if the for
mer might have maintained an action had he lived, against the
latter for an injury for the same act or omission. The action must
be commenced within two years The damages can not exceed five
thousand dollars, and must inure to the exclusive benefit of the
widow and children, if any, or next of kin, to be distributed in the
i /» • - i A
same manner as personal property of the deceased.
^EC" Fadings sworn to by either party in any case shall
no* 0n *"a^ ^e deemed proof of the facts alleged therein, nor
require other or greater proof on the part of the adverse [party]
than those not sworn to.1
Sec. 786. When a new party is introduced into an action as aJ>
r » b
representative or successor of a former party, such new party ish
entitled to the same notice, to be given in the same manner as
required for defendants in the commencement of an action.1
Sec. 787. The time within which an act is to be done, as herein T
p
provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day and includ
ing the last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.2
Sec. 788. Every charge of incest, fornication, adultery, or w
J ° ' . , d
whoredom, falsely made by any person against a female; also,
words falsely spoken of any person, charging such person with
incest, or the infamous crime against nature, either with mankind
or the brute creation, shall be actionable in the same manner as in
the case of slanderous words charging a crime, the commission of
which would subject the offender to death, or other degrading pen
alties.'
Sec. 789. Every court and officer authorized to take any bail
* . c
or surety, shall have power to examine on oath the person onenng"»
to become such bail or surety, concerning his property, and suffi
ciency as such bail or surety.
Sec. 790. No official bond entered into by any officer, nor any
. , . . j i • i i ' . f
bond, recognizance or written undertaking taken by any orhcer infe
the discharge of the duties of his office, shall be void for want of
form of substance, or recital, or condition, nor the principal or
surety be discharged ; but the principal and surety shall be bound
by such bond, recognizance or written undertaking, to the full
extent contemplated by the law requiring the same, and the sureties
to the amount specified in the bond or recognizance. In all actions
on a defective bond, recognizance or written undertaking, the plaintiff
or relator may suggest the defect in his complaint, and recover
to the same extent as if such bond, recognizance or written under
taking were perfect in all respects.1
Sec. 791. In auy action brought for the recovery of the
. * Tit » i
purchase-money against any person holding a contract for the purchase
of lands, the party bound to perform the contract, if Dot
plaintiff, may be made a. party, and the court, in the final judgment,
mav or<ler the interest of the purchaser to be 6old, or transferred to
the plaintiff upon such terms as may be just; and may also order a
specific performance of the contract in favor of the complainant, or
the purchaser, in case a sale be ordered.2
^EC" ^n a^ cases where notice is required by this act, it
must be in writing, and may be served by the proper officer or any
other person.*
Sec. 793. If any judge of the circuit court, or court of common
pleas, shall adjourn the court before having gone through the busi-l
ness pending, and before the expiration of the time fixed by law,
the record must show the reason for adjournment.1
Sec. 794. Husband and wife may join in all causes of action
arising from injuries to the person or character of either and both
of them, or from injuries to the property of either and both of
them, or arising out of any contract in favor of either and both of
them.1
Sec. 795. Any person required to give bail, may deposit with
the clerk, the amount of money for which he is required to give
bail, and thereupon be discharged from arrest.
Sec. 796. Any action against a corporation may be brought in
any county, where the corporation has an office for the transaction
of business, or any person resides upon whom process may be
served against such corporation, unless otherwise provided in this
act1
ARTICLE 48.
Rules of construction and repeal of statutes.
Sec. 797. In the construction of this act, the following rules
shall be observed, when consistent with the context :4
The word " sheriff" means the sheriff of the county, or any other
person authorized to perform his duties in any case.
The word " clerk " means the clerk of the court, or any person
authorized to perform his duties in any case.
The phrase " of unsound mind," includes idiots, non-compotes,
lunatics, and distracted persons.
The word " oath" includes the word affirmation ; and the phrase
"to twear," includes to affirm.
The word "person," extends to bodies politic and corporate.
The phrase "under legal disabilities," includes married women,
. • • i « » i . ,
persons within the age of twenty-one years, or of unsound mind,
or imprisoned, or out of the United States.8
The word " bond," as used in this act, does not necessarily imply
a seal ; but in other respects means the same kind of instruments
as heretofore.
The word "land," and the phrases "real estate," and "real
...tiii i i i. m
property, includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.8
The phrase "personal property," includes goods, chattels, evi
dences of debt, and things in action.
The word "property," includes personal and real property.1
The word "judgment," means all final orders, decrees and deter
minations in an action ; also, all orders upon which executions may
issue.
The phrase "money demands on contract" when used in reference
to an action, means any action arising out of contract, where the
relief demanded is a recovery of money.2
The word " attorney," includes a counsellor, and every other per
son authorized to appear and represent a party in an action or spe
cial proceeding, in any stage thereof.
The word " verified," when applied to pleadings, means supported
by oath or affirmation.
Sec. 798. Words importing the singular number only, may also
ke app]je(j ^0 the plural of persons and things; and words im
porting the masculine gender only, may be extended to females
also.3
Sec. 799. In actions already commenced, the pleadings to be
to form issues, the manner of procuring testimony, the exami
nation of parties, the trial and rendition of judgment, and all other
proceedings, shall conform to the provisions of this act, as far as
practicable.4
Sec. 800. The provisions of this act shall be liberally con
strued, and shall not be limited by any rules of strict construction.1
SeC. 801. No part of this act shall be retroactive, unless
expressly so declared.'
SEc. 802. All laws inconsistent with the provisions of this act,
*
are hereby repealed ; but the repeal shall not operate to revive any
former act. The laws and usages of this state relative to pleading
...... , ,. . . ,
and practice in civil actions and proceedings, not inconsistent here
with, and as far as the same may operate in aid hereof, or to supply
any omitted case, are hereby continued in force.7
Sec. 803. All rights of action secured by existing laws, may be
° t ' ° ' '
prosecuted in the manner provided in this act.1 .
CHAPTER 2.
AN ACT in relation to the construction of statutes,! and the definition of terms.
[Apphoved June 18, 1852.]
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, That the construction of all statutes of this state, shall
be by the following rules, unless such construction be plainly repug
nant to the intent of the legislature, or of the context of the same
statute.
First. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or ordi*■
it.
nary, and usual sense. But technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law, shall be understood accord-
ing to their technical import.
Second. Words importing joint authority to three or more per-
sons shall be construed as authority to a majority of such persons,
nnless otherwise declared in the law giving such authority. B
Third. The word " highway " shall include county bridges, state
and county roads, unless otherwise expressly provided,
Fourth. The word " inhabitant " may be construed to mean a
resident in any place.
Fifth. The word " month " shall mean a calendar month, and
the word "year" shall mean a calendar year, unless otherwise
expressed, and the word "year," be equivalent to the words "year
of our Lord."
Sixth. The words " preceding," and " following," referring to sections in statutes, shall be understood as meaning the sections
next preceding or next following that in which such words occur,
unless some other section is designated.
Seventh. The word "state" applied to any one of the United
States, shall include the District of Columbia and the several terri
tories ; and the words " United States " shall include the said dis
trict and territories,
Eighth. The word "will " shall include the words "testament"
and " codicil."
Ninth. The words " written " and in " writing," shall include
printing, lithographing, or other mode of representing words and
letters. But in all cases where the written signature of any person
is required, the proper hand writing of such person or his mark
shall be intended.
Tenth. When a statute requires an act to be done which by lat
an agpQt or deputy as well may do as the principal, such requisitioi
shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authoriied
agent or deputy.
Eleventh. When a person is required to be disinterested or indtf
ferent in acting on any question, or matter affecting other parties
consanguinity or affinity within the sixth degree, inclusive, by thf
civil law rules, or within the degree of second cousin inclusive shal
be deemed to disqualify such person from acting except by consnt
of parties.1
Sec. 2. The foregoing rules of construction and definitions d
*erms snaU De in addition to, and part of those adopted in the cod
of civil practice, and together with those shall apply to all statut
or acts of the legislature.2
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Slate of
rj' in "i i •
lnatana: All persons, except infants, married women, and insane
persons, may, by an instrument in writing, submit to the arbitra-
tion or umpirage of any person or persons, to be by them mutually
chosen, any controversy existing between them, which might be the
subject of a suit at law, except as otherwise provided in the next section, and may agree that such submission be made a rule of any
court of record designated in such instrument.1
Sec. 2. No such submission shall be made respecting the claim
of any person to any estate in fee or for life to any real estate ; but
any claim to an interest in a term for years, or for one year or less,
in real estate, and controversies respecting the partition of lands
. . . . ,
between joint tenants, or tenants in common, or concerning the
boundaries of lands, or concerning the assignment of dower, may
be submitted to arbitration.2
Sec. 3. When an agreement is made according to the prece
ding sections, the parties shall execute bonds, with condition to
aD'^e an(^ faithfully perform the award or umpirage, specifying
therein the name of the arbitrator or arbitrators, and the matters
submitted to their determination, and an agreement to make the
submission a rule of court designated in such agreement of sub
mission.8
Sec. 4. As soon as such bonds are duly delivered, either party
. . , . „ , « . i . .
may appoint a time and place for the arbitrator or arbitrators to
meet, by giving to the opposite party and to such arbitrator or arbi-
trators at least ten days' written notice.4
Sec. 5. Before proceeding to hear any testimony, such arbitra
tor or arbitrators shall be sworn faithfully and fairly to hear and
examine the matters in controversy, and to make a just award
according to the best of his or their understanding.1
Sec. 6. Such oath, and the oaths to witnesses, may be administered
by any person authorized to administer oaths.
Sec. 7. Witnesses may be required to attend before arbitrators,
on behalf of either party, by subpoenas issued by any justice of the
peace, in the same manner, and subject to the same process and
penalties for disobedience, to be enforced by such justice as in trials
before justices of the peace.
Sec. 8. As soon as the arbitrator or arbitrators are ready to
.
proceed to business, the parties may exhibit their proofs ; all the
arbitrators must meet together and hear the allegations of the
parties, but the award of a majority is valid, unless otherwise
required by the submission.2 .
Sec. 9. The award shall be in writing, and signed by the arbi°'
° *
trator or arbitrators who agree thereto, and shall be attested by a^
subscribing witness.8
Sec. 10. The fees of the justice issuing process, and of theF
witnesses in such' case, shall be the same as allowed before justices
of the peace, and shall be ascertained and estimated by the arbitrators,
and returned with the award, including therein their own fee8t
as allowed by law.4
Sec. 11. A true copy of the award, and of the costs aforesaid,
shall be delivered to each of the parties, or left at his last usual
r . ,
place of residence, by any one of the arbitrators, within fifteen
days after the signing of such award.1
Sec. 12. If either of tht« parties shall fail or refuse to comply
■with such award, the other party may file the same, together with
the agreement of submission, in the court named in such submis
sion.2
Sec. 13. Upon such submission being proved by a subscribing
w;(.negs thereto, or in case of his death, insanity, or absence out of
the state, then by proof thereof as in other cases of a written instru
ment, and upon the award also beiny proved in like manner, or by
the arbitrators, or any of them ; and upon proof that a copy of the
award has been duly served on the party against whom the rule is
asked, the court shall cause such submission and award to be enter
ed of record, and shall grant a rule thereon against the adverse
party, to show cause at that or the succeeding term of the court,
■why judgment shall not be rendered by such court upon the said
award.3
Sec. 14. Upon the return of the rule the court shall confirm
the award and render judgment thereon, unless the award be
vacated, or modified, or postponed, as herein provided, which judg
ment shall have the same force and effect as judgments in other
jo
cases.
Sec. 15. If the rule has been served ten days or more on the
adverse party before the time set for showing cause against the
award, the court may proceed to examine and determine the same
in his absence ; or if he appear they shall proceed to hear and determine
the grounds alleged against such award, if there be any.
Sec. 16. In all cases where an award or umpirage shall be
r
presented to any court of record for a judgment to be entered
thereon, whether the reference shall have been made by submission
of parties as aforesaid, or by rule of court, the adverse party may
show for cause against the rendition of said judgment any of the
following grounds : *
First. That such award or umpirage was obtained by fraud, cor
ruption, partiality, or other undue means ; or that there was evident
partiality or corruption in the arbitrators or any of them.1
Second. That the arbitrator or arbitrators [was or] were guilty
of misconduct in refusing to postpone the hearing upon sufficient
cause shown, or in refuting to hear evidence material and pertinent
to the controversy, or any other misbehavior by which the rights
of any party shall have been prejudiced.2
Third. That the arbitrator or arbitrators exceed his or their
Dowers, or that he or they so imperfectly executed them that a
mutual, final, and definite award on the subject-matter submitted
was not made.8
^ec. -^nv P^'ty to 9UCU submission may move the court
to modify or correct such award or umpirage in the following
cases: 1
First. When there is an evident miscalculation of figures, or an
evident mistake in the description of any person, thing, or property
referred to or mentioned in such award or umpirage ;
Second. When the arbitrator or arbitrators shall have awarded
upon some matter not submitted, and not affecting the merits of the
decision upon the matters which were submitted ;
Third. When the award or umpirage shall be imperfect in some
matter of form, not affecting the controversy, and when, if it had
been a verdict, such defect could have been properly amended or
disregarded by the court.2
Sec. 18. The court shall hear the proofs and allegations of the
parties, to invalidate and sustain such award or umpirage, and shall
• .
deClde thereon, either confirming such award or umpirage, or may
modify and correct the same in the cases prescribed in the last pre
ceding section so as to effect the intent thereof, and to promote
justice between the parties, and shall render judgment on such ori
ginal or corrected award or umpirage ; or the court may vacate
such award or umpirage for any of the causes hereinbefore speci
fied at the cost of the parties seeking to enforce such award or
umpirage.
Sec. 19. If such award or umpirage be confirmed, judgment
shall be given in favor of any party to whom any sum of money or
damages shall have been awarded that he recover the same ; and if
the award or umpirage shall have ordered any act to be done by
either party, judgment shall be entered that such act be done
.according to such award or umpirage.
Sec. 20. The costs of the proceedings in court shall be taxed
as in suits ; and if no provision for the fees and expenses of the
arbitration shall have been made in the award or umpirage, the
court shall make the allowances therefor ; but if there was a suit
pending previous to such submiasion, the costs of which were not
uoticed by the arbitrators or umpire, the court shall not allow or
. . .
tax any of the costs thereof prior to such submission.
Sec. 21. When, by any judgment of the court on award or
umpirajre, any party shall be required to perform any act other than
, n .i i i, f " .
the payment ot money, the court shall have power to enforce the
same by attachment, until the terms of such judgment shall be com
plied with.
Sec. 22. If the subject-matter of any suit pending in any
court, might originally have been submitted to arbitration, the par-
ties to such suit, their agent or attorney at law may consent, by
rule of court, to refer the matter in controversy to certain persons
mutually chosen by them in open court.1
^Ec* Such referees, if required by the parties, shall be
sworn in open court or before any officer authorized to administer
oaths, faithfully and impartially to investigate, adjust, and report
the matters thus submitted, and shall proceed to the investigation
of such matters according to the submission of the parties, and
report to the court at such time as shall be agreed by the parties in
such rule of reference.*
^EC* ^* When such report shall be returned under the hands
of the referees, or a majority of them, it shall be entered on the
order book, and shall be of the same effect, and be deemed and
taken to be as available in law as the verdict of a jury.*
^EC" Either party may move the court for judgment on
such report, and if no sufficient cause be shown to the contrary,
judgment shall be rendered thereon in like manner and with like
force and effect as if rendered upon the verdict of a jury.4
Sec. 26. Such arbitrators and referees shall be allowed one dol-
_ 1 _ mis
jar per day each, for every day they are necessarily employed as
euch arbitrator.
CHAPTER 4.
^N ACT regulating the granting of divorces, nullification of marriages, and decrees and orders of
courts incident thereto, and repealing all laws conflicting with this act, and declaring an emer
gency.*
[Approved March 10, 1873.]
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, That all marriages prohibited by law on account of con
sanguinity, affinity, difference of color, or where either party
thereto has a former wife or husband living, if solemnized within
this state, shall be absolutely void without any legal proceedings,
Sec. 2. The issue of a marriage, void on account of consangu-
inity, affinity, or difference of color, shall be deemed to be legiti
mate.
Sec. 3. When either of the parties to a marriage void, because
— ———— ,
1. If a cause pending in court is referred to arbitration, the consent of parties to the rule mast
a former marriage exists undissolved, shall have contracted such
void marriage in the reasonable belief that such disability did not
exist, the issue of 6uch marriage begotten before the discovery of
such disability by such innocent party, shall be deemed legitimate.
Sec. 4. For the purpose of evidence, any person or persons
interested in the question of such legitimacy may file their petition
• ,i ■ -i. 1 . . ~
in the circuit or common pleas court or superior court ot any
county in this state, where either of the parties to said marriage
may reside, setting forth the facts, and making defendants thereto
all persons interested in such question, and give such notice to said
defendants as is by this act required to be given to the defendant
on a petition for a divorce ; and the court, on hearing such petition,
shall decree such issue to be legitimate or illegitimate as the facts
may be. And from such decree an appeal may be taken to the
supreme court, and when taken, the case shall be governed by the
same rules, and disposed of as other civil actions are in cases of
appeal.
Sec. 5. Such decree as shall be finally rendered in cases pro•
r
vided for in the next preceding section, shall be conclusive between
the parties thereto, and those claiming under them, but any minor
defendant may have the same reviewed at any time within one year
after arriving at the age of twenty-one years.
Sec. 6. Parties, against whom a judgment of divorce has been
heretofore, or shall be hereafter rendered without other notice than
..... ii •, .
pubucation in a newspaper, may have the same opened at any time,
so far as relates to the care, support and custody of the children.1
Parties against whom a judgment of divorce shall hereafter be ren
dered, without other notice than publication in a newspaper, may,
at any time within two years after the rendition of such judgment,
have the same opened and be allowed to defend as well on the
granting of the divorce, as in relation to the allowance of alimony
and the disposition of property ; and until the expiration of said
two years, it shall not be lawful for the party obtaining such divorce
to marry again, which shall be stated in the decree of the court.
Before any iudgment shall be opened as above for any cause, the
, TP /.i ft i
applieant shall file a statement of the causes relied upon, and give
such notice thereof as the court in term time, or the judge thereof
in vacation shall require, and when the causes specified by such
applicant, relate to the granting of the divorce, alimony, and dispo-
Bition of property, or either of them, the applicant shall file an
affidavit stating that during the pendency of the action, he or 6he
received no actual notice thereof, in time to appear in court at the
time of the trial of such action, and object to said judgment, and
shall also pay such costs as the court may , direct. Any property
which may have been sold under any such judgment so sought to
be opened, and which shall have passed into the hands of a pur«
chaser or purchasers, in good faith, shall not be affected by any
r , ' . » , . i
proceeding consequent upon the opening 01 such judgment,
Sec. 7. Divorces may be decreed by the superior, circuit and
common pleas courts of this state, on petition filed by any person,
who, at the time of the filing of such petition, is and shall have
. ° *.
been a bona Jide resident ot the state tor the last two years previous
to the filing of the same, and a bona Jide resident of the county at
the time of and for at least six months immediately preceding the
filing of such petition, which bona Jide residence shall be duly pro
ven by such petitioner to the satisfaction of the court trying the
same, by at least two witnesses, who are resident freeholders and
householders of the state. And the plaintiff shall, with his peti-
tion, file with the clerk of the court, an affidavit subscribed and
sworn to by himself, in which he shall state the length of time he
has been a resident of the state ; and stating particularly the place,
town, city or township in which he has resided for the last two
years past; and stating his occupation, which shall be sworn to
before the clerk of the court in which said complaint is filed.1
Sec. 8. Divorces may be decreed upon the application of the
injured party for the following causes, and no other :
First. Adultery, except as hereinafter provided.1
Second. Impotency, existing at the time of the marriage.
Third. Abandonment for two years.2
Fourth. Cruel and inhuman treatment of either party by the
other.'
Fifth. Habitual drunkenness of either party, or the failure of
the husband to make reasonable provision for his family.
Sixth. The failure of the husband to make reasonable provisions
for his family, for a period of two years.
Seventh. The conviction, subsequent to the marriage in any
country of either party, of an infamous crime.
^EC" Divorces shall not be granted for adultery in any of the
following cases :
°
First. When the offense has been committed with the conniv
ance or consent of the party seeking the divorce.
Second. When the party seeking the divorce has voluntarily
cohabited with the other, with knowledge of the feet, or has
failed to file his or her petition for two years after he or she had
discovered the same.
Third. When the party seeking the divorce has also been guilty
of adultery under such circumstances as would have entitled the
opposite party, if innocent, to a decree.
Sec. 10. A petition for divorce shall specify the causes therefor
with certainty to a common intent.1
Sec. 11. The clerk of the court in which such petition is filed,
6na]j jssue a summons for the defendant to appear and answer said
petition, which summons shall be personally served on said defend
ant, if a resident of the state, either by reading or leaving a copy
thereof at his or her usual place of residence ; such usual place
to be the residence of such defendant at the time the copy is so
left.
Sec. 12. If it shall appear by the affidavit of a disinterested
person that the defendant is not a resident of this state, the clerk
shall give notice of the pendency of such petition, by publication
f°r three successive weeks in some weekly newspaper of general
c;rculatjon, printed and published in such county; or if there be no
such paper, then in one printed and published in this state nearest
to the county seat of such county : Provided, That in counties having
a daily paper published therein, such notice shall also be pub
lished for a like length of time in such daily paper: And provided
further, That the plaintiff shall, in case such notice is to be given
by publication as aforesaid, before the same is given, file his or her
i. i . . , , , , ' , . , ° „ , , j
affidavit with the clerk, stating therein the residence of the defend
ant, if such residence be known to the plaintiff, and if such resi
dence be unknown to the plaintiff, such affidavit shall so state ; and
in case such affidavit state the residence of the defendant, the clerk
shall forward by mail to such defendant the number of the paper
containing such notice, with the notice marked.
Sec. 13. The cause shall stand for issue and trial at the first
term of the court after the summons has been personally served
upon the defendant ten days, or publication has been made thirty
days before the first day of such term.
Sec. 14. The defendant shall answer said petition under oath,
A
if required so to do by the petitioner, but no decree shall be rendered
on default without proof, nor shall any admissions made in 6aid
answer be used as evidence in any other case against said defendant,
nor shall the denial under oath by the defendant of the facts
alleged in the petition, render necessary any other or further proof
by the complainant than would have been necessary if such denial
had not been under oath.
Sec. 15. In addition to an answer, the defendant may file a
"
cross petition for divorce, and when filed the court shall decree the
divorce to the party legally entitled thereto. If the original peti
tion be dismissed after the filing of the cross petition, the defendant
may proceed to the trial of the cross petition without further notice
to the adverse party, and the case upon such cross petition shall in
all things be governed by the same rules applicable to a case on an
original petition.1
Sec. 16. Witnesses may be examined in court, or depositions
taken and uwsd as in other civil actions at the option of the party
offering the testimony, but this section shall not be construed to
authorize the taking of depositions where the witnesses can be com
pelled to attend and testify as provided by law in other cases, unless
the judge, for good cause shown, shall otherwise direct.
Sec. 17. Pending a petition for divorce, the court or the judge
thereof in vacation, may make, and by attachment enforce such
orders for the disposition of the persons, property and children of
the parties, as may be deemed right and proper, and such orders
relative to the expenses of such suit as will insure to the wife an
efficient preparation of her case, and a fair and impartial trial there
of, and on decreeing a divorce in favor of the wife or refusing one
on the application of the husband, the court shall, by order, to be
enforced by attachment, require the husband to pay all reasonable
expenses of the wife in the prosecution or defense of the petition
when such divorce has been granted or refused : Providing,
That such orders shall be made under the same rules and regula
tions, and upon such notice as restraining orders and injunctions
are granted in other civil actions, except that no bond shall be
required of either party.1
Sec. 18. A divorce granted for misconduct of the husband Bhall
, , , , - . ,. - , ,
entitle the wife to the same rights, so far as her real estate is con
cerned, that she would have been entitled to by his death.2
Sec. 19. A divorce decreed on account of the misconduct of
the wife shall entitle the husband to the same rights, so far as his
real estate is concerned, as he would have been entitled to by her
death.
Sec. 20. The court shall make such decree for alimony in all
eases contemplated by this act, as the circumstances of the case shall
render just and proper, and such decree for alimony heretofore made
or hereafter made, shall be valid against the husband, whether
asked for in the petition or given by the judge on default.
Sec. 21. The court in decreeing a divorce shall make provision
° *
for the guardianship, custody, support, and education of the minor
children of such marriage.1
Sec. 22. The decree of alimony to the wife shall be for a sum
, J ...
in gross, and not for annual payments ; but the court, in its discrction,
may give a reasonable time for the payment thereof, by install-
ments, on sufficient surety being given, and in all cases where alimony
has been thus given by installments, or may hereafter be
given, and the security required shall not be given within thirty
days from the date of such decree, then the whole amount of such
alimony shall become due and payable the same as if no such
installments had been mentioned in the decree.
Sec. 23. The divorce of one party shall fully dissolve the marriage
contract as to both.
Sec. 24. A divorce decreed in any other state by a court having
, , » ' °
jurisdiction thereof, shall have full effect in this state.
Sec. 25. When either of the parties to a marriage shall bo
incapable from want of age or understanding, of contracting such
inarriage, the same may be declared void, on application of the
incapable party, by any court having jurisdiction to decree divorces,
but the children of such marriage, begotten before the same is
annulled, shall be legitimate, and in such cases the same proceed
ings shall be had as is provided in applications for divorce.
Sec 26. Whenever a petition for divorce remains undefended,
it shall be the duty of the proper circuit or district prosecuting
attorney to appear and resist such petition.
Sec. 27. The act approved May 13, 1852, on the subject of
divorces, and the act approved March 4, 185&, amendatory thereof,
are nereDy repealed, but the repealing thereof shall abate no suit
commenced under said acts, but the same may be prosecuted and
defended under this act.
CHAPTER 5.
AN ACT authorizing circuit courts to change the names ol persons and corporation*,!
[Approved January 21, 1852.]
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
#" . .
Indiana, The circuit courts in the several counties of this state,
. .. .
may change the names of persons and corporations on application
by petition.
Sec. 2. The application of a person may be made to the circuit
„. . ... . . i to
court of the county in which such person resides, and of a corpo
ration to the circuit court of the county in which 6uch corporation
is situate, or in which its principal office is located.
Sec. 3. Upon a petition being filed for such a change, the
applicant shall give notice thereof by three weekly publications in
6ome newspaper of general circulation printed and published in the
proper county, or if no newspaper be printed therein, in a news
paper printed and published nearest thereto in some adjoining
county, thirty days prior to the first day of the term at which such
petition shall be heard.
Sec. 4. Proof of the publication required in this act shall be
made by filing a copy of such published notice, verified by the affi
davit of a disinterested person, and when such proof of 6ueh publication
is made, the court shall proceed to hear and determine said
petition and make such order and decree therein as to such court
shall seem just and reasonable,
Sec 5. A copy of the decree of such court, changing the name
of any person or corporation, certified under the seal of 6uch court,
by the clerk thereof, shall be sufficient evidence of the name of such
person or corporation, and of such change having been made iu any
court of this state.
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Slate
of Indiana, Unless a mortgage specially provide, that the mortgagee
shall have possession of the mortgaged premises, he shall not be
entitled to the same.2
Sec. 2. No mortgage shall be construed as implying a covenant
i • iii ,
forthe payment of the sum intended to be secured, so as to enable
r ' t ' t >
the mortgagee, his assignees, or representatives, to maintain an action
for the recovery of such sum ; and where there is no express cove-
nant contained in the mortgage for such payment, and no bond or
other separate instrument to secure such payment shall have been
given, the remedies of the mortgagee shall be confined to the lands
mentioned in the mortgage.1
Sec. 3. No mortgage of real estate, or instrument operating as,
o o > r o >
or naving the legal effect of, a mortgage hereafter executed shall
authorize the mortgagee to sell the mortgaged premises, but every
such sale shall be made under a judicial proceeding.2
Sec. 4. A mortgage granted by a purchaser to secure purchase-
° ... .
money, shall have preference over a prior judgment against such
■" r r j o o
purchaser.8
Sec. 5. Every mortgagee of lands whose mortgage has been
recorded, having received full payment of the sum or sums of
' . .„ , . , 1.111 t
money therein specified, from the mortgagor, shall at the request of
such mortgagor, enter satisfaction on the margin or other proper
place in the record of such mortgage, which shall operate as a com
plete release and discharge thereof.4
Sec. 6. Where such mortgage has been paid and satisfied by
.«. L ,
the mortgagor, he may take a certificate thereof, duly acknowledged
by the mortgagee, or his lawful agent, as herein required for the
acknowledgment of conveyances to entitle the same to be recorded,
which certificate and acknowledgment shall be recorded by the
recorder in whose office such mortgage is recorded, with a reference
to the book and page containing the record of the mortgage afore
said; and such recorded certificate shall forever discharge and
release the mortgagor from such mortgage, and forever bar all suits
and actions thereon.
Sec. 7. The recording of the assignment of a mortgage shall
■ i i j* • i j» * i • i • ,
not be deemed, of itself, notice to a mortgagor, his heirs or personal
. iii
representatives, so as to invalidate any payment made by them
to the mortgagee, or any assignee, before actual notice of such
assignment. " ' ~
Sec. 8. Nothing in this act shall affect any provisions made by
law, in relation to the foreclosure of mortgages to the state of Indlana,
so far as the same conflict with the provisions of this act.
r
CHAPTER 7. •
AN ACT concerning liens of mechanics, merchants and others.!
[Approved May 20, 1852.]
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, That whenever any person shall entrust to any mechanic,
or tradesman, materials to construct, alter, or repair any article of
value, such mechanic, or tradesman, if the same be completed and
not taken away, and his fair and reasonable charges not paid, may,
after six months from the time such charges became due, sell the
same; or, if the same be susceptible of division, without injury, heM
may sell so much thereof, as is necessary to pay such charges ; and
such sale shall be at public auction, for cash, or on reasonable credit,
. . . , .
taking sufficient sureties in case of a sale on time.
Sec. 2. Before such sale, such mechanic, or tradesman shall
give public notice of the time and place thereof by advertisements
set up for ten day3 in three public places in the city or township
where he resides ; one of which shall be in some conspicuous part
of his shop, or place of business ; or if the value of the article be
ten dollars or more, then by publishing the same three weeks suc
cessively in a newspaper in the county, if any.
Sec. 3. The proceeds of such sale after payment of charges for
construction, or repair, and for publication, and notice aforesaid,
shall, if the owner be absent, be deposited with the treasurer of the
proper county by the person making such sale, he taking the treasurer's
receipt therefor : and shall be subject to the order of the
* ' J
person legally entitled thereto.
Sec. 4. The provisions of this act except those of the next section, shall apply to all cases of personal property on which the
.. . rr ' , , ,. « - i i
bailee, or keeper, has by law, a lien for any feed or care by him
bestowed on such property : Provided, That in cases where the per
son liable shall die before the expiration of six months from the
time such charges had accrued, such sale shall not be made until
the expiration of six months from the time of his decease,
^EC' ^' ^n cases Embraced in the last preceding section, if the
Pr0PertY bailed, or kept, be horses, cattle, hogs, or other live stock,
and in all cases embraced in this act, where the property is of a
perishable nature, and will be greatly injured by delay, the person
to whom such charges may be due, may, after the expiration of
thirty days from the time when such charges shall have become due,
proceed to dispose of 60 much of such property as may be necessary,
as hereinbefore provided.
Sec. 6. Additional compensation for keeping and taking care
„, . . , _ .
ot such property necessarily incurred, may be taken from the pro-
» i . * .i t.
ceeds ot sale as part ot the charges.
Sec. 7. Attested copies of the notices required by this act and
proof of the publication thereof, and an affidavit of the mechanic,
tradesman, or bailee, or some competent witness on his behalf, set
ting forth his claims, shall be filed and kept in the clerk's office of
the proper county ; and the same, or copies thereof, attested and
sealed by such clerk, shall be received as testimony, and shall bo
presumptive evidence of the matters therein contained.
Sec. 8. Any forwarding and commission merchant having a
.. , , , , . -
hen upon goods which may have remained in store for one year or
more, may proceed to advertise and sell at public auction so much
thereof as may be necessary to pay the amount of the lien and
expenses, according to the previous provisions of this act.
CHAPTER 8.
AN ACT containing several provisions regarding landlords, tenants, lesson and
[Approved May 20, 1852.]
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Stele
_ .
of Indiana, That estates at will may be determined by one month's
notice in writing delivered to the tenant.
^EC' ^" ^ tenancy ^ W*H can no* arise or be created without an
express contract ; and all general tenancies, in which the premises
are occupied by the consent, either express or constructive, of the
landlord, shall be deemed tenancies from year to year.1
Sec. 3. All tenancies from year to year, may be determined by
.... , . .
at least three months notice given to the tenant prior to the expiration
of the year ; and in all tenancies which, by agreement of the
parties, express or implied, are from one period to another of less
than three months' duration, a notice equal to the interval between
such periods shall be sufficient.2
Sec. 4. If a tenant neglect or refuse to pay rent when due. ten
° .11
days notice to quit shall determine the lease, when not therein
otherwise provided, unless such rent be paid at the expiration of
said ten days.1
Sec. 5. Where the time for the determination of a tenancy is
• a i . i • >ii .
Bpecined in the contract, or where a tenant at will commits waste,
or in the case of a tenant at sufferance, and in any case where the
relation of landlord and tenant does not exist, no notice to quit
shall be necessary.1
Sec. 6. Notice, as required in the preceding sections, may be
served on the tenant, or, if he can not be found, by delivering the
same to some person of proper age and discretion, residing on the
premises, having first made known to such person the contents
thereof.
Sec. 7. A conveyance of real estate, or of any interest therein,
by a landlord, shall be valid without the attornment of the ten-
ant. But the payment of rent by the tenant to the grantor, at any
i/. . „ , . ., ,11? v .
time beiore notice ot sale, given to said tenant, shall be good against
the grantee.8
Sec. 8. The attornment of a tenant to a stranger, shall be void,
and shall not affect the possession of his landlord, unless it be made
with the consent of the landlord, or pursuant to a judgment at law,
or the order of a decree of a court.
Sec. 9. Sub-lessees shall have the same remedy upon the original
covenant against the chief landlord, as they might have had
against their immediate lessor.
Sec. 10. Alienees of lessors and lessees of land, shall have the
same legal remedies in relation to such lands, as their principals.3
Sec. 11. Rents from lands granted for life or lives may be
recovered as other rents.4
Sec. 12, A person entitled to rents dependent on the life of
another, may recover arrears unpaid at the death of that other.
Sec. 13. Executors and administrators shall have the same rem-
edics to recover rents, and be subject to the same liabilities to pay
, , . , . r
them as their testator and intestates.
Sec. 14. The occupant without special contract, of any lands,
shall be liable for the rent, to any person entitled thereto.1
Sec. 15. If a ioint tenant or a tenant in common, or tenant in
** '
C0"Parcenary nave> by consent, management of the estate, and make
with knowledge, and without objection of his co-tenant or co
parcener, useful or necessary improvements, the co-tenant or co
parcener shall contribute ratably thereto.8
Sec. 16. A joint tenant or tenant in common, or tenant in co~
... . • . .
parcenary may maintain an action against his co-tenant or cor
J ' . f ..
parcener, or their personal representatives for receiving more than
his just proportion.
Sec. 17. In all cases where the tenant agrees to pay as rent, a
6 " '
Sec. 17. In all
Par* °^ *ne croP rais^ on *ne leased premises, or a cash rent, the
landlord shall have a lien on the crop raised, under such contract,
for the payment of such rent: Provided, That nothing herein con
tained shall prohibit the tenant from removing from such leased
premises, and disposing of so much of said growing crop, not more
jjjg parjj when the rent is to be paid in part of the crop raised,
and in other cases, not more than one-half of the crop growing or
matured.'
Sec. 18. A person seized of an estate in remainder or reversion
... /. - . .
may maintain an action lor waste or trespass, tor miury to the
. J . . , . . r ' • J
inheritance, notwithstanding an intervening estate for life or years.
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, That all persons holding lands as joint tenants, or tenants
in common, or tenants in co-parcenary, may be compelled to divide
the same in the manner provided in this act.1
^EC' ^" 8UC^ tenant may aPPty to *ne circuit COUrt, Or
court having probate jurisdiction of the county in which the lands,
or any part thereof may lie, by petition, setting forth a description
of the premises, and the rights and titles therein of the parties
interested.*
^Ec* ®" ^n ^inS °^ 6Ucn petition, a summons to appear
and answer thereto, shall be issued by the clerk, and served per
sonally cn each of said parties, if they shall be found ; if not, by
leaving a copy thereof at their last place of residence ; or if any
of them are non- residents of the state, or if in the petition it is
alleged that their names are unknown to the petitioner, and such
non-residence or want of knowledge be verified by affidavit, or if
it shall appear, by affidavit or by the return of the officer having
such summons to serve, that the residence of such defendants is
unknown, the clerk shall order notice of the pendency of such peti
tion to be given for three weeks successively in some newspaper
printed in such county, or if there be none, then in a newspaper
printed in this state nearest thereto.3
Sec. 4. It appearing to the court that such summons has been
served ten days before the first day of the term, and when publica
tion as aforesaid is required, that the same has been made thirty
days previous to such term, the court shall proceed to hear and
determine such petition.
Sec. 5. Any person interested in such estate, may appear and
any matter tending to show that the petitioner ought not to
have partition as prayed for; and the further pleadings shall be
conducted as in actions at common law, until an issue in law or in
fact shall be joined, which shall be determined as in other cases.1
Sec. 6. Amendments of petition or pleadings may be made as
in other suits at law, and on like terms ; and new parties may be
made, and the cause continued until they can be legally notified.2
Sec. 7. If any person, not named in the petition, shall appear
and plead as a defendant, or allege any title to any part of tho
premises, the petitioner may reply that such person has no estate
in the premises, and may pray judgment if he shall be admitted to
object to the petition; and the petitioner may likewise reply in
answer to such plea, any other matter, in like manner as if he had
. . , , , . ,
not disputed such person s right to appear.
Sec. 8. If it shall appear that such person has no estate in the
,
ands, the matter of his plea shall be no further inquired of.
Sec. 9. If upon trial of any issue, or upon default, or by consent
of parties, it shall appear that partition ought to be made, the
conrt shall award an interlocutory judgment that partition be made
to parties who may desire the same, specifying therein the share
assigned to each, and taking into consideration advancements to
beirs of a person dying intestate, and the residue of the premises
shall remain for the persons entitled thereto, subject to a future
partition. But if, upon trial of any issue, or upon default, or by
'r j > r 'o
confession or consent of parties, it shall appear that the lands of
■which partition is demanded, can not be divided without damage
to the owners, then, and in that case, the court in its discretion may
order the whole or any such part of the premises to be sold, as
provided for in section eighteen of this act.1
Sec. 10. Such court shall not order or affirm partition of any
.. * ii
real estate contrary to the intention of a testator, expressed in his
will.1
Sec. 11. Upon judgment of partition, the court shall appoint
three disinterested resident freeholders of the county in which such
court is held, not of kin to any of the parties, who shall make partition
of such lands, in pursuance of the judgment of the court.2
Sec. 12. Before proceeding to discharge their duties, such comi
i> • b ii i- ii.
missioners shall take an oath faithfully to perform the duties of
their trust, which oath, if taken in open court, shall be entered in
their order book, and if not, shall be indorsed on the warrant issued
to them to make such partition.
Sec. 13. Two or more persons may, if they choose, have their
l at a. ii.
shares set on together.
Sec. 14. In all proceedings under this act, guardians may act
for their wards as their wards might have acted, being of age.3
Sec. 15. The commissioners shall make to the court, and
acknowledge in open court, their report, specifying by divisions, or
by metes and bounds, each share.4
Sec. 16. Such report, if confirmed by the court, shall be spread
y ■% -i
upon the order book, and judgment of partition be rendered accord
ingly.1
^EC- ^e court> before confirmation, may set aside such
return for good cause shown, and commit the duty of partition
anew to the same, or other commissioners, to be appointed and
qualified as aforesaid, whereupon the same proceedings shall be had
as are before directed.*
^EC. When such commissioners shall report to the court,
tflat tne whole or part of the lands of which partition is demanded,
can not be divided without damage to the owners, the court, in its
discretion, may order the whole, or such part of the premises, to be
sold, at public or private sale, on such terms and conditions as it
may prescribe : Provided, That, at public sale, such lands shall sell
for at least two-thirds of its appraised value, and, at private sale,
at not less than its appraised value ; to be ascertained as in cases of
sales of laud on execution. And if a part only be sold, the
remainder may be partitioned, subject to the rules hereinbefore
provided.1
Sec. 1 9. If under such partial partition, duly confirmed, the
i • i in
shares assigned be lull shares, the residue reserved for sale shall
°
be discharged from all title or claim of the parties so receiving
assignment of their shares.
Sec. 20. Such sale shall be made by a commissioner to be
appointed by the court, other than one of the commissioners to
make partition ; and such commissioner shall file bond payable to
the state of Indiana in such penalty as the court may direct, condi
tioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his trust*
Sec. 21. Whenever it shall appear to the court that the
* 1 t
purchase-money for the land sold has been duly paid, the court
shall order such commissioner, or some other person, to execute
conveyances to the purchaser, which shall bar all claim of such
owners to said lands as effectually as if they themselves had execu
ted the same.3
Sec. 22. Commissioners to make partition, or to sell, shall not
r ' '
become purchasers of said land.
Sec. 23. The moneys arising from such sale after payment of
. iiii .ii i ••
just costs and expenses, shall be paid by such commissioner to the
persons entitled thereto, according to their respective shares, under
the direction of the court,1
Sec. 24. Any two of the persons named as commissioners to
* i i .
make partition may perform the duties required by this act ; and
vacancies may be filled by the court.
Sec. 25. The occurrence of a vacancy shall not invalidate the
previous acts of the commissioners ; and a successor shall take up
and continue the proceedings, which shall be as valid as if the same
had been done by the commissioners first appointed.
Sec. 26. If any party to such partition die, the proceedings
^erem gha]i uot abate, exeept as to him; nor shall the same abate
as to him, if the heirs of such decedent are made parties instead,
and such heirs may be made new parties.
^ec. ^7. Such court shaM make such allowance to the (MDrjomis6;oners
for their services, and for surveying, marking, chaining,
platting, and the execution of the necessary conveyances as to such
court shall seem reasonable,
Sec. 28. All costs and necessary expenses shall be awarded,
and enforced in favor of those entitled thereto, against the partition-
ers, in such proportion against each as the court may determine.
Sec. 29. Upon showing sufficient cause any person not served
with summons may, within one year after such partition is confirm
ed appear and open the proceedings and obtain a review thereof,
and also any person of unsound mind or any infant whose guardian
did not attend and approve such partition, may, within one year
after the removal of his disability, have a review of such parti
tion.2
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Slate of
•7 a j j
Indiana, That judgments and decrees of a court of record, for the
recovery of money, and judgments obtained before a justice of the
peace, may be assigned by the plaintiff or complainant, and the
assignees thereof successively, on, or attached to, the entry of such
judgment or decree, and the assignment when attested by the clerk
of the court, or such justice of the peace, shall vest the title to such
judgment or decree in each assignee thereof successively.1
Sec. 2. Payments or satisfaction on such judgment or decree, to
the assignor, shall be valid, if made before notice of assignment to
the judgment-debtor, but not otherwise.2
Sec. 3. In case of assignment, execution shall issue in the name
a . a a t t
of the original plaintiff or complainant, but shall be indorsed by
the clerk or justice, to be for the use of the assignee.
Sec. 4. Any action which the plaintiff or complainant in such
judgment or decree might have thereon, may be maintained in the
J 6 . x, 6 ' '
name 01 the assignee.
Sec. 5. Bonds for the delivery of property levied upon by vir-
o£ suc^ execu^on> ghall be to the judgment-plaintiff, for the use
of such assignee ; and all suits and proceedings relating to such
jU(]gment or decree, or against any officer on his bond, for neglect
of duty relating thereto, may be against or on relation, or for the
use of such assignee, as the case may require.
CHAPTER 11.
AN ACT to exempt property from sale in certain cases.1.
[Approved February 17, 1852.]
Whereas, The constitution of the state declares that " the privi
lege of the debtor to enjoy the necessary comforts of life shall
be recognized by wholesome laws, exempting a reasonable amount
of property from seizure or sale, for the payment of any debt or
liability hereafter contracted," therefore :
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
* "
Indiana, That an amount of property not exceeding in value three
hundred dollars, owned by any resident householder, shall not be
liable to sale on execution, or any other final process from a court,
for any debt growing out of, or founded upon a contract, express
or implied, after the fourth of July eighteen hundred and fifty-
two.1
Sec. 2. The property may be real or personal, or both, as the
debtor may elect.
Sec. 3. No mortgage or sale of any real estate, exempted
under the provisions of this act, shall be valid if executed by a
married man, unless the deed be acknowledged by the wife in due
form of law.1
Sec. 4. Such exemption shall not affect any laborer's or mechan-
J
—
ic's liens, nor lien for purchase-money of real estate exempted under
this act.
Sec. 5. For the appraisement of any property to be exempted
rr . r *
ander the provisions of this act, two disinterested householders of
the neighborhood shall be cho3en, one by the plaintiff, his agent or
attorney, and one by the execution-debtor, and these two, in case
of disagreement, shall select a third, and in case either party fails
to select an appraiser, the same shall be selected by the officer hold
ing the execution.1
Sec. 6. Such appraiser shall proceed forthwith to make a schedule
of the real and personal property selected by the debtor,
describing the real estate by metes and bounds, and the personal
property by separate items, affixing to each the value they may agree
apon, and they or a majority of them, shall affix to the schedule so
made, on affidavit in substance as follows : " We the undersigned,
swear that in our opinion, the above is a just cash valuation of the
property therein described."
Sec. 7. Such schedule shall be delivered to the officer holding
the execution or other process, and shall be by him returned
with 6uch execution, or other process, and made part of such
return.
Sec. 8. Each appraiser, for his services, shall be allowed the
sum of fifty cents, to be paid by the execution-debtor.
Sec. 9. If any execution-debtor 3hall claim property as
exempted by virtue of this act, he shall elect whether he will claim
* .
personal, or real property, or both, and shall designate the property
so claimed.4
Sec. 10. If such claim include personal property only, the offi-
cer holding such execution shall cause the same to be appraised and
set apart to the debtor, and 6hall proceed to sell 6uch other prop
erty, if any, as may be liable to said writ, according to law.
Sec. 11. If any ouch claim include both personal and real
* x
property, the officer shall proceed to have such personal property
valued, and shall set the same apart to the debtor ; he shall then
cause the real property claimed a3 aforesaid to be valued, and if
the same, together with the personal property set apart, shall exceed
three hundred dollars, the debtor shall, within sixty days thereafter,
pay such excess or enough to satisfy the execution, and if he fail to
do so, the officer shall proceed to sell the same as other lands are
sold on execution, if his writ shall authorize the sale of real prop
erty, but in making such sale, he shall receive no bid therefor,
unless it exceed the difference between three hundred dollars and
the personal property so valued and set apart ; and if he shall sell
said property, ho shall pay over to the debtor the amount of said
difference, and apply so much of the remainder on the execution as
shall satisfy the same, and the overplus, if any, shall be paid totbe
debtor or other party having the next right.
^EC" ^ tno c^a'm include real property only, the same shall
be valued, and if it exceed three hundred dollars, it shall be dealt
with as is specified in respect to real property, in the last preceding section.
Sec. 13. In all cases in which real property is sought to be
, ,\ r , ' °
exempted from sale on execution, it said real property is suscep*
tible of division by metes and bounds, without material injury
thereto, it shall be so divided as to exempt the principal dwelling
house, or homestead of the debtor.
Sec. 14. Nothing in this act shall be considered as exempting
any property from taxation or from sale for taxes.
CHAPTEK 12.
AN ACT to authorize the process of garnishment against derks of the circuit and c
sheriff, Justices of the peace, constables, and all other officers who collect money by virtue of their
office, and executors, administrators, guardian* and trustee*. 1
[Approved June 3, 1861.]
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Ansemblii of the State of
. , * *
Indiana, That clerks of the circuit and common pleas courts, sher
iffs, justices of the peace, constables, and all other officers who may
collect money by virtue of their office, and all executors, adminis
trators, guardians, and trustees, shall be subject to garnishment at
the suit of any attachment-creditor of the person who has money or
choaes in action in the hands of such officer, executor, administra
tor, guardian, or trustee, at the time of the service of such garnishee
process, in the same manner and to the same extent as other per
sons are liable to be garnisheed in attachment proceedings.
(Sec 2 declares an emergency).
CHAPTER 13.
AN ACT supplemental to an act entitled " An act to revise, simplify and abridge the rules of prac-
tice, pleadings and forms in civil cases In the courts of this state," etc.l To abridge the forms
in civil and criminal actions.!
[Approved June 18, 1852.]
Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, That in all proceedings in civil and criminal actions, the
following forms may be used and, are sufficient, in all cases where
they are applicable, and in other cases forms may be used as nearly
similar as the nature of the case will admit ; but no pleading 6hall
be deemed invalid for want of form, if it contain the substance
required by law.
NO. 1.
Complaint on a noU3
CIRCUIT COURT.
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that the defendant, on the day of
, by his note, a copy of which is filed herewith, promised to pay the plaintiff
dollars, which remain unpaid, and the plaintiff demands judgment for
dollars. A. B. (or J. J, attorney for A. B.)
NO. 2.
Indorsee against the maker.1
A. B. complains ol C. D., and nays that the defendant on the day of
, by his note, a copy of which is filed herewith, promised to pay S. F.
dollars, who indorsed the note to the plaintiff, which remains unpaid, and the
plaintiff demands judgment for dollars.
NO. 3.
Indorsee against the indorser, in ease of insolvency of the maker.
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that E. F., on the day of , by
notej a CQpy wjjereof jg fiiej herewith, promised to pay the defendant
dollars, who indorsed the note to tho plaintiff, and when ths note became due, E.
F. was, and still is, wholly insolvent, having no property subjact to execution, »
that an action against him would have been unavailing, and the note yet remains
unpaid, wherefore the plaintiff demands judgment for dollars.
NO. 4.
Against the assignor.
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that E. F., on the day of , by
his note, a copy of which is filed herewith, promised to pay to the defendant
dollars, who indorsed the note io the plaintiff ; and the plaintiff, ia aa action com
menced on the day of , recovered judgment against the said E. F.
for dollars, the sum due on the note, in the circuit court, it the
term thereof, being the first term after the note became due : and on the
day of , the plaintiff1 sued out execution on the judgment, which was
delivered to the sheriff to be executed, whereon the sheriff returned that no prop
erty of the said E. F. could be found, subject to execution, and the said note and
judgment remain unpaid. The plaintiff demands judgment for dollar?.
NO 5.
Indorsee against maker and indorsers upon a note payable in bank.
A. B. complains of C. P., E. F., E. II. and E. R., and says thct C. P., on the
day of , by his note, a copy of which, and indorsements, are filed
herewith, promised to pay E. F. or order, one thousand dollars ; and that E. F.
indorsed the note to E. IT., who indorsed it to E..R., who indorsed it to the plain
tiff, yet C. D. did not pay tjae note when it became due, upon presentation at the
place where payable, of which the defendant* had due notice. The said note stiil
remains unpaid, and the plaintiff demands judgment for dollars
NO 6.
On a promissory note where there are payments.
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that the defendant, on ihe day of
, by lib note, a copy of which is filed herewith, promised to pay A. B.
dollars; that defendant, on paid dollars on said note, and on
he paid dollars; that the residue thereof, and the interest, are yet dne,
wherefore he demands judgment for dollars.
NO 7.
For money paid by a surety.
A. B. complains of C. E., and says that on the day of , he paid to
G. H. dollars, on a note held by him on the plaintiff, as surety for the
defendant, a copy of which note is filed herewith, which amount yet remains due
and unpaid to the plaintiff, wherefore he demands judgment for dollars.
NO. 8.
On on agreement in writing—specific performance, and damages for breaches.
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that on , the defendant executed, as
did also the plaintiff, an agreement, a copy whereof is filed herewith ; that the
plaintiff duly performed all the conditions on his part ; that the defendant has
failed to perform the conditions on his part in this : [here state the breaches of the
agreement] The plaintiff asks that the defendant be compelled to perform his
agreement in this : [here state the specific performance required ; ] and the plain
tiff demands damages to the amount of dollars, which he has sustained in
the premises, and other proper relief.
NO. 9.
To foreclose a mortgaged
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that the defendant executed a mortgage con
veying to the plaintiff the tract of land therein described, as security for the pay
ment of a debt evidenced by a note, a copy of each of which is filed herewith, amount
ing to dollars, which yet remains unpaid : Wherefore he asks judgment for
dollars and the foreclosure of the mortgage, and sale of the property, or so
much thereof as may be necessary to pay his debt, and for other proper relief.
NO. 10.
On an account?
A- B. complains of C. D., and says that the defendant is indebted to him in the
*nnef dollars, for personal property sold and delivered by the plaintiff to
the defendant, the particulars of which are set forth in an account filed herewith,
tearing due and unpaid the sum of dollars, for which he demands judg
ment.
NO. 11.
For goods sold and delivered, materials furnished, and money lent.
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that the defendant owes him dollars,
for goods sold and delivered by plaintiff to him ; also, that defendant owes plain
tiff dollars, for work done and materials furnished by plaintiff fur him;
also, that defendant owes plaintiff dollars, for money lent by plaintiff to
him—a bill of particulars of each is filed herewith: Wherefore plaintiff demands
judgment for dollars.
NO. 12.
For fraud in the salt of ■property.
A. B. complains of C. D., and sayB that on the day of , the defend
ant sold him a horee, for which the plaintiff paid him dollars; that the
defendent fraudulently represented the horse to be sound, knowing the same to be
unsound and diseased with the fistula, by reason whereof the horse has become
worthless, and the plaintiff has been put to dollars expanse in keeping and
trying to cure him : 'Wherefore, he prays judgment for dollars damages.
NO. 13.
To recover perianal property}
A. 6. says that he is the owner of, and entitled to the possession of [here describe
the property ; ] of the value of dollars, which C. D. has possession of with
out right, and unlawfully detains from the plaintiff; wherefore he demands judg
ment for the recovery of the property, and dollars damages for the deten
tion, and other proper relief.
NO. 14.
For injury to the persan.2
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that on , the defendant being the own
er of a stage coach, the plaintiff took passage therein at , to be conveyed to
; that the stage was upset by the carelessness of the driver in the service of
the defendant, and the plaintiff thereby had his arm broken, and was otherwise
injured, in consequence of which he had to expend dollars for medical
attendance, and says he has sustained damage to the Amount of dollar*, for
which he demands judgment.
NO. 15.
For taking good*.
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that, on , at , the defendant
without leave and wrongfully took the following property of the plaintiff ai;d hit
not returned the same, that is to say [here describe the property with the valne,]
by which plaintiff gays he was damaged to the amount of dollars, for which
be demands judgment, and for other proper relief.
NO. 16.
For assault and battery.
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that on the defendant assaulted and
beat the plaintiff, whereby he is damaged to the amount of dollars, for
which he demands judgment.
NO. 17.
For ilander.l
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that on the defendant spoke the fol
lowing false and slanderous words of the plaintiff, that is to say [here insert the
words,] by which plaintiff says he is damaged to the amount of dollars, for
which he demands judgment
NO. 18.
For a libel.
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that the defendant on , published in a
newspaper called of the plaintiff, the following false and malicious libel,
[here insert it,] whereby the plaintiff is damaged to the amount of dollars,
for which he demands judgment.
NO. 19.
To recover real propery.
A. B. states that he is the owner in fee simple, (or for life, etc.,) and entitled to
possession of a tract of land, (or town lot,) [here describe it,] that C. D. now holds
possession of the land without right, and for past has unlawfully kept the
plaintiff out of possession, wherefore he demands judgment for the recovery of the
land, and dollars damages for being kept out of possession, and for other
proper relief.
NO. 20.
For injury to land.
A. B. complains of C. D., and says that on at , defendant, without
leave, wrongfully entered on [describe the land] of which the plaintiff was then
the owner ; and defendant also cut timber thereon to the value of dollars,
tod carried it away, by which plaintiff was damaged to the amount of dol
lars, for which he demands judgment.
NO. 21.
Demurrer.
A. B. against C. D., Circuit Court.
The defendant demurs to the complaint for the following grounds of objection :
Fird. .
NO. 22.
Answer.
C. D., defendant, or
£. F., agent or attorney.
A. B. against C. D., Answer.
The defendant admits that he made the note, and that it remains unpaid as
alleged in the complaint, except the sum of dollars, which he paid to the
plaintiff on the day of . And the defendant, by way of net-off says
that when this action commenced, the plaintiff ran, and still is, indebted to him
in the sum of dollars, upon a note (or contract or account) a copy of which
is filed herewith ; and the defendant offers to set off against the amount due to the
plaintiff an amount equal thereto, and demands judgment for dollars, the
residue.
NO. 2a
A. B. against C. D., Answer.
C. D., defendant, answers to the complaint, that he did not execute the note
mentioned therein ; or,
That he admits he executed the note, mentioned in the coaplaint, but on theday of , he paid the same in full ; or,
Admits he executed the note, and sayo that ho has paid the saa*, except the
sum of fifty dollars, and before this action wsto commenced he tendered to the
plaintiff the sum of fifty dollars, and now brings the same into court for the
plaintiff.!
NO. 24.
Accord and satisfaction.
The defendant answering, says he admits the execution of the note, and that
before the commencement of this action, he delivered to tho plaintiff one wagon,
which he received in full satisfaction of the note mentioned in the complaint.
NO. 25.
Former recovery.
^e aefenaant answering, says that at the term of the circuit
court, the plaintiff recovered judgment against tho defendant for dollars
damages, and dollanrfor costs ; and that said judgmeat vas rendered open
the same cause of action mentioned in the plaintiff's complaint.
NO. 26.
Release.
The defendant answering, says the plaintiff executed to him a release, a copy of
which is filed herewith, whereby he discharged the defendant from the cause of
action mentioned in the complaint
NO. 27
Statute of limitations to cm account.
"^be defendant answering, says that the cause of action mentioned in the plain-
tifTs complaint did not accrue within six years before the commencement of thia
action.
that at the time of its execution, he was a minor under the age of twenty-one
NO. 29.
Trespass upon real property.
Defendant answers, and Bays that a part of ths land mentioned in the plaintiff 'a
complaint was the soil and freehold of the defendant, the same being described as
follows : [here describe it,] and denies that he entered on any part of said land,
except the part above described.
NO. 30.
Deceit in tnlt of a Aem,
The defendant answers, and says ha edmits he sold the horse to the plaintiff for
the price stated in the complaint, but deaieo that hs madj srid representation,
knowing that the same wati not true. Acd further denies that said horse was un
sound, as stated in the plaintiff's couploiat.
NO. 31.
The defendant answers and says he denies the' he charged the plaintiff with the
crime of perjury as set forth in the plaintiff 'o first ccues of action ; admits he
spoke the words mentioned in the Djcond ccucc of action, but saya that on
at the plaintiff did feloniously steal cad carry away one rifle gun, the prop
erty of C. D., of the value of dollars, so the defendant'* charge vns t-ue.
NO. 3S.
Atzaa'J. end toiler?.
Defendant answers and says the plsiztiif first ua&nlted him, and he only defended
himself.
NO. SS.
For rtsowry of nsi property.
The defendant denies that the plaintiff hue any othor ownership of, or title to,
the premises in question than sa herein:^ to? set forth, and admits thtt he is in
possession of the premises, but desics that such pocssaica is wrongful. And by
way of counter-claim, saye that tho plaintiff wco os tho day of the
owner of said land and now hsc the legal titlo thereto, but on that day the plain
tiff by his written contract, a copy of vhici is Sled herewith, sold and agreed to
convey the land to the defendant on the terms therein specified, and put the defen
dant in possession thereof as purchaser ; acd the defendant performed all tho con
ditions on his part in said contract, and befors the commencement of this action
tendered to the plaintiff, acd now brings into court dollars, the full amount
doe to him as the price of said land ; wherefore he prays judgment that the plain
tiff convey to him the land, and that his title be quieted.
NO. 34.
Reply.
A. B. against C. D.
The plaintiff admits that he made the contract, and put the defendant in pos-
session as stated in the answer, but afterwards, on the plaintiff and defend
ant rescinded said contract by a written agreement, a copy of which is filed here
with, and the defendant then agreed to restore to the plaintiff the possession of the
lands on the day of , which the defendant has failed to do.
NO. 35.
Limitations in an action on an account.
The plaintiff replies and says that after the expiration of six years, and before
^jje commencement 0f thjg action, the defendant executed a writing, a copy whereof
is filed herewith, by which he acknowledged said debt, and agreed to pay the same.
NO. 36.
Minority.
The plaintiff replies that the articles mentioned in his bill of particulars were
necessaries for the defendant and suitable to hiB condition in life.
NO. 37.
Summons.!
The State of Indiana : To the sheriff of county :
You are commanded to summon C. D. to appear in the circuit court, on
the second day of the next term thereof to answer the complaint of A. B., and of
this summons make due return. Witness the clerk and seal of the court thiiday of . E. F., efert. [l. s.]
NO. 88.
Sulpama.
The State of Indiana : To the sheriff of county :
Summon A. B. to appear in the court, on the day of , 18—,
to testify in an action wherein C. D. is plaintiff, (or defendant) and return this
summons. Witness this day of , 18—.
E.F,CW.
NO. 89.
Affidavit in attachment.
A. B. against C. D., circuit court
The plaintiff says that the claim in this action against the defendant is for
money due on a note, executed by him to the plaintiff; that the claim is just, and
that he believes he ought to recover five hundred dollars, and that the said C B.
has left this state with intent to defraud his creditors, (or any of the other caum
of arrest [attachment]). Sworn to this day of , 18—, before me.
A B. against C. D., circuit court.
The plaintiff states that he is the owner and lawfully entitled to the possession
of the following property, viz.: [here describe the property], of the value of
; that the same has not been taken for any tax, assessment or fine, pursuant
to any statute, nor seized under an execution or attachment against the property
of the plaintiff, but is unlawfully detained in the county of , from the plain
tiff by the defendant.
A. B.
Sworn to by A. B. before me this day of , 18—
NO. 41.
Affidavit for bail.
A B. against C. D., circuit court.
The plaintiff says that the defendant is indebted to him in the Bum of one hun-
dred dollars now due on a note executed by the defendant to the plaintiff on the
day of , upon which note this action is brought to recover that sum,
and he believes that the defendant is about to leave this state, taking with him
property subject to execution, (or money or effects), which should be applied to
the payment of the said debt, with intent to defraud the plaintiff.
Sworn to this day of , 18—, before me.
NO. 42.
Undertaking jor costs.
A. B. against C. D., circuit court.
We undertake that the plaintiff shall pay to the defendant all costs that may
accrue in this action to any officer or person. E. P.
(Date.) G. H.
NO. 43.
Special bail.
I, A B., acknowledge myself special bail for the within named —— ,
in the action specified in the within order of arrest. Witness my hand this
day of , 18—. A. B.
Taken and approved by me this day of , 18—.
E. P., sheriff
NO. 44.
Undertaking of plaintiff to obtain attachment.
A B. against C. D., circuit court.
We undertake that the plaintiff shall duly prosecute his proceeding in attachment
in this action and pay to the defendant all damages which he may sustain if
the proceedings of the plaintiff shall be wrongful and oppressive.
CP.
Approved by . R. S.
A. B. against C. D., circuit court.
We undertake that the plaintiff, A. 3., shall prosecute this action with effect
and without delay, and return tho property in controversy to the defendant, ii i
return be adjudged by the court, and pay to him all such sums of money u be
may recover against the plaintiff in this action for any cause whatever.
Approved by . A. B.
(Date. C D.
NO. 48.
UndsrtcMng to ohtam injunction.
A. B. against C. D., circuit court.
We undertake that the plaint: 3*, A. B., shall psy to the defendant, C. D., all
jgjQjgjg tn<j costs vrhich may accrue by rcicon of the injunction in this action.
Q.H.
This day of , 18—. L J.
HO. 47.
Oder cf arrest.
The State of Indiana : To the sheriff of county :
You are commrjided forthwith to arrest C. D., and hold him to bail in the earn
0f dollars, claimed by A. B. in an action brought in the circuit
court by A. B. against him, together with the costs of the action, and to return this
order on the day of , or, if a recognizance is taken, then forthwith.
Witness, the clerk of the circuit court, this day of .
E. F„ eferi
NO. 48.
Order of attachment.
A. B. against C. D., circuit court.
The State of Indiana: To the sheriff of county :
You are commanded to ceize :.nd take into your possession the personal proper^
an(j attacn t'ae jttn(j 0f jje deiiiidimt in your county, not exempt from execu
tion, or so much thereof as will satiafy the cL.im of the plaintiff in this action for
five hundred dollars, together with tbo costs of the action, and return this order,
with your proceedings thereon, when i'ully executed or discharged.
Witness, the clerk of said court, this day of , 18—.
E. F, derk
110. 49.
Order for the daVmf of property.
A. B. against C. D., circuit court.
The State of Indiana : To thi oheriff of county:
You are commanded to take the following property, viz : [here describe it, and
gtate . tg vaiUC) ^ jn tjje affidayitl] from the defendant, C. D., and deliver it to the
plaintiff A. B., upon his giving tha undertaking and surety required by law ; and
make due return of your doings cn this order forthwith.
Witness, the clerk of said court, this day of , 18—.
E. F, eta*.
L B. against C. D., circuit court.
The 8tate of Indiana : To C. D.:
Yon are enjoined from all further proceedings upon the judgment of the
eircnit court, rendered at the term thereof, in 18—, in your favor, agains
A.B., for the earn of dollars, and costs, until the further order of this court
By order of the court, this day of , 18—.
Witness : E. F.. Clerk.
NO. 51.
Executions.
The State of Indiana ; To the sheriff of county :
Whereas, A. B. recovered judgment against C. D. on the day of
in the court for dollars, (and E. F. became replevin bail therefor o
the day of ,) upon which there is due dollars, principal an
interest, and dollars costs accrued to this time. You are therefore com
manded to levy the s-id sums of money of the property of the defendant (an
replevin bail) in your county, subject to execution, and have the money at th
clerk's office to satisfy said judgment, interest end costs, and return this writ i
Be handred and eighty days, with your doings thereon.
Witness, etc.
NO. 52.
Delivery of property.
the State of Indiana : To the sheriff of county :
Whereas, on the day of , by the judgment of circuit court
L B. recovered against C. D. the following personal (or real) property, viz.: [hir
lescribe it,] which is unjustly withheld from the said A. B. by the said C. D.
Ion are therefore commanded forthwith to deliver to aaid A. B. possession of said
iremues with appurtenances, (if real property,) (if personal, said property,) so
tcovered, and thai of the property of said C. D. in your county, you levy
Umages and costs recovered in said judgment by A. B. against C. D. and
UTe the money at the clerk's- office to satisfy said damages and costs, and return
his writ in one hundred and eighty days, with your doings thereon.
Witness the clerk and seal of said court this day of .
E. F., Clerk.
NO. 53.
Schedule to be furnished by the sheriff, and appraisement.
L B. against C. D., circuit court.
The following is a list of property levied upon by virtue of an execution in thi
« by me, on this day of 18—. Q. R. sheriff.
to wit:
Lot No. ten (10) in the town of Indianapolis $500 00
The west half of the northeast quarter of section ten, township five,
north of range three east, in county, eighty (80) acres, more
or less- 400 00
One bay horse 80 00
One black cow - 15 00
$995 00
We, the undersigned, selected to appraise the property mentioned in the sche
dule to which this is annexed, upon oath say that the several items, to the beat oi
our judgment, are worth the respective sums specified therein, and that the same is
the fair cash value at this time, [exclusive of liens and encumbrances, if any.]
";}<—
Subscribed and sworn to before me, this day of , 18—.
Q. theriff of aunty.
