SEC. 1. This act shall be known as the code of civil procedure of the Territory of Kansas.

SEC. 2. The rule fo the common law, that statutes in derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no application to this code. Its provisions, and all proceedings under it, shall be liberally construed, with a view to promote its object, and assist the parties in obtaining justice.

SEC. 3. Remedies in the courts of justice are divided into: First, Actions. Second, Special proceedings.

SEC. 4. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of justice, by which a party prosecutes another party, for the enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a
wrong, or the punishment of a public offence.

SEC. 5. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.

SEC. 6. Actions are of two kinds: First, Civil. Second,

Criminal.

SEC. 7. A criminal action is one prosecuted by the Territory
as a party, against a person charged with a public offence, for the
punishment thereof. ',

SEC. 8. Every other is a civil action.

SEC. 9. Where the violation of a right admits of both a civil
and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not merged
in the other.

TITLE I.
FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 10. The distinction between actions at law and suits in
equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore
existing, are abolished; and in their place there shall be, hereafter, but one form of action, which shall be called a civil action.

SEC. 11. In such action, the party complaining shall be known
as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 12. There can be no feigned issues; but a question of
fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, may be tried by a jury
upon an order for the trial, stating distinctly and plainly, the
question of fact to be tried, and such order is the only authority
necessary for a trial.

TITLE II.
TIME 01‘ COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.
CHAPTER 1. .dct2'ons in General.

SEC. 13. This title shall not apply to actions already commenced, but the statutes now in force, shall be applicable to such
cases, according to the subject of the action, and without regard
to the form.

SEC. 14. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act are repealed.

SEC. 15. Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods prescribed in this title, after the cause of action shall have
accrued; but where, in special cases, a differentlimitation is prescribed by statute, the action may be commenced accordingly.

CHAPTER 2. afctions for the recovery of Real Property.

SEC. 16. An action for the recovery of the title, or possession
of lands, tenements or hereditaments, can only be brought

within twenty-one years after the cause of such action shall have
accrued.

SEC. 17. If a person, entitled to commence any action for the
recovery of the title or possession of any lands, tenements or
hercditaments, be, at the time his right or title shall first descend
or accrue, within the age of twenty-one years, a married woman,
insane or imprisoned, every such person may, after the expiration
of twenty-one years from the time his right or title first descended or accrued, bring such action within ten years after such disability is removed, and at no time thereafter.

SEC. 18. An action for the forcible entry and detention, or

- forcible detention only, of real property, can only be brought

within five years after the cause of such action shall have accrued.

CHAPTER 3. ./3ctz'ons other than for the recovery of Real
Property.

SEC. 19. Civil actions, other than for the recovery of real
3 property, can only be brought within the following periods:

SEC. 20. Within three years : An action upon a speciality, or
any agreement, contract or promise, in writing.

SEC. 21. Within three years: An action upon contract, not in
writing, express or implied; an action upon a liability created
by statute, other than a forfeiture or penalty.

SEC. 22. Within two years : An action for trespass upon real
property; an action for taking, detaining, or injuring personal
property, including actions for the specific recovery of personal
property; an action for injury to the rights of the plaintiff, not
arising on contracts and not hereinafter enumerated; an action
for relief on the ground of fraud— the cause of action in such
case shall not be deemed to have accrued until the discovery of
the fraud. ,

SEC. 23. Within one year: An action for libel, slander, asP sault, battery, malicious prosecution, or false imprisonment ; an
action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture; but where the
statute giving such action presents a diderent limitation, the action may be brought within the period so limited.

SEC. 24. An action upon the official bond or undertaking of

»- an executor, administrator, guardian, sheriff, or any other odicer,
or upon the bond or undertaking given in attachment, injunction,
arrest, or in any case whatever required by statute, can only be
brought within ten years after the cause of action shall have accrued, but this section shall be subject to the qualification in section hfteen.

SEC. 25. An action for relief, not hereinbefore provided for,
can only be brought within ten years after the cause of action
shall have accrued.

SEC. 26. If a person, entitled to bring any action mentioned
in this chapter, except for a penalty or a forfeiture, be, at the
time the cause of action accrued, within the age of twenty-one
years, a married woman, insane or imprisoned, every such person shall be entitled to bring such action within the respective
times limited by this chapter, after such disability shall be removed.

CHAPTER 4. General Provisions.

SEC. 27. An action shall be deemed commenced within the
meaning of this title, as to each defendant, at the date of the
summons which is served on him, or on a co-defendant, who is a
joint contractor, or otherwise united in interest with him ; where
service by publication is proper, the action shall be deemed commenced at the date of the first publication, which publication
must be regularly made. An attempt to commence an action
shall be deemed equivalent to the" commencement thereof, within
the meaning of this title, when the party faithfully, properly and
diligently endeavors to procure a service ; but such attempt must
be followed by service within sixty days.

SEC. 28. If, when a cause of action accrues against a person,
he be out of the Territory, or has absconded or concealed himself, the period limited for the commencement of the action, shall
not begin to run until he comes into the Territory, or while he
is so absconded or concealed; and if, after the cause of action
accrues, he depart from the Territory, or abscond or conceal
himself, the time of his absence or concealment shall not be
computed as any part of the period within which the action must
be brought.

SEC. 29. Where the cause of action has arisen in another state
or country, between non-residents of this Territory, and, by the
laws of the state or country where the cause of action arose, an
action cannot be maintained thereon by reason of lapse of time,
no action can be maintained thereon in this Territory.

SEC. 30. If any action be commenced within due time, and a ;
judgment thereon for the plaintii be reversed, or if the plaintiE ‘

fail in such action, otherwise than upon the merits, and the time
limited forthe same, shall have expired, the plaintid, or if he
die and the cause of action survive, his representatives, may commence a new action within one year after the reversal or failure.

SEC. 31. In any case founded on contract, when any part of
the principal or interest shall have been paid, or an acknowledgment of an existing liability, debt or claim, or any promise to
pay the same, shall have been made, an action maybe brought
on such case within the period prescribed for the same, after such
payment, acknowledgment or promise ; but such acknowledgment
or promise must be in writing, signed by the party to be charged
thereby. I

TITLE III.
PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 32. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the
real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section
thirty-four ; but this section shall not be deemed to authorize the
assignment of a thing in action, not arising out of contract.

SEC. 33. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action,
the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any setoff or other defence now allewed ; but this section shall not apply
to negotiable bonds, promissory notes, or bills of exchange,
transferred in good faith and upon good consideration before due.

SEC. 34. An executor, adininistrator, guardian, trustee of an
express trust, a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit of another, or a person expressly
authorized by statute, may bring an action without joining with
him, the person for whose benefit it is prosecuted. Ollieers may
sue and be sued in such name as is authorized by law, and ollicial
bonds may be sued upon in the same way.

SEC. 35. When a married woman is a party, her husband must
be joined with her; except when the action concerns her separate
property, she may sue without her husband. When the action is
between herself and her husband, she may sue or be sued alone.

SEC. 36. If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may
defend for her own right ; and if the husband neglect to defend,
she may defend for his right also.

SEC. 37. The action of an infant must be brought by his guardian or next friend. When the action is brought by his next
friend, the court has power to dismiss it, if it is not for the benefit of the infant, or to substitute the guardian of the infant, or
any person, as the next friend. .

SEC. 88. The guardian, or next friend, is liable for the costs
of the action brought by him, and when he is insolvent, the court
may require, security for them. Either may be a witness in an
action brought by him.

SEC. 39. The defence of an infant must be by a guardian for
the suit, who may be appointed by the court in which the action

- is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or by a probate judge. The

appointment cannot be made until after the service of the summons in the action, as directed in this code.
SEC. 40. The appointment may be made upon the application

_of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply

within twenty days after the return of the summons. If he be
under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, the appointment may be made upon the application of any friend of the infant, or on that of the plaintiff in the action.

SEC. 41. All persons having an interest in the subject of the

action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as

plaintifs, except as otherwise provided in this title.

SEC. 42. Any person may be made a defendant, who has or
claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintih‘, or
who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the question involved therein.

SEC. 43. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in
interest must be joined, as plaintiffs or defendants; but if the
consent of one who should have been joined a plaintiff cannot be
obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason being stated in
the petition.

SEC. 44. When the question is one of common or general interest of many persons, or when the parties are very numerous,
and it may be impracticable to bring them all before the court,
one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all. ‘

SEC. 45. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or
instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, may all or any of them be included in the same action, at the option of the plaintiff.

SEC. 46. An action does not abate by the death, marriage or
other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, during its pendency, if the cause of action survive or
continue. In case of the marriage of a female party, the fact
being suggested on the record, the husband may be made a party
with his wife, and in the case of the death or other disability of
a party, the court may allow the action to continue by or against
his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other
transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the name of
the original party, or the court may allow the person to whom the
transfer is made to be substituted in the action.

SEC. 47. The court may determine any controversy between
parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the
rights of others, or by saving their rights ; but when a determi- '
nation of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of
other parties, the court must order them to be brought in.

SEC. 48. When, in an action for the recovery of real or personal property, any person having an interest in the property,
applies to be made a party, the court may order it to be done.

SEC. 49. Upon ailidavit of a defendant before answer, in any
action upon contract, or for the recovery of personal property
that some third party, without collusion with him, has or makes
a claim to the subject of the action, and that he is ready to pay
or dispose of the same, as the court may direct, the court may
make an order for the safe keeping, or for the payment, or deposit in court, or delivery of the subject of the action, to such
person as it may direct, and an order requiring such third party
to appear, in a reasonable time, and maintain or relinquish his
claim against the defendant. If such third party, being served
with a copy of the order, by the sheriff, or such other person as
the court may direct, fail to appear, the court may declare him
barred of all claim in respect to the subject of the action, against
the’ defendant therein. If such third party appear, he shall be
allowed to make himself defendant in the action, in lieu of the
original defendant, who shall be discharged from all liability to
either of the other parties in respect to the subject of the action,
upon his compliance with the order of the courtfor the payment,
deposit or delivery thereof.

SEC. 50. The provisions of the last section shall be applicable
to an action brought against a sheriff, or other oflicer, for the
recovery of personal property, taken by him under execution, or
for the proceeds of such property so taken, and sold by him.
And the defendant in any such action, shall be entitled to the
benefit of those provisions against the party in whose favor the
execution issued, upon exhibiting to the court the process under
which he acted, with his afiidavit that the property for the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the action is brought, was taken
under such process.

SEC. 51. In an action against a sherid‘ or other officer, for the
‘recovery of property taken under an execution and replevied by
the plaintid in such action, the court may, upon application of
the defendant and of the party in whose favor the execution
issued, permit the latter to be substituted as the defendant, security for the cost being given.

TITLE IV.
THE COUNTY IN wmcn ACTIONS ARE TO BE BROUGHT.

SEC. 52. Action for the following causes must be brought in
the county in which the subject of the action is situated, except
as provided in section fifty-three :, First, For the recovery of
real property, or of any estate or interest therein. Second, For
the partition of real property. Third, For the sale of real property, under a mortgage, lien, or other incumbrance or charge.

SEC. 53. If the real property, the subject of the action, be an
entire tract and situated in two or more counties, or if it consists of separate tracts, situated in two or more counties, the
action may be brought in any county, in which any tract or part
thereof is situated, unless it be an action to recover the possession thereof. And if the property be an entire tract, situated in
two or more counties, an action to recover the possession thereof, may be brought in either of such counties; but, if it consists
of separate tracts in diferent counties, the possession of such
tracts must be recovered by separate actions, brought in the
counties where they are situated. An action to compel the specific performance of a contract of sale of real estate, may be
brought in the county where the defendants, or any of them
reside. _

SEC. 54. Actions for the following causes must be brought in
the county where the cause, or some part thereof arose: First, An
action for the recovery of a line, forfeiture ‘or penalty, imposed

.by a statute, except that when it is imposed for an offence committed on a river, or other stream of water, or road, which is the
boundary of two or more counties, the action may be brought in
any county bordering on such river, water course or road, and
opposite to the place where the ofence was committed. Second,
An action against a public oilicer, for an act done by him in
virtue or under color of his oilice, or for a neglect of his omcial
duties. Third, An action on the oiiieial bond or undertaking of
a public oilicer.

SEC. 55. An action other than one of those mentioned in the
first three sections of this chapter, against a corporation created
by the laws of this Territory, may be brought inithe county in
which it is situated or has its principal omce or place of business,
or in which any of the principal ofiicers thereof may reside; but,
if such corporation be an insurance company, the action may be
brought in the county where the cause of action, or some part

thereof arose.

SEC. 56. An action against a railroad company, or an owner
of a. line of mail stages or other coaches, for any injury to persons or property upon the road or line, or upon a liability as a
carrier, maybe brought in any county through or into which said
read or line passes.

SEC. 57. An action, other than one of those mentioned in the
hrst three sections of this chapter, against a turnpike road company, may be brought in any county in which any part of the
road lies. ‘

SEC. 58. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply in the
case of any corporation created by a law of this Territory, whose
charter prescribes the place where alone a suit against such corporation may be brought.

SEC. 59. An action, other than one of those mentioned in the
first three sections of this chapter, against a non-resident of this
Territory or a foreign corporation, may be brought in any county
in which there may be property of, or debts owing to said
defendant, or where said defendant may be found‘; but if said
defendant be a foreign insurance company, the action _may be
brought in any county where the cause, or some part thereof

arose. _
SEC. 60. Every other action must be brought in the county in

which the defendant, or some one of the defendants reside, or
may be summoned.

SEC. 61. In all cases in which it shall be made to appear to
the court that a fair and impartial trial cannot be had in the
county where the suit is pending, the court may change the place.
of trial to some adjoining county.

TITLE V.
COMMENCEMENT or A CIVIL ACTION.
CHAPTER 1. Jllanncr of commencing a Civil ./fction.

SEC. 62. A civil action may be commenced in a court of
record, by filing in the ethos of the clerk of the proper court a
petition, and causing a summons to be issued therein.

SEC. 63. A copy of the petition need not accompany the summons, but the defendant or plaintiff shall be entitled to a copy of
the petition, or any other paper filed in the action, upon application to the clerk therefor; and the costs of such copy shall

be taxed among the costs in the action.
SEC. 64. The plaintiff shall, also, file with the clerk of the

court a precipe, stating the names of the parties to the action,
and demanding that a summons issue thereon.

SEC. 65. The summons shall be issued by the clerk, shall be
under the seal of the court, from which the same shall issue, and
shall be signed by the clerk. Its style shall be, “The Territory
of Kansas, county,” and it shall be dated the day it is
issued-. It shall be directed to the sheriil‘ of the county, and
command him to notify the defendant or defendants,_named
therein, that he or they have been sued, and must answer the
petition filed by the plaintif, giving his name, at a time stated
therein, or the petition will be taken as true, and judgment rendered accordingly; and where the action is for the recovery of
money only, there shall be endorsed on the writ the amount to
be furnished in the precipe, for which, with interest, judgment
will be taken, if the defendant fail to answer. If the defendant
fail to appear, judgment shall not be rendered for a larger amount
and the costs.

SEC. 66. Where the action is rightly brought in any county,
according to the provisions of title four, a summons shall be
issued to any other county against any one or more of the defendants, at the plaintiE’s request.

SEC. 67. The summons shall be served and returned by the
oiiicer to whom it is delivered, except when issued to any other
county than the one in which the action is commenced, within ten
days from its date, and when issued to another county, shall be
made returnable in not less than ten nor more than sixty days

‘from the date thereof, at the option of the party having it issued.

SEC. 68. When a writ is returned “not summoned,” other writs
may be issued, until the defendant or defendants shall be summoned; and when defendants reside in diierent counties, writs
may be issued to such counties at the same time.

CHAPTER 2. Service of Summons—./Yctual Service.

SEC. 69. The summons shall be served by the oliicer to whom
it is directed, who shall endorse on‘ the original writ the time and
manner of service. It may be also served by any person not a
party to the action, appointed by the oflicer to whom it is directed.
The authority of such person shall be endorsed on the writ, when
the writ it served by a person appointed by the oflicer to whom it
is directed, or when the service is made out of this Territory, the
return shall be verified by oath or amrmation. ,

SEC. 70. The service shall be by delivering a copy of the summons to the defendant personally, or by leaving one at his usual
place of residence, at anytime before the return day. _

SEC. 71. In all cases, the return must state the time and manner of service.

SEC. 72. The officer, to whom the summons is directed, must
return the same at the time therein stated.

SEC. 73. An acknowledgment on the back of the summons,
or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is equivalent to
service. _

SEC. 74. A summons against a corporation may be served upon
the president, mayor, chairman of the board of directors, or
trustees, or other chief officer; or, if its chief oflieer is not found
in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk or
managing agent; or,.if none of the aforesaid oflicersl can be
found, by a copy left at the office, or usual place of business of
such corporation, with the person having charge thereof.

SEC. 75. Where the defendant is an incorporated insurance
company, and the action is brought in a county in which there is
an agency thereof, the service may be upon the chief officer of
such agency.

SEC. 76. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, having
a managing agent in this Territory, the service may be upon such
agent.

SEC. 77. When the defendant is a minor, under the age of
fourteen years, the service must be upon him and upon his gua.rdian or father, or if neither of these can be found, then upon his
mother, or the person having the care or control of the infant, or
with whom he lives. If neither of these can be found, or if the
minor be more than fourteen years of age, service on him alone
shall be sufficient. The manner of service may be the same as
in the case of adults.

SEC. 78. Service may be made by publication in either of the
following cases: In actions brought under the fifty-second and
fifty-third sections of this code, where any or all of the defendants
reside out of the Territory; in actions brought to establish or

set aside a will, where any or all the defendants reside out of the

Territory; in actions brought against a non-resident of this Territory, or a foreign corporation, having in this Territory property
or debts owing to them, sought to be taken by any of the provisional remedies, or to be appropriated in any way; in actions
which relate to, or the subject of which is real or personal property in this Territory, where any defendant has or claims a lien
or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the relief demanded
consists wholly or partly in excluding him from any interest
therein, and such defendant is a non-resident of the Territory or
a foreign corporation; and, in all actions where thedefendant,
being a resident of the Territory, has departed therefrom, or from
the county of his residence, with intent to delay or defraud his
creditors, or to avoidthe service of a summons, or keeps himself
concealed therein with the like intent.

SEC. 79. Before service can be made by publication, an ailida-- ;
vit must be filed, that service of a summons cannot be made‘
within this Territory, on the defendant or defendants, to be served
by publication, and that the case is one of those mentioned in
the preceding section. When such ailidavit is filed, the party
may proceed to make service by publication.

SEC. 80. The publication must be made six consecutive weeks,
in some newspaper printed in the county where the petition is
filed, if there be any printed in such county; and if there be not,
in some newspaper printed in this Territory, of general circulation in that county. It must contain a summary statement of the
object and prayer of the petition, mention the court wherein it
is filed, and notify the person or persons thus to be served, when
they are required to answer.

SEC. 81. Service by publication shall be deemed complete
when it shall have been made in the manner and for the time prescribed in the preceding section ; and such service shall be proved
by the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman or principal clerk,
or other person knowing the same. "

SEC. 82. In all cases whereiservice may be made by publica- A
tion, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint
may be made out of the Territory.

SEC. 83. A party against whom a judgment or order has been
rendered, without other service than by publication in a newspaper, may, at any time within three years after the date of the
judgment or order, have the same opened, and be let in to defend.
Before the judgment;or order shall be opened, the applicant shall
give notice to the adverse party of his intention to make such an
application, and shall file a full answer to the petition, pay all
costs, if the court require them to be paid, and make it appear
to the satisfaction of the court, by affidavit, ‘that, during the
pendency of the action, he had no actual, notice thereof, in time
to appear in court and make his defence; but the title to any

property, the subject of the judgment or order sought to be
opened, whichby it, or in consequence of it, shall have passed to
a purchaser in good faith, shall not be affected by any proceedings under this section, nor shall they afect the title of any property sold before judgment under an attachment. The adverse
party, on the hearing of an application to open judgment or
order, as provided by this section, shall be allowed to present
counter atlidavits,;to show that, during the pendency of the action, the applicant had notice_thereof, in time to appear in court
and make his defence.

SEC. 84. In actions where it shall be necessary to make the
heirs or devisees of any deceased person defendants, and it shall
appear by the ailidavit of the plaintiff, annexed to his petition,
that the names of such heirs or devisees, or any of them, and
their residence, are unknown to the plaintiff, proceedings may be
had against such unknown heirs or devisees, without naming
them ; and the court shall make such order respecting service as
may be deemed proper. If service by publication be ordered,
the publication shall not be less than six weeks.

SEC. 85. Where the action is against two or more defendants,
and one or more shall have been served, but not all of them, the
plaintid may proceed as follows : First, If the action be against
defendants jointly indebted upon contract, he may proceed against
the defendants served, unless the court otherwise direct ; and, if
he recover judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants
thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced
against the joint property of all, and the separate property of the
defendants served; and, if they are subject to arrest, against the
persons of the defendants served. Second, If the action be
against defendants severally liable, he may, without prejudice to
his rights against those not served, proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as if they were the only defendants.

SEC. 86. Nothing in this code shall be so construedas to make

‘ a judgment, against one or more defendants jointly or severally

liable, a bar to another action against those not served.

sEC. 87. When the summons has been served, or publication
made, the action is pending, so as to charge third persons with
notice of its pendency; and, while pending, no interest can be
acquired by third persons in the subject matter thereof, as against
the plaintifsptitle. ‘

SEC. 88. When any part of real property, the subject matter
of an action, is situated in any other county or counties than the

one in which the action is brought, a: certified copy of the judgment in such action must be recorded in the register of doed’s
oihce of such other county or counties, before it shall operate
therein as notice, so as to charge third persons, as provided in
the preceding section. It shall operate as such notice, without
record, in the county where it is rendered ; but this section shall
not apply to actions or proceedings under any statute, new in
force, which does not require such record.

TITLE VI.
JOINDER 01-‘ ACTIONS.

SEC. 89. The plaintiff may unite several causes of actions in
the same petition, whether they be such as have heretofore been
denominated legal or equitable, or both, when they are included
in either one of the following classes : First, The same transaction, or transactions connected with the same subject of action‘.
Second, Contracts, express or implied. Third, Injuries, with or
without force, to person and property, ‘or either. Fourth, Injuries to character. Fifth, Claims toyecoyer the’ possession of
personal property, with or without damages for’ the withholding
thereof. Sixth, Claims to recover real property, with or without
damages for the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of
the same. Seventh, Claims against a trustee, by virtue of acoutract, or by operation of law. '

SEC. 90. The causes of action so united must afoot all the
parties to the action, and not require different places of trial.

TITLE VII.
PLEADINGS IN crvn. ACTIONS.

CHAPTER 1. Pleading: in General. .

SEC. 91. The pleadings are the written statements, by the
parties, of the facts, constituting their respective claims and
defences. . «

SEC. 92. The rules of pleading, heretofore existing in civil

actions, are abolished; and, hereafter, the forms of pleading, in
civil actions in courts of record, and the rules by which their sufnciency may be determined, are those prescribed by this code.
SEC. 98. The only pleadings allowed are: First, The petition
by the plaintif. Second, The answer or demurrer by the defendant. Third, The demurrer or reply by the plaintif. Fourth,
The demurrer by the defendant.

CHAPTER 2. The Petition.
SEC. 94. The petition must contain: First, The name of the

court, and the county in which the action is brought, and the
names of the parties, plaintiff and defendant, followed by the
word “ petition.” Second, Astatement of the facts constituting
the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language, and without repetition. Third, A demand of the relief to which the party
supposes himself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated ; and, if interest thereon
be claimed, the time from which interest is to be computed shall
be also stated.

SEC. 95. Where the petition contains more than one cause of

action, each shall be separately stated and numbered.

CHAPTER 3. Demurrcr.

SEC. 96. The defendant may demur to the petition onlywhen
it appears on its face either, First, That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of the action. Second, That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue.
Third, That there is another action pending between the same
parties for the same cause. Fourth, That there is a defect of
parties, plaintiff or defendant. Fifth, That several causes of
action are improperly joined. Sixth, That the petition does not
state facts sufiicient to constitute'a cause of action.

SEC. 97. The demurrer shall specify distinctly the grounds of
objection to the petition. Unless it do so, it shall be regarded
as objecting only that the petition does not state facts suilicient
to constitute a cause of action. a

SEC. 98. That when any of the defects enumerated in section
ninety-six do not appear upon the face of the petition, the objection may be taken by answer ; and, if no objection be taken,
either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to
have waived the same, except only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and that the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 99. When a demurrer is sustained, on the ground of misjoinder of several causes of action, the court, on motion of the
plaintiff, shall allow him, with or without costs, in its discretion,
to £le several petitions, each including such of said causes of
action as might have been joined; and an action shall be docketed
for each of said petitions, and the same shall he proceeded in
without further service.

SEC. 100. The defendant may demur to one or more of the
several causes of action stated in the petition, and answer to the
residue.

CHAPTER 4. .&nswe r.

Sec. 101. The answer shall contain: First, A general or spacihc denial of each material allegation of the petition controverted
by the defendant. Second, A statement of any new matter constituting a defence, counter-claim or set-oh‘, in ordinary and concise language, and without repetition.

SEC. 102. The defendant may set forth, in his answer, as
many grounds of defence, counter-claim and set-of as he may
have, whether they be such as have been heretofore denominated
legal or equitable, or both. Each “must be separately stated and
numbered, and they must refer, in an intelligible manner, to the
causes of action which they are intended to answer.

SEC. 103. The counter-claim mentioned in the last section
must be one existing in favor of a defendant and against a plaintif, between whom a several judgment might be had in the action,
and arising out of the contract or transaction set forth in the
petition as the foundation of the plaiutitl"s claim, or connected
with the subject of the action. _

SEC. 104. If the defendant omit to set up the counter-claim
or set-of, he cannot recover costs against the plaintih‘ in any
subsequent action thereon; but this section shall not apply to
causes of action which are stricken out of or withdrawn from the
answer, as provided in sections one hundred and five and one
hundred and twenty-nine.

SEC. 105. When it appears that a new party is necessary to
a final decision upon a counter-claim, the court may either permit the new party to be made by a summons, to reply to the
counter-claim, or may direct the counter-claim to. be stricken out
of the answer, and made the subject of a separate action.

SEC. 106. A set-of can only bepleaded in an action founded
on contract, and must be a cause of action arising upon contract

or ascertained by the decision of the court.

SEC. 107. When it appears that a new party is necessary to a
final decision upon the set-off, the court shall permit the new
party to be made, if it also appear that, owing to the insolvency
or non-residence of the plaintid, or other cause, the defendant
will be in danger of losing his claim, unless permitted to use it
as a set-oh‘. '

SEC. 108. When cross demands have existed between persons
under such circumstances, that if one had brought an action
against the other, a counter-claim or set-oh‘ could have been set
up, neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof by the assignment or death of the other ; but the two demands must be deemed
compensated so" far as they equal each other.‘ ' o

SEC. 109. The guardian of an infant or person of an unsound
mind, or attorney for a person in prison, shall deny, in the
answer, all the material allegations of the petition prejudicial to
such defendant. '

CHAITER 5. Reply. ‘

SEC. 110. There shall be no reply, except upon the allegation
of a counter-claim or set-of, in the answer.

SEC. 111. When the answer contains new matter, constituting
a counter-claim or set-oil‘, the plaintid‘ may reply to suchnew
matter, denying, generally or specifically, each a1legation‘controverted by him, and he may allege, in ordinary and concise language and without repetition, any‘ new matter not inconsistent
with the petition, constituting a defense to such new matter in
the answer; or he may demur to the same for insumciency,
stating, in his demurrer, ihe grounds thereof; and he may demur
to one or‘more of such defences set up in the answer, and reply
to the residue. ‘ . ' _

SEC. 112. If the reply of the plaintiff, to any defence set up
by the answer, be ihsudicient, "the defendant may demur thereto,

‘I

stating the grounds of _such demurrer.

CHAPTER VI. Gerteral Rules qf Pleading.

SEC. 113. The-answer or demurrer, by the defendant, shall be
filed within twenty days after the day on which the summons is
returnable; the reply or demurrer, by the plaintif, shall be filed
within thirty days after the day on which the summons was made
returnable. The demurrer hythe defendant, to the reply of the
plaintiff, shall~be filed within forty days after the day on which
the summons was made returnable.

SEC. 114. The court, or any judge thereof in vacation, may,
in his discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, allovran
answer or reply to be made, or other act to be done, after the
time .limited by this act, or, by an order, enlarge such time. ‘
‘Sec. 115. Every pleading, in a court of record, must be subscribed by the party or his attorney.

Sec. 116. Every pleading of fact must be verified by the
amdavit-of the party, his agent or attorney. A pleading, verined as herein required; shall not be used against a party in any
criminal prosecution, or action, or proceedings for a penalty or
forfeiture, as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading, and such veriiication shall not make other or greater proof
necessary on the side of the adverse party.

SEC. 117. The verification mentioned in the last section shall
no L be required to the answer of a guardian defending for an
infant or person of unsound mind, or a person imprisoned, nor
in any case where the admission of the truth of a fact stated in
the pleading might subject the party to a criminal or penal prosecution.

Sec. 118. If there be several persons united in interest and
pleading together, the ailidavit may be made by any one of such
parties.

SEC. 119. The ailidavit shallbe sumcient if it state that the
affant believes the facts stated in the pleading to be true. '

SEC. 120. In all cases where the party pleading is a non-resident of the county in which the action is brought, or if he shall

be absent from the county where the pleading is filed, an adidavit,
made before filing the pleading, stating the substance of the facts
afterwards inserted in the pleading, shall be a sumcient verinca-’
tion. Such ailidavit shall be filed with the pleading intended to
be verified thereby. 1 1

SEC. 121. The affidavit verifying pleadings may be made before any person before whom a deposition might be taken, and
must be signed by the party making the same, and the odicer
before whom the same was taken, shall certify that it was sworn:
to or amrmed before him, and signed in his presence. The certi§c;-.te of sueh oflicer, signed oflicially by him, shall be evidence
that the affidavit was duly made, that the name of the omcer was
written by himself, and that he was such oflicer.

SEC. 122. The verification of the pleading does not apply to
the amount claimed, except in actions foundedon contracts, express or implied, for the payment of money only. _

SEC. 123. When the affidavit is made by the agent or attorney,
it must set forth the reason why it is not made by the party himself. It can be made by the agent or attorney, only——First,
When the facts are within the personal knowledge of the agent or
attorney. Second, When the plaintid is an infant, or of unsound mind, or imprisoned. Third, When the pleading to be
verified is founded upon a written instrument for the payment of
money only, and such instrument is in the possession of the
agent or attorney. Fourth, When the party is not a resident
of, or is absent from the county. ' ' '

SEC. 124. In the commotion of any pleading, for the pur-—
pose of determining its elfect, its allegations shall "be liberally

construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.
SEC. 125. All fictions in pleadings are abolished.

SEC. 126. The title of a cause shall not be changed in any of
its stages.

SEC. 127. If the action, counter-claim or set-oil" be founded
on account or on a note, bill or other written instrument, as
evidence oflindebtedness, a copy thereof must be attached to
and filed with the pleading.‘ If not so attached and filed, the
reason thereof must be shown in the pleading. ’

SEC. 128. If redundant or irrelevant matter be inserted in any
pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of the party prejudiced thereby ; and when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite and uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or

defence is notapparent, the court may require the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment.

SEC. 129. The court, at any time before the final submission
of the cause, on motion of the defendant, may allow a counterclaim or set-oil‘, set up in the answer to be withdrawn, and the
same may become the subject of another action; on motion of
either party, to be made at the time such counter-claim or set-oh‘
is withdrawn, an action on the same shall be docketed and proceeded in, as in like cases after process served; and the court
shall direct the time and manner of pleading therein. If an
action be not so docketed, it may afterwards be commenced in
the ordinary way.

SEC. 130. In pleading a judgment, or other determination of
a court or oflicer of special jurisdiction, it shall be suflicient to
state that such judgment or determination was duly given or
made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading
must establish, on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.

SEC. 131. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it shall be sufficient to state that the party
duly performed all the conditions on his part, and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must establish, on the
trial, the facts showing such performance. '

i

SEC. 132. In an action, counter-claim or set-oil", founded upon

an account, promissory note, bill of exchange or other instrument, for the unconditional payment of money only, it shall be

sufficient for a party to give a copy of the account or instrument,

with all credits, and the endorsements thereon, and to state that

_ there is due to him, on such account or instrument, from the adverse party, a specified sum, which he claims with interest.When others than the makers of a promissory note or the acceptors of a bill of exchange are-parties in the action, it shall
be necessary to state, also. the kind of liability of the several
parties, and the facts, as they may be, whichpfix their liability.

SEC. 133. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sulhcient to refer to such statute by its title, and the day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon
take judicial notice thereof. 

SEC. 134. In an action for libel or slander, It shall be sufficient to state generally, that the defamatory matter was published or spoken of the plaintiE_;; and if the allegation be denied,
the plaintif must prove, on the trial-, the facts. showing that the
defamatory matter was published or spoken-opf him. I '

SEC. 135. In the actions mentioned ”iti"the,last section, the
defendant may allege. the truth of the matter';'ch,arged as defamatory, and may prove the same, and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the amount of damages, or he may prove
either.
SEC. 136. In an action for the recovery of real property, it
shall be described with such convenient certainty as will enable
an omcer, holding an execution, to identify it.

SEC. 137. Every material allegation of the petition, not controverted by the answer, and every material allegation of new
matter in the answer, constituting a counter-claim or set-off, not
controverted by the reply, shall, for the purposes of the action,
be taken as true, but the allegation of new matter in the answer,
not relating to a counter-claim or set-oil‘, or of new matter in
the reply, shall be deemed to be controverted by the adverse
party, as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case may require. Allegations of value, or of amount of damage, shall
not be considered as true, by failure to controvert them.

SEC. 138. A material allegation, in a pleading, is one essential to the claim or defence, ‘which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insumcient. I

SEC. 139. Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of which
judicial notice is taken, need be stated in the pleading.

Sec. 140. That, if an original pleading be lost, or withheld
by any person, the court may allow a copy thereof to be substituted.

SEC. 141. No variance, between the allegation in a pleading
and the proof, is to be deemed material unless it have actually

misled the adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his ac-'

tion or defence upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a
party has been so misled, that fact must be proved to the sansfaction of the court, and it must also be shown in what respect
he has been misled, and, thereupom, the court may order the
pleading to be amended, upon such terms as may be just.

SEC. 142. When the variance is not material, as provided in
the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found, :10cording to the evidence, and may order an immediate amendment, without costs. 

SEC. 143. When, howeyé_r';._tlle.allegation of the claim or «lefence, to which the pr9§f_ i_s°directed, is unproved, not in some
particular or partic}ilin’_a' only, but in its general scope and meaning, it is not tqfae, deemed a case of variance within the last ‘U70
scctions,.bu:t.'a.'.£ziilure of proof. ’

 .C.[‘he plaintiff may amend his petition without leave,
a.t'.a°nQ'°;ti1i1e before the answer is filed, without prejudiceto the

-prqéeedings; but notice of such amendment shall be served
,'upon the (defendant or his attorney, and the defendant shall have

the same time to answer or demur thereto as to the original petition.

SEC. 145. At any time within ten days after the demurrer is
filed, the adverse party may amend, of course, on payment of
costs since filing the defective pleading. Notice of the fil.i..g
of an amended pleading shall be forthwith served upon the other
party or his attorney, who shall have the same time thereafter to
answer or reply thereto, as to an original pleading.

SEC. 146. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party who
demurred may answer or reply, if the court be satisfied that he
has a meritorious claim or defence, and did not demur for delay.

SEC. 147. The court may, before or after judgment, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper, am-end
any pleading or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or by inserting other allegations material to the case, when the
amendment does not change substantially the claim or defence.

SEC. 148. The court, in every stage of an action, must disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which
does not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party, and no
judgment shall be reversed or afected by reason of such error or
defect.

SEC. 149. If the demurrer besustained, the adverse party may

amend, if the defect can be renediedby way of amendment, with
or without costs, asthe chart in its discretion. shall direct.

SEC. 150, When either party shall amendiany pleading or pm.
needing, and-the cogrt shall be. satisfied, by. aidavit or otherwise, that the adverse party could not be ready for trial in consequence thereof, a continuance may be $1!’-‘Md to some day in
term, or to another term of the court.

Sec. 151. When me plaintitl” shall be ignorant of the name of
a detendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading
or proceeding, by any name and description, and when his true
name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended
accordingly. The plaintif, in such case, must -state in the verification of his petition, that he could not ascertain the true name,
ind the summons must contain the words, “real name unknown,”
and a copy thereof must be served personally upon the defendant.

SEC. 152. Either party may be allowed, on notice, and on
such terms, as to costs, as the courtmayprescribe, toiile 9. ampplemental petition, answer or reply, alleging facts material to the
case, occurring after the former petition, ‘answer or reply. '

SEC. 153. Whenever two or'.mere- actions are pending in the
same court, which might have been joined, the defendantmay,

on motion and notice to the adverse party, require him to show.‘

cause why the same shall not be consolidated, and if n‘o cause be
shown, the said several actions shall be consolidated.

SEC. 154. The order for consolidation may be‘ made by the :

court, or by a judge thereof, in vacation.

TITLE VIII.
PROVISIONAL nlnrnnms.

CHAPTER 1. ./Qrrest and Bail.

SEC. 155. A defendant in a civil action can be arrested, before '

and after judgment, in the manner prescribed by this code’, and
not otherwise ; but this provision does not apply to proceedings
for contempt; nor does it apply to actions or judgments prosecuted in the name of the Territory of Kansas to recover lines or
penalties for crimes, misdemeanors or odences.

Sec. 156. An order for the arrest of the defendant, shall be
made by the clerk of the court, in which the action is brought,
when there is filed in his oflice an amdavit of the plaintiff, his
authorized agent or attorney, made before any judge of any
court of the Territory, or clerk thereof, or justice of the peace,
stating the nature of the plaintiff’s claim, that it is just, and the

1

amount thereof, as nearly as may be, ' and establishing one or
more of the following particulars: ’ First, That the defendant
has removed, or begun to remove any of his property out of the
jurisdiction of the court, with intent to defraud his r creditors:
Second, That he has began to convert his property, or a part
thereof, into money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the
reach of his creditors. Third, That he has property, or rights
of action, which he fraudulently conceals. Fourth, That he has
assigned, removed, or disposed of, or has began to dispose ofhis
property, or a part thereof with intent to defraud his creditors.
Fifth, That he fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred the
obligation, for which suit is about to be, or has been brought.

The ailidavit shall also contain a statement of the facts claimed

to justify the belief in the existence of one or more of the above
particulars.

SEC. 157. The order of arrest shall not be issued by the clerk,
until there has been executed, by one or more suilicient sureties
of the plaintid, a written undertaking to the effect, that the plain’ti&' shall pay to the defendant all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the arrest, if the order be wrongfully obtained, not
exceeding double the amount of the plaintilf’s»claim stated in the
affidavit.

SEC. 158. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or at any time afterwards, before judgment.

SEC. 159. The order of arrest shall be addressed and delivered,
with a copy of the affidavit, to the sheriff ; the order shall state
the names of the parties, the court in which the action is brought,
and the amount of the plaintiff’s claim specified in the ailidavit,
and shall require the sheriff to arrest the defendent, and hold him
to bail in double the sum stated in the allidavit, and to make return of the order on a day to be named therein, with the undertaking of the bail, if any be given.

SEC. 160. The return day of the order of arrest, when issued
at the commencement of the suit, shall be the same as that of the
summons ; when issued afterwards, it shall be fifteen days after
it issued. _

SEC. 161. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the
defendant, and delivering to him a copy thereof, and of the allidavit. If the defendant cannot be found before the return day,
the plaintid shall be entitled to further orders, without another
affidavit or undertaking until the defendant is arrested; but

orders of arrest shall not be issued to any other than the county
in which the action is brought.

SEC. 162. The defendant, when arrested, shall be committed
by the sherii to the jail of the county, and kept in custody until
discharged by law.

SEC. 163. The defendant may, before or after giving bail,
deposit in the hands of the she:-id‘, or in court, the amount of
money mentioned in the order of arrest; whereupon he shall be
discharged, or his bail, if any be given, shall be released.

SEC. 164. The sherii shall pay into court the money received
by him in lieu of bail. If received in vacation, he shall pay it
in on the first day of the next term; if received during a term,
he shall pay it in immediately. ,

SEC. 165. The court shall make proper orders for the safe
keeping of money deposited in lieu of bail. It may direct the
sherid to keep the money, and after final judgment in the action,
shall order it to be paid to the party entitled thereto, according
to the result. 

SEC. 166. Money so deposited with the sherid, inlieu of bail,
or directed by the court to be kept by him, shall be held upon
his oiiicial responsibility; and he and his sureties shall be liable,
and may be proceeded against for any default in relation thereto, as in other cases of delinquency.

SEC. 167. Bail may be given by the defendant on his arrest,
or at any time afterwards, before judgment. It shall be done
by causing one or more suilicient suretics to execute a written
undertaking to the plaintif, in the presence of the sheriff, to the
e&'ect that, if judgment shall be rendered in the action against
the defendant, he will render himself amenable to the process of
the court thereon. The undertaking, when accepted, shall be
returned to the clerk’s oilice, and the defendant discharged.

SEC. 168. The plaintid’ or his attorney, may object to the bail
for insufiiciency, at any time within ten days after the undertaking has been given. Within such time, he shall serve upon the
sherid a written notice that he does not accept the bail, or he
shall be deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriil‘ shall be exonerated from liability. When the undertaking is given after
return of arrest, the plaintid shall have notice thereof.

SEC. 169. On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff or defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintiff, or
his attorney, notice in writing of the justification of the same or
other bail, before a judge or clerk of the court in which the
action is brought, a probate judge, or justice of the peace, at a
specified time and place; the time to be not less than five, nor

more than ten days thereafter. In case other bail be given, there
must be a new undertaking.

SEC. 170. F or the purpose of justification, each of the bail
must attend before the proper oflicer, at the time and place mentioned, and may be examined on oath or adirmation touching his
suhiciency, in such manner as the officer may think proper.

SEC. 171. If the officer find the bail suliicient, he shall endorse
his allowance on the undertaking and cause the same to be tiled
with the clerk, and thesheriif shall thereupon be discharged from

liability.
SEC. 172. After being arrested, if the defendant escapes or be

rescued, er bail be not taken, or be adjudged insullicient, or a
deposit be not made, the. sheriff shall be liable as bail. But he
may discharge himself from liability by putting in suliicient bail
at any time before judgment.

SEC. 173. The return of “not found,” upon an execution
against the body of the defendant shall be necessary to fix the
liability of the sherif as bail, which liability shall be the amount
of the judgment, interest and costs. This liability shall be enforced only in a separate action against him, or against him and
his sureties on his oflicial bond, as in other cases of delinquency.

SEC. 174. The bail adjudged insuilicient, shall be liable to the
sheri&' for the damages he may sustain by reason of such insufficiency. j

SEC. 175. The liability of the bail shall be fixed in the manner
provided in section one hundred and seventy-three, for fixing the
liability of the sheriff as bail, and the bail can he proceeded against
in an action only.

SEC. 176. A surrender of the defendant to the sheriff of the
county in which-he was arrested, with a delivery of a certified
copy of the undertaking of the bail, whether such surrender be
made by the defendant himself, or by his bail, shall discharge
the bail. Such surrender may be made at any time before the return clay of the summons in an action against the bail. The
sherid shall give to the bail a written acknowledgment of the
surrender, and hold the defendant in his custody, upon said copy
of the undertaking of the bail, as upon an order of arrest. On
the production of the sherih"s acknowledgment of the surrender
to the clerk of the court, an exonoration of the bail shall be
entered on his undertaking. a

SEC. 177. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the
bail, at any time or place, before he is finally charged, may himself arrest him, or by a written authority, endorsed on a certified

copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable
age and discretion, to do so.

SEC. 178. The bail will be exonerated by the death of the
defendant, or his imprisonment in a State prison, or by his legal
discharge from the obligation to surrender himself amenable to
the process of the court, or by his surrender to the sheriH of the
county in which he was arrested in execution thereof, within the

time fixed in section one hundred and seventy-six, or within suchfurther time as the court, in which the action is pending, may
allow.

SEC. 179. If money be deposited by the defendant on his discharge, bail may be given and justified upon notice as prescribed
in section one hundred and sixty-nine, at any time before judgment; and thereupon the court, in which the action is brought,
on being satisfied that the bail has been given and adjudged sufficient, shall direct that the money‘ deposited, be refunded to the
defendant, and it must be refunded accordingly.

SEC. 180. If, at any time before or after judgment against the
bail, proceedings in error are commenced, on the judgment against
the principal, in the suit in which their undertaking was taken,
the court may, on motion, stay proceedings against such bail, for
a reasonable time, on their paying all the costs that have accrued
against them; and if, on such proceedings, the judgment against
the principal shall be reversed, and the principal discharged from
said suit, the bail shall be discharged from the undertaking.

SEC. 181. A defendant arrested may, at any time before the
justification of the bail, apply, on motion, to the court in which
the suit is brought, if in session, and in vacation, to a judge
thereof, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of
the bail. Reasonable notice of such motion must be given to the
plaintif.

SEC. 182. If the motion be made upon ailidavits on the part of
the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the
same, by aflidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which
the order of arrest was made.

SEC. 183. Any person causing another to be committed to jail,
underthe provisions of this chapter, shall be liable, in the first
instance, for the jail fees, and shall, if required by the jailer,
pay such fees weekly, in advance; and such fees, so paid, shall
be a part of the costs of the case.

CHAPTER 2. Replevin of Property.
SEC. 184. The plaintiff, in an action to recover the possession

of specific personal property, may at the commencement of the
suit or at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery
of such property, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 185. An order for the delivery of property, to the plaintiff, shall be made by the clerk of the court in which the action
is brought, when there is filed in his office an ailidavit of -the
plaintilf, his agent or attorney, showing: First, Adescription of
the property claimed. Second, That the plaintiff is the owner of the
property. or has a special ownership or interest therein, stating

the facts in relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the imme-.

diate possession of the property. Third, That the property is
wrongfully detained by the defendant. Fourth, That it was not
taken in execution on any order or judgment against said plaintiR', or for the payment of any tax, fine or amereement assessed
against him, or by virtue of an order of delivery issued under this chapter, or any other mesne or final process, issued against said
plaintiH', or, Fifth, If taken in execution, or on any order or
judgment against the plaintid, that it is exempt by law from
being so taken.

SEC. 186. The order for the delivery of the property to the
plaintiff, shall be addressed and delivered to the sheriH'. It shall
state the names of the parties, the court in which the action is
brought, and command the sheriff to take the property, describing it, and deliver it to the plaintiff, and to make return of the
order, on a day to be named therein.

SEC. 187. The return day, of the order of delivery, when
issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the sameas that
of the summons ; when issued afterwards, it shall be twenty days
after it issued.

SEC. 188. The sheriif shall execute the order, by taking the
property therein mentioned. He shall also deliver a copy of the
order to the person charged with the unlawful detainer of the
property, or leave such copy at his usual place of residence.

SEC. 139. The sheriff, or other oliicer, shall not deliver to the
plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, the property so taken, until there
has been executed, by one or more suliicient sureties of the plaintiif, a written undertaking to the defendant, in at least double
the value of the property taken, to the edect, that the plaintiff
shall duly prosecute the action and pay all costs and damages
which may be awarded against him, and return the said property
to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged. The undertaking shall be returned with the order.

SEC. 190. For the purpose of fixing the amount of the under- 1
taking, the value of the property taken shall be ascertained by
the oath of two or more responsible persons, whom the sheriff or
other omcer shall swear truly to assess the value thereof.

SEC. 191. If the undertaking required by section one hundred I
and eighty-mne, be not given within twenty-four hours from the l
taking of the property, under said order, the sheriff or other oflicer
shall return the property to the defendant; and if the sheriff or
other oflicer deliver any property so taken, to the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney, or keep the same from the defendant, without
taking such security, within the time aforesaid, or if he take insniiicient security, he shall be liable to the defendant in damages.

SEC. 192. The defendant may, within twenty-four hours from i
the time the undertaking, referred to in the preceding section, is
given by the plaintiff, give notice to the sheriff that he’ excepts to
the sulliciency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he must be
deemed to have waived all objections to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties must justify upon notice, as bail on
arrest. The sheriff or other oliicer shall be responsible for the
sutiiciency of the sureties until the objection to them is waived as
above provided, or until they justify. The property shall be delivered to the plaintiff when the undertaking required by section
one hundred and eighty-nine has been given.

SEC. 193. If the property has been delivered to the plaintilf
and judgment be rendered against him, on demurrer, or if he
otherwise fail to prosecute his action to final judgment, the court
shall, on application of the defendant or his attorney, impannel
a jury to inquire into the right of property, and right of possession of the defendant to the property taken.

SEC. 194. In an action under this chapter, to recover the possession of personal property, judgement for the plaintif may be
for the possession, or for the recovery of possession or the value
thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and of damages for the
detention. If the property has been delivered to the plaintif,
and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property, or the value thereof,
in case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding the same.
SEC. 195. An order may be directed to any other county than

the one in which the action is brought, for the delivery of the
property claimed. Several orders may issue at the same time, or

successively, at the option of the plainti&' ; but only one of them
shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the court.

SEC. 196. The sheriff or other oilicer, in the execution of the
order of delivery, may break open any building or enclosure, in
which the property claimed, or any part thereof, is concealed;
but not until he has been refused an entrance into said building
or enclosure and the delivery of the property, after having demanded the same.

SEC. 197. No suit shall be instituted on the undertaking given
under section one hundred and eighty-nine, before an execution
issued on a judgment in favor of the defendant in the action,
shall have been returned, that suflicient property whereon to levy
and make the amount of such judgment cannot be found in the
county.

SEC. 198. Any order for the delivery of property, issued under

V section one hundred and eighty-five, without the affidavit required

thereby, shall be set aside at the cost of the clerk issuing the
same, and such clerk, as well as the plaintiff, shall, also, be liable
in damages to the party injured.

CHAPTER 3. ./Qllachment.
ARTICLE 1. General ./Yltac/zments.
SUBDIVISION 1. Grounds of dltachmenl.

SEC. 199. The plaintiff, in a civil action for the recovery of
money, may, at or after the commencement thereof, have an attachment against the property of the defendant, and upon the
grounds herein stated. First, When the defendant is a foreign
corporation, or a non-resident of this Territory: or Second,
Has absconded with the intent to defraud his creditors : or Third,
Has left the county of his residence, to avoid the service of a
summons: or Fourth, So conceals himself, that a summons cannot be served upon him: or Fifth, Is about to remove his property, or a part thereof, out of the jurisdiction of the court, with
the intent to defraud his creditors: or Sixth, Is about to convert
his property, or a part thereof, into money, for the purpose of
placing it beyond the reach of his creditors: or Seventh, Has
property, or rights in action, which he conceals: or Eighth, Has
assigned, removed, or disposed of, or is about to dispose of his
property, or a part thereof. with the intent to defraud his creditors: or Ninth, Fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred
the obligation for which suit is about to be, or has been brought.
But an attachment’ shall not be granted on the ground that the

defendant is a foreign corporation, or non-resident of this Territory, for any claim other than a debt or a demand arising upon
contract, judgment or decree.

SUBDIVISION 2. How ./fttachment is obtained.

SEC. 200. An order of attachment shall be made by the clerk
of the court in which the action is brought, in any case mentioned
in the preceding section, when there is filed in his oflice an afIidavit of the plaintiif. his agent or attorney, showing: First, The
nature of the plaintiff’s claim. Second, That it is just. Third,
The amount which the afllant believes the plaintiff ought to recover; and Fourth, The existence of some one of the grounds
for an attachment, enumerated in the preceding section. ‘

SEC. 201. In all cases, the order of attachment shall not be
issued by the clerk, until there has been executed in his oliice, by
one or more sullicient sureties of the plainti0', to be approved by
the clerk, an undertaking not exceeding double the amount of the
p1aintiil"s claim, to the efect that the plaintiff shall pay to the
defendant all damages, which he may sustain by reason of the
attachment, if the order be wrongfully obtained.

SEC. 202. The order of attachment shall be directed and delivered to the sheriff. It shall require him to attach the lands,
tenements, goods, chattels, stocks, rights, credits, moneys and
effects of the defendant in his county, not exempt by law from
being applied to the payment of the plaintiii"s claim, or so much
thereof as will satisfy the plainti&"s claim, to be stated in the
order as in the aflidavit, and the probable costs of the action not
exceeding fifty dollars.

SEC. 203. Orders of attachment may be issued to the sheriffs
of diiferent counties; and several of them may, at the option of
plaintiff, be issued at the same time, or in succession; but such
only as have been executed, shall be taxed in the costs, unless
otherwise directed by the court. 

SEC. 204. The return day of the order of attachment, when
issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the same as
that of the summons. When issued afterwards, it shall be twenty days after it issued. '

SUBDIVISION 3. Execution and Return thereof.

SEC. 205. Where there are several orders of attachment,
against the same defendant, they shall be executed in the order
in which they were received by the sherif. '

Sec. 206. That the order of attachment shallobe executed by

the sheri&' without delay. He shall go to the place where the
defendant’s property may be found, and declare that, by virtue of
said order, he attaches said property at the suit of the plaintiR' ;
and the oihcer, with two householders, who shall be first sworn,
or ailirmed by the oilicer, shall make a true inventory and appraisement of all the property attached, which shall be signed by
the officer and householders, and returned with the order.

SEC. 207., That when the property attached is real property,

' the officer shall leave with the occupant thereof, or, if there be no

occupant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a copy of the order.
Where it is personal property, and can be. come at, he shall take
the same into his custody, and hold it subject to the order of the
court.

SEC. 208. That the sheriff shall deliver the property attached,

' to the person in whose possession it was found upon the execution, by such person, in the presence of the sherilf, of an under,
taking to the plaintiff, with one or more suilicient sureties,
resident in the county, to the effect that the parties to the same
are bound, in double the appraised value thereof, that the property, or its appraised value in money, shall be forthcoming to
answer the judgment of the court in the action; but if it shall
appear to the court, that any part of said property has been lost

‘or destroyed by unavoidable accident, the value thereof shall be

remitted to the person so bound.

SEC. 209. When the plaintilf, his agent or attorney, shall make
oath, in writing, that he has good reason to, and does believe,
that any person or corporation, to be named, and within the county where the action is brought, has property of the defendant
(describing the same) in his possession, if the oflicer cannot come
at such property, he shall leave with such garnishee, a copy of
the order of attachment, with a written notice, that he appear in
court, at the return of the order of attachment, and answer, as
provided herein. '

SEC. 210. The copy of the order and notice shall be served
upon the garnishee, as follows: If he be a person, they shall be
served upon him personally, or left at his usual place of residence ; if a corporation, they shall be left with the president, or
otherhead of the same, or the secretary, cashier or managing
agent thereof.

SEC. 211. Diderent attachments of the same property may be
made by the same ollieer, and one inventory and appraisement
shall be_sufliciept, and it shall not be necessary to return the same
with more than one order.

SEC. 212. That where property is under attachment, it shall

‘ be attached under subsequent orders as follows : First, If it be
-real property, it shall be attached, in the manner prescribed in section two hundred and seven. Second, If it be personal property, it shall be attached, as in the hands of the oilicer, and subject to any previous attachment. Third, If the same person or
corporation be made a garnishee, a copy of the order and notice
shall be left with him, in the manner prescribed in section two
hundred and nine.

SEC. 213. That the oilicer shall return, upon every order of attachment, what he has done under it. The return must show the
property attached, and the time it was attached; when garnishees are served, their names and the time each was served must
be stated. The omcer shall, also, return with the order, all undertakings given under it.

SEC. 214. That an order of attachment binds the property attached from the time of service, and the garnishee shall stand
liable to the plaintii in attachment for all property, moneys and
credits in his hands, or due from him to the defendant from the

-time he is served with the written notice, mentioned in section

two hundred and nine; but where property is attached in the
hands of a consignee, his lien thereon shall not be affected by the

attachment.

SUBDIVISION 4. Disposition qf .dttaclzcd Property.
SEC. 215. The court or any judge thereof, during vacation,

may, on the application of the plaintih’, and on good cause shown,
-appoint a receiver, who shall take an oath faithfully to discharge

his duty, and shall give an undertaking to the Territory of Kansas, in such sum as the court or judge may direct, and with such

security as shall be approved by the clerk of such court, for the

faithful performance of his duty as such receiver, and to pay
over all money and account for all property which may come
into his hands by virtue of his appointment, at such times and in
such manner as the court may direct.

SEC. 216. Such receiver shall take possession of all notes,
due-bills, books of account, accounts, and all other evidences of
debt that have been taken, by the she:-if or other oflicer, as the
property of the defendant in attachment, and shall proceed to
settle and collect the same. For that purpose, he may commence
and maintain actions in his own name as such receiver; but in
such actions, no right of defence shall be impaired or aiected.

SEC. 217. Such receiver shall forthwith give notice of his appointmeut to the persons indebted to the defendant in attachment.
The notice shall be written or printed, and shall be served on the

debtor or debtors, by copy personally or by copy left at the res-idence of the debtor or debtors ; and from the date of such service, the debtors shall stand liable to the plaintiff in attachment
for the amount of moneys or credits in their hands, or due from
them to the defendant in attachment, and shall account therefor
to the receiver. i

SEC. 218. Such receiver shall, when required, report his proceedings to the court, and hold all moneys collected by him, and
property which may come into his hands subject to the order of
the court.

SEC. 219. Where a receiver is not appointed by the court or
a judge thereof, as provided in section two hundred and fifteen,
the sheriff or other oilicer attaching the property, shall have all
the powers and perform all the duties of a receiver appointed by
the court or a judge, and may, if necessary, commence and maintain actions in his own name as such otlicer. He may be required to give security other than his oflicial undertaking.

SEC. 220. The court shall make proper orders for the preservation of the property during the pendency of the suit; it may
direct a sale of property, when, because of its perishable nature,
or of the costs of keeping it, a sale will be for the benefit of the
parties. In vacation, such sale may be ordered by the judge of
the court. The sale shall be public, after such advertisement as
is prescribed for the sale of like property on execution, and shall
he made in such manner and upon such terms of credit, with security, as the court or judge, having regard to the probable duration of the action, may direct. The proceeds, if collected by the
sheriff, with all the money received by him from garnishees, shall
be held and paid over by him, under the same requirement and
responsibility of himself and sureties, as are provided in respect
to money deposited in lieu of bail.

SUBDIVISION 5. Proceedings upon vftlachment.
SEC. 221. If the defendant or other person on his behalf, at

i any time before judgment, cause an undertaking to be executed

to the plaintiff, by one or more sureties, resident in the county,
to be approved by the court, in double the amount of the plaintili"s claim, as stated in his allidavit, to the edect that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the court, the attachment
in such action shall be discharged, and restitution made of any
property taken under it or the proceeds thereof. Such undertaking shall also discharge the liability of a garnishee in such

action, for any property of the defendant in his hands.

SEC. 222. The undertaking mentioned in the last section,
may, in vacation, be executed in the presence of the sheriff having the order of attachment in his hands or after the return of
the order. before the clerk, with the same edect as if executed in
court, the sureties in either case to be approved by the ollicer before whom the undertaking is executed.

SEC. 223. The garnishee shall appear as follows : If the order
of attachment be returned during a term of the court, and twenty days before the close thereof, he shall appear at that term; if
the order be returned during vacation, he shall appear at the term
next after its return. He shall appear and answer, under oath, all
questions put to him, touching the property, of every description, and credits of the defendant, in his possession or under his

-control, and he shall disclose truly the amount owing by him to

the defendant, whether due or not ; and in the case of a corporation, any stock therein held by or for the benefit of the defendant,
at or after the service of notice.

Sec. 224. That a garnishee may pay the money owing to the
defendant by him, to the sheriff having the order of attachment,
or in the court. He shall be discharged from liability to the
defendant for any money so paid, not exceeding the plaintiil"s
claim. He shall not be subject to costs, beyond those caused by
his resistance of the claim against him; and if he disclose the
property in his hands, or the true amount owing by him, and deliver and pay the same, according to the order of the court, he
shall be allowed his costs.

SEC. 225. If the garnishee do not appear in court, and answer
as required by section two hundred and twenty-three, the court’
may proceed against him by attachment, as for a contempt.

SEC. 226. If the garnishee appear and answer, and it is discovered on his examination, that at or after the service of the
order of attachment and notice upon him, he was possessed of
any property of the defendant, or. was indebted to him, the court
may order the delivery of such property, and the payment of the
amount owing by the garnishee, into the court, or the court may
permit the garnishee to retain the property, or the amount owing,
upon the execution of an undertaking to the plaintiil‘, by one or
more sullicient sureties, to the sheet that the amount shall be
paid or the property forthcoming, as the court may direct.

Sec. 227. If the garnishee fail to appear and answer, and his
disclosure is not satisfactory to the plaintif, or if he fail to comply with the order of the court to deliver the property and pay
the money owing into court, or give the undertaking required in
the preceding section, the plaintif may proceed against him in
an action, by filing a petition in his own name, as in other cases,
and causing a summons to be issued upon it, and thereupon such
proceedings may be had as in other actions, and judgment may
be rendered in favor of the plaintif for the amount of property
and credits of every kind of the defendant in the possession of
the garnishee, and for what shall appear to be owing by him to
the defendant, and for the costs of the proceedings against the
garnishee. If the plaintif proceed against the garnishee by action, for the cause that his disclosure was unsatisfactory, unless
it appear in the action that such disclosure was incomplete, the
plaintiff shall pay the costs of such action. The judgment in
this action may be enforced as judgments in other cases. When
the claims of plaintiffs in attachment are satisfied, the defendant
in attachment may, on motion, be substituted as the plaintili‘ in
this judgment.

SEC. 228. Final judgment shall not be rendered against the
garnishee, until the action against the defendant in attachment
has been determined; and if, in such action, judgment be rendered for the defendant in attachment, the garnishee shall be
discharged and recover costs. If the plaintilf shall recover against
the defendant in attachment, and the garnishee shall deliver up
all the property, moneys and credits of the defendant in his possession, and pay all the moneys from him due, as the court may
order, the garnishee shall be discharged, and the costs of the proceedings against him shall be paid out of the property, and
moneys so surrendered, or as the court may think right and
proper.

SEC. 229. if judgment be rendered in the action for the defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the property attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to him.

SEC. 230. If judgment be rendered for the plaintiff, it shall be
satisfied as follows: So much of the property remaining in the
hands of the oliicer, after applying the moneys arising from the
sale of perishable property, and so much of the personal property
and lands and tenements, if any, whether held by legal or equitable title, as may be necessary to satisfy the judgment, shall be
sold by order of the court, under the same restrictions‘ and regu, lations, as if the same had been levied on by execution; and the

money arising therefrom, with the amount which may be recovered from the garnishee, shall be applied to satisfy the judgment

snd costs. If there be not enough to satisfy the same, the judgment shall stand. and execution may issue thereon. for the residue, in all respects as in other cases. Any surplus of the
attached property or its proceeds shall be returned to the defendant.

SEC. 231. The court may -compel the delivery to the sheriff, j

for sale, of any of the attached property for which an undertaking
may have been given, and may proceed summarily, on such undertaking, to enforce the delivery of the property, or the payment of such sum as may be due upon the undertaking, by rules
and attachments, as in cases of contempt.

SEC. 232. The court may order the sherid to repossess himself,
for the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached property,
which may have passed out of his hands, without having been
sold or converted into money; and the sheriff shall, under such
order, have the same power to take the property, as he would
have under an order of attachment.

SEC. 233. If personal property, which has been attached, be
claimed by any person other than the defendant. it shall be the
duty of the oflicer to have the validity of such claim tried, and
such proceedings may be had thereon, with the like effect, as in
case the property had been seized upon execution, and claimed
by a third person.

SEC. 234. Where several attachments are executed upon the
same property, or the same persons are made garnishees, the
court, on the motion of any of the plaintiffs, may order a reference, to ascertain and report the amounts and priorities of the
several attachments.

\

SUBDIVISION VI. General Provisions.

SEC. 235. From the time of the issuing of the order of attachment, the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and
to have control of all subsequent proceedings under this chapter;
and if, after the issuing of the order, the defendant, being a person, should die, or a corporation, and its charter should expire
by limitation, forfeiture or otherwise, the proceedings shall be
carried on ; but, in all such cases, other than_where the defendant was a foreign corporation, his legal representatives shall be
made parties to the action.

SEC. 236, The defendant may, at any time before judgment,
after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court for additional security on the part of the plaintiff; and if, on such motion, the court is satisiied that the surety in the plaintitl"s undertaking has removed from this Territory, or is not suliieient for the ,

amount thereof, it may vacate the order of the aitachment, and
direct restitution of any property taken under it, unless, in a
reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, sutlicient security be
given by the plaintiff.

SEC. 237. That the defendant may, at any time before judgment, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move to discharge ,

an attachment, as to the whole or a part of the property attached.

SEC. 238. That, if the motion be made upon affidavits, on the
part of the defendant, or papers and evidence in the case, but not
otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits or other
evidence, in addition to that on which the order of attachment
was made.

ARTICLE 2. ./Qtlaclzmenls in certain .dctz'ons.

SEC. 239. Where a debtor has sold, conveyed, or otherwise
disposed of his property, with the fraudulent intent to cheat or
defraud his creditors, or to hinder or delay them in the collection
of their debts, or is about to make such sale, conveyance or disposition of his property, with such fraudulent intent ; or is about
to remove his property, or a material part thereof, with the intent
or to the effect of cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of bindering or delaying them in the collection of their debts, acreditor
may bring an action on his claim before it is due, and have an
attachment against the property of the debtor.

SEC. 240. The attachment, authorized by the last section, may
be granted by the court in which the action is brought, or by a.
judge thereof; but, before such action shall be brought, or such
attachment shall be granted, the plaintiff, or his agent or attorney, shall make an oath in writing, showing the nature and
amount of the p1aintifi’s claim, that it is just, when the same
will become due, and the existence of some one of the grounds
for an attachment enumerated in the preceding section. ‘

SEC. 241. If the court or judge refuse to grant an order of
attachment, the action shall be dismissed, but without prejudice
to a future action ; and, in all such actions, application for an
attachment must be made. ‘

SEC. 243. The order of the court or judge granting the attach' merit shall specify the amount for which it is allowed, not exceeding a sum suflicient to satisfy the plaintiff’s claim, and the probable costs of the action.

SEC. 243. The order of attachment, as granted by the court
or_ judge, shall not be issued by the clerk until there has been

executed, in his omce, such undertaking, on the part of the plaintif, as is directed by section two hundred and one. '
SEC. 244. That the plaintiff in such action shall not have
judgment on ‘his claim before it is due, and the proceedings on
attachment may be conducted without delay.

SEC. 245. That the proceedings in the first article of this chapter, subsequent to section two hundred and one, shall, so far as
they are applicable, regulate the attachment authorized by this article.

CHAPTER 4. Injunction.

SEC. 246. The injunction provided by this code is a command
to refrain from a particular act. It may be the final judgment
in an action, or may be allowed as a provisional remedy, and,
when so allowed, it shall be by order. The writ of injunction is
abolished. _

SEC. 247. When it appears, by the petition, that the plaintif
is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of
some act, the commission or continuance of which, during the
litigation, would produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintiff ; or when, during the litigation, it appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens or is about to do, or is procuring or
suffering to be done, some act in violation of the plaintili’s rights
respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the
judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to
restrain such act. It may also be granted in any case whereitis
specially authorized by statute.

SEC. 248. The injunction may be granted at the time of commencing the action, or any time afterwards, before judgment by
the district court or the judge thereof, or, in his absence from the
county, by the probate judge, upon its appearing satisfactorily to
the court or judge, by the aiiidavit of the plaintiff or his agent,
that the plaintiii" is entitled thereto.

SEC. 249. If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant or any party to the suit should be heard before granting
the injunction, it may direct a reasonable notice to be given to
such party to attend for such purpose, at a speciiicd time and
place, and may, in the mean time, restrain such party.

SEC. 250. An injunction shall not be granted against a party ;
who has answered, unless upon notice, but such party may be
restrained until the decision of the application for an injunction.

SEC. 251. No injunction, unless otherwiseprovided by special ‘

statute, shall operate, until the party obtaining the same shall

give an undertaking, executed by one or more suilicient sureties,

to be approved by the clerk of the court granting such injunction, in an amount to be fixed by the court or judge allowing the
same, to secure to the party injured the damages he may sustain,
if it be finally decided that the injunction ought not to have been
granted.

SEC. 252. The order "of injunction shall be addressed to the
party enjoined, shall state the injunction, and shall be issued by
the clerk. Where the injunction is allowed at the commencement
of the action, the clerk shall endorse upon the summons, “ injunction allowed,” and it shall not be necessary to issue the order

of injunction, nor shall it be necessary to issue the same, ‘where _

notice of the application therefor has been given to the party enjoined. The service of the summons so endorsed, or the notice
of an application for an injunction, shall be notice of its allowance.

SEC. 253. That where the injunction is allowed during the litigation, and without notice of the application therefor, the order
of injunction shall be issued, and the sherif shall forthwith serve
the same upon each party enjoined, in the manner prescribed for
serving a summons, and make return thereof without delay.

SEC. 254. An injunction binds the party from the time he has
notice thereof, and the undertaking required by the applicant
therefor is executed.

SEC. 255. No injunction shall be granted by a judge, after a
motion therefor has been overruled on the merits of the application, by his court, and where it has been refused by the court in
which the action is brought, or a judge thereof, it shall not be
granted to the same applicant, by a court of inferior jurisdiction,
or any judge thereof.

SEC. 256. An injunction granted by a judge, may be enforced
as the act of the court. Disobedience of any injunction may be
punished as a contempt, by the court or any judge who might
have granted it in vacation. An attachment may be issued by
the court or judge, upon being satisfied, by affidavit, of the breach
of the injunction, against the party guilty of the same, and he
may be required, in the discretion of the court or judge, to pay a
line not exceeding two hundred dollars, for the use of the county,
to make immediate restitution to the party injured, and. give further security to obey the injunction; or, in default thereof, he
may be committed to close custody, until he shall fully comply
with such requirements, or be otherwise legally discharged.

sEC. 257. That a party enjoined may, at any time before
judgment, upon reasonable notice to the party who has obtained
the injunction, move the court for additional security; and if it
appear that the surety in the undertaking has removed from the
Territory or is insuiiicient, the court may vacate the injunction,
unless, in a reasonable time, suflicient security is given.

SEC. 258. On the hearing of an application for an injunction,
each party may read aiiidavits. All amdavits shall be filed.

SEC. 259. If the injunction be granted without notice, the
defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply, upon notice
to the court in which the action is brought, or any judge thereof,
to vacate or modify the same. The application may be made
upon the petition and atlidavits upon which the injunction is
granted, or upon aiiidavits on the part of the party enjoined, with
or without answer. The order of the judge, allowing, dissolving
or modifying an injunction, shall be returned to the omce of the
clerk of the court in which the action is brought, and recorded
and obeyed, as if made by the court.

SEC. 260. If application be made upon affidavits, on the part
of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiu may oppose the
same, by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which
the injunction was granted.

SEC. 261. A defendant may obtain an injunction upon an answer in the nature of a. counter-claim. He shall proceed in the
manner prescribed in this chapter.

CHAPTER 5. Receivers and other Provisional Remedies.

SEC. 262. That a. receiver may be appointed by the supreme
court, the district court, or any judge of either, or, in the absence
of said judges from the county, by the probate judge: First, In
an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim,
or between partners or others jointly owing or interested in any
property or fund, on the application of the plaintiif, or of any
party, whose right to or interest in the property or fund, or the
proceeds thereof, is probable, and where it is shown that the property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed or materially injured. Second, In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure
of his mortgage and sale of the mortgaged property, where it appears that the mortgaged property is in danger of being lost, removed or materially injured, or that the condition of the mortgage‘has not been performed, and that the property is probably
insutlicient to discharge the mortgage debt. Third, After judgment, to carry the judgment into cll'ect. Fourth, After judgment,
to dispose of the property according to the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or when an execution
has been returned unsatisiicd, and the judgment debtor refuses to
apply the property in satisfactioii of the judgment. Fifth, In
the cases provided in this code, and by special statutes, when a.
corporation has been dis.sol\'ed, or is insolvent, or in imminent
danger of insolvency, or has for-l°eited its corporate rights.
Sixth, In all other cases uherc I'L‘(."{:l\'(.'1‘b' have heretofore been appointed by the usages of the courts of equity.

SEC. 263. That no party, or attorney, or person interested in
an action, shall he appointed receiver therein.

Sec. 264. That, before entering upon his duties, the receiver
must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or more
sureties, approved by the court or judge, execute an undertaking
to such person, and in such sum as the court or judge shall direct,
to the the cilect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and obey the orders of the court therein. s

SEC. 265. The receiver has, under the control of the court,
power to bring and defend actions in his own name, as receiver;
to take and keep possession of the property, to receive rents,
collect debts, to compound for and compromise the same, to
make transfers, and generally to do such acts respecting the
property as the court may authorize.

SEC. 306. Furies in the liands of a receiver may be invested
upon inte1'cst, by <,-ader of the court ; but no such order shall be
inaule, except upon the consent cl’ all the parties to the action.

SEC. 267. When it is adniitteil, by the pleading or examination of it party, that he has in his possessien or under his control
any money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the
subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another
party, or which belongs or is due to another party, the court may
order the same to be deposited in court or delivered to such party,
with or vithout security, subject to the further direction of the
court.

SEC. 268. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a courtshall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other
thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing
the disobedience as for a contempt, may make an order requiring
the sheriff to take the money or thing and deposit or deliver it,
in conformity with the direction of the court.

TITLE IX.
TRIAL.

Cuarrna 1. Issue.

SEC. 269. That issues arise on the pleadings, where a fact or
conclusion of law is maintained by one party and controverted
by the other. They are of two kinds: First, Of law. Second,
Of fact.

SEC. 270. An issue of law arises upon a. demurrer to the petition, answer or reply, or to some part thereof.

SEC. 271. An issue of fact arises: First, Upon a. material
allegation in the petition, controverted by the answer: or Second,
Upon new matter in the answer,'eontroverted by the reply: or
Third, Upon new matter in the reply, which shall be considered
as eontroverted by the defendant without further pleading.

SEC. 372. Issues, both efl-av.’ and of fact, may arise upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases,
the issues of law must be first tried unless the court otherwise
direct.

CHAPTER 2. Trial.
ARTIULE 1. Trial in General.

SEC. 273. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues,
whether of law or of fact, in an action.

SEC. 271. That issues of law must be tried by the court,
unless referrezl, as provided in section two hundred and ninetytwo. Issues of l’-act arising in action, for the recovery of money,
or of specific, real or personal property, shall be tried by a jury,
unless a jury trial IS waived, or a. reference be orde1't_-cl, as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 275. That all other issues of fact shall be tried by the
court, subject to its power to order any issue or issues to be
tried by a jury, or referred as provided in this code.

ARTICLE 2. Trials by Jury.
SUBDIVISION 1. I"urmat£on of the Jury.
SEC. 276. The general mode of summoning, iiiipniiiielirig,
challenging and swearing the jury, is such as is or may be provided by law.

SUBDIVISION 2. Clnzrlzzcl of the Trial.
SEC. 277. When the jury has been sworn, the trial 5?-liail proceed in the following order, unless the court, for special reasons,

otherwise direct: First, The plaintiif must bricily state his dlaim,
and may briefly state the evidence by which he expects to sustain
it. Second, The defendant must then briefly state his defence,
and may briefly state the evidence he expects to offer in support
of it. Third, The party who would be defeated, if no evidence
were given on either side, must first produce his evidence, and
the adverse party will then produce his evidence. Fourth, The
parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence, unless the
court, for good reasons, in furtherance of justice, permits them
to offer evidence in their original ease. Fifth, When the evidence is concluded, either party may request instructions to the
jury on points of law, which shall be given or refused by the
court; which instructions shall be reduced to writing, if either
party require it. Sixth, The parties may then submit, or argue
the case, to the jury; in the argument, the party required first
to produce his evidence, shall have the opening and conclusion.
If several defendants, having separate defences, appear by different counsel, the court shall arrange their relative order.
Seventh, The court may again charge the jury, after the argument is concluded.

SEC. 278. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper
for the jury to have a view of the property which is the subject of
litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it
may order them to be conducted in a body, under the charge of
an oflicer, to the place, which shall be shown to them by some
person appointed by the court for that purpose. While the jury
are thus absent, no person, other than the person so appointed,
shall speak to them on any subject connected with the trial.

SEC. 279. When the case is finally submitted to the jury, they
may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they retire,
they must be kept together, in some convenient place, under the
charge of an olhcer, until they agree upon a verdict, or be discharged by the court, subject to the discretion of the court, to
permit them to separate temporarily at night, and at their meals.
The oflicer having them under his charge shall not sud'er any
communication to be made to them or make any himself, except
to ask them if they are agreed upon their verdict, unless by
order of the court; and he shall not, before their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations,
or the verdict agreed upon.

SEC. 280. If the jury are permitted to separate, either during
the trial or after the case is submitted to them, they shall be admonished by the court, that it is their duty not to converse with,
or sufer themselves to be addressed by any other person, on any
subject of the trial, and that it is their duty not to form or express an opinion thereon, until the case is finally submitted to
them.

SEC. 281. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there
be a disagreement between them, as to any part of the testimony,
or if they desire to ‘be informed as to any part of the law arising
in the case, they may request the ollicer to conduct them to the
court, where the information upon the point of law shall be given,
and the court may give its recollection as to the testimony on the
point in dispute, in the presence of, or after notice to the parties
or their counsel.

SEC. 282. The jury may be discharged by the court, on account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity
requiring their discharge, or by consent of both parties, or after
they have been kept together until it satisfactorily appears that
there is no probability of their agreeing.

SEC. 283. In all cases, where the jury are discharged during
the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, it may be tried
again immediately or at a future time, as the court may direct.

SEC. 284. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they
must be conducted into court, their names called by the clerk,
and the verdict rendered by their foreman. When the verdict is
announced, either party may require the jury to be polled, which
is done by the clerk or the court, asking each juror if it is his
verdict. If any one answers in the negative, the  must again
be sent out for further deliberation.

SEC. 285. The verdict shall be written, signed by the foreman,
and read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry made, whether
it is their verdict. If any juror disagrees, the jury must be sent
out again; but if no disagreement be expressed, and neither
party requires the jury to be polled, the verdict is complete, and
the jury discharged from the case. If, however, the verdict be
defective in form only, the same may, with the assent of the jury,
before they are discharged, be corrected by the court.

SEC. 286. The verdict of a jury is either general or special.
A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally, upon
all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury finds facts only.
It must present the facts as established by the evidence, and not

the evidence to prove them, and they must be so presented as that
nothing remains to the court but to draw from them conclusions
of law.

SEC. 287. In every action for the recovery of money only, or
specific real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a
general or special verdict. In all other cases, the court may
direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing, upon all or any
of the issues, and in all cases may instruct them, if they render
a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be
stated in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon. The
special verdict or finding must be filed with the clerk and entered
on the journal.

SEC. 288. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent
with the general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the
court may give judgment accordingly.

SEC. 289. When, by the verdict, either partyis entitled to recover money of the adverse party, the jury, in their verdict, must
assess the amount of recovery.

ARTICLE 3. Trial by the Court.

SEC. 290. The trial by jury may be waived by the parties in
actions arising on contract, and with the assent of the court in
other actions, in the following manner: By the consent of the
party appearing, when the other party fails to appear at the trial,
by himself or attorney. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk. By oral consent in open court,
entered on the journal.

SEC. 291. Upon the trial of questions of fact by the court, it
shall not be necessary for the court to state its finding except
generally, for the plaintiff or defendant, unless one of the parties
request it, with the view of excepting to the decision of the court
upon the questions of law involved in trial; in which case the
court shall state in writing the conclusions of fact found, separately, from the conclusions of law.

ARTICLE 4. Trial by Referees.

SEC. 292. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of
fact or of law, or both, may be referred, upon the written consent of the parties, or upon their oral consent in court, entered
upon the journal.

SEC. 293. Where the parties do not consent, the court may,
upon the application of either or of its own motion, direct a
reference in either of the following cases: Where the trial of an

issue of fact shall require the examination of mutual accounts,
or when the account is on one side only, and it shall he made to
appear to the court that it is necessary that the party on the other
side should be examined as a witness to prove the account; in
which cases the referees may be directed to hear and report upon
the whole issue, or upon any specific question of fact involved
therein, or where the taking of an account shall be necessary for
the information of the court before judgment, in cases which may
be determined by the court, or for carrying a judgment into effect,
or where a question of fact other than upon the pleadings shall
arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of an action.

SEC. 294. Atrial before referees is conducted in the same
manner as a trial by the court. They have the same power to
summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses, to administer
all necessary oaths in the trial of the case, and to grant adjournments, as the court, upon such trial. They must state the facts
found and the conclusions of law separately, and their decisions
must be given, and may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner. Theireport of the referees upon the whole issue stands as
the decision of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon
in the same manner as if the action had been tried by the court.
‘When the reference is to report the facts, the report has the effect
of a special verdict.

SEC. 295. In all cases of reference, the parties, except when
an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person or
persons, not exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered
accordingly ; and, if the parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who shall be free
from exception.

SEC. 296. It shall be the duty of the referees to sign any true
exceptions taken to any order or decision by them made in the
case, and return the same with their report to the court making
the reference.

SEC. 297. A judge, in vacation, upon the written consent of
the parties, may make any order of reference which the court, of
which he is a member, could make in term time. In such case,
the order of reference shall be made on the written agreement of
the parties to refer, and shall be filed with the clerk of the court,
with the other papers in the case.

SEC. 298. The referees must be sworn or adirmed well and
faithfully to hear and examine the cause, and to make a just and
true report therein, according to the best of their understanding.

The oath may be administered by any person authorized to take
depositions.

SEC. 299. The referees shall be allowed such compensation for
their services as the court may deem just and proper, which shall
be taxed as part of the costs in the case.

ARTICLE 5. Exceptions.

SEC. 300. An exception is an objection taken to a decision of
the court upon a matter of law. .

SEC. 301. The party objecting to the decision must except at
the time the decision is made, and time may be given to reduce
the exception to writing, but not beyond the term.

SEC. 302. No particular form of exception is required. The
exception must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is
necessary to explain it, and no more, and the whole as briefly as
possible.

SEC. 303. Where the decision objected to is entered on the
record, and the grounds of objection appear in the entry, the
exception may be taken by the party causing to be noted, at the
end of the decision, that he excepts.

SEC. 304. Where the decision is not entered on the record, or

I the grounds of objection do not sufliciently appear in the entry,

the party excepting must reduce his exceptions to writing, and
present it to the court for its allowance. If true, it shall be the
duty of a majority of the judges composing the court, to allow
and sign it, whereupon it shall be tiled with the pleadings as a
part of the record, but not spread at large on the journal. If
the writing is not true, the court shall correct it, or suggest the
correction to be made, and it shall then be signed as aforesaid.

SEC. 305. No exceptions shall be regarded, unless it is material, and prejudicial to the substantial rights of the party
excepting. 

SEC. 306. Exceptions taken to the decision of any court of
record may, by leave of such court, be withdrawn from the files
by the party taking the same , at any time before proceedings in
error are commenced, and before the exceptions are recorded.

ARTICLE 6. New Trial.

SEC. 307. A new trizil is a re-examination, in the same court,
of an issue of fact after a verdict by a jury, report of a referee
or a decision by the court. The former verdict, report or decision shall be vacated and a new trial granted, on the application
of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes, affecting

materially the substantial rights of such party: First, a Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, referee or prevailing
party, or any order of the court or referee, or abuse of discretion, by which the party was prevented from having a fair trial.
Second, Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party. Third, Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. Fourth, Excessive damages, appearing to have been
given under the influence of passion or prejudice. Fifth, Error
in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too large
or too small, where the action is upon a contract, or for the
injury or detention of property. Sixth, That the verdict, report
or decision is not sustained by suflicient evidence, or is contrary
to law. Seventh, Newly discovered evidence, material for the
party applying, which he could not, with reasonable diligence,
have discovered and produced at the trial. Eighth, Error of law
occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the ‘party making the
application. ,

SEC. 308. A new trial shall not be granted on account of the
smallness of the damages, in an action for an injury to the person or reputation, nor in any other action where the damages
shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained.

SEC. 309. The application for a new trial must be made at

the term the verdict, report or decision is rendered, and except i

for the cause of newly discovered evidence material for the party
applying, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered and produced at the trial, shall be within three days
after the verdict or decision was rendered, unless unavoidably
prevented.

SEC. 310. The application must be by motion upon written :

grounds, hled at the time of making the motion. The causes
enumerated in subdivision two, three and seven, of section three
hundred and seven, must be sustained by aflidavits showing their
truth, and may be controverted by aflidavits.

SEC. 311. Where the grounds for a new trial could not, with
reasonable diligence, have been discovered before, but are discovered after the term at which the verdict, report of referee or
decision was rendered or made, the application may be made by
petition, filed as in other cases, not later than the second term
after the discovery; on which, a summons shall issue, be returnable and served, or publication made as prescribed in section
eighty. The facts stated in the petition shall be considered as
denied without answer, and if the service shall be complete in

vacation, the case shall be heard and summarily decided at the
ensuing term, and, if in term, it shall be heard and decided
after the expiration of twenty days from such service. The case
shall be placed on the trial docket, and the witnesses shall be
examined in open court, or their depositions taken as in other
cases, but no such petition shall be filed more than one year after

the ‘anal judgment was rendered.

ARTICLE 7.‘ General Pr0vz'sz'0ns.

SEC. 312. Whenever damages are recoverable, the ‘ plaintiif
may claim and recover any rate of damages to which he may be
entitled for the cause of action established.

SEC. 313. The provisions of this title, respecting trials by
jury, apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials

by the court.
ARTICLE 8. Time of Trial.

SEC. 314. That the clerks of courts of record shall keep at
least five books, to be‘ called the appearance docket, the trial
docket, the journal, the record, and execution docket. ,

SEC. 315. On the appearance docket he shall enter all ahtions
in the order in which they were brought, the date of the summons, the time of the return thereof by the odicer, and his return
thereon, the time of filing the petition, all subs aquent pleadings,
and an abstract of all orders and judgments of the court.

SEC. 316. The trial docket shall be made out by the clerk of
the court, at lea.st twelve days before the first day of each term
of the court; and the actions shall be set for particular days, in
the order in which the issues were made up, whether of law or of
fact, and so arranged that the cases set for each day shall be
tried as nearly as may be on that day. For the purpose of ar‘ranging said docket, an issue shall be considered as made up,
when eitherparty is in default of a pleading.

SEC. 317. The trial of an issue of fact, and the assessment of
damages in any case, shall be in the order in which they are
placed on the the trial docket, unless, by consent of the parties,
or the order of the court, they are continued or placedat the-heel
of the docket. The time of hearing all other cases shall be in
the order in which they are placed on the docket, unless the
court, in its discretion, shall otherwise direct. The court may,
in its discretion, hear at any time a motion, and may, by rule,
prescribe the time for hearing motions.

SEC. 318. Actions shall be triable at the first term of the
court, after the issues therein, by the times fixed for pleading

are or should have been made up ; and when, by the times fixed
for pleading, the issues are or should have been made up during
a term, such actions shall be triable at that term. When the
issues are or should have been made up either before or during a
term of court, but after the period for preparing the trial docket
of such term, the clerk, if required by the court, shall place such
actions on the trial docket of that term.

SEC. 319. The clerk shall make out a copy of the trial docket
for the use of the bar, before the first day of the term of court.

‘ TITLE X.
EVIDENCE.
CHAPTER 1. Compclmcy qf IV£tnessc-s.

SEC. 320. No person shall be disqualified as a witness, in any
civil action or proceeding, by reason of his interest in the event
of the same, as a party or otherwise, or by reason of his conviction of a. crime; but such interest or conviction may be shown
for the purpose of affecting his credibility.

SEC. 321. Nothing in the preceding section contained shall,
in any manner, affect the laws now existing, relating to the settlement of estates of deceased persons-—infants, idiots or lunatics— or the attestation of the execution of last wills and testaments, or of conveyances of real estate, or of any other instrument required by law to be attested.

SEC. 322. Any party to a civil action or proceeding may compel any adverse party or person, for whose benefit such action or
proceeding is instituted, prosecuted or defended, at the trial or
by deposition, to testify as a witness in the same manner, and
subject to the same rules as other witnesses.

SEC. 323. No party shall be allowed to testify by virtue of j
the provisions of section three hundred and twenty, where the
adverse party is the executor or administrator of a deceased person, when the facts to be proved transpired before the death of
such deceased person.

SEC. 324. The following persons shall be incompetent to tes- ;
tify: First, Persons who are of unsound mind at the time of‘
their production for examination. Second, Children under ten
years of age, who appear incapable of receiving just impressions
of the facts respecting which they are examined, or of relating
them truly. Third, Husband and wife, for or against each other,
or concerning any communication made by one to the other during the marriage, whether called as a witness while that relation

subsisted, or afterwards. Fourth, An attorney, concerning any

communication made to him by his client in that relation, or his

advice thereon, without the elieiit’s consent. Fifth, A clergyman or priest, concerning any confession made to him in his
professional character, in the course of discipline, enjoined by the
church to which he belongs, without the consent of the person
making the confession.

SEC. 325. If a person offer himself as a witness, that is to be.

deemed a consent to the examination also of an attorney, clergyman or priest, on the same subject, within the meaning of the
last two subdivisions of the preceding section.

CHAPTER 2. Zllcans Q/‘ Producing Witnesses.

SEC. 326. That the clerks of the several courts, and judges of
the probate courts, shall, on application of any person having a
cause or any matter pending in the court, issue a subpoena for
witnesses, under the seal of the court, inserting all the names
required by the applicant, in one subpoena, which may be served
by the sherid, coroner, or any constable of the county, or by the
party, or any other person. When a subpoena is not served by
sheriff, coroner or constable, proof of service shall be shown by
affidavit; but no costs of service the same shall be allowed,
except when served by an ollicer.

SEC. 327. That the subpoena shall be directed to the person
therein named, requiring him to attend at a particular time and
place, to testify as a witness, and it may contain a clause directing the witness to bring with him any book, writing or other
thing, under his control, which he is bound by law to produce as
evidence.

SEC. 328. That, when the attendance of the witness, before
any olliicer authorized to take depositions, is required, the subpoena shall be issued by such oilicer.

SEC. 329. The subpoena shall be served either by reading or
by copy delivered to the witness, or left at his usual place of
residence; but such copy need not contain the name of any
other witness.

SEC. 330. A witness shall not be obliged to attend for examination on the trial of a civil action except in the county of his
residence, nor to attend to give his deposition out of the county
where he resides, or where he may be when the subpoena is
served upon him.

SEC. 331. A witness may demand his traveling fees and fee
for one day’s attendance, when the subpoena is served upon him,

arid if the same be not paid, the witness shall not be obliged to
obey the subpoena. The fact of such demand and non-payment
shall be stated in the return.

SEC. 332. Disobedience of a subpoena, or refusal to be sworn
or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe a deposition, when
lawfully ordered, may be punished as a contempt of the court or
omcer by whom his attendance or testimony is required.

SEC. 333. When a witness fails to attend in obedience to a
subpoena, (except in case of a demand and failure to pay his
fees,) the court or oilicer, before whom his attendance is required, may issue an attachment to the sheriii‘, coroner or constable of the county, commanding him to arrest and hring the
person therein named before the court or ofhcer, at a time and
place to be fixed in the attachment, to give his testimony and
answer for the contempt. If the attachment be not for immediately bringing the witness before the court or oliicer, a sum
may be fixed in which the witness may give an undertaking. with
surety, for his appearance; such sum shall be endorsed on the
back of the attachment; and if no sum is so fixed and endorsed,
it shall be one hundred dollars. If the witness be not personally
served, the court may, by a rule, order him to show cause why
an attachment should not issue against him.

SEC. 334. The punishment for the contempt mentioned in section three hundred and thirty-two, shall be as follows : When
the witness fails to attend, in obedience to the subpoena, (except
in case of a demand and failure to pay his fees,) the court, or
odicer, may line the witness in a sum not exceeding fifty dollars.
In other cases, the court or officer may fine the witness in a sum
not exceeding fifty dollars, or may imprison him in the county
jail, there to remain until he shall submit to be sworn, testify or
give his deposition. The line imposed by the court shall be paid
into the county treasury, and that imposed by the oflicer shall
be for the use of the party for whom the witness was subpcenaed.
The witness shall also be liable to the party injured for any
damages occasioned by his failure to attend, or his refusal to be
sworn, testify or give his deposition.

SEC. 335. A witness so imprisoned by an ofticer, before whom
his deposition is being taken, may apply to a judge of a court of
record, who shall have power to discharge him, if it appears that
his imprisonment is illegal.

SEC. 336. Every attachment for the arrest, or order of commitment to prison of a witness by a court or oiiicer, pursuant to

this chapter, must be under the seal of the court or officer, if he
have an otiicial seal, and must specify, particularly, the cause of
the arrest or commitment ; and if the commitment be for refusing to answer a question, such question must be stated in the
order. Such order of commitment may be directed to the sheriff,
coroner, or any constable of the county where such witness resides or may be at the time, and shall be executed by committing
him to the jail of such county, and delivering a copy of the
order to the jailer.

SEC. 337. A person confined in any prison in this Territory
may, by order of any court of record, he required to be produced
for oral examination in the county where he is imprisoned, but
in all other cases his exaniination must be by deposition.

SEC. 338. While a prisoner’.s deposition is being taken, he
shall remain in the custody of the othcer having him in charge,
who shall ailonl 1‘e:t.~;o:;.;2.le i';;eilit;es lei‘ the tnhing‘ of the deposition.

SEC. 339. A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a county
in which he does not re.-«Ede, by being served with a summons in
such county, while going, returning or attending, in obedience to
a. subpoena. . '

SEC. 340. At the eomznencetnent of each day after the first
day, a WltIlt‘.~.~,‘» may dent:-.nd his fees for that day’s attendance, in
obedience to a subpoena, nd if the same be not paid, he shall
not be 1‘e<p1ired to I'Cl1l:tl!l.

SEC. 341. Before t:.-.~‘til'_'.'Eng, the witness‘ shall be sworn to
testify the trutii, the \'."::'»l-3 truth (‘.1211 notiiing but the truth.
The mode of u<lt1'ii1iistL-1'i;‘;: an o:~.‘.h shall be such as is 11105;.l)iI1tling upon the conscience oi’ the witness.

CII.‘tP'IE1’. 3. Pilot/e Q/°z'u/mtg I/te Ie3lz.'nzun'y Q/' H/ti/II.c‘S.S‘¢'8.

SEC. 842. The testimony of witnesses is t:1l{CI1 in three modes:
First, By aihdavits. Second, By deposition. Third, By oral
examination.

SEC. 343. An afliduvit is a written declaration, under oath,
made without notice to the adverse party.

SEC. 344. A deposiagm is a written t.lct'i:‘.1'(1l.l()P, under oath,
made upon notice to the a-lverse party, for the purpwse of
enabling him to attend and eioss examine, or upon written interrogatories.

SEC. 345. An oral e:;::min:t:ion is an exr.min:1tiot1 in the
presence of the jury’ or t1'.'o1:n-~.l which is to tlL‘L’i';iO the l’-.t=.-L or set
upon it, the testimony being heard by the jury or tribunal, l'rom
the lips of the witness.

ARTICLE 1. ddidavils.

SEC. 346. An ailidavit may be used to verify a pleading, to
prove the service of a summons, notice or other process in an
action, to obtain a provisional remedy, an examination of a
witness, a stay of proceedings, or upon a motion, or in any
other case permitted by law.

SEC. 347. An amdavit may be made in and out of this Territory, before any person authorized to take depositions, and must
be authenticated in the same way, except as provided in section
one hundred and twenty-one.

ARTICLE 2. Depositions.
SUBDIVISION 1. When to be used.

'\

SEC. 348. The deposition of any witness may be used only in
the following cases : First, When the Witness does not reside in
the county where the action or proceeding is pending, or is sent
for trial by change of venue, or is absent therefrom. Second,
When from age, infirmity or imprisonment, the witness is unable
to attend court or is dead. Third, When the testimony is required upon a motion, or in any other case where the oral testimony of the witness is not required.

SEC. 349. Either party may commence taking testimony by
deposition at any time after service upon the defendant.

SUBDIVISION 2. Ojicer who may take them. s

SEC. 350. Depositions may be tal<en in this Territory before
a judge or clerk of the court of record, before a justice of the
peace, notary public, mayor or chief magistrate of any city or
town corporate, or before a master commissioner, or any person
empowered by a special commission; but depositions taken in
this Territory, to be used therein, must be taken by an oiiicer or
person whose authority is derived within the Territory.

SEC. 351. Depositions may be taken out of this Territory by I
a judge, justice or chancellor of any court of record, a justice of
of the peace, notary public, mayor or chief magistrate of any
city or town corporate, a commissioner appointed by the governor of this Territory to take depositions, or any person authorized by a special commission from this Teiritory.

SEC. 352. The ofiicer before whom depositions are taken must j
not be a relative or attorney of either party, [or] otherwise interested in the event of the action or proceeding.

SEC. 353. Any court of record of this Territory or any judge 7
thereof, is authorized to grant a commission to take depositions ‘

within or without the Territory. The commission must be issued
to a person or persons therein named, by the clerk, under the seal
of the court granting the same, and depositions under it must be
taken upon written interrogatories, unless the parties otherwise
agree.

SUBDIVISION 3. Manner of taking and authenticating them.

SEC. 354. Prior to the taking of any deposition, unless taken
under a special commission, as written notice, specifying the
action or proceeding, the name of the court or tribunal in which
it is to be used, and the time and place of taking the same, shall
be served upon the adverse party, his agent or attorney of record,
or left at his usual place of abode. The notice shall be served so
as to allow the adverse party suilicient time, by the usual route
of travel, to attend, and one day for preparation, exclusive of
Sunday and the day of service; and the examination may, if so
stated in the notice, be adjourned from day to day.

SEC. 355. When the party against whom the deposition is to
be read is absent from, or a non-resident of the Territory, and
has no agent or attorney of record therein, he may be notified of
the taking of the deposition by publication. The publication
must be made three consecutive weeks in some newspaper printed
in the county where the action or proceeding is pending, if there
be any printed in such county, and if not, in some newspaper
printed in this Territory, of general circulation in the county.
The publication must contain all that is required in a written
notice, and may be proved in the manner prescribed in section
eighty-one.

SEC. 356. The deposition shall be written in the presence of
the oilicer taking the same, either by the oilicer, the witness, or
some disinterested person, and subscribed by the witness.

SEC. 357. The deposition so taken shall be scaled up and
endorsed with the title of the cause and the name of the officer
taking the same, and by him addressed and transmitted to the
clerk of the court where the action or proceeding is pending. It
shall remain under seal until opened by the clerk by order of the
court, or at the request of a party to the action or proceeding or
his attorney.

SEC. 358. The depositions taken pursuant to this article, shall
be admitted in evidence on the trial of any civil action or proceeding pending before any justice of the peace, mayor or other
judicial omcer, arbitrator or referee.

SEC. 359. When a deposition has been once taken, it may be
read in any stage of the same action or pyoceeding, or in any
other action or proceeding upon the same matter between the
lame parties, subject, however, to all such exceptions as may be
taken thereto under the provisions of this title.

SEC. 360. Depositions, taken pursuant to this article by any
judicial or other oilicer herein authorized to take depositions,
having a seal of oflice, whether resident in this Territory or elsewhere, shall be admitted in evidence upon the certificate and
signature of such officer under the seal of the court of which he
is an oflicer, or his oilicial seal, and no other or further act of
authentication shall, be required. If the ollicer taking the same
have no ollicial seal, the deposition, if not taken in this Territory,
shall be certified and signed by such oilicer, and shall be further
authenticated, either by parol proof adduced in court, or by the
official certificate and seal of any secretary or other oiiicer of the
Territory keeping the great seal thereof, or of the clerk or prothonotary of any court having a seal, attesting that such judicial
or other oflicer was, at the time of taking the same, within the
meaning of this chapter, authorized to take the same. But if the
deposition be taken within this Territory by an officer having no
seal, or within or without this Territory, under a special commission, it shall be sufficiently authenticated by the oflicial signature
of the oiiicer or commissioner taking the same.

SEC. 361. The oflicer taking the deposition shall annex thereto
a certificate, showing the following facts : That the witness was
first sworn to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth; that the deposition was reduced to writingzby some
proper person, naming him; that the deposition was written
and subscribed in the presence of the officer certifying thereto;
that the deposition was taken at the time and place specified in
tlie notice.

SEC. 362. When a deposition is oH'ered to be read in evidence,
it must appear, to the satisfaction of the court, that, for any
cause specified in section three hundred and forty-eight, the attendance of the witness cannot be procured.

SEC. 363. Every deposition, intended to be read in evidence
on the trial, must be filed at least one day before the day of
trial.

SEC. 364. The following fees shall be allowed for taking_depositions in this Territory, viz: Swearing each witness, four
cents; for each subpoena, attachment or order of commitment,

fifty cents ; for each hundred words contained in such deposition
and certificate, ten cents, and no more ; and such odicer may retain the same until such fees are paid; such oilicer shall also tax

the costs of the sheriff or other oflicer who shall serve the process aforesaid, and fees of the witnesses, and may also, if directed by
the person entitled thereto, retain such depositions until the said

fees are paid.

SUBDIVISION 4. E.2rcq2lz'ons lo Depositions.

SEC. 365. Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing, specifying the grounds of objection, and filed with the papers in the
cause.

SEC. 366. No exception, other than for incompetency or irrelevancy, shall be regarded, unless made and filed before the
commencement of the trial.

SEC. 367. The court shall, on motion of either party, hear
and decide the questions arising on exceptions to depositions,
before the commencement of the trial.

SEC. 368. Errors of the court, in its decisions upon exceptions
to depositions, are waived, unless excepted to.

CHAPTER 4. Jdmissions, In.speclz°on and Production of
Documents and General Provisions.

SEC. 369. Either party may exhibit to the other or to his
attorney, at any time before the trial, any paper or document
material to the action, and request an admission in writing of its
genuineness. If the adverse party, or his attorney, fail to give
the admission in writing within four days after the request, and
if the party exhibiting the paper or document be afterwards put
to any cost or expense to prove its genuineness, and the same be
finally proved or admitted on the trial, such costs and expenses, to
be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing to
make the admission, unless it shall appear, to the satisfaction’ of
the court, that there were good reasons for the refusal.

SEC. 370. Either party, or his attorney, may demand of the
adverse party an inspection and copy, or permission to take a.
copy of a book, paper or document in his possession or under his
control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action
or defence therein. Such demand shall be in writing, specifying
the book, paper or document, with snflicient. particularity to
enable the other party to distinguish it, and if compliance with
the demand, within four days, he refused, the court or judge, on
motion and notice to the adverse party, may, in their discretion,

order the adverse party to give the other, within a specihed time, i
an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy of such
book, paper or document; and, on failure to comply with such
order, the court may exclude the paper or document from being
given in evidence, or, if wanted as evidence by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as the party by
allidavit alleges it to be. This section is not to be construed to
prevent a party from compelling another to produce any book,
paper or document when he is examined as a witness. '

SEC. 371. Either party, or his attorney, if required, shall
deliver to the other party, or his attorney, a copy of any deed,
instrument or other writing, whereon the action or defence is
founded, or which he intends to offer in evidence at the trial. If
the plaintiff or defendant shall refuse to furnish the copy or
copies required, the party so refusing shall not be permitted to
give in evidence, at the trial, the original, of which a copy has
been refused. This section shall not apply to any paper, a copy
of which is filed with a pleading.

SEC. 372. That printed copies in volumes of statutes, codes, or
other written law, enacted by any other State or Territory or
foreign government, purporting or proved to have been published
by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as
evidence of the existing law in the courts or tribunals of such
State, Territory or government, shall be admitted by the courts
and oliicers of this Territory, on all occasions, as presumptive
evidence of such laws. The unwritten or common law of any
other State, Territory or foreign government, may be proved as
facts by parol evidence; and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts, ‘may also be admitted as presumptive
evidence of such law.

CHAPTER 5. Proceedings to Perpcluate Testimony.

SEC. 373. That the testimony of a witness may be perpetuated
in the following manner :

SEC. 374. That the applicant shall file in the ethos of the
clerk of the district court a petition, to be veriiied, in which shall
be set forth, specially, the subject matter relative to which testimony is to be taken, and the names of the persons interested, if
known to the applicant; and if not known, such general description as he can give of such persons, as heirs, devisees, alienees
or otherwise. The petition shall also state the names of the witnesses to be examined, and the interrogatories to be propounded
to each ; that the applicant expects to be a party to an action in

a court of this Territory, in which such testimony will, as he
believes, be material, and the obstacles preventing the immediate
commencement of the action, where the applicant expects to be
the plaintif.

SEC. 375. The court or a judge thereof may forthwith make
an order allowing the examination of such witnesses. The order
shall prescribe the time and place of the examination, how long
the parties interested shall be notified thereof, and the manner in
which they shall be notified. .

SEC. 376. When it appears satisfactorily to the court or judge
that the parties interested cannot be personally notified, such
court or judge shall appoint a competent attorney to examine the
petition and prepare and ‘tile cross interrogatories to those contained therein. The witnesses shall be examined upon the interrogatories of the applicant, and upon cross interrogatories, where
they are required to be prepared, and no others shall be propounded to them ; nor shall any statement he received which is
not responsive to some one of them. The attorney filing the
cross interrogatories shall be allowed a reasonable fee therefor,
to be taxed in the bill of costs.

SEC. 377. Such depositions shall be taken before some one
authorized by law to take depositions, or before some one specially
authorized by the court or judge, and shall be returned to the
clerk’s oflice of the court in which the petition was filed.

SEC. 378. The court or judge, if satisfied that the depositions

' have been properly taken, and, as herein required, shall approve

the same and order them to be iiled ; and, if a trial be had between the parties named in the petition, or their privies or successors in interest, such depositions or certified copies thereof
may be given in evidence by either party, where the witnesses are
dead or insane, or where their attendance for oral examination
cannot be obtained or required; but such depositions shall be
subject to the same objections for irrelevancy and incompetency
as may be made to depositions taken pending an action.

SEC. 879. The applicant shall pay the costs of all proceedings
under this chapter. '

TITLE XI.

JUDGMENT.

CHAPTER 1. Judgment in General.

SEC. 380. A judgment is the final determination of the rights
of the parties in an action.

SEC. 381. Judgment may be given for or against one or more
of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several
defendants ; it may determine the ultimate rights of the parties
on either side, as between themselves, and it may grant ;to the
defendant any amrmative relief to which he may be entitled. In
an action against several defendants. the court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving
the action to proceed against the others whenever a several judgment may be proper. The court may also dismiss the petition
with costs, in favor of one or more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect, on the part of the plaintif, to serve the summons on other defendants, or proceed in the cause against the

defendant or defendants served.

SEC. 382. An action may be dismissed, without prejudice to a
future action : First, By the plaintiff, before the final submission
of the case to the jury, or to the court, where the trial is by the
court. Second, By the court, where the plaintiff fails to appear
on the trial. Third, By the court, for the Want of necessary
parties. Fourth, By the court, on‘ the application of some of
the defendants, Where there are others Whom the plaintiff fails to
prosecute with diligence. Fifth, By the court, for disobedience
by the plaintiff of an order concerning the proceedings in the
action. Sixth, In all other cases, upon the trial of the action, the
decision must be upon the merits.

SEC. 383. In any case where a set-oil‘ or counter-claim has
been presented, the defendant shall have the right of proceeding
to the trial of his claim, although the plaintiff may have dismissed
his action or failed to appear.

SEC. 384. In the foreclosure of a mortgage, a sale of the
mortgaged property shall in all cases be ordered ;.and no real
estate within this Territory shall be sold for the payment of any
money, in security of which it may have been pledged, except in
pursuance of a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction,
ordering such sale.

SEC. 385. When a judgment shall be rendered for a conveyance, release or acquittance, in any court of this Territory, and
the party against whom the judgmentshall be rendered does not
comply therewith by the time appointed, such judgment shall
have the same operation and effect, and be as available, as if the
conveyance, release or acquittance had been executed conformably
to such judgment. This section shall apply to decrees rendered
or to be rendered in suits now pending.

CHAPTER 2. Judgment upon Failure to dnswer.

SEC. 386. If the taking of an account, or the proof of a fact,
or the assessment of damages be necessary to enable the court to
pronounce judgment upon a failure to answer, or after a decision
of an issue of law, the court may, with the assent of the party
not in default, take the account, hear the proof, or assess the
damages, or may, with the like ‘assent, refer the same to a
referee or master commissioner, or may direct the same to be

ascertained or assessed by a jury. If a jury be ordered, it shall '

be on or after the day on which the action is set for trial.

CHAPTER 3. Jzzclgment by Confession.

SEC. 887. Any person indebted, or against whom a cause of
action exists, may personally appear in a court of competent
jurisdiction, and, with the assent of the creditor or person having
such cause of action, confess judgment therefor, whereupon judgment shall be entered accordingly.

SEC. 388. Judgments may be entered upon confession by an
attorney, authorized for that purpose by a warrant of attorney,
acknowledged or proved as conveyances of land, without any
previbus process or proceeding, and judgments so entered shall
be a lien from the date of entry.

SEC. 389. Such judgments may be entered by the clerk at any
time, and execution shall issue thereon in the same manner as
judgments rendered in open court.

SEC. 390. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly stated
in the judgment, or in a writing to be filed as pleadings in other
actions.

SEC. 391. Such judgment shall authorize the same proceedings

for its enforcement as judgments rendered in actions regularly
brought and prosecuted; and the confession shall operate as a
release of errors.

SEC. 392. Every attorney, who shall confess judgment in any
case, shall, at the time of making such confession, produce the
warrant of attorney for making the same to the court before
which he makes the confession, and the original, or a copy of the
warrant, shall he fled with the clerk of the court in which the
judgment shall be entered.

SEC. 393. If any person be in custody in a civil action, at the

. suit of another, no warrant of attorney, executed by the person

in custody, to confess judgment in favor of the person at whose
suit he is in custody, shall be of any force, unless some attorney,

expressly named by the person in custody, be present and sign
the warrant of attorney as a witness.

CHAPTER 4. Manner of Giving and Entering Judgment.

SEC. 394. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment must
be rendered by the clerk in conformity to the verdict, unless it is
special, or the court order the case to be reserved for future argument or consideration.

SEC. 395. Where the verdict is special, or where there has
been a special finding on particular questions of fact, or where
the court has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall order what
judgment shall be entered.

SEC. 396. Where, upon the statement in the pleadings, one
party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall
be so rendered by the court, though a verdict has been found
against such party. y

SEC. 397. lf a counter-claim or set-off, established at the
trial,‘ exceed the plaintiff’s claim so established, judgment for the
defendant must be given for the excess ; or, if it appear that the
defendant is entitled to any aflirmative relief, judgment shall be

- given therefor.

SEC. 398. It shall not be necessary to reserve, in a judgment
or order, the right of an infant to show cause against it after his
attaining full age; but, in any case in which, but for this section, such reservation would have been proper, the infant, Within
one year after arriving at the age of twenty-one years, may show
cause against such order or judgment.

SEC. 399. All judgments and orders must be entered on the
journal of the court, and specify clearly the relief granted or order made in action.

SEC. 400. The clerk shall make a complete record of every

cause, as soon as it is finally determined, unless such record or
some part thereof be duly waived.

SEC. 401. He shall make up such record, in each cause,'in the
vacation next after the term at which the same was determined;
and the presiding judge of such court shall, at its next term
thereafter, subscribe the same. '

SEC. 402. The records shall be made up from the petition, the
process, return, the pleadings subsequent thereto, reports, verdicts, orders, judgments, and all material acts and proceedings
of the court; but, if the items of an account or the copies of

' papers attached to the pleadings be voluminous, the court may

order the record to be made by abbreviating the same, or inserting a pertinent description thereof, or by omitting them entirely.
Evidence must not be recorded.

SEC. 403. When the judicial acts or other proceedings of any
court have not been regularly brought up and recorded by the
clerk thereof, such court shall cause the same to be made up and
recorded within such time as it may direct. When they are made
up and, upon examination, found to be correct, the presiding
judge of such court shall subscribe the same.

SEC. 404. That section four hundred shall not apply: First,
In criminal prosecutions, where the indictment has been quashed,
or where the prosecuting attorney shall have entered a nolle prosequi on the indictment. Second, In cases where an action has
been dismissed without prejudice to a future action, as provided
in section three hundred and eighty-two. Third, In all actions
in which, in open court, at the term at which the final order or
judgment shall be made, both parties shall declare their agreement that no record shall be made.

SEC. 405. In cases where an action has been dismissed without prejudice to a future action, the clerk shall make a complete
record of the proceedings, upon being paid for making the same
by the party desiring the record to be made.

SEC. 406. A complete record shall be made in the case mentioned in section three hundred and eighty-three, unless waived
by the parties.

'- CHAPTER 5. Conveyance by Commissioners. 

SEC. 407. Real property may be conveyed by master commissioners as hereinafter provided: First, When, by an order or
judgment in an action or proceeding, a party is ordered to convey
such property to another, and he shall neglect or refuse to comply with such order or judgment. Second, When specific real
property is required to be sold under an order or judgment of
the court:

SEC. 408. A sherif may act as master commissioner under
the second sub-division of the preceding section. Sales made
under the same shall conform, in all respects, to the laws regulating sales of lands upon execution.

SEC. 409. The deed of a master commissioner shall contain

the like recital, and shall be executed, acknowledged and recorded
as the deed of a sheriff, of real property sold under execution.

CAUSES OF ACTION WHICH SURVIVE, AND ABATEMENT OF
ACTIONS.

SEC. 410. In addition to the causes of action which survive at
common law, causes of action for mesne profits, or for an injury
to the person or to real or personal estate, or for any deceit or
fraud shall also survive, and the action may be brought, notwithstanding the death of the person entitled or liable to the same.

SEC. 411. No action, pending in any court, shall abate by the
death of either or both the parties thereto, except an action for
libel, slander, malicious prosecution for a nuisance, or against a

justice of the peace for misconduct in oflioe, which shall abate by
the death of the defendant.

TITLE XIII.
BEVIVOR.
CHAPTER 1. Revivor of .dctz'ons.

SEC. 412. Where there are several plaintiffs or defendants in
an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as personal representative cease, if the right of action survive to or against the
remaining parties, the action may proceed—the death of the
party or the cessation of his powers being stated on the record.

SEC. 413. Where one of several plaintiifs or defendants dies,
or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the cause of
action do not admit of snrvivorship, and the court is of opinion
that the merits of the controversy can be properly determined and
the principles applicable to the case fully settled, it may proceed
to try the same as between the remaining parties ; but the judgment shall not prejudice any who-were not parties at the time of
trial.

SEC. 414. When one of the parties to an action dies, or his
powers as a personal representative cease before the judgment, if
the right of action survive in favor of or against his representatives or successor, the action may be revived and proceed in their
names.

SEC. 415. The revivor shall be, by a conditional order of the
court, if made in term, or by a judge thereof, if in vacation, that
the action be revived in the names of the representatives or successor of the party who died, or whose powers ceased, and proceed in favor of or against them.

SEC. 416. The order may be made on the motion of the adverse party, or of the representatives or successor of the party

who died or whose powers ceased, suggesting his death or the
cessation of his powers, which, with the names and capacities of
his representatives or successor, shall be stated in the order.

SEC. 417. If the order is made by consent of the parties, the
action shall forthwith stand revived; and, if not made by consent, the order shall be served in the same manner and returned
within the same time as a summons, upon the party adverse to
the one making the motion; and if suiiicient cause be not shown
against the revivor, the action shall stand revived.

SEC. 418. When the plaintiff shall make an aliidavit, that the
representatives of the defendant, or any of them in whose name
the action may be ordered to be revived, or non-residents of the
Territory, or have left the same to avoid the service of the order,
or so concealed themselves that the order cannot be served upon
them, or that the names and residence of the heirs or devisees of
the person against whom the action maybe ordered to be revived,
or some of them, are unknown to the aliiant, a notice may be
published for six consecutive weeks, as provided by section eighty,
notifying them to appear on a day therein named, not less than
ten days after the publication is complete, and show cause why
the action should not be revived against them ; and, if suliieient
cause he not shown to the contrary, the action shall stand revived.

SEC. 419. Upon the death of the plaintiff in an action, it may
be revived in the names of his representatives, to whom his right
has passed. Where his right has passed to his personal representatives, the revivor shall be in his name ; where it has passed
to his heirs or devisees, who could support the action if brought
anew, the revivor may be in their names.

SEC. 420. Upon the death of a defendant in an action, wherein
the right or any part thereof survives against any of his personal
representatives, the revivor shall be against him; and it may,
also, be against the heirs or devisees of the defendant, or both,
when the right of action or any part thereof survives against
them.

SEC. 421. Upon the death of a defendant in an action for the
recovery of real property only, or which concerns only his rights
or claims to such property, the action may be revived against his
heirs or devisees, or both, and an order therefor may be forthwith made in the manner directed in the preceding sections of
this title.

SEC. 422. An order to revive an action against the representatives or successorbf a defendant shall not be made, without

the consent of such representatives or successor, unless in one
year from the time it could have been first made.

SEC. 423. An order to revive an action in the names of the
representatives or successor of a plaintiH, may be made forthwith,

. but shall not be made without the consent of the defendant, after

the expiration of one year from the.time the order might have
been first made; but, where the defendant shall also have died
or his powers have ceased in the meantime, the order of revivor,
on both sides, may be made in the period limited In the last section.
SEC. 424. When it appears to the court, by ailidavit, that
either party to an action has been-dead, or where a party sues or
is sued as a personal representative, that his powers have ceased
for a. period so long that the action cannot be revived in the names
of his representatives or successor, without the consent of both
parties, it shall order the action to be stricken from the docket.

SEC. 425. At any term of the court succeeding the death of
the plaintiff, while the action remains on the docket, the defendant having given to the plaintiff’s proper representatives, in whose
names the action might be revived, ten days’ notice of the application therefor, may have an order to strike the action from the
docket, and for costs against the estate of the plaintiif, unless
the action is forthwith revived.

SEC. 426. When, by the provisions of the preceding sections,
an action stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be postponed
by reason of the revivor, if the action would have stood for trial
at the term the revivor is complete, had no death or cessation of
powers taken place.

CHAPTER 2. Revirvor and new Parties to Judgment.

SEC. 427. When a judgment is recovered against one or more.‘
persons jointly indebted upon contract, those who were not originally summoned may be made parties to the judgment by ‘action.

SEC. 428. If either or both parties die after judgment and before satisfaction thereof, their representatives, real or personal
or both, as the case may require, may be made parties to the
same, in the same manner as is prescribed for reviving actions

\ before judgment ; and such judgment may be rendered and execution awarded as might_or ought to be given or awarded against
the representatives, real or personal or both, of such deceased

party.
SEC. 429. If a judgment become dormant, it may be revived

in the same manner as is prescribed for reviving actions before
judgment.

TITIiE XIV.
EXECUTIONS.

SEC. 430. Executions shall be deemed process of the court,
and shall be issued by the clerk and directed to the sherif of the
county. They may be directed to di&'erent counties at the same
time.

SEC. 431. Executions are of three kinds: First, Against the
property of the judgment debtor. Second, Against his person.
Third, For the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, with damages for withholding the same and costs.

CHAPTER 1. Executions against the Property of the Judgmeztt Debtor.

SEC. 432. Lands, tenements, goods and chattels, not exempt
by law, shall be subject to the payment of debts, and shall be
liable to be taken on execution and sold, as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 433. The lands and tenements of the debtor, within the
county where the judgment is entered, shall be bound for the satisfaction thereof, from the first day of the term at which judgment is rendered; but judgments by confession and judgments
rendered at the same term at which the action is commenced,
shall bind such lands only from the day on which such judgments
are rendered. All other lands, as well as goods and chattels of
the debtor, shall be bound from the time they shall be seized in
execution.

SEC. 434. If execution shall not be sued out Within five years
from the date of any judgment that now is or may hereafter be
rendered, in any court of record in this Territory, or if hve years
shall have intervened between the date of the last execution issued
on such judgment and the time of suing out another writ of execution thereon, such judgment shall become dormant, and shall
cease to operate as a lien on the estate of the judgment debtor.

SEC. 435. The writ of execution against the property of the
judgment debtor, issuing from any court of record in this Territory, shall command the oflicer to whom it is directed, that of

the goods and chattels of the debtor he cause to be made themoney specified in the writ; and, for want of goods and chattels,

be cause the same to be made of the lands and tenements of the
; debtor; and the exact amount of the debt, damages and costs,

for which the jqglgment is entered, shall be endorsed on the execution. ‘

SEC. 436. When two or more writs of execution against the
same debtor shall be sued out during the term in which judgment
was rendered, or within ten days thereafter, and when two or
more writs of execution, against the same debtor, shall be delivered to the omcer on the same day, no preference shall be given
to either of such writs; but if a sumcient sum of’ money be not
made to satisfy all executions, the amount made shall be distributed to the several creditors in proportion to the amount of their
respective demands. In all other cases, the writ of execution
lirst delivered to the oilicer shall be first satisfied. And it shall
be the duty of the oiiicer to indorse on every writ of execution
the time when he received the same; but nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to eil'e'ct any preferable lien which
one or more of the judgments, on which execution issued, may
have on the lands of the judgment debtor.

SEC. 437. That the ollicer to whom a writ of execution is delivered, shall proceed immediately to levy the’ same upon the
goods and chattels of the debtor; but, if no goods and chattels
can be found, the oflicer shall endorse on the writ of execution
“no goods,” and forthwith levy the’ writ of execution upon the
lands and tenements of the debtor, which may be liable to satisfy
the judgment.

SEC. 438. If the omcer, by virtue of any execution, issued
from any court of record in this Territory, shall levy the same on
any goods and chattels claimed by any person other than the
defendant, it shall be the duty of said ollicer, forthwith, to give
notice in writing, to some justice of the peace of the county, in
which shall be set forth the names of the plaintiff and defendant,
together with the name of the claimant; and, at the same time,
he shall furnish the said justice of the peace with a schedule of
the property claimed; and it shall be the duty of such justice of
the peace, immediately upon the receipt of such notice and schedule, to make an entry of the same upon his docket, and issue a writ
of summons, directed to the sherif or any constable of the county, commanding him to summons five disinterested men, having
the qualifications of electors, who shall be named in said summons, to appear before him, the said justice, at the time .and

place therein mentioned, which time shall not be more than three
days after the date of said writ, to try and determine the right
of the claimant to the property in controversy. And it shall be
the duty of the claimant to give two days’ notice, in writing, to
the plaintin‘ or other party, for whose benefit such execution was

issued and levied as aforesaid, his agent or attorney, if within
the county, of the time and place of such trial; and he shall,
moreover, prove to the satisfaction of said justice that such
notice was given, or that the same could not be given by reason
of the absence of the party, his agent or attorney.

SEC. 439. The jury, summoned as aforesaid, shall be sworn
to try and determine the right of the claimant to the property in
controversy, and a true verdict to give, according to the evidence.
If the jury shall find the right to said goods and chattels, or any
part thereof, to be in the claimant, they shall also find the value
thereof, and the justice shall render judgment, upon such finding
of the jury, for the claimant, that he recover his costs against the
plaintiff in execution, or other party to the same, for whose benefit the execution issued, and also that he have restitution of said
goods and chattels or any part thereof, according to the linding
of the jury. But if the right of the said goods and chattels and
every part thereof shall not be in the claimant, according to the
finding of said jury, then the said justice shall render judgment
on such hnding in favor of the plaintilf in execution, or other
party, for whose benefit the same was issued‘ and levied against
said claimant for costs, and award execution thereon. Said justice of the peace. in the taxation of costs accruing by reason of
such claim and trial, shall allow each juror summoned and sworn,
the sum of fifty cents; and for the sheriff, constable or other oilicer, and witnesses, and for himself, he shall tax such fees as are
allowed by law to each, respectively, for like services rendered in
other cases. Such judgment for the claimant, (unless an undertaking shall be executed as provided in the next section,) shall
be a justification of the oliicer _in returning “no goods” to the
writ of execution, by virtue of which the levy has been made, as

to such part of the goods and chattels as were found to belong to
such claimant.

SEC. 440. If the jury shall find the property or any part

thereof to be in the claimant, and the plaintiff in execution

shall, at any time within three days after such trial, tender to
the sheriff or other ollicer having such property in his custody on
execution, an undertaking with good and suflicient sureties, payable to such claimant, in double the amount of the value of such
property as assessed by the jury, to the effect that they will pay
all damages sustained by reason of the detention or sale of such
property, then the sheriff or other oflicer shall deliver said undertaking to the claimant, and proceed to sell such property, as if

no such trial of the right of property had taken place, and shall
not be liable to the claimant therefor.

SEC. 441. In all cases where a sherid, coroner or other odicer
shall, by virtue of an execution, levy upon any goods and chattels which shall remain upon his hands unsold, for want, o_f_ hidders, r a want of time to advertise and sell: or any other
reas _able cause, 319 oilicer may, for his own security, take ‘of
the defend an undertaking with security, in such sum as he
may deem su cient, to the effect that the said property shall be
delivered to the oflicer holding an execution for the sale of the
same, at the time and place appointed by said oilicer, either by
notice, given in writing, to said defendant in execution, or by
advertisement, published in a newspaper printed in the county,
naming therein the day and place of sale. If the defendant
shall fail to deliver the goods and chattels at the time and place
mentioned in the notice to him given, or to pay to the ofiicer
holding the execution the full value of said goods and chattels,
or the amount of said debt and costs, the undertaking, given as
aforesaid, shall be condidered as broken, and may be proceeded
on as in other cases.

SEC. 442. The officer who levies upon goods and chattels, by
virtue of an execution issued by a‘ court of record, before he

‘proceeds to sell the same, shall cause public notice to be given of

the time and place of sale, for at least ten days before the day
of sale. The notice shall be given by advertisement, published in
some newspaper printed in the county, or in case no newspaper be
printed therein, by setting up advertisements in live public places
in the county. Two advertisements shall be put up in the township where the sale is to be held, and where goods and chattels
levied upon cannot be sold for want of bidders, the officer making such return shall annex to the execution a true and perfect
inventory of such goods and chattels, and the plaintiff in such
execution may thereupon sue out another writ of execution, directing the sale of the property levied upon as aforesaid; but
such goods and chattels shall not be sold, unless the time and
place of sale be advertised, as hereinbefore provided.

SEC. 443. When any writ shall issue, directing the sale of
property previously taken in execution, the officer issuing said
writ shall, at the request of the person entitled to the benefit
thereof, his agent or attorney, add thereto a command to the 0&cer to whom such writ shall be directed, that if the property remaining in his hands not sold shall, in his opinion, be insullicient

to satisfy the judgment, he shall levy the same upon lands and
tenements, goods and chattels, or either, as the law shall permit,
being the property of the judgment debtor, sullicient to satisfy
the debt.

SEC. 444. If execution be levied upon lands and tenements, or
stock in tradd, the oilicer levying such execution shall call an inquest of three disinterested householders or tock in trad who
shall be resident within the county where the lan: taken in execution, are situate, and administer to them an 0 th, impartially
to appraise the property so levied upon, upon actual view, and
such householders shall forthwith return to said odicer under
their hands, an estimate of the real value of said property.

SEC. 445. The oflicer receiving such return shall forthwith deposit a copy thereof with the clerk of the court from which the
writ issued, and immediately advertise and sell such property,
agreeably to the provisions of this title.

SEC. 446. If, upon such return, as aforesaid, it appear by the
inquisition that two-thirds of the appraised value of said lands,
tenements or stock in trade so levied upon is suiiicient to satisfy
the execution, with costs, the judgment on which such execution
issued, shall not operate as a lien, on the residue of the debtor’s
estate, to the prejudice of any other judgment creditor, but no

 
  
 

such property shall be sold for less than two-thirds of the value’

returned in the inquest; and nothing in this section contained
shall, in any wise, extend to edect the sale of lands or stock in
trade by the Territory, but all land or stock in trade therein, the
property of individuals indebted to the Territory for any debt or
taxes, or in any other manner, shall be sold, without valuation,
for the discharge of such debt or taxes, agreeably to the laws in
such cases made and provided.

SEC. 447. If the property of any clerk, sheriif, coroner, justice of the peace, constable or any collector of Territory, county,
‘town or township tax, shall be levied on for or on account of any
moneys that now are or may hereafter be by them collected or
received in their oilicial capacity, the property so levied on shall
be sold without valuation.

SEC. 448. Lands and tenements,,taken on execution,'shal1 not

- be sold until the officer cause public notice of the time and place

of sale to be given, for at least thirty days before the day of
sale, by advertisement in some newspaper printed in the county,
or in case no newspaper be printed in the county, in some newspaper in general circulation therein, and by putting up an advertisement upon the court-house door, and in five _other public
places in the county, two of which shall be in the township where
such lands and tenements lie. All sales made without such advertisement shall be set aside, on motion, by the court to which
the execution is returnable.

SEC. 449. If the court, upon the return of any writ of execution, for the satisfaction of which any lands, tenements or stock
in trade have been sold, shall, after having carefully examined
the proceedings of the oilicer, be satisfied that the sale has, in all
respects, been made in conformity to the provisions of this title,
the court shall direct the clerk to make an entry on the journal,
that the court is satisfied of the legality of such sale, and in order that the oflicer make to the purchaser a deed for such lands
and tenements; and the oilieer, on making such sale, may retain
the purchase money in his hands until the court shall have examined his proceedings, as aforesaid, when he shall pay the
same to the person entitled thereto, agreeably to the order of the

court.

SEC. 450. The sherif or other officer, who, upon such writ or
writs of execution, shall sell the said lands and tenements, or
any part thereof, shall make to the purchaser or purchasers
thereof, as good and suiiicient deed of conveyance of the lands
and tenements sold, as the person or persons against whom such
writ or writs of execution were issued, could have made of the
same, at or any time after they became liable to judgment. The
deed shall be sufficient evidence of the legality of such sale, and
the proceedings therein until the contrary be proved, and shall
vest in the purchaser as good and as perfect an estate in the
premises therein mentioned, as was vested in the party at or after
the time, when such lands and tenements became liable to the
satisfaction of the judgment; and such deed of conveyance, to be
made by the sheri&' or other oiiicer, shall recite the execution or
executions, or the substance thereof, and the names of the parties,
the amount, and date of term of rendition of each judgment, by
virtue whereof the said lands and tenements were sold as aforesaid, and shall be executed, acknowledged and recorded as is
or may be provided by law, to perfect the conveyance of real
estate in other cases.

SEC. 451. That the ofliccr who levies upon goods and chattels
or lands and tenements, or who is charged with the duty of selling the same, by virtue of any writ of execution, may refuse to
publish a notice of the sale thereof by advertisement in a newspaper, until the party for whose benefit such execution issued,
his agent or attorney, shall advance to such omcer so much
money as will be sufficient to discharge the fees of the printer,
for publishing such notice.

SEC. 452. Before any ollicer shall be excused from giving the
notification mentioned in the last section, he shall demand of
the party for whose benefit the execution was issued, his agent
or attorney, (provided either of them reside in the county,) the
fees in said section specified.

SEC. 453. All sales of lands or tenements under execution,
shall be held at the court house, in the county in which such
lands and tenements are situated. No sherid or other oflicer
making the sale of property, either personal or real, nor any
appraiser of such property, shall, either directly or indirectly,
purchase the same ; and every purchase so made shall be considered fraudulent and void.

SEC. 454. If lands, tenements or stock in trade, levied on as
aforesaid, are not sold upon one execution, other executions may
be issued to sell the said property so levied upon.

SEC. 455. In all cases where two or more executions shall be
put into the hands of any sheriff or other ollicer, and it shall be
necessary to levy on real estate to satisfy the same, and either of
the judgment creditors, in whose favor one or more of said executions are issued, shall require the sheriff or other oilicer to levy
said executions, or so many thereof as may be required, on separate parcels of the real property of the judgment debtor or debtors, giving to the oflicer making the levy on behalf of the creditor, whose execution may, by the provisions of this chapter, be
entitled to a preference, the choice of such part of the real
property of the judgment debtor or debtors, as will be sullicient,
at two-thirds of the appraised value, to satisfy the same; and in
all cases where two or more executions, which are entitled to no
preference over each other, are put into the hands of the same
oilicer, it shall be the duty of the oflicer, when required, to levy
the same on separate parcels of the real property of the judgment debtor or debtors, when, in the opinion of the appraisers,
the same may be divided without material injury ; and if the real
property of said debtors will not be sullicient, at two-thirds of its
appraised value, to satisfy all the executions chargeable thereon,
such part of the same shall be levied on, to satisfy each execution,
as will bear the same proportion in value to the whole, as the
amount due to the execution bears to the amount of all the execations chargeable thereon, as near as may be, according to the
appraised value of each separate parcel of said real property.

SEC. 456. If the term of service of the sherif or other officer ‘
who has made, or shall hereafter make sale of any lands and:
tenements, shall expire, or if the sherill‘ or other oilicer shall be
absent, or be rendered unable, by death or otherwise, to make a
deed of conveyance of the same, any succeeding sheriff or other
odicer on receiving a certificate from the court from which execution issued for the sale of said lands and tenements, signed by
the clerk, by order of said court, setting forth that sufficient
proof has been made to the court that such sale was fairly and
legally made; and on tender of the purchase money, or if the
same or any part thereof be paid, then on proof of such payment and tender of the balance, if any, mayexecute to the said
purchaser or purchasers, or his or their legal representatives, a
deed of conveyance of said lands and tenements so sold; such
deed shall be as good and valid in law, and have the same e&'ect,
as if the sheriff or other oilicer, who made the sale, had executed
the same.

SEC. 457. If, on any sale made as aforesaid, there shall be in
the hands of the sheri&' or other oflicer, more money than is sufficient to satisfy the writ or writs of execution, with interests and
costs, the sheri&' or other officer shall, on demand, pay the balance to the defendant in execution, or his legal representatives.

SEC. 458. If any juugment or judgments, in satisfaction of
which any lands or tenements are sold, shall at any time there-,
after be refersed, each reversal shall not defeat or e&‘ect the title
of the purchaser or purchasers; but, in such cases, restitution
shall be made, by the judgment creditors, of the money, for
which such lands or tenements were sold, with lawful interest
from the day of sale.

SEC. 459. No judgment heretofore rendered, or which hereafter may be rendered, on which execution shall not have been
taken out and levied before the expiration of one year next after
its rendition, shall operate as a lien on the estate of any debtor,
to the prejudice of any other bona jide judgment creditor. But
in all cases where judgment has been or may be rendered in the
supreme court, and a special mandate awarded to the district
court to carry the same into execution, the lieu of the judgment
creditor shall continue for one year after the first day of the
term of the district court, to which such mandate may be directed. Nothing in this subject contained shall be construed to

defeat the lieu of any judgment creditor, who shall fail to take
out execution, and cause a levy to be made as herein provided,
when such failure shall be occasioned by appeal, proceedings in
error, injunction or by vacancy in the odice of sheriff or coroner,

or the inability of such oflicer, until one year after such disabili- A

ty shall be removed. In all cases where real estate has been or
may hereafter be taken on execution and appraised, and twice
advertised and offered for sale, and shall remain unsold for want
of bidders, it shall be the duty of the court from which such exccution issued, on motion of the plaintiff, to set aside such appijaisement and order a new one. to be made, or to set aside such
levy and appraiscment and award a new execution to issue, as
the case may require.

SEC. 460. The sheriff or other oflicer, to whom any writ of
execution shall be directed, shall return such writ to the court to
which the same is returnable, within sixty days from the date

thereof.
SEC. 461. In all cases where judgment is rendered in any

court of record within this Territory, upon any instrument of
writing in which two or more persons are jointly and severally
bound, and it shall be made to appear to the court, by parol or
other testimony, that one or more of said persons so bound,
signed the same as surety or bail, for his or their co-defendant,
it shall be the duty of the clerk of said court, in recording the
judgment thereon, to certify which of the defendants is principal
debtor, and which are sureties or bail. And the clerk of the

_ court aforesaid shall issue execution on such judgment, commanding the sheriff or other ofiicer to cause the money to be made of
the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the principal
debtor, but for want of suilicient property of the principal debtor,
to make the same, that he cause the same to be made of the
goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the surety or bail.
In all cases, the property, both personal and real, of the principal debtor, within the jurisdiction of the court, shall be exhausted before any of the property of the surety or bail shall be

taken in execution.
SEC. 462. Each householder, summoned to appraise real estate

or stock in trade, under the provision of this chapter, shall be
allowed and receive for his services the sum of fifty cents for
each day he may be so engaged as such appraiser, to be collected
on the execution, by virtue of which the property appraised was
levied on, if claimed at the time of making the return of such
appraisment. And when any householder, summoned as aforesaid, shall fall to appear at the time or place appointed by the
omcer, and discharge his duty as appraiser, he shall, on complaint being made to any justice of the peace of the township in
which such householder resides, forfeit and pay the sum of fifty
cents for every such neglect, unless he can render a reasonable
excuse. Such sum shall be collected by said justice, and paid
in to the township treasurer for the use of the township.

SEC. 463. If any sheriff or other oflicer shall refuse or neglect to execute any writ of execution to him directed, which has
come to his hands, or shall neglect or refuse to sell any goods
and chattels, lands and tenements, or shall neglect to call an inquest and return a copy thereof, forthwith, to the clerk’s oflice,
or shall neglect to return any writ of execution to the proper
court, on or before the return day thereof, or shall neglect to
return a just and perfect inventory, of all and singular, the goods
and chattels, by him taken in execution, unless the said sherif
or other oilicer shall return that he has levied and made the.
amount of the debt, damages and costs, or shall-refuse or neglect, on demand, to pay over to the plaintilf, his agent or attorney
of record, all moneys by him collected or received for the use of
said party, at any time after collecting or receiving the same,
except as provided in section four hundred and forty-nine, or
shall neglect or refuse, on demand made by the defendant, his
agent or attorney of record, to pay" over all moneys by him received for any sale made, beyond what is suilicient to satisfy the
writ or writs of execution, with interest and legal costs, such
sheriff or other ollicer shall, on motion in court, and two days
notice thereof in writing, be amerced in the amount of said debt,
damages and costs, with ten per cent. thereon, to and for the use

of said plaintiff or defendant, as the case may be.
SEC. 464. If any clerk of a court shall neglect or refuse, on

demand made by the person entitled thereto, his agent or attorney of record, to pay over all money by him received in his oilicial capacity, for the use of such persons, every such clerk may
be amerced, and the proceedings against him and his sureties
shall be the same as provided for, in the foregoing section,

against sherifs and their sureties.
SEC. 465. When the cause of amercement is for refusing to

pay over money collected as aforesaid, the said sheriff or other
omcer shall not be amerced in a greater sum than the amount so
withheld, with ten per cent. thereon.

SEC. 466. When execution shall be issued in any county in
this Territory, and directed to the sherif or coroner of another

county, it shall be lawful for suchsheriff or coroner having the
execution, after having discharged all the duties required of him
by law, to enclose such execution by mail, to the clerk of the
court who issued the same. On proof being made by such sherid‘
or coroner, that the execution was mailed soon enough to have
reached the oflice where it was issued, within the time prescribed by
law, the sherilf or coroner shall not be liable for any amercement
or penalty, if_ it do not reach the oiiice in due time.

SEC. 467. No sherilf shall forward by mail any money made on
any such execution, unless he shall be specially instructed to do it
by the plaintiif, his agent or attorney of record. In all cases of a
motion to amerce a sherid, or other odicer of any county from
which the execution issued, notice in writing shall be given to such
oilicer, as hereinbefore required, by leaving it with him or at his
omce, at least fifteen days before the first day of the term at which
such motion shall be made. All amercements, so procured, shall
be entered on the record of the court, and shall have the same
force and ed'ect as a judgment.

SEC. 468. Each and every surety of any sheriff or other oflicer,
may be made party to the judgment rendered as aforesaid, against
the sheriff or other ollicer, by action to be commenced and prosecuted as in other cases ; but the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements of any such surety, shall not be liable to be taken on
execution, whensuiiicient goods and chattels, lands and tenements
of the sheri&' or other oilicer, against whom execution may heissued, can be found to satisfy the same. Nothing herein contained shall prevent either party from proceeding against such
sherid or other oilicer, by attachment, at his election.

SEC. 469. In cases where a sherid or other ofiicer may b°
amerced, and shall not‘ have collected the amount of the original
judgment, he shall be perm-itted to sue out an execution and collect the amount of said judgment, in the name of the original
plaintiff, for his use.


CHAPTER 2. Proceedings in aid 0]} Ezeczztion.

SEC. 470. When a judgment debtor has not personal or real
property, subject to levy on execution, sufficient to satisfy the
judgment, any equitable interest which he may have in real estate
as mortgagor, mortgagee or otherwise, or any interest he may
have in any banking, turnpike, bridge or other joint stock company, or any interest he may have in any money, contracts,
claims or choses in action, due or to become due to him, or in
any judgment or decree, or any money, goods or e&'ects which he

may have in the possession of any person, body politic or corporate, shall be subject to thepayment of such judgment by action
or as this chapter prescribes.

SEC. 471. When an execution against a judgment debtor, or
one of several debtors in the same judgment issued to the sheriff
of the county where he resides or if he do not reside in the Territory, to the sheriif of the county where the judgment was rendered
or a transcript of a justice’s judgment has been filed, is returned
unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor is entitled
to an order of the probate judge of the county to which the execution was issued, requiring such debtor to appear and answer
concerning his property, before such judge or a referee appointed
by such judge, at a time and place specified in such order, within
the county to which the execution was issued.

SEC. 472. After the issuing of an execution against property,
and upon proof, by the aliidavit of the judgment creditor or otherwise, to the satisfaction of a probate judge or a judge of the district court, of the county in which the order may be served, that
the judgment debtor has property‘ which he unjustly refuses to
apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or
judge may, by order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a
time or place in said county, to answer concerning the same; and
such proceedings may thereupon be had, for the application of
the property of the judgment debtor towards the satisfaction of
the judgment, as are prescribed in this chapter.

SEC. 473. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the
judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the judge
may, upon proof to his satisfaction, by afiidavit of the party or
otherwise, that there is danger of the debtor leaving the Territory or concealing himself, to avoid the examination herein
mentioned, issue a warrant requiring the sheri&' to arrest him and
bring him before such judge, within the county in which the
debtor may be arrested. Such a warrant can be issued only by a;
judge of probate or judge of the district court, of the county in
which such debtor resides or may be arrested. Upon being
brought before the judge, he shall be examined on oath, and other
witnesses may be examined on either side; and if, on such examination, it appear that there is danger of the debtor leaving
the Territory, and that he has property which he unjustly refuses
to apply to such judgment, he may be ordered to enter into an
undertaking in such sum as the judge may prescribe, with one or
more dureties, that he will, from time to ‘time, attend for examination before the judge or referee, as shall be directed. Indefault
of entering intosuch undertaking, he may be committed to the
jail of the county, by warrant of the judge, as for a contempt.

SEC. 474. No person shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter, be excused from answering any question on the ground
that his examination will tend to convict him of a fraud, but his
answer shall not be used as evidence against him in a prosecution
for such fraud. '

SEC. 475. After the issuing of execution against property, any
person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sherid‘ the
amount of his debt or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy the execution, and the sheriil"s receipt shall be a sufficient
discharge for the amount so paid, or directed to be credited by
the judgment creditor on the execution. 7

SEC. 476. After the issuing or return of an execution against
property of a judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors
in the same judgment, and upon proof by ailidavit or otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the judge, that any person or corporation
has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him, the
judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or
any odicer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and
place within the county in which such person or corporation may
be served with the order to answer, and answer the same. The
judge may, also, in his discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be given to any party in the action, in such manner as
may seem to him proper.

SEC. 477. Witnesses may be required, upon the order of the
judge, to appear and testify upon any proceedings under this chapter in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.

SEC. 478. The party or witness may be required to attend before the judge or before a referee, appointed by the court or
judge. If before a referee, the examinationmust be taken by the
referee and certified by the judge. All examinations, and answers
before a judge or a referee, under this chapter, must be 'on oath,
but when a corporation answers, the answer must be on oath of

an oilicer thereof.

SEC. 479. The judge may order any property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt by law, in the hands either of himself or any
other person or corporation, or due to the judgment debtor,'to be
applied toward the satisfaction of the judgment, but the earnings
of the debtor for his personal services, at any time within three
months next preceding the order, cannot be so applied, when it is

made to appear by the debtor’s amdavit or otherwise, that such
earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly
or partly by his labor. .

SEC. 480. The judge may, also, by order, appoint the sheriif
of the proper county or other suitable person, a receiver of the
property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner and with
like authority as if the appointment was made by the court. The
judge may, also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition
of the property of the judgment debtor, not exempt by law, and
any interference therewith. ‘

SEC. 481. If it shall appear that the judgment debtor has any
equitable interest in real estate in the county in which proceedings
are had, as mortgagor or mortgagee or otherwise, and the intereat of said debtor can be ascertained as between himself and the
person or persons holding the legal estate, or the person or persons having a lien on or interest in the same, without controversy
as to the interest of such person or persons holding such legal
estate or interest therein, or lien on the same, the receiver may
be ordered to sell and convey such real estate or the debtor’s interest therein. Such sale shall be conducted, in all respects, in
the same manner as is provided by this code for the sale of real
estate upon execution, and the proceedings of sale shall, before
the execution of the deed, be approved by the court in which the
judgment was rendered, or the transcript has been filed as aforesaid, as in cases of sale upon execution.- ’

SEC. 482. If the sheritf shall be appointed receiver, he and his
sureties shall be liable on his official bond, for the faithful discharge of his duties as receiver; if any other person shall be
appointed receiver, he shall give a written undertaking in such
sum as shall be prescribed by the judge, with one or more sureties,
to the e&'ect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver,
and he shall also take an oath to the same effect before acting as
such receiver. The undertaking, mentioned in this section, shall
be to the Territory of Kansas, and actions maybe prosecuted for
a breach thereof, by any person interested, in the same manner
as upon a sheriE’s oflicial bond.

SEC. 483. The judge or referee, acting under the provisions of 1
this chapter, shall have power to continue his proceedings, from 1

time to time, until they shall be completed.

SEC. 484. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference ;
to a referee, agreed upon or appointed by him, to report the evi- '7

deuce or the facts.
SEC. 485. Ifany person, party or witness, disobey an order

of the judge or referee, duly served, such person, party or witness
may be punished by the judge as for a contempt.

SEC. 486. The order mentioned in sections four hundred and
seventy-one, four hundred and seventy-two, four hundred and
seventy-six and four hundred and seventy-seven, shall be in writing and signed by the judge making the same, and shall be served
as a summons in other cases. The judge shall reduce all his
orders to writing, which, together with a minute of his proceed.ings, signed by himself, shall be filed with the clerk of the court
of the county in which the judgment is rendered or the transcript
of the justice filed, and the clerk shall enter on his execution
docket the time of filing the same.

SEC. 487. That the judge shall allow to clerks, sherilfs,
referees, receivers and witnesses, such compensationas is allowed
for like services in other cases, to be taxed as costs 111 the case,
and shall enforce by order the collection thereof from such party
or parties as ought to pay the same.

SEC. 488. That the probate judge shall "not be allowed any fees
for his services under this chapter, but the clerk shall be allowed
such fees as are allowed for similar services in other cases.

CHAPTER 3. Executions against the Person.

SEC. 489. An execution against the person of the judgment
debtor shall require the oiiicer to arrest such debtor and commit
him to the jail of the county until he pay the judgment or be discharged according to law.

SEC. 490. An execution against the person of the debtor may
be issued upon any judgment for the payment of money: First,
When the judgment debtor has removed or begun to remove any
of his property out of the jurisdiction of the court, with intent to
prevent the collection of the money due on the judgment.
Second, When he has property, rights in action, evidences of debt
or some interest or stock in some corporation or company which
he fraudulently conceals with the like intent. Third, When he
has assigned or disposed of all or any part of his property, or
rights in action, or has converted the same into money with intent
to defraud his’ creditors, or with the intent to prevent such property from being taken in execution. Fourth, When he fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the obligation upon which
the judgment was rendered. Fifth, When he was arrested on an
order before judgment and has not been discharged as an insolvent debtor, or the order has not been set aside as improperly
made.

SEC. 491. An execution against the person of the debtor, except as prescribed in section four hundred and ninety-three, can
be issued only when the same is allowed by the supreme court,
the district court or probate court, or any judge of either upon
being satisfied by the atlidavit of the judgment creditor or his
attorney, and such other evidence as may be presented, of the existence of one or more of the particulars mentioned in section
four hundred and ninety.

SEC. 492. A justice of the peace may issue an execution
against the person of a judgment debtor, upon being satisfied of

the existence of one or more of the same particulars, by the like
adidavit and evidence.

SEC. 493. In all cases in which the judgment debtor was arrested before judgment, and has not been released from imprisonment by an application for relief, as an insolvent debtor, and
where the order for such arrest has not been adjudged improper,
an execution against the person of such judgment debtor may
issue of course.

SEC. 494. Any person taken in execution as aforesaid, shall
be discharged by delivering or setting off to the oliicer serving the
same, if issued from a court of record, real or personal property,
if issued from a justice of the peace, personal property only,
sutlicient to satisfy the judgment andcosts for which the writ is
issued.

SEC. 495. Any person imprisoned under the provisions of this article, shall be entitled to prison bounds as prescribed by law ;
but, in case the person shall be out of jail, in prison bounds, the
judgment creditor, upon whose judgment he was imprisoned, shall
be entitled to execution against the lands and tenements, goods
and chattels of the debtor, and all other remedies prescribed by
this code for the collection of debts.

SEC. 496. The death of aperson, under arrest in an action,
does not satisfy the judgment ; but an execution may issue thereon as if no arrest had been made. ’

SEC. 497. If a person imprisoned under an order of arrest,
made before judgment, is not charged in execution within ten

days after judgment, he shall be discharged from such imprisonment. - '

SEC. 498. In cases of commitment under this chapter, or upon
arrest before or after judgment in civil cases, the person imprisoned, in case of his inability to perform the act or to endure the
imprisonment, may be discharged from imprisonment by the

court or judge committing him, or the court or judge thereof in
which the judgment was or might be rendered, on such terms as
may be just.

CHAPTER 4. Exeezztioizs for the Delivery Q/' Real and Personal Property.

SEC. 499. If the execution be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, it shall require the omcer to
deliver the same, particularly describing the property to the party
entitled thereto, and may, at the same time, require the omcer to
satisfy any costs or damages, recovered in the same judgment,
out of the goods and chattels of the party against whom it was
rendered, and for the want of such goods and chattels, then out
of the lands and tenements, and in this respect it shall be deemed
an execution against the property.

SEC. 500. When the judgment is not for the recovery of money
or real property, the same may be enforced by attachment, by
the court rendering judgment, upon motion made, or by a rule of
the court upon the defendant; but, in either case, notice of the
motion or a service of a copy of the rule shall be made on the
defendant, a reasonable time before the order of attachment is
made.

CHAPTER 5. Judgment before Justices of the Peace.

SEC. 501. In all cases in which a judgment shall be rendered
by a justice of the peace, the party in whose favor the judgment
shall be rendered, may file a transcript of such judgment, in the
ofiice of the clerk of the district court, of the county in which the
judgment was rendered, and thereupon the clerk shall, on the day
on which the same shall be filed, enter the case on the execution

docket, together with the amount of the judgment and time of
filing the transcript.

SEC. 502. Such judgment, if the transcript shall be filed in
term time, shall have alien on the real estate of the judgment
debtor, from the day of the hling; if filed in vacation, shall have
a like lien from the first day of the next term of the court, in the
same manner and to the same extent, as ifthe judgment had been
rendered in the district court.

SEC. 503. Execution may be issued thereon, to the sheriff, by
the clerk of the court, in the same manner as if the judgment had
been taken in court ; and the sheriff shall execute and return the
same, as other executions ; and in case of sale of real estate, his

proceedings shall be examined and approved by the court, as in

other cases.
SEC. 504. The justice of the peace, shall certify on the transcript the amount, if any, paid on such judgment. The costs of
the transcript, the filing of the same, and the entry of the case on
the execution docket, shall be paid by the party liling the same,
and not taxed to the other party.

TITLE XV.
MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.
CHAPTER 1. Ofer to Compromise.

SEC. 505. The defendant, in an action for the recovery of
money only, may, at any time before the trial, serve upon the
plaintiff or his attorney, an olfer in writing, to allow judgment to
be taken against him for the sum specified therein. If the plainti&' accept the offer and give notice thereof to the defendant or
his attorney, within live days after the olfer was served the olier
and an allidavit that the notice of acceptance was delivered in the
time limited, may be filed by the plaintiff, or the defendant may
lile the acceptance with a copy of the offer verified by affidavit;
and, in either case, the offer and acceptance shall be noted in the
journal, and judgment shall be rendered accordingly. If the
notice of acceptance be not given in the period limited, the offer
shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall [not] be given in evidence,
or mentioned on the trial. If the plaintiff fails to obtain judgment for more than was offered by the defendant, he shall pay
the defendant’s costs from the time of the offer.

SEC. 506. The making of an offer pursuant to the provisions
contained in the foregoing section, shall not be a cause for a
continuance of an action or a postponement of the trial.

CHAPTER 2. Submitting a Controversy.

SEC. 507. Parties to a question, which might be the subject
of a civil action, may without action agree upon a case containing the facts upon which' the controversy depends, and present a
submission of the same to any court, which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought. But it must appear by ailidavit, that the controversy is rea1,_and the proceedings in good
faith to determine the rights of the parties. The court shall
thereupon hear and determine the case, and render judgment asif

' an action were pending.

SEC. 508. The case, the submission and the judgment shall
constitute the record.

SEC. 509. The judgment shall be with costs, may be enforced,
and shall be subject to reversal, in the same manner as if it had
been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided in the submission.

CHAPTER 3. Ofer to Co7y"e.9s-—Judgment.

SEC. 510. After an action for the recovery of money is brought,
the defendant may oli'er~in court to confess judgment for part of
the amount claimed, or part of the causes involved in the action.
Whereupon, if the plaintif, being present, refuse to accept such
confession of judgment in full of his demands against the defendant in the action, or, having had such notice that the offer would
be made, of its amount, and of the time of making it, as the court
shall deem reasonable, fail to attend, and on the trial do not recover more than was so offered to he confessed, such plaintiff shall
pay all the costs of the defendant incurred after the ofer. The
offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of
action, or the amount to which the plaintiff is entitled, nor be
given in evidence upon the trial.

SEC. 511. Before an action for the recovery of money is
brought against any person, he may go into the court of the county
of his residence, or of that in which the person having the cause
of action resides, which would have jurisdiction of the action, and
o&'er to confess judgment, in favor of such person, for a specified
sum, on such cause of action. Whereupon, if such person, having
had such notice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and
of the time and place of making it, as the court shall deem reasonable, do not attend to accept the confession, or attending
refuse to accept it, and should afterwards commence an action
upon such cause, and not recover more than the amount so offered
to he confessed, he shall pay all the costs of the action, and on
the trial thereof, the offer shall not be deemed to be an admission
of the cause of action, or amount to which the plaintiff is entitled,
nor be given in evidence.

CHAPTER 4. Proceedings" by Sureties.

SEC. 512. A surety may maintain an action againsthis principal, to compel him to discharge the debt or liability, for which
the surety is bound, after the same has become due.

SEC. 513. A surety may maintain an action against his principal, to obtain indemnity against the debt or liability for which
he is bound, before it is due, whenever any of the grounds exist,
upon [which,] by the provisions of this code, an order may be
made for arrest and hail, or for an attachment. ’

SEC. 514. In such action, the surety may obtain any of the
provisional remedies mentioned in title eight, upon the grounds
and in the manner therein described. '

CHAPTER 5. Motions and Orders.

Sec. 515. A motion is an application for an order, addressed
to the court, or a judge in vacation, by any party to a suit or
proceeding, or one interested therein. .

SEC. 516. Several objects may be included in the same motion,
if they all grow out of, or are connected with the action or proceeding in which it is made.

SEC. 517. Where notice of a motion is required, it must be in
writing, and shall state the names of the parties to the action or
proceeding in which it is made, the name of the court or judge
before whom it is to be made, the place where, and the day on
which it will be heard, the nature and terms of the order or orders
to be applied for, and if afiidavits are to be used on the hearing,
the notice shall state that fact, and it shall be served areasonable
time before the hearing. A

SEC. 518. Notices of motions, mentioned in this chapter, may
be served by a sheriff, coroner or constable, or by any disinterested
person, and the return of any such oflicer or affidavit of any such
person, shall be proof of service ; the service shall be on the party,
or his attorney of record, if the said party or his attorney be resident
within the county in which the motion is made, and in case there is
more than one party adverse to such motion, service shall be made
upon each party or his attorney.

SEC. 519. The service of a notice shall be made as is required by
law for the service of a summons, and when served by an oilicer, he
shall be entitled to like fees. _

SEC. 520. Motions to strike pleadings and papers from the files,
may be made with or without notice, as the court or judge shall
direct.

SEC. 521. Every direction of a court or judge made, or entered
in writing, and not included in a judgment, is an order.

SEC. 522. Orders made out of court, shall be forthwith entered
by the clerk in the journal of the court, in the same manner as orders
made in term.

TITLE XVI.
snnon IN CIVIL CASES.

SEC. 523. A judgment rendered, or final order made by a justice of the peace, or any other tribunal, board or otiicer exercising

judicial functions, and inferior in jurisdiction to the district court,
may be reversed, vacated or modified by the district court.

SEC. 524. An order adecting a substantial right in an action,
when such order in effect determines the action and prevents a
judgment, and an order affecting a substantial right, made in a
special proceeding or upon a summary application in an action
after judgment, is a final order, which may be vacated, modified
or reversed, as provided in this title.

SEC. 525. A judgment rendered or final order made by the
probate court, may be reversed, vacated or modified by the district court, for errors appearing on record.

SEC. 526. A judgment rendered or final order made by any
court, board or tribunal mentioned in the three preceding sections, may be reversed, vacated or modified by the supreme court,
for errors appearing on the record. '

SEC. 527. The proceedings to obtain such reversal, vacation
or modification, shall be by petition, to be entitled petition in
error, filed in a court having power to make such reversal, vacation or modification, setting forth the errors complained of, and
thereupon a summons shall issue and be served, or publication

made, as in the commencement of an action. A service on the'

attorney of record, in the original case, shall be sudicient. The
summons shall notify the adverse party that a petition in error
has been filed in a certain case, naming it, and shall be made returnable on or before the first day of the term of the court, if
issued in vacation. If issued in term time, it shall be returnable
on a day therein named, if the last publication or service of the
summons shall be made ten days before the end of the term, the
case shall stand for hearing at that term.

SEC. 528. The summons mentioned in the last section, shall,
upon the written precipe of the plaintif in error or his attorney,
be issued by the clerk of the court in which the petition is filed,
to the sheriE of any county in which the defendant in error or his
attorney of record may be; and if the writ issues to a foreign
county, the sheriff thereof may return the same by mail to the
clerk, and shall be entitled to the same fees as if the same had
been returnable to the district court of the county in which such
otiicer resides ; the defendant in error or his attorney, may waive,
in writing, the issuing or service of the summons.

SEC. 529. The plaintid in error shall file with his petition, a
transcript of the proceedings containing the final judgment or
order sought to be reversed, vacated or modified.

SEC. 530. Judges of courts of probate, justices of the peace,
and other judicial tribunals, having no clerk, and the clerks of
every court of record, shall, upon request, and being paid the
lawful fees therefor, furnish an authenticated transcript of the
proceedings, containing the judgment or final order in said court,
to either of the parties to the same, or to any person interested
in procuring such transcript.

SEC. 531. No proceeding to reverse, vacate or modify any
judgment or final order rendered in the probate court or district
court, except as provided in the next section and the fourth subdivision of this section, shall operate to stay execution, unless
the clerk of the court in which the record of such judgment or
final order shall be, shall take a written undertaking, to be executed on the part of the plaintiu‘ in error, to the adverse party
with one or more suflicient sureties as follows: when the judgment or final order sought to be reversed, directs the payment
of money, the written undertaking shall be, in double the amount
of the judgment or order , to the sheet, that the plaintilf in error
will pay the condemnation money and costs, in case the judgment or final order shall he aflirmed, in whole or in part. When
it directs the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the
undertaking shall be in such a sum as may be prescribed by any
court of record in this Territory, or any judge thereof, to the
effect that the plaintiif in error will abide the judgment, if the
same shall be allirmed, and pay the costs; when it directs the
sale or delivery’of possession of real property, the undertaking
shall be in such sum as may be prescribed by any court of record
in this Territory, or any judge thereof, to the efect that during
the possession of such property by the plaintif in error, he will
not commit or suEer to be committed, any waste thereon, and if
the judgment be aflirmed, he will pay the value of the use and
occupation of the property, from the date of the undertaking until the delivery of the possession pursuant to the judgment, and
all costs. When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising from the sale, the
undertaking must also provide for the payment of such deficiency.
When it directs the assignment or delivery of documents, they
may be placed in the custody of the clerk of the court in which
the judgment was rendered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court, or the undertaking shall be in such sum as may be
prescribed as aforesaid, to abide the judgment and pay costs, if
the same shall be ailirmed.

SEC. 532. Instead of the undertaking prescribed in the second subdivision of the last section, the conveyance or other instrument may be executed and deposited with the clerk of the court
in which the judgment was rendered or order made, to abide the
judgment of the appellate court.

SEC. 533. Before the written undertaking mentioned in section
five hundred and thirty-one shall operate to stay execution of the
judgment or order, the execution of the undertaking and the
sufliciency of sureties, must be approved by the court in which
the judgment was rendered or order made, or by the clerk thereof, and the clerk shall endorse said approval, signed by himself
upon the undertaking, and file the same in his oilice, for the defendant in error.

SEC. 534. In an action arising on contract for the payment of
money only, notwithstanding the execution of the undertaking in
the last section mentioned, to stay proceedings, if the defendant
in error give adequate security to make restitution in case the
judgment is reversed or modified, he may, upon leave obtained
from the court below or a judge thereof in vacation, proceed to
enforce the judgment. Such security must be an undertaking, executed to the plaintiff in error, by at least two suliicient sureties,
to the efect that if the judgment be reversed or modified, he will
make full restitution to the plaintiff in error, of the money by
him received under the judgment.

SEC. 535. No proceeding for reversing, vacating or modifying
judgments or final orders, shall be commenced unless within three
years after the rendition of the judgment or making of the final
order complained of, or in case the person entitled to such proceeding, be an infant, a married woman, a person of unsound
mind or imprisoned, within three years as aforesaid, exclusive of
the time of such disability.

SEC. 536. No proceeding to reverse, vacate or modify any
judgment rendered or final order made by a justice of the peace,
shall operate as a stay of execution, unless the clerk of the district court shall take a written undertaking to the defendant,
executed on the part of the plaintiff in error, by one or more
suflicient sureties, to the effect that the plaintid will pay all the
costs which have accrued or may accrue on such proceedings in
error, together with the amount of any judgment that may be
rendered against such plaintiff in error, either on the. further
trial of the case, after the judgment of the court below shall have
been set aside or reversed, or upon and after the atlirmance

thereof in the district court. The person entitled to such proceeding shall have the same time for prosecuting the same, before he is barred, as is provided in the last section, unless the
said judgment has been paid off or satisfied prior to the commencement of such proceedings.

SEC. 537. Execution of the judgment or final order of any
judicial tribunal, other than those enumerated in this title, may
he stayed on such terms as may be prescribed by the court or a
judge thereof, in which the proceedings are pending.

SEC. 538. When a judgment or final order shall be reversed, either in whole or in part, in the district court or supreme
court, the court reversing the same shall proceed to render such
judgment as the court below should have rendered or remand the
cause to the court below for such judgment; and the court reversing such judgment or final order, shall not issue execution in
causes that are removed before them on error, on which they pronounced judgment as aforesaid, but shall send a special mandate
to the court below, as the case may require, to award execution
thereupon; and such court, to which such special mandate is
sent, shall proceed in such cases in the same manner as if such
judgment or final order had been rendered therein; and, on motion and good cause shown, it may suspend any execution, made
returnable before it, by order of the district or supreme court,
in the same manner as if such execution had been issued from its
own court; but such power shall not extend further than to stay
proceedings, until the matter can be further heard by the district
or supreme court, as the case may be.

SEC. 539. When a judgment or final order is reversed, the
plaintid in error shall recover his costs, and when reversed in part
and ailirmed in part, costs shall be equally divided between the
parties.

SEC. 540. A mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk shall
not be a ground of error, until the same has been presented and
acted upon in the court in which the mistake, neglect or admission occurred.

SEC. 541. Rendering judgment, before the action stood for
trial, according to the provisions of this code, shall be deemed a

clerical error.

SEC. 542. Writs of error and certiorari, to reverse, vacate or
modify judgments or ‘dual orders, in civil cases, are abolished,
but courts shall have the same power to compare, complete and
perfect transcripts of the proceedings containing the judgment or

final order sought to be reversed, to be furnished as they heretofore had under writs of error and certiorari.

Sec. 543. If the judgment of a justice of the peace, taken on
error, as herein provided, to the district court, be amrmed, it
shall be the duty of such court to render judgment against the
piaintiff in error, for the costs of suit, and award execution
therefor; and the court shall thereupon order his clerk to certify
its decision in the premises to the justice, that the judgment affirmed may be enforced, as if such proceedings in error had not
been taken ; or such court may award execution to carry into
elfect the judgment of such justice, in the same manner as if such
judgment had been rendered in the district court.

SEC. 544. When the proceedings of a justice of the peace are
taken on error to the district court, in the manner aforesaid, and
the judgment of such justice shall be reversed or set aside, the
court shall render judgment of reversal, and for the costs that
have occurred up to that time, in favor of the plaintiff in error,
and award execution therefor ; and the cause shall be retained by
the court for trial and final judgment, as in cases of appeal.

SEC. 545. The final orders or decrees of courts of chancery,
heretofore rendered or which may hereafter be rendered, in any
chancery proceeding pending at the time this code takes elfect,
may be reviewed in the same manner and within the same time,
as if this code had not taken effect; and all suits in chancery,
pending at that time, may be prosecuted to final decree in like
manner. '

Proceediizgs to Reverse, Vacate or Modzj/‘g Judgments and
Orders in the Courts in which they are rendered.

SEC. 546. That the probate court or district court shall have
power to vacate or modify its own judgments or orders, at or

after the term at which such judgment or order was made : First,‘

By granting a new trial for the cause, within the time and in the
manner prescribed in section three hundred and eleven. Second,
By a new trial granted in proceedings against defendants constructively summoned, as provided in section seventy-eight.
Third, For mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order. Fourth, For fraud practiced by the successful party, in obtaining the judgment or order.
Fifth, For erroneous proceedings against an infant, married
woman or person of unsound mind, where the condition of such
defendant does not appear in the record, nor the error in the proceedings. Sixth, For the death of one of the parties before the

judgment in the action. Seventh, For unavoidable casuality or
misfortune, preventing the party from prosecuting or defending.
Eighth, For errors in a judgment, shown by an infant in twelve
months after arriving at full age, as ‘prescribed in section three
hundred and ninety-eight. Ninth, For taking judgments upon
warrants of attorney, for more than was due to the plaintif, when
the defendant was not summoned or otherwise legally notified of
7the time and place of taking such judgment. ‘

SEC. 547. The proceedings to correct mistakes or omissions of A
the clerk or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order, shall i

be by motion, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party or his
attorney in the action. The motion to vacate a judgment, because of its rendition before the action regularly stood for trial,
can be made only in the first three days of the succeeding term.

SEC. 548. The proceedings to vacate or modify the judgment

or order, on the grounds mentioned in subdivisions four, five, six, ‘

seven, eight and nine of section five hundred and forty-six, shall
be by petition verified by aiiidavit, setting forth the judgment or
order, the grounds to vacate or modify it, and the defence to the
action, if the party applying was defendant. On such petition,
a summons shall issue, and be served as in the commencement of
an action.

SEC. 549. The court may iirst try and decide upon the grounds
to vacate or modify a judgment or order, before trying or deciding upon the validity of the defence or cause of action.

SEC. 550. A judgment shall not be vacated on motion or petition, until it is adjudged that there is a valid defence to the
action on which the judgment is rendered, or, if the plaintif seeks
its vacation, that there is a valid cause of action; and, where, a
judgment is modified, all liens and securities obtained under it
shall be preserved to the modified judgment.

SEC. 551. The party seeking to vacate or modify a judgment
or order, may obtain an injunction suspending proceedings on the
whole or part thereof, which injunction may be granted by the
court or any judge thereof, upon its being rendered probable, by
aliidavit or by exhibition of the record, that the party is entitled
to have such judgment or order vacated or modified.

SEC. 552. When the judgment was rendered before the action
stood for trial, the suspension may be granted as provided in the
last section, although no valid defence to the action is shown;
and the court shall make such orders concerning the executions
to be issued on the judgment, as shall give to the defendants the

same rights of delay he would have bad if the judgment had
been rendered at the proper time.

SEC. 553. Proceedings to vacate or modify a judgment or
order, for the causes mentioned in subdivisions four, iive and
seven of section five hundred and forty-six, must be commenced
within two years after the judgment was rendered or order made,
unless the party entitled thereto be an infant, married woman or,
person of unsound mind, and then within two years after removal“
of such disability. Proceedings, for the causes mentioned in subdivisions three and six of the same section, shall be within
three years, and in subdivision nine, within one year after the
defendant has notice of the judgment.

SEC. 554. The provisions of this title, subsequent to section
five hundred and forty-five, shall apply to all the courts of record
of the Territory, so far as the same may be applicable to the
judgments or final orders of such courts.

TITLE XVII.

cosrs.
CHAPTER 1.

SEC. 555. In all cases in which the plaintiff is a non-resident
of the county in which the action is to be brought, before commencing such action, the plaintilf must furnish a sufficient surety
for costs. The surety must be a resident of the county where
the action is to be brought, and approved by the clerk. His
obligation shall be complete, simply by indorsing the summons,
or signing his name on the complaint as security for costs. He
shall be bound for the payment of all costs which may be adjudged against the plaintiff, in the court in which the action is
brought, or in any other to which it may be carried, and for the
costs of the plaintili"s witnesses, whether the plaintif obtained

judgment or not.
SEC. 556. An action, in which security for costs is required

by the last section, and has not been given, shall be dismissed
on the motion and notice by the defendant, at any proper time
before judgment, unless in a reasonable time, to be allowed by
the court, such security for costs be given.

SEC. 557. If the plaintiff in an action, after its commencement, becomes a non-resident of the county in which it is
brought, he shall give security for costs, in the manner and under
the restrictions provided in the two preceding sections.

SEC. 558. In an action in which security for costs has been
given, the defendant may, at any time before judgment, after

reasonable. notice to the plaintif, move the court for additional
security on the part of the plaintiff, and if, on such motion, the
court be satisfied that the surety has removed from this Territory,
or is not suilicient, the action may be dismissed, unless, in a
reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, suiiicient security be
given by the plaintid‘.

SEC. 559. After final judgment has been rendered in an action A

in which security for costs has been given, as required by this chapter, the court, on motion of the defendant or any other
person having a right to such costs, or any part thereof, after
ten days’ notice of such motion, may enter up judgment in the
name of the defendant or his legal representatives, against the
surety for costs, his executors or administrators, for the amount
of costs adjudged against the plaintiff, or so much thereof as
may be unpaid. Execution may be issued on such judgment as
in other cases, for the use and benefit of the persons entitled to
such costs.

SEC. 560. If any informer, under a penal statute to whom the I
penalty, or any part thereof, if recovered, is given, shall dismiss %

his suit or prosecution, or fail in the same, he shall pay all costs
accruing on such suit or prosecution, unless he be an oflicer,
whose duty it is to commence the same.

SEC. 561. Where defendants disclaim having any title or interest in land or other property, the subject matter of the action, \

they shall recover their costs, unless for special reasons the court
decide otherwise.

SEC. 562. Unless otherwise provided by statute, the costs of
motions, continuances, amendments and the like, shall be taxed
and paid as the court, in its descretion, may direct. '

SEC. 563. Where it is not otherwise provided by this and other
statutes, costs shall be allowed, of course, to the plaintiff,
upon a judgment in his favor, in actions for the recovery of
money only, or for the recovery of specinc, real or personal
property.

SEC. 564. If it shall appear that a justice of the peace has
jurisdiction of an action, and the same has been brought in any
other court, the plaintiff shall not recover costs; and, in all actions for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assault, assault
and battery, false imprisonment, criminal conversation or seduction, actions for nuisance, or against a justice of the peace for
misconduct in oflice, if the damages assessed be under five dollars, the plaintiff shall not recover any costs.

SEC. 565. Costs shall be allowed, of course, to any defendant,

upon a judgment in his favor, in the actions mentioned in the
last two sections. , .

SEC. 566. In other actions, the court may award and tax
costs, and apportion the same between the parties on the same
or adverse sides, as in its discretion it may think right and
equitable. ~

SEC. 567. Where several actions are brought on one bill of

’ exchange, promissory note or other obligation, or instrument in

writing, against several parties who might have been joined as
defendants in the same action, as allowed by section forty-five,
no costs shall be recovered by the plaintiif in more than one of
such actions, if the parties proceeded against, in the other actions, were, at the commencement of the previous action, openly
within the Territory.

SEC. 568. When a summons is issued to another county than

A that in which the action or proceeding is pending, it may be

returned by mail, and the sheriff shall be entitled to the same

fees as if the summons had issued in the county of which he is
sheriff.

TITLE XVIII.

ACTIONS AND Pnocssnnvss DI PARTICULAR CASES.
CHAPTER 1. ./Yctions concerning Real Property.

SEC. 569. An action may be brought by any person in possession, by himself or tenant, of real property, against any person
who claims an estate or interest therein, adverse to him, for the
purpose of determining such adverse estate or interest.

SEC. 570. In an action for the recovery of real property, it
shall be sudicient if the plaintiff state in his petition, that he has
a real estate therein and is entitled to the possession thereof,
describing the same, as required by section one hundred and thirtysix, and that the defendant unlawfully keeps him out of the possession. It shall not be necessary to state how the p1aintill"s
estate or ownership is derived.

SEC. 571. It shall be sutlicient in ‘such action, if the defendant, in his answer, deny generally the title alleged in thepetition,
or that he withholds the possession, as the case may be; but if
he deny the title of the plaintiff, possession by the defendant
shall be taken as admitted. Where he does not defend for the

whole premises, the answer shall describe the particular part for
which defence is made.

SEC. 572. In an action by a tenant in common of real property against a co-tenant, the plaintif must, in addition to what
is required in section five hundred and seventy, state in his petition that the defendant either denied the plaintiff ’s right or did
some act amounting to such denial.

SEC. 573. In an action for the recovery of real property, where
the plaintiff shows a right to recover at the time the action was
commenced, but it appears that his right has terminated during
the pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment must be
according to the fact, and the plaintif may recover for withholding the property.

SEC. 574. In an action for the recovery of real property, the

party against whom judgment is rendered, may, at any time dur- *

ing the term at which the judgment is rendered, demand another
trial by notice on the journal, and thereupon the judgment shall
be vacated, and the action shall stand for trial at the next term.

SEC. 575. No further trial can be had in such action, except
upon appeal, unless for good cause shown, as in other actions.

SEC. 576. The parties in an action for the recovery of real
property, may avail themselves, if entitled thereto, of the relief
of the statutes in force for the relief of occupying claimants of
land.

SEC. 577. The action of waste is abolished, but any proceeding heretofore commenced or judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall not be anected thereby; and where the action of
waste is specially mentioned and authorized in any statute, it may
be used until otherwise provided, but it shall be commenced and
proceeded in throughout, in the manner prescribed for the civil
action of this code. Wrongs heretofore remediable by actions of
waste, are subjects of action as other wrongs, and the same relief shall be granted, as may now be granted under the action of

waste.

CHAPTER 2. .&ctz'ons on Ojicial Securities.

SEC. 578. When an olhcer, executor or administrator within
this Territory, -by misconduct or neglect of duty, forfeits his
bond or renders his sureties liable, any person injured thereby or
who is, by law, entitled to the benefit of the security, may bring
an action thereon in his own name, against the oilicer, executor
or administrator and his sureties, to recover the amount to which
he may be entitled by reason of the delinquency. The action
may be instituted and proceeded in on a certified copy of the
bond, which copy shall be furnished by the person holding the
original thereof. 

SEC. 579. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency, does not preclude the same or another party from an action
on the same security for another delinquency.

CHAPTER 3. Proceedings upon Mandamus.

SEC. 580. The writ of mandamus may be issued to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, to compel the performance of an act which the law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an oflice, trust or station. But, though it may
require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment or proceed to
the discharge of any of its functions, it cannot control judicial
discretion.

SEC. 581. This writ may not be issued in any case where there
is a plain and adequate remedyin the ordinary course of the law.
It may issue on the information of the party beneficially interested.

SEC. 582. The writ is either alternative or peremptory. The
alternative writ must state concisely the facts showing the obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his omission to
perform it, and command him that immediately upon the receipt
of the writ, or at, some other specified time, he do the act required to be performed or show cause before the court whence the
writ issued, at a specified time and place, why he has not done
so ; and that he then and there return the writ with his certificate
of having done as he is commanded. The peremptory writ must
be in a similar form, except that the words requiring the defendant to show cause why he has not done as commanded, must be
omitted.

SEC. 583. When the right to require the performance of the
act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can be given
for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may be allowed
in the first instance; in all other cases, the alternative writ must
be first issued.

SEC. 584. The motion for the writ must be made upon afiidavit, and the court may require a notice of the application to be
given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause
why it should not be allowed, or may grant the writ without
notice.

SEC. 585. The allowance of the writ must be endorsed thereon,
signed by the judge of the court granting it, and the writ must
be served personally upon the defendant; if the defendant, duly
served, neglect to return the same, he shall he proceeded against
as for a contempt.

SEC. 586. On the return day of the alternative writ, or such
further day as the court may allow, the party on whom the writ
shall have been served, may show cause by answer made in the
same manner as an answer to a petition in a civil action.

SEC. 587. If no answer be made, a peremptory mandamus
must be allowed against the defendant ; if answer be made containing new matter, theisame shall not, in any respect, conclude
the plaintiff, who may, on the trial or other proceeding, avail
himself of any valid objections to suiliciency, or may counter-‘
vail it by proof, either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.

SEC. 588. lilo other pleading or written allegation is allowed
than the writ and answer; these are the pleadings in the case,
and have the same effect, and are to be construed and may be
amended in the same manner as pleadings in a civil action; and
the issues thereby joined must be tried, and the further proceedings thereon had, in the same manner as in a civil action.

SEC. 589. If judgment be given for- the plaintiif, he shall recover the damages which he shall have sustained, to be ascertained by the court or jury, or by referees, as in a civil action,
and costs; and a peremptory mandamus shall, also, be granted
to him without delay.

SEC. 590. A recovery of damages, by virtue of this chapter,
against a party who shall have made a return to a writ of mandamus, is a bar to any other action against the same party for
the making of such return. '

SEC. 591. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed to
any public omcer, body or board, commanding the performance
of any public duty, specially enjoined by law, if it appear to the
court that such oiiicer or any member of such body or board, has,
without just excuse, refused or neglected to perform the duty so
enjoined, the court may impose a fine, not exceeding five hundred
dollars, upon every such oflicer or member of such body or board.
Such fine, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the
county where the duty ought to have been performed; and the
payment thereof is a bar to an action for any penalty incurred
by such oilicer or member of such body or board, by reason of
his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.

TITLE XIX.
GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE WHOLE cons.

CHAPTER 1. Process.
SEC. 592. The style of all process shall be: “ The Territory

of Kansas, county.” It shall be under the seal [of the
court from whence the same shall issue, shall be signed by the
clerk, and dated the day it issued.

SEC. 593. An order for a provisional remedy or any other
process, inan action wherein the sheriff is a party or is interested, shall be directed to the coroner. If both these ollicers are
interested, the process shall be directed to and executed by a
person appointed by the court or judge.

SEC. 594. The'court or judge, for good cause, may appoint a
person to serve a particular process or order, who shall have the
same power to execute it which the sherid has. The person may
be appointed on the motion of the party obtaining the process or
order, and the return must be verified by atlidavit. He shall be
entitled to the fees allowed to the sheriff for similar services.

CHAPTER 2. Duties of Clerks.

SEC. 595. All writs and orders for provisional remedies, and
process of every kind, shall be issued by the clerks of the several

‘ courts ; before they shall be issued, a precipe shall be filed with

the clerk demanding the same.
SEC. 596. It is the duty of the clerk of each of the courts, to
file together, and carefully preserve in his oilice, all papers delivered to him for that purpose, in every action or special proceeding.

SEC. 597. He shall keep the papers, in each case, separate,
carefully enveloped in a wrapper, labeled with title of the cause.

SEC. 598. He shall endorse upon every paper filed with him,
the day of filing it ; and upon every order for a provisional remedy, and upon every undertaking given under the same, the day
of its return to his office.

SEC. 599. He shall, upon the return of every summons served,
enter upon the docket the name of the defendant or defendants
summoned, and the day of the service upon each one. The entry
shall be evidence of the service of the summons, in case ‘of the
loss thereof.

SEC. 600. He shall keep the records and books and papers appertaining to the court, and record its proceedings.

SEC. 601. The provisions of article eight, of title nine, prescribing the duties of clerks, shall, as far as they are applicable,
apply to thc clerks of all courts of record.

SEC. 602. The clerk of each of the courts shall exercise the
powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed upon him
by other provisions of this code, by other statutes, and by the

common law. In the performance of his duties, he shall be under
the direction of his court. ,

CHAPTER 3. Duties of S/zerif.

SEC. 603. The sheriff shall endorse upon every summons, order
of arrest, or for the delivery of property or of attachment or injunction, the day and hour it was received by him.

SEC. 604. He shall execute every summons, order or other
process, and return the same as required by law, and if he fails
to do so, unless he make it appear, to the satisfaction of the
court, that he was prevented by inevitable accident from so doing,
he shall be amerced by the court in a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, and shall be liable to the action of any person aggrieved by such failure. . .

SEC. 605. If the.judge of acourt having but one judge, or if
a quorum of the judges of any court having two or more, fail to
attend at the time and place appointed for holding their respective courts, the sheriff shall have power to adjourn the court from
day to day, until the single judge attend, or a quorum is convened; but if the single judge be not present in his court, or a
quorum of judges in their court, within two days after the first
day of the term, then such court shall stand adjourned for the
term. The sheriff shall exercise the powers and duties conferred
and imposed upon him by other provisions of this code, by other
statutes, and by the common law.

CHAPTER 4. Miscellaneous Provisions.

SEC. 606. Any duty enjoined by this code upon a ministerial
odicer, and any act permitted to be done by him, may be performed by his lawful deputy.

SEC. 607. Whenever an oath is required by this code, the
amrmation of a person, conscientiously scrupulous of taking an
oath, shall have the same elfect. s—

SEC. 608. The time within which an act is to be done, as

herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day,

and including the last ; if the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.

SEC. 609. That section three hundred and eighty-six shall not ,

be construed to impair the right of a party to a jury, if he appear at the trial, by himself or attorney, and demand the same.
SEC. 610. The ministerial ofiicer, whose duty it is to take
security in any undertaking provided for by this code or by other
statutes, shall have the right to require the person offered as

surety to make an alhdavit of his qualifications, which adidavit
may be made before such ollicer. The taking of such an aflidavit shall not exempt the oilicer from any liability to which he
might otherwise be subject for taking insullicient security.

SEC. 611. The surety in every undertaking provided for by
this code or other statute, must be a resident of this Territory,
and worth double the sum to be secured. Where there are two
or more sureties in the same undertaking, they must, in the aggregate, have the qualifications prescribed in this section.

SEC. 612. The judges of the supreme court shall, during the
month of the first June after this code shall take effect, and
every two years thereafter, meet at the capital of the Territory,
and revise their general rules, and make such amendments thereto
as may be required to carry into effect the provision of this code,
and shall make such further rules consistent therewith as they
may deem proper. The rules so made shall apply to the supreme
court, the district courts, and the probate courts.

CHAPTER 5. Provisions respecting ./Qctions.

SEC. 613. The provisions of this code do not apply to proceedings in actions or suits pending, when it takes effect. They
shall be conducted to final judgment or decree, in all respects, as
if it had not been adopted ; but the provisions of this code shall
apply after a judgment, order or decree, heretofore or hereafter
rendered.to the proceedings, to enforce, vacate, modify or reverse it, except as provided in section five hundred and fortyfive.

CHAPTER 6. Provisions as to the Operation of the Code.

SEC. 614. Rights of civil action, given or secured by existing
laws, shall be prosecuted in the manner provided for by this
code, except as provided in section six hundred and fifteen. If
a case ever arise in which an action for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong, can-.

not be had under this code, the practice heretofore in use may be

adopted, so far as may be necessary to prevent a ‘failure of justice. _
SEC. 615. Until the Legislature shall otherwise provide, this
code shall not ah'ect proceedings on laabeas corpus, quo warranto,

or to assess damages for private property taken for public uses,

nor proceedings under the statutes for the settlements of estates‘

of deceased persons, n_or proceedings under statutes relating to
dower, nor proceedings under statutes relating to apprentices,

arbitration, bastardy, insolvent debtors or any special statutary
remedy, not heretofore obtained by action; but such proceedings
may be prosecuted under the code whenever it is applicable.

SEC. 616. Where, by statute, a civil action, legal or equitable,
is given, and the mode of proceeding’ therein is prescribed, this
code shall not afect the proceeding under such statute, until the
Legislature shall otherwise provide ; but the parties may, if they
see fit, proceed under this act, and in all such cases, as far as it
may be consistent with the statute giving such action and practicable under this code, the proceedings shall be conducted in
conformity thereto. Where the statute designates, by name or
otherwise, the kind of action, such action shall be commenced
and prosecuted in conformity to this code. Where the statute
gives an action, but does not designate the kind of action, or
prescribe the mode of proceeding therein, such action shall be held
to be the civil action of this code, and proceeded in accordingly.

SEC. 617. Executors, adminisirators and guardians, who have
given bond in this Territory with sureties, according to law, are
not required to give the undertaking mentioned in section five
hundred and thirty-one.

SEC. 618. If the district court allirm a‘ judgment on petition 5
in error, it shall also render judgment against the p1ainti&' in‘
error for five per cent. upon the amount due from him to the defendant in error, unless the court shall enter upon its minutes
that there was reasonable grounds for the proceedings in error.

SEC. 619. A summons in error shall not be issued in any case j
in which there is, upon the minutes of the court or among the files I
of the case, a waiver of error by the party or his attorney, endeavoring to commence such proceedings, unless the court, in
which the petition is to be filed, or a judge thereof, shall endorse
on the same permission to issue such summons.

SEC. 620. Cases pending in appellate courts, on writs of error or otherwise, when this code takes e&'ect, shall be conducted to 
final judgment, as if it had not been adopted, and the liens of
judgments and decrees rendered when it takes e&'ect, shall be preserved. They shall be enforced as provided in section six hun- :
dred and thirteen; but process already issued at such time, shall
be carried on and executed.

SEC. 621. The district court may appoint in each county such 1
number of persons as shall be necessary, to be master commis- E
sioners, who shall hold their ollice for the term of three years,
unless removed by the court for good cause.

SEC. 622. Before entering upon the duties of his office, a master commissioner must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or more sureties, approved by the court, execute an undertaking to the Territory of Kansas, in such sum as the court shall direct, to the effect that he will pay over all moneys, and faithfully discharge the duties of his office. The undertaking shall be filed in the office of the county reasurer, and may be sued upon as provided in section five hundred and seventy-eight.

SEC. 623. A master commissioner shall be allowed such fees as are allowed for similar services to other officers.

SEC. 624. This act to take effect and be in force from and after the first day of June next.

