CHAPTER 616. , c. .

AN ACT to establish a Code of Practice in civil in the Courts of this
. . . Commonwealth. '

Be it enacted by the General Assembly If the Commonwealth
Qf Kentucky, as follows :
. A PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS.
§ 1. This act shall be known as the Code of Practice in
civil cases, of this state.

§ 2. Remedies. in civil cases in the courts of this state,
are divided into two classes:
1. Actions.
2. Special proceedings.

§ 3. A civil action is an ordinary proceeding in a court
of justice, by one party against another, for the enforcement or protection of a private right, or the-redress or prevention of a private wrong. It may also be brought for
the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture.

§ 4. Every other remedy in a civil case, is a special proceeding. 

CHAPTER
FORM OF CIVIL ACTION. ‘

§ 1. The forms of all actions and suits, heretofore existing, are abolished; and hereafter, there’shall be but one
form of action for the enforcement or protection of private
rights, and the redress or prevention of private wrongs,
which shall be called a civil action.

§ 2. In such action, the party complaining is known as
the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

§ 3. The. proceedings in a civil action may be of two
kinds: 1. Ordinary; 2. Equitable

§ 4. The plaintiff may prosecute his action by equitable
proceedings, in all cases where courts of chancery, before
the adoption of. this code, had jurisdiction; and must so
proceed, in all .cases where such jurisdiction was exclusive.

§ 5. In all other cases, the plaintiff must prosecute his
action by ordinary proceedings.

§ 6. An error of the plaintiff as to the kind of' pro.ceed-.
ings adopted, shall not cause the abatement or’dismissal of
the action, but merely a change into the proper prOCeedings
by an amendment in the pleadings, and a transfer of the
action to the proper docket. 

§ 7. The error mentioned in the last section may be corrected by the plaintiff, without motion, at any time before
the defendant has answered; or afterwards,‘on motion in
court. 
§ 8. The defendant shall be entitled to have the correc-
tion made, in the following cases: 

1. Where the action has been commenced by equitable proceedings, the defendant, hy motion made at
the time of filing his answer, may have them changed
into ordinary proceedings, when it appears that, by the
provisions of section five, the plaintiff should have
adopted ordinary proceedings, and, in addition, that
his answer presents a defense on which he is entitled
to a trial by jury. ‘ ' .

2. Where the action has been commenced by ordinary proceedings, the defendant, hy motion made at
or before the time of filing his answer, may have them
changed into equitable proceedings, when it a pears

- that, by the provisions of section four, the p aintifi'
should have adepted equitable proceedings. ‘
§ 9. Where the action has been properly commenced by
ordinary proceedings, either party shall have the right, by
' motion, to have any issue, which, before the adoption of
this code, was exclusively cognizable in chancery, tried in
the mannerhcreinafter prescribed in cases of equitable
- proceedings; and if all the issues are such as, before the
- adoption of ‘ this code, were cognizable in chancery, though
none were exclusively so, the defendant shall be entitled to
' have them all tried as in cases of equitable proceedings.

§ 10. An error as to the kind of proceedings adopted in
the action, is waived by failure to move for its correction at
the time and in the manner prescribed in this chapter; and
all errors in the'decisions of the court, on any of the motions named in this chapter, are waived, unless excepted to
at the time; which may be done by the clerk noting, at the
end of such decision, words 'of the following import: “To
which decision, the plaintiif (or defendant) excepts.”

§ 11. The provisions of this code, concerning the prosecution of a civil action, apply to both kinds of proceedings,
unless the contrary appears.

 

TITLE
OF THE TIME OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

9.. Amymmuryofrsalm.
3. Actionsulierthaahthmryq'nalweuy.
4. General 
Cumin 1.
Actions in general.

§ 12. The provisions of this code, repealing certain statutes of limitation, and thin the periods within which actions must be brought, shal not apply to actions or suits
already commenced, nor to cases in which the right of action has already accrued; but the laws of limitation, now
in force, shall be applicable to such cases, according to the
subject of the action, and without regard to the form.

§ 13. The following acts and parts of acts are repealed,

The act to reduce into one the several acts and parts of
acts concerning limitations of actions, approved December17, 1796. So much of the 46th section of the act to reduce
into one the several acts concerning the examination and
trial of criminals, grand and petit juries, venires, and for
other purposes, approved December 17, 1796, as regards
civil actions and suits for penalties. The 1st and 2d sections of an act to amend an act, entitled, an act to amend
and reduce into one the several acts, or parts of acts, concerning limitations of actions, and for other purposes, ap—
proved January 22, 1814. The 5th section of an act authorizing suits against heirs and'devisees, and limiting the
time of bringi suits against executors and administrators, approved ebruary 9,1819. An act to provide for
limitations in certain actions, approved December 1, 1823.
So much of the 22d section of an act to amend the several
acts against unlawful gaming, approved February 2, 1833,
as regards civil actions for penalties. An act to amend an
act, entitled, an act to reduce into one the several acts and

arts of acts concerning limitations of actions, approved
February 16, 1838. An act to amend the law limiting actions for the recovery of land by females and their heirs,
approved February ‘7, 1840. An act limiting actibns
against snreties, approved February 8, 1838, except so
much thereof as relates to the discharge of sureties in judgments. The 2d section of an act respecting conveyances
by married women, approved February 23, 1849. ‘ So much
of an act. limiting the time of bringing suits against heirs
and devisees, approved March 7 , 1850, as prescribes , the period within which original suits may be brought against
heirs and ‘devisees. _
§ 14. Civil actions can only be commenced within the
periods prescribed in this title after. the cause of action has
accrued. . .
Curran 2. ,
Actions for the recovery qf real property.
§ 15. An action for the recovery of‘ real property, can
only be brought within fifteen years after the right to bring
it first accrued to the plaintid‘, or to the person’ through
whom he claims.
§ 16. If, at thetime when the right of any person to
bring an action for the recovery of real property first ac.
crued, such person was an infant, married woman, or of
unsound mind, then such person, or the person claiming
through him, may, notwithstanding the period of fifteen
years has expired,~bring the action within three years-after
the time at which the person to whom the right first accrued, ceased to be under such disability as existed when
the same so accrued, or died—whichever has happened
first.
§ 17. The time within which an action for the recovery
. of real property may be brought, shall not be extended by
reason of any disability which did not exist when the right
to bring the action first accrued; nor by reason of any disability of the heirs of the person to whom the right first accrned. ‘
§ 18. The period within which an action for the recovery
of real property may be brought, shall not, in any case, be
extended beyond thirty years from the time at which the
right to bring the same first accrued to the plaintiff, or to
the person through whom' he claims, by reason of any
death, er the existence or continuance of any disability
whatever; —
§ 19. No continual claim upon or near any real property,
shall preserve a right to bring an action.
§ 20. The provisions of the act, entitled, an act to compel the speedy adjustment of land claims, approved February 9, 1809, are continued‘in force. - . I
§ 21. An action by a female, or her heirs or devisees, for
the recovery of real P'OPerty, for the conveyance of which

she has, jointly with her husband, eXecuted a deed after
her arrival at the age of twenty-one years, and acknowledged such execution before an odicer authorized to take
an acknowledgment of a married woman’s deed conveying
her inheritance, can only he brought within three years
next after she became discovert, or within three years next
after the rightto bring the action accrued to her heirs,
where she died during coverture. In any such case, the
certificate of the o’fiicer that the deed was acknowledged
before him by the female, shall be sufficient proof of its execution by her, though such certificate may not, in other
respects, be in compliance with the law.
§ 22. If, in any case mentioned in the last section, the
female, when she became discovert, was of unsound mind,
the action may be brought by her, or those claiming under
her, within three ears next after the removal of such disability, or next a er her death—whichever has happened
first. And where the female dies during coverture, and her
heirs are all under the disability of coverture, infancy, or
unsoundness of mind when the right to bring the action accrues to them, the action may be brought within three years
next alter the removal of such disability. as to all of them.
§ 23. But the period within which an action for- the re‘covery of real property, in any case mentioned in section
twenty-one, may be brought, shall not be extended beyond
ten years from the time the female became discovert, or the
right of her. heirs to bring the action firstaccrued—whichever has happened first—by reason of any disabilty whatever.


§ 24. Civil actions other than for the recovery of real
property, shall only be commenced within the following
periods after the cause of action has accrued: ‘

§ 25. Within fifteen years:

An action upon a judgment or decree .of any court of
the United States, or» of any state or territory within the
United States, the period to be com uted from the date of
the last execution regularly issued ereon.

An action upon a recognizance, or a: written contract,
other than one for which a different limitation is hereinafter
prescribed. 

§ 26. AWithin ten years:

An action upon the official bond of a sheriff, marshal,
sergeant, clerk, constable, or any other public oflicer, or his
deputy. .

An action upon the oti’icial bond of a personal representative, guardian, curator, or committee. '

Anaaction upon a bond for an appeal, supersedeas, attachment, injunction or order_of arrest, or for the delivery

of property ; or a bond for the forthcomingof property, or
to obey or perform an order or judgment of a court in an
action; or a bond for costs, or any other bend taken by a
court or judge, or by an officer pursuant to the direction of
a court or judge, in an action; or upon a replevin, sale, or
delivery bond taken under an execution, or warrant of distress.

‘ An action upon an indemnifying bond taken under a
statute, or upon a‘ bond to.suspend a proceeding or sale under an execution or distress warrant.

§ 27. Within five years:

An actionagainst a surety in any recognizance, bond, or
contract, except where a shorter period is hereinafter prescribed.

An action upon a contract, express or implied, other than
one for which a different limitation is herein prescribed.

An action upon a liability created by statute, other than
a penalty or forfeiture. . . . .

An action for trespass upon real property. _

An action for the profits of, or damages for withholding
real property. , ‘

An action for taking, detaining, or injuring personal
property, including actions for the specific recovery thereof.

An action {Oran injury to the rights of the plaintiff, not
arising on contract, and not hereinafter enumerated.

An action upon a bill of exchange, check, draft, or order,
or upon a promissory note placed upon the footing of a bill
of exchange.

An action to enforce the liability of a'steamboat, or other vessel, in a casein which it is specifically subject, by
statute, to the plaintiff’s claim. .

An action upon an account concerning the trade of
merchandise between-merchant and merchants, or their
agents.

An action for relief on the ground of fraud.

§ 28. Within three years 

An action against a surety in the oliicial bond of a clerk
of a court, sheriff, coroner, jailer, constable, sergeant, or
marshal, or against a surety in the bond of a sheriff or collector for the collection of the revenue or the county levy,
or of a town or city tax. . ,

‘An action to recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
the laws against gaming, 01' by the laws prohibiting the
importation of slaves. ‘

§ 29. Within one year:

An action for an injury to the person of the plaintiff, or
of his wife,child,‘ ward, or servant other than a slave.

An action for a malicious prosecution or arrest.

An aetion for seduction, criminal conversation, or breach
of promise of marriage. 7 .

An action upona statute for a penalty or forfeiture, other than those for which a different limitation is prescribed
’ in this chapter.

An action for libel or slander.

An action for the escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.

An action to enforce the liability of bail, or of a sheriff
or other officer as bail.

An action upon an account for goods, wares, and therChandise sold and delivered, or for any articlecharged in a
store account. In every such action, the limitation shall
be computed from the first day of January next succeeding
the respective dates, or times of the delivery, ‘of the several articles charged in the account, and judgment shall be rendered for no more than the amount of such articles as were
actually charged, or delivered, within the year preceding
that in which the action is brought. The dates of the delivery of the several articles charged in any such account,
and of the receipts taken for them, shall he truly stated in
the account. ‘ d if any merchant or trader shall wilfully postdate any article charged in such. account, or the receipt for the delivery thereof, he shall forfeit tenfold the
amount of such article, to be recovered by any person,
with costs, before a justice, where the penalty does not exceed fifty dollars, and where it does exceed that sum, in
the circuit court. '

§ 30. In an action by equitable proceedings for relief on"
the ground of fraud, the cause of action shall not be deemed to have accrued until the discovery of the fraud.

§ 31. In an action brought to recovera balance due upon
. a mutual, open, and current account concerning the trade of
merchandise, between merchant and merchant, or their
agents, where there have been reciprocal demands Between
the parties, the cause of action is deemed to have accrued
from the time of the last item proved in the account claimed, or proved to be chargeable on the adverse side.

§ 32. The right of action upon the oflicial bond .of a
guardian, executor, or administrator, or of a sheriff, or other
officer acting as such, in favor of a ward, or of a devisee
or distributee, who was an infant when the bond was given,
shall notbe deemed to have accrued before the plaintid‘
attained the age of twenty-one years. Where there are
several wards secured by the same bond, or several devisees or distributees who, or some of ' whom, were infants
when the bond was given, the right of action of each one
of such infants shall not be deemed to have accrued before
he attained the age of twenty-one years.

§ 33. An action for relief, not hereinbefore provided for,
can onl be commenced within ten years afterthe cause of
action as accrued.

§ 34. The limitations prescribed in this chapter, shall
apply to actions brought y or in the name of the commonwealth, in the same manner as to actions by private persons.


§ 35. Where an action is commenced in a county in
which it is required or specially permitted, by this code, to
be brought, or where any other action is brought in the
county of the residence of the defendant, or of one of several proper defendants, every such action shall be deemed
to have been commenced at the date of the first summons
issued therein where it is served, or where, if it is not
served, such summons and successive summonses in the
action, regularly issued from term to term, are delivered to
the proper oflicer, and where the last of them is served, or
a warning order is regularly made in the action without
the intermission of a term. '

§ 36. In every other case, the action shall be deemed to
have been commenced at the date of the summons actually served upon the defendant, or one of several proper defendants, or at the date of the warning order regularly ob—
tained therein.

§ 37. If a person entitled to bring any action mentioned
in the third chapter of this title—exec t for a penalty or
forfeiture, or for an escape of a defcn ant arrested or imrisoned on civil process, or against bail, or an officer liale as bail—was. at the time the cause of action accrued,

an infant, married woman, or of unsound mind, the action
may be brought within the like number of years after the
removal of such disability, or the death of the person—
whichever happened first—that is allowed to a person having no such impediment, to bring the same after the right
accrued ; except that it shall, in no case, be brought after
fifteen years from the time the right accrued. This section
shall not apply to the slaves of infants.

§ 38. If a person dies before the time at which the right
to bring any action mentioned in the third chapter of this title would have accrued to him if he had continued alive,
and there is an interval of more than three years between
his death and the qualification of his personal representative, such representative shall. for the purposes of this title, be deemed to have qualified on; the last day of such
period of three years.

§ 39. If a person entitled to bring any action mentioned
in the third chapter of this title, dies before the expiration
of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the
cause of action survives, the action thereon may he brought
by his representative, after the expiration of that time, and
within one year from his death.

§ 40. If a ersbn, against whom any action mentioned
in the third chapter of this title may be brought, dies before
the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survives, an action may be
commenced against his personal representative, after the

expiration of that time, andwithin one year after the qualification of such representative; and if there is no personal representative, the action may be brought against his
heirs or devisces, or both, after the expiration of the time
limited for bringing the same, and within two years after
his death.

§ 41. No action against a personal representative, who
has settled his accounts, and distributed the estate of his
tostator or intestate, on any judgment or decree against
such testator or intestate, or on any contract made by him,
shall be brought, after the expiration of five years from the
qualification of such personal representative.

§ 42. No action upon a cause which accrued against a

deceased person in his lifetime, shall, where his estate has
been‘divided and distributed, be brought against his heirs
’ or devisees, separately, or jointly with his personal representative, after the expiration of seven years from his
death. .

§ 43. If, at the time any cause of action mentioned in
the third chapter of this title accrues against a resident of
this state, he is absent therefrom, the period limited for the
commencement of the action thereupon against him, shall
be computed from the time of his return to this state.

§ 44. Where a cause .of action mentioned in the third chapter of this title, accrues against a resident of this state,
and he, by departing therefrom, or by absconding or concealing himself, or by any other indirect means obstructs the
prosecution of the action, the time of the continuance of
such obstruction, shall not be computed as any part of the
period within which the action may be commenced. But
this section shall not avail against any other person than
him so obstructing, notwithstanding another might have
been jointly sued with him if there had been no obstruction.

§ 45. If an action is commenced within due time, and a
judgment therein for the plaintiff is reversed, the plaintiff,
or, if he dies and the cause of action survives, his representative, may commence a new action, within one year
after the reversal. ‘

§ 46. Where a plaintiff is an alien, and a subject or citizen of a country at war with the United States, the time of
the continuance of the war, is not part of the period limited for‘the commencement of the action.

§ 47. The time of the confinement of a plaintiff in the
penitentiary is not apart of the period limited for the com~
mencement of the action.

§ 48. Where the commencement of an action is stayed
by injunction, the time of the continuance of the injunction is not part of the period limited for the commencement
thereof. '

§ 49. No person can avail himself of a disability, in any

action mentioned in the third chapter of this title, unless it
existed when his right of action accrued.

§ 50. When two or more disabilitirs co-exist in the same
person at the time the right of action accrues, the limitation does not attach, until they are all removed.
§5l. After a mortgagee of real property, or any one
claiming under him, has had fifteen years’ continued possession thereof, no action shall be brought by the mortgagor, or any one claiming under him, to redeem it, unless,
in the meantime, the mortgagee, or person claiming under
him, in possession of the property, has made a written
acknowledgment of the right to redeem: in which case,
the action to redeem may be brought within fifteen years
from the time of such acknowledgment.
§ 52. The provisions of the last section shall apply, in
the case of .a mortgage of personal property, with the dif.
feronce that the period within which the action to redeem
may be brought, shall be'live years.
§ 53. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient
evidence of any new or continuing contract, by which to
take any case out of the limitations prescribed in this title,
unless the same is in writing, and signed by the party to
be charged thereby, or his agent. But no acknowledgment
or promise by a personal representative of a decedent, or
by one of several joint contractors, shall charge the estate
of such decedent, or any other of such joint contractors,
in any casein which, but for the promise or acknowledgment, the limitation would apply.
§ 54. Where, by the laws of any other state or country,
an action upon. a judgment or decree rendered in such
state or country, cannot be maintained there by reason of
the lapse of time, and such judgment or decree is incapable of being otherwise enforced there, an action upon the
same cannot be maintained in this state, except in favor
of a resident thereof who has had'the cause of action from
the time it accrued. And no action shall be brought, upon
a judgment or decree rendered out of this state more than
ten years before the commencementof such action, against
a person who has resided in this state ten years next preceding it.
§ 55. When a cause of action has arisen in another state
or country, between residents of such state or. country, and
by the laws thereof an action cannot be maintained thereon by reason of the lapse of time, no action can be maintained thereon in‘this state. .
§ 56. The provisions of this title shall not apply in the
following cases:
1. In the case‘of a continuing and subsisting trust.
2. To an action by a vendee of real property in
possession thereof to obtain a conveyance of it.

TITLE
PARTIES TO CIVIL ‘ACTIONB.

Parties to actions generally.
. Parties to certain actions. ‘ ,

Cur. l.
2
3. Married women.
4
5

. Infants.
. Persons of unsound mind, and prisoners.

Curran 1.
Parties to actions generally. '

§ 57. .Every action must‘be prosecuted in the name of the
real party in interest, except as provided in section sixty.

§ 58. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action,
the action by the assignee is without prejudice to any discount, set-off, or defense now allowed. And where the assignment is not authorized by statute, the assignor must be
a party, as plaintiff or defendant. This section does not
apply to bills of exchange, nor to promissory notes placed
upon the footing of bills of exchange, nor to common orders
or checks.

§ 59. Where the right of the plaintiff is transferred or assigned during the pendency of the action, it may be continued in his name, or the court may allow the' person to
whom the transfer or assignment is made, to be substituted
in the action, proper orders being made as to security for
the costs.

§ 60. An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of an
express trust, a person with whom, or in whose name, a
contract is made for the beneiit of another, or a person expressly authorized by statute to do so, may bring an action,
without joining with him the person for whose benefit it is
prosecuted.

§ 61. All persons having an interest in the subject of an
action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined
as plaintiffs, except where it is otherwise provided in this
code.

§ 62. Any person may be made a defendant, who has, or
claims, an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination and settlement of the question involved in the action.

§ 63. Of the parties to the action, those who are united
in interest, must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but
if the consent of one who should have been joined as plaintiff, cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the
reason being stated in the petition.

§ 64. Where the question is one of a common or general
interest of many persons, or where the parties are numerous and it is impracticable to bring them all before the
court within a reasonable time, one or more may sue, or

defend, for the benefit of all.

§ 65. Persons severally'liable upon the same contract,
including the parties to bills of exchange, and promissory
notes placed upon the footing of bills of exchange, common
orders and checks, and sureties on the same or separate instruments, may all, or any of them, or the representatives
of such as Iggy have died, be included in the same action,
at the plain ' s option.

§ 66. Where two or more persons are jointly bound by
contract, the action thereon may be brought against all or
any of them. at the plaintiff’s option. Where any of the
persons so bound, are dead, the action may be brought
against any or all of the survivors with the representatives
of all or any of the decedents, or against the latter, or any
of them. Where all the persons so bound are dead, the
action may be brought against the representatives of all,
or of any of them. An action or judgment against any
one or more of several persons jointly bound, shall not be a
bar to proceedings against the others.

§ 67. The court may determine any controversy between parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights. But

when a determination of the controversy between the par- ‘

ties before the court, cannot be made without the presence
of other parties, the court must order them to be brought in.
§ 68. here, in an action for the recovery of real or personal property, any person having an interest in the proper- .
ty, applies to be made a party, the court may order it to be .

done. .

§ 69. Upon allidavit of a defendant before answer, in

any action upon contract or for the recovery of personal ;
property, that some third party,without collusion with him, 1

as or. makes a claim to the subject of the action, and that
he is ready to pay or dispose thereof as the court may direct, the court may make an order for the safe keeping, or
for the payment, or deposit in court, or delivery of the sub. ject of the action to such person as it may direct, and an
order requiring such third party to appear in a reasonable
time and maintain or relinquish his claim against the defendent, and, in the meantime, stay the proceedings. If
such third party, being served with a copy of the order,
fails to appear, the court may declare him barred of all
claim in respect to the subject of the action,’ against the
defendent therein. If such third party appears, he shall
be allowed to make himself defendant in the action, in lieu
of the original defendant, who shall be discharged from all
liability to either of the other parties in respect to the subject of the action, upon his compliance with the order of
the court for the payment, deposit, or delivery thereof.

§ 70. The provisions of the last section shall he applicable to an action brought against a sheriff, or other oflicer,
for the recovery of personal property taken by him under
an execution or distress warrant, or for the proceeds of such
property so taken, and sold by him. And the defendant in
any such action, shall be entitled to the benefit of those provisions against the party in whose favor the execution or
distress warrant issued, upon exhibiting to the court the
process under which he acted, with his affidavit that the
property, for the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the‘ac‘tion is brought, was taken under such process.

§ 71. In an action against a sheriff, or other ofiioer, for
the recovery of property taken under an execution or distress warrant, the court may, upon the application of the
defendant, and of the party in whose favor the execution
or distress warrant issued, permit the latter to be substituted as the defendant, security for the costs being given.

§ 72. An action to recover the possession of specific personal property taken under a distress warrant, where it is
brought by the tenant, or his assignee or undertenant, may
be against the party who sued out the warrant; and the
property claimed in such action may, under the order for its
delivery, be taken from the oflicer who seized it, where he
has no other claim to hold it than that derived from the
warrant. The indorsement of a levy on the property, made
upon the warrant by the officer holding it, shall be a suflicient takingof the property, to sustain the action against
the party who sued out the warrant.

§ 73. An action to enforce the liability of a steamboat,
or other vessel, for the removal of a slave, or to enforce a
lien upon a steamboat for the wages of its officers or crew,
or for work done upon, or materials,supplies, stores, or provisions furnished to such boat, or the liability thereof for an
injury to another boat or craft, or for a trespass of its officers or crew, and in which no relief is sought beyond the
subjection of the boat or vessel to the satisfaction of the
plaintiff’s claim, may be brought against the owners thereof without naming them, or they may be named and summoned as other defendants. An owner, or part owner, or
person having claim or title to the boat or vessel, whether
named as a defendant in the petition, and summoned, or
not, may appear and make defense in the action, where it
satisfactorily appears by his affidavit that he is an owner,
or part owner, or has a claim or title to the boat, the nature
and extent of which must be stated. ‘

§ 74. An action to enforce a lien upon a steamboat,may
be broughtjointly by several persons‘having distinct claims
for work, materials, stores,provisions, or supplies. In such
cases, the statement in the petition of the claim of every

plaintiff, and‘ the verification thereof, must be separately
made.

§ 75. In an action to enforce a lien, by statute, upon a
steamboat for wages, work, materials, stores, or supplies,
other persons having claims for any of these things, shall,
upon exhibiting the same to the court by petition verified
by affidavit, be made parties. CHAPTER 3.
Illarricd women .

§ 76. Where a married woman is a party, her husband
must be joined with her, except that, where the action con~
cerns her separate property, she may sue alone ; and, where
the action is between herself and her husband, she may
sue, or be sued, alone. ‘

§ 77. If a husband and wife are sued together, the wife
my defend for her own right; and if the husband neglects
to defend, forhis also. ,

§ 78. Where a husband being a father, has deserted his
family, the wife being a mother, may prosecute or defend,
in his name, any action which he might have prosecuted or
defended, and shall have the same powers and rights therein as he might have had.

§ 79. Where a female party to an action marries, the
fact being stated upon the record, the husband may be
made a party with his wife, and the action shall proceed.

§ 80. The action of an infant must be brought by his
guardian, or his next friend. Any person may bring the
action of an infant, as his next friend; but. the court has
power to dismiss it, if it is not for the benefit of the infant,
or to substitute the guardian of the infant, or another person, as the next friend.

§ 81. The guardian, or next friend, is liable for'the' costs
of the action brought by him, and, where he is insolvent,
the court may require him to give security for them. Either
may be a witness in an action brought by him, after he has
deposited in court a sum which the judge may deem sufficient to cover the costs, or, where the action is by a next
friend, after the substitution of another solvent person as
next friend, and an order of the court, with the consent of
such person,that he shall be liable for all the costs of the
action.

§ 82. The defense of an infant must be by his regular
guardian, or by a guardian appointed to defend for him,
where .no regular guardian appears, or where the court directs a defense by a guardian appointed for that purpose.
No judgment can be rendered against an infant, until after
a defense by a guardian.

§ 83. The guardian to defend shall be appointed by the
court, or- by the judge thereof. The appointment cannot
be made, until after service of the summons in the action

as directed in this code. No party, or attorney in an ac‘ tion, can be appointed guardian to defend therein, for an
infant, or person of unsound mind.
§ 84. The appointment may be made upon the application of the infant, if he is of the age of fourteen years, and
applies at or before the term to which the summons is
served. If he is under the age of fourteen years, or does
not so apply, the appointment may be made upon the applicationlof any friend of the infant, or on that of the plaintiff in the action. 1 '
CHAPTER 5.
Persons of unsound mind, and prisoners.

§ 85. The action of a person judicially found to be of
unsound mind, must be brought by hisncnmmittee, or, if he
has none, by his next friend When brought by his next
friend, the action is subject to the power of the court, in
the same manner as the action of an infant so brought.

§ 86. The committee, or next friend. is liable for the
costs, and, where he is insolvent, may be required to give
security for them. Either may be rendered a competent
witness in an action brought by him, in the manner provided in respect to the guardian, or next friend, of an infant.

§ 87. The defense of an action against a person judicially found to be of unsound mind, must be by his committee,
or a guardian appointed by the court to defend for him,
where no committee appears, or where the court directs a
defense by a guardian. No judgment can be rendered
against him, until after a defense by his committee, or by
a guardian appointedfor that purpose. No appointment
can be made, until after service of the summons as directed in this code. §88. The guardian to defend may be appointed on the
application of any friend of the defendant, or on that of
the plaintiff.

§ 89. Where a party is judicially found to be of unsound
mind during the pendency of an action, the fact being stated on the record, if he is plaintiff, his committee may be
joined with him in the action, as such. If he is defendant,
the plaintiff may, upon ten days’ notice thereof to his committee, have an order making the committee a defendant
also.

§ 90. No judgment can be rendered against a prisoner in
the penitentiary, until after a defense made for him by his
attorney, or, if there is none, by a person appointed by the
court to defend for him.

§ 91. A guardian, or attorney, appointed on the application of the plaintiff, to defend for an infant, person of un- .
sound mind, or prisoner, shall be allowed a reasonable fee
for his services, to be paid by the plaintiff, and taxed in.

the costs.

TITLE 
COMMEN CEMENT OF A CIVIL ACTION.

Cur. l. Manner of mating an action.
2. Service of swans.

CHAPTER 1.
JIanncr of commencing an action._

§ 92. A civil action is commenced by filing, in the oflice
of the clerk of the pr0per court, a petition, and causing a
summons to be issued thereon.

§ 93. The summons shall be directed to the sheriff of the
county, or, at the request of the plaintiff, to the jailer, coroner, or a constable, and command him to summon the defendant or defendants named. therein, to answer the petition
filed by the plaintiff, giving his name, at a time stated
therein, under the penalty of the petition being taken for
confessed, or of the defendant being proceeded against for
contempt of court on his failure to do so. The summons
shall be dated the day it is issued, and signed by the clerk.

§ 94. A summons shall be issued at any time, to any
county, against any one or more of the defendants, at the
plaintiff’s request. But a summons not served, shall not be
taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the court.

§ 95. With every summons, the clerk shall issue as many
copies thereof as there are defendants named therein, unless otherwise ordered by the plaintiff.

§ 96. In actions by ordinary proceedings, the time fixed
in the summons, for the defendant to answer, shall be the
day the summons is returnable; in actions by equitable
proceedings, it shall be twenty days after the service of the
ominous.

§ 97. The summons shall be made returnable to the first
day of the next term of the. court, unless that term begins
within ten days from the date of the summons, when it
shall be returnable to the first day of the term following.

§ 98. The summons and copies shall be delivered to the
sheriff, or other officer authorized to execute it.

§99. It shall be the duty of the Sheriff, or one of his depy
uties, to attend at the clerk’s office daily, (Sundays except~
ed,) to receive any process that may be issued, and the
clerk shall deliver to him any process remaining in his ofties.

CHAPTER 2.
Service of summons.

Aartcut 1. Actual service.
‘2. Constructive service.

_ ARTICLE l.
Actual service.

§ 100. The summons may be served

1. By the officer to whom it is dineeted, or'any otii~
cer to whom it might have been directed, whose return
thereon shall be proof of the time and manner of serVice.

2. By any person appointed by the officer to whom
the same is directed, by an indorsement on the summons, whose affidavit indorsed thereon shall be proof
of the time and manner of service. ,

§ 101. The service shall be by delivering to the defendant a copy of the summons. If he refuses to receive it,
the offer of it to him shall be a sufiicient service.

§ 102. In all cases of the return of service upon a summans by an officer, the return must state the time of the
service, and that a copy was delivered to or offered and
refused by the defendant. And if a return of service is
defective in these respects, the officer may be fined by the
court. not exceeding ten dollars, and shall be liable to the
action of any person aggrieved by such defect. But the
court may permit an amendment, according to the truth of
the case. . ' ‘

§ 103. Service may be acknowledged by the defendant,
by an indorsement upon the summons, signed and dated by
him, and attested by a witness. The afiidavit of the witness shall he proof of the service. I

§ 104. Where the defendant is a corporation created by
the laws of this state, the service of the summons may be
upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of trustees, or other chief officer; or, if its chief officeris not
found in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary,
clerk, or managing agent; or, if it is a municipal corporation, upon its marshal; or, if it is an incorporated library
company, upon its librarian.

§ 105. Where the defendant is an’ incorporated bank, and
the action is in a county in which there is a branch thereof, the service may be upon the president or cashier of that
branch. ‘

§ 106. Where the defendant is an incorporated insurance
, company, and the action is in a county in which there is
‘ an agency thereof, the service may be upon the chief ofii~
cer of such agency. ' '

§ 107. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation hav‘ ing an agent in this state, the service may be upon such

agent.

§ 108. Where the defendant is an infant under the age
of fourteen years, the service must be upon him and upon
his father or. guardian; or, if neither of these can be found,
then upon his mother or any white person havingthe care
or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. Where
the infant is over fourteen years of age, service on him
shall be sutlicient. 
§ 109. Where the defendant is a person judicially’foun
to be of unsound mind, the service must be Upon him and
upon his committee; if there is no committee, upon his
wife, or the person having the care of him or with whom
he lives, or the keeper of the asylum in which he" may be
condned.
§ 110. Where the defendant is a prisoner in the penitentiary, a copy of the petition ‘must accompany the sum:
mom, and the service must be upon the keeper of the penitentiary, who shall deliver the copies of the petition and
summons to the defendant. And’a copy of the summons
must also he delivered to the wife of the prisoner, or, if he
has no wife, left at the place where he resided, or claimed
to reside, prior to his confinement, with some white person
of the age of sixteen years.’ 7
§ 111. Where the defendant is a community of shakers
holding property in common, the service must be by posting a copy of the summons at the door of its meeting home,
and by delivering a copy thereof to some member of the
Communit 
§ 112. Where the actionis brought against the owners of
a steamboat without naming them, to subject the boat to a
liability by statute, the service must be upon the master,
clerk, pilot, or other officer having, charge of the boat, or
by posting a copy of the summons in a conspiCUOUS place
on the boat. ' ‘
§ 113. Where a defendant is out of this state, the plain- ,
tifl' may take a copy of the petition certified by the clerk,
with a summons annexed thereto, warning such defendant
to appear and answer the petition within sixty days after
the same shall have been served on him, and cause a copy
thereof to be delivered to such defendant anywhere in the
United States by some person to whom he is personally
known. Proof of the delivery shall be made by the aiiidavit of the person making it, indorsed on or annexed to
the certified copy and summons, in which the time and
place of the ‘delivery and the fact that the defendant was
personally known to the ailiant, shall be stated. The othcer before whom the affidavit is made,shall certify that the
alliant is personally known by him to be worthy of credit.
§ 114. The certified copy and summons, with the affidavit and certificate as provided in’ the last section, being re- ,
turned and tiled in the action, shall be deemed an actual
service of the summons in due time for trial at the first
term commencing not less than sixty days after such service.

ARTICLE 2.
Constructive service.

§ 115. Where it ap ears by the affidavit of the plaintiff,
filed in the clerk’s 0 cc at or after the commencement of
the action, that the defendant is
l. A foreign corporation having no agent in this
state, or '
2. A non-resident of this state, or
3. Has departed from this state with intent to delay
or defraud his creditors, or
4. Has been absent from this state four months, or
5. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the
service of a summons, or ~
‘ 6. Conceals himself so that a summons cannot be
served upon him, or
Where either of the last two mentioned facts is stated in the return, by the proper oflicer, of a summons
against the defendant, the clerk shall make upon the
petition an order warning such defendant to appear in
the action on the first day of the next term of the
court, which does not commence within sixty days of
the time of making the order.
§ 116. Where, in an action against the heirs of a deceased person as unknown heirs, or against other persons
made defendants as unknown owners of any property to
be divided or disposed of in the action, it appears by the
petition that the names of such' heirs or of any of them, or
of such other persons, are unknown to the plaintiff, a warning order, as directed _in the last section, shall be made by
the clerk against such unknown heirs or owners.
§ 117. A defendant against whom a warning order has,
been made, shall be deemed to have been constructively
summoned on the thirtieth day after the making of the order, and the action may proceed accordingly.
§ 118. The plaintiff may, at any time before judgment,
have a summons served on the defendant, if found in this
state, although a warning order may have been previously
entered against him; and after such service, the case shall
proceed as in other cases of actual service.

 

TITLE
THE COUNTY IN WHICH AN ACTION MAY BE BROUGHT.

§ 119. Actions for the following causes, must be brought
in the county in which the subject of the action, or some
part thereof, is situated :
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate
or interest therein.
2. For the partition of real property.

3. Far the sale of real property under a mortgage,
lien, or other incumbrance or charge.

4. For an injury to real property.

§ 120. Actions for the following causes, must be brought
in the county where the‘ cause, or some part thereof,
arose:

1. An action for the recovery of a fine, penalty, or
forfeiture imposed by a statute; except that, where
the offense, for which the claim is made, was committed on a water course or road which is the boundary
of two counties, the action may be brought in either
of them. .

2. An action against a public .oiiicer for. an act
done by him in virtue or under color of his oflice, or
for a neglect of oflicial duty. ‘

3. Anaction upon the official bond, of a public
officer. ' ‘

§ 121. Anaction to establish or set aside a will, must be
brOught in the county in which the will, if valid, ought,
according to law, to be recorded.

§ 122. An action to settle the estate of a deceased person, must be brought in the county in which his personal

representative was, qualified. I
§ 123. An action for the distribution of the estate of a

deceased person. or for its partition among his heirs, or for
the sale of real pro erty or slaves descended-from him,
must be brought in t e county in which his personal representative was qualified.

§ 124. An action by a ward against his guardian for a
settlement of his accounts, for additional security, or for
his removal, must be brought in the county in which the
guardian was qualified. ‘ .

§ 125. An action against the commissioners of the sinking fund, or against the board of education, and the board
of internal improvement of this state, must be brought in
the county that includes the seat of government. '

§ 126. An action, other than one of those mentioned in sections one hundred and nineteen and twenty, against a
person confined in the penitentiary or a lunatic asylum,
must be brought in the county in which he resided, or

claimed his residence, prior to his confinement.
§ 127. An action, other than one of those mentioned in sections one hundred and, nineteen and twenty, against a
corporation created by the laws of this state, may be
brought in the county in which it is situated or has its
principal office or place of business, or in which its chief
oiiicer resides; but if such corporation is a bank or in-.
surance company, the action may be brought in the county
in which there is a branch of the bank, or agency of the
company, where it arises out of a transaction of suchbranch or agency.

§ 128. An action against a railroad company, or an
owner of a line of mail stages or other coaches, for transporting a slave as a passenger, or for an injury to person
or property upon the road or line of stages or coaches of
the defendant, or upon a liability as a carrier, may be
brought in any county through or into which the reader
line of stages or coaches of the defendant, upon which the
cause of action arose, passes.

§ 129. An action, other than one of those mentioned in sections one hundred and nineteen and twenty, againsta
turnpike road company, may be brought in any county in
which any‘part of the road of the defendant lies.

§ 130. An action to subject a steamboat or other vessel,
upon a liability by statute, for the removal of a slave, or
for an injury to another boat or craft, or for a trespass of
its officers or crew, or to enforce a lien upon a steamboat
for the wages of its oflicers or crew, or for work,materials,
or supplies, may be brought in any county in which such
boat or vessel may be found. .

§ 131. An action, other than one of those mentioned in sections one hundred and nineteen and twenty, against a
non-resident of this state, or a foreign corporation, may be
brought in any county in which there may be property of
or debts owing to the defendant.

§ 132. Ever other action may be brought in any county
in which the efendant, or one of several defendants, resides, or is summoned. .

§ 133. Where any action embraced in the last section is
against a single defendant, the plaintiff shall not be entitied to judgment against him, on the service of a summons
in any other county than that in which the action is brought,
unless he resided in that county at the commencement of
the action, or unless, having appeared therein, he fails to
object, before the trial, to its proceeding against him.

§ 134. \Vhere any action embraced in section one hundred and thirty-two, is against several defendants, the
plaintiff shall not be entitled to judgment against any of
them, on the service of a summons in any other county
than that in which the action is brought, where no one of
the defendants is summoned in that county, or resided
therein at the commencement of the action, or where, if
any of them resided or were summoned in that county, the
action is discontinued or dismissed as to them, or judgment therein‘is rendered in their favor; unless the defendant summoned in another county, having appeared in the
action, failed to object, before the judgment, to its proceeding against him.

§ 135. The objection that one of several defendants was
summoned in another county, if he appears, shall be deemed to be waived, unless it is made before judgment as to

him.

§ l36. If, after the commencement of an action in the
county of the defendant’s residence, he removes therefrom,
the service of a summons upon him, in any other county,
shall have the same effect as if it had been made in the
county from which he removed. ‘

 

TITLE
JOINDER OF ACTIONS.

§ 137. Several causes of action may be united in the
same petition, where each affects all the parties to the
action, may be brought in the same county, be prosecuted
by the same kind of proceedings, and all belong to only
one of the following classes: .

1. Claims arising out of contract, express or im»
plied. .
2. Claims for the recovery of specific real property,

and the rents, profits, and damages for withholding the
same.

3. Claims for the recovery of specific personal
property, and damages for the taking or withholding
the same.

4. Claims for partition of real or personal property, or both. ,

5. Claims arising from injuries to character.

6. Claims arising from injuries to person and property. ,

7. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a cOntract,
or by operation of law.

§ 138. The plaintiff may strike from his petition any
cause of action, at any time before the final submission of
the case.to the jury, or to the court where the trial is 'by
the court. ‘

§ 139. The court, at any time before the defense, shall,
on motion of' the defendant, strike out of the petition any
cause or causes of action improperly joined with others.

§ 140. All objections to the misjoinder of causes of action,
shall be deemed to be waived, unless made as provided in
the last section; and all errors in the decisions of the court
thereon are waived, unless excepted to at the time.

TITLE
PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS. '

The pleadings in general.
The petition.

The demurrer.

The answer.

The reply.

Time of pleading.

General rules of pleading.
Mistakes and amendments.
9. Interrogatories.

Gnu.

PSPP‘FS‘PT‘

CHAPTER 1.
Pleadings in general.

§ 141. The pleadings are the written statements, by the
parties, of the facts constituting their respective claims and
defenses. '
§ 142. The forms of pleadings in civil actions and suits,
heretofore existing, are abolished ; and hereafter, the forms
of pleadings in civil actions, and the rules by which their
sufliciency is to be determined, are those prescribed in this
code.
§ 143. The only pleadings allowed, are
l. The petition by the plaintiff.
2. The demurrer, or answer, by the defendant.
3. The demurrer, or reply, by the plaintiff.

§ 144. The first pleading by the plaintiff, is the petition.
The petition must contain

1. The style of the court in which the action is
brought.

‘ 2. The style of the action, consisting of the names
of all the parties thereto, distinguishing them as plaintiffs and defendants, followed by the word “petition,”
if the proceedings are ordinary, and by the words “petition in equity,” if the'proceedings are equitable.

3. A statement in ordinary and concise language,
without repetition, of the facts constituting the plain-‘
tili"s cause of action.

4. A demand of the relief to which the plaintili‘ considers himself entitled.

§ 145. Where the etition contains more than one cause
of action, each shall 6 distinctly stated in aseparate paragraph, and numbered.

CHAPTER 3 ..
The demurrer.

§ 146. The defendant may dcmur to the petition, where
it appears on its face, either
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person
of the defendant, or the subject of the action; or

2. That'the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue; or

3. That there is another action pending between the
same parties, for the same canse; or

4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant; or '

5. That the petition does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.‘

§ 147. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds
of objection to the petition; unless it does so, it shall be regarded as objecting only that the petition does not state
facts suflicient to constitute a cause of action.

§ 148. If the court sustains the demurrer, the plaintiff
may amend, with or without costs, as the court may order.

§ 149. When any of the matters enumerated in section
one hundred and forty-six, do not appear upon the face ‘of
the petition, the objection may be taken by answer. If no
such objection is taken either by demurrer or answer, the
defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, except only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court over
the subject of the action, and the objection that the petition
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

§ 150. The defendant may demur to one or more of the
several causes of action alledged in the petition, and answer as to the residue. ’

CHAPTER 4.
The answer.

§ 151. The answer'shall contain

1. The style of the court and the style of the action,
followed by the word “answer.” But where there are
several plaintiffs and defendants, it shall only be necessary to give the one first named of each class with
the words “and others.” ' ‘

2. A denial (if each allegation of the petition controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or
information thereof sufficient to form a belief.

3. A statement of any new matter constituting a
defense, counter-claim, or set-off, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition. , p

4. The defendant may set forth in his answer as
many grounds of defense, counter-claim, and set-OE,
whether legal or equitable, as he shall have. Each
shall be distinctly stated in a separate paragraph, and
numbered. The several defenses must refer to the
causes of action which they are intended to answer,
in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished. '

§ 152. The counterclaim mentioned in this chapter must
be a cause of action in favor of the defendants, or some
of them, against the plaintiffs, or some of them, arising

out of the contract or transactions set forth in the petition,
as the foundation of the plaintiff ’s claim, .or connected
with the subject of the action. ,

§ 153. When it appears that a new party is necessary
to a final decision upon the counter-claim, the court may
either permit the new party to be made, by a summons, to
reply to the counter-claim in the answer, or may direct that
it be stricken out of the answer, and made the subject of
a separate action. § 154. A set-off can only he pleaded in an action founded on contract, and must be a cause of action arising upon contract, or ascertained by the decision of a court.

§ 155. Where it appears that a new party is necessary
to a final decision upon the set-off, the court shall permit
the new party to be made, if it also appears that, owing to
the insolvency or non-residence of the laintiff, or other
cause, the defendant will be in danger ofP losing his claim
unless permitted to use it as a setooff.

§ 156. Where the facts stated in answer are not sullicient
to constitute a defense, counter-claim, or set-off, the plaintiff may demur.

§ 157. It shall be the duty of the guardian of an infant,
or committee of a person of unsound mind, or attorney appointed for a prisoner, to tile an answer denying the material allegations of the petition prejudicial to such defendant.
CHAPTER 5.

The reply.

§ 158. There shall be no reply, except upon the allegation of a counter-claim or set-off in the answer.

§ 159. When the answer contains new matter constituting a counter-claim or set-off, the plaintiff may reply to
such new matter, denying each allegation controverted by
him, or any knowledge or information thereof suflicient to
form a belief, and may alledge in concise language any
new matter not inconsistent with the petition, constituting
a defense to the counter-claim or set-off.

§ 160. Where the facts stated in the reply do not amount
to a snflicient defense, the defendant may demur.

§ 161. The defense to an action proaecuted by ordinary
proceedings, must be filed on the day of the term on which
the case is set for trial——

1. Where the sumlnons has been served ten days
before the commencement of the term, in the county in
which the action is brought, or in an adjoining county ;

2. Where it has been served twenty days. elsewhere
in the state, or sixty days out of the state; or 3. Where the defendant has been Constructiver
summoned thirty days. .
§ 162. The reply shall be filed on or before the calling of
the cause for trial. ‘ .
§ 163. In an action prosecuted by equitable proceedings,
the defense must be filed on the third day of the term—

1. Where the summons has been served twenty
days before the commencement of the term, in the
county in which the action is brought, or an adjoining
county;

2. Where it has been served thirty days, elsewhere
in the state, or sixty days out of the state ; or

3. Where the defendant has been constructively
summoned thirty days. ‘1

§ 164. Where the service of the summons was before the,
commencement of the term, but not the length of the time
mentioned in the last section, the defense shall be filed i
thirty days after the service. '

§ 165. If the answer, in equitable proceedings, contains
a counter-claim or set-off, the plaintiff shall reply within
twenty days after the answer is filed, or ninety days before
the ensuing term. i ‘ ' l ‘

§ 166. The court may, for good cause shown, extend the
time for filing an answer or reply, to some subsequent day
in that or the next succeeding term; the party applying for
the delay paying the costs occasioned thereby; '

§ 167. The filing of an answer or reply in the clerk’s office in vacation, within the time allowed, with notice thereof to the opposite party, or his attorney, shall be equivalent
to a filing in ecurt. ' - '

CHAPTER 7. General rules of  , ‘

§ 168. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party,
or his attorney, and the etition, answer, and reply must
each be verified by the a davit of the party, to the effect
that he believes the statements thereof to be true. No
pleading verified as herein required, shall be used against
the party, in any criminal prosecution, or action, or proceeding fora penalty or fdrfeiture, as proof of a fact admitted or alledged in such pleading; and such verification
shall not make other or greater proof necessary on the side
of the adverse party. .

§ 169. The_veritication by afiidavit mentioned in the last section, shall not be required to the answer of a guardian
or committee defending for an infant, or erson of unsound
mind or imprisoned: nor in any case w ere the admission
of the truth of the allegations of the petition or answer
might subject the arty to a criminal or penal prosecution;
not to pleadings a ecting injuries to person or character. °

§ 170 Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of which
judicial notice is taken, need be stated in a pleading.

§ 171. If the action, counter-claim, or set-oti', is founded
on a note, bond, bill, or other writing, as evidence of indebtedness, it must be filed as a part of the pleading, if in
the power of the party to produce it. If not tiled, the reason thereof must be stated in the pleading. .If upon an account, a copy thereof must, in, like manner, be filed with
the pleading.

§ 172. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally
construed, with a view to substantial justice between the

parties. ' .

§ 173. If irrelevant or redundant matter is inserted in a
pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person
aggrieved thereby, at the cost of the party whose pleading

contained it. I .

§ 174. In pleading a judgment, or other determination,
of a court or odicer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be
necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such
judgmentor determination may be stated to have been duly
given or made. If such allegation is made in a petition,
and is not controverted in the answer, or made in the answer in relation to a counter-claim or setootf, and is not
controverted in the reply, it need not be proved on the trial.

§ 175. In pleading the performance of a condition precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts showing such performance, but it may be stated, generally, that the party duly perlormed all the conditions on
his part; and if such allegation is not controverted as stated
in t e last section in regard to judgments, it shall not be
necessary to prove it on trial.

§ 176. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be
necessary to state in the petition any extrinsic facts, for the

_ purpose of showing the application to the plaintiff of the
defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose;
but it shall be sudicient to state, generally, that the same
was published or spoken concerning the plaintiff; and if
such allegation is not coutroverted as stated in section one
hundred and seventy-four in regard to judgments, it shall
not be necessary to prove it on the trial.

§ 177. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the
defendant may, in his answer, alledge both the truth of the
matter charged as defamatory and any mitigating "cir‘ cumstances legally admissible in evidence,'to reduce the
amount of damages; and whether he proves the justitication or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances. . ‘ ,

§ 178. In an action for the recovery of real property, it
must be described in the Ipetition with such convenient certainty, as to enable an o cer holding an execution to identify it.

§ 179. Every material allegation of the petition not specifically controverted by the answer, and every material
allegation of new matter in the answer, constituting a
counter-claim or set-03', not specifically controverted by the
reply, must, for the purposes of the action, be taken as
true. But the allegation of new matter in the answer, not
relating to a counter-claim or set-off, or of new matter in
a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the adverse party
as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case may require. Allegations of value, or of amount of damage,
shall not be considered as true, by the failure to controvert
them. ~

§ 180. A material allegation in a pleading, is one essential to the claim or defense, and which could not be stricken
from the pleading without leaving it insuflicient.

§ 181. If either party shall rely upon any deed, or other
writing, he shall file with his pleading the original deed or
writing, if in his power. If he cannot produce such deed
or \vriting,‘he shall so state in his pleading, together with
the reasons therefor; and if such reasons are sufficient, he
may file the best evidence of the contents of such deed or
writing in his power. Original deeds, and other writings,
filed by either party as above provided, shall remain on file
for the inspection of the other party, until allowed by the
court to be withdrawn; and in such case, copies, attested
by the clerk, shall be substituted by the party withdrawing
the originals. .

CHAPTER 8. .
Mistakes in pleading, and amendments.

§ 182. No variance between the allegation in a pleading
and the proof, is to be deemed material, unless it has actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. Whenever it is
alledged that aparty has been so misled, that fact must be
shown to the satisfaction of the court, and it must also be
shown in what respect he has been misled ; and, thereupon,
the court may order the pleading to be amended, upon such
terms as may be just.

§ 183. Where the variance is not material as provided
in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found
according to the evidence, and maygorder an immediate
amendment without costs. _

§ 184. Where, however, the allegation of the claim or defense to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in
some particular or particulars only, but in its general scope
and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of variance
within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

§ 185. The plaintiff may amend his petition without
leave, at any time before an answer is tiled, and without
prejudice to the proceedings already had.

§ 186. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party demurring may answer or reply.

§ 187. The court may, at any time, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any
, pleading or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name
- of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
' party, or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting
other allegations material to the case, or, when the amendment does not change substantially the claim or defense,
by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts
proved. The court may likewise, in its discretion, allow
an answer or reply to be made, after the time limited by
this code, or, by an order, enlarge such time. And whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails to conform in
any respect to the provisions of this code, the court may
permit an amendment of such proceeding, so as to make it
conformable thereto. And when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of
the claim or defense is not apparent, the court may require
the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment. The court must, in every stage of an action, disregard any error or defect in the proceedings which does not
affect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no
judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such

error or defect.
§ 188. The plaintiff and defendant, respectively, may be

allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint,
answer, or reply, alledging facts material to the case, occurring after the filing of the former petition, answer, or
re ly.

§ 189. 'When either party shall amend any pleading or
proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied, by aflidavit or
otherwise, that the adverse party could not be ready for
trial in consequence thereof, a continuance may be granted
to some day in the same term, or to another term of the

court.
CHAPTER 9.

Interrogatarics.

§ 190. In actions by equitable proceedings, either party'
may annex to his petition, answer, or reply, written interrogatories to any one or more of the adverse parties; concerning any of the material matters in issue in the action.
The answers to which, on oath, may be read by either
party, as a deposition between the party interrogating and

the party answering. .
§ 191. The party answering shall not be confined to responding merely to the interrogatories, but may state any
new matter concerning the same cause of action, which

shall likeWise be read as a deposition.

§ 192. Where the interrogatoriea are annexed to the
petition, they shall be answered at the same time the party is required to answer the petition; where annexed to the
answer or reply, then in twenty days after notice shall be
given thereof to the adverse party or his attorney; but if
answered twenty days before the term at which the action
stands regularly for trial, the action shall not be postponed
on account of their not being sooner answered.
§ 193. In actions by ordinary proceedings, either'party
may, in like manner, annex written interrogatories to any
one or more of the adverse parties to his petition, answer,
or reply, concerning any material matter in issue in the
action, in the following cases:
1. Where the party interrogated'does not reside in
the same or an adjoining county. '
2. Where the party interrogated is unable to attend
court on account of age, infirmity, or imprisonment,
or is a female. .
§ 194. Where the interrogatories, in an action by ordinary proceedings, are annexed to the petition, they shall
be answered at the same time the petition is required to be
answered; where annexed to the answer or reply, at or
before the calling of the cause for trial, where the party
interrogated had reasonable notice of their being filled.
§195. The trial of an action by ordinary proceedings,
shall not be postponed on account of the failure to answer
the interrogatories, if the party interrogated is present in
court at the trial, so that he may be orally examined; nor,
in case of his absence, without an atlidavit showing the
facts the party believes will be proved by the answers
thereto, and that the party has not filed the interrogatories, nor omitted to file them, for the purpose of delay.
Whereupon, if the party will consent that the facts stated
in the affidavit shall be considered as admitted by those
interrogated, the trial shall not be postponed for that cause.
§ 196. The provisions insection one hundred and ninetyone shall apply to the answers to interrogatories in actions
by ordinary proceedings.
§ 197. The party, in answering such interrogatories, shall
distinguish clearlylbetween what is stated from his personal knowledge, and what is stated from information or belief
merely. An unqualified statement of a fact, 'shall be considered as made of his personal knowledge.
§ 198. The answers to the’interrogatories shall be ver-‘
ified by the affidavit of the party answering, to the effect
that the statements in them made of his own personal
knowledge are true, and. those made from the information
of others, he believes to be true.
§ 199. When the party resides in the same or an adjoining county, he may be summoned by the adverse party, and
compelled to testify on the trial of an action by ordinar
proceedings, as any other witness. . .

TITLE VIIIPROVISIONAL REMEDIES.
Can. 1. Arrest and bail.

.‘2. Claim and delivery ofpernonal property.
3. Attachment. ’
4. Injunction.
5. Receirers.
6. Deposit in court.
Cnsrrsa l.

Arrest and bail.

Am. 1. When and how an order of arrest may be obtained.
2. Proceedings upon an order of arrest.
3. Liability and discharge of bail, and qf dicer.
4. Motion to vacate an order of arrest.

ARTICLE I.

When and how an order of arrest may be oblaim‘d.

§ 200. A defendant in a civil action, can be arrested and
held to bail, only upon the conditions and in the manner
prescribed in this chapter. .

§ 201. An order for the arrest of the defendant, shall be
made by the clerk of the court in which the action is
brought, at its commencement or at any time before judgment, when there is filed in his odice an affidavit of the
plaintiff, showing

1. The nature of the plaintiff ‘3 claim..

2. That it is just.

3. The amount or value, which the afliant believes
the plaintiff ought to recover.

4. That the afliant believes, either that the defendant is about to depart from this state, and, with intent
to defraud his creditors, has concealed, or removed
from this state, his property, or so much thereof, that
the process of the court after judgment cannot be executed ; or that the defendant has money, or securities
for money, or evidences of debt, in the possession of
himself, or of others for his use, and is about to depart
from this state, without leaving property therein sufli* cient to satisfy the plaintiff’s claim.

§ 202. The order of arrest shall not be issued by the
clerk, until there has been executed in his office by one or
t more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, a bond to the effect

that the plaintiff shall pay to the defendant all damages
which he. may sustain by reason of the arrest, if the order
is wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount
of the plaintiff ’s claim stated in the affidavit.

§ 203. The order of arrest shall be addressed and delivered, with a copy thereof, to the sheriff. It shall state the
names of the parties to the action, the court in which the
action is brdugbt, and the amount of the plaintiff ’s claim
specified in the affidavit, and shall-require the sheriff to
arrest the defendant andhold him to bail in the sum of the

plaintiff ’8 claim, with the probable costs of the action, not
exceeding twenty-five dollars, and to make return of the
order on a day to be named therein, with the 'bail bond, if
any is taken.

§ 204. The return day of the order of arrest, when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the same
as that of the summons; when issued afterwards, it may
be another day in term, at the option of the plaintiff.

ARTICLE II. '

Proceedings upon an order of arrest.

§ 205. The sheriff shall execute the order of arrest, by
arresting the defendant and delivering to him a copy
thereof. '
§ 206. The defendant, when arrested, shall be committed
by the sheriff to the jail of ' his county, a copy of the order
of arrest being delivered to the jailer; and, unless bailed,
kept in custody in the manner provided by law in the case
of a defendant taken in execution upon a judgment in a
civil action, until discharged in the mode and upon the
conditions such defendant may be. 

§ 207. The defendant may, before or after giving bail,
deposit in the hands of the sheriff, or in court, the amount
of money mentioned in the order of arrest ; whereupon he
shall be discharged, er his bail, if any is given, shall be released. , .

§ 208. The sheriff shall pay into the court the money received by him, in vacation, in lieu of bail, on the first day
of the next term. \Vhere it is received during a term, he
shall pay it into the court immediately.

§ 209. The court shall make proper orders for the safekeeping of money deposited in lieu of bail. It may direct
the sheriff to keep the money, and, after final judgment in
the action, shall order it to be paid to the party entitled
thereto, according to the result. §210. Money deposited in the hands. of the sheriff in
lieu of bail, or directed by the court to be kept by him,
shall be held upon his official responsibility; and he and
his .sureties shall be liable, and may he proceeded against,
for any default in relation thereto, as in other cases of delinquency.

§ 211. Bail may be given by the defendant on his arrest,
or at any time afterwards before judgment. It shall be
done by causing one or more sufficient bail to execute a
bond to the plaintiff in the presence of the sheriff, or of
the jailer where the defendant has been committed to jail,
to the effect that, if judgment shall be rendered in the action against the defendant, he will render himself amenable to the process of the court thereupon. The bond, when
accepted, shall be returned'to the clerk’s office, and the defendant discharged.

§ 212. The bail must be a resident of this state, and be
worth double the sum specified in the order of arrest, beyond the amount of his debts, and have property in this
state, subject to execution, at least equal in value to that
sum. If two or more become bail, they must, in the aggregate, possess the same qualifications. The bail, if it is required by the sheriff, shall make aflidavit of their qualification before him.

§ 213. if the plaintiff objects to the bail for insufficiency, he may move his objections in court, during the term at
which the bail bond is returned, and not afterwards, except
where the bond is returned within the last three days of the.
term; in which case, the motion may be made on the first
day of the succeeding term. The motion cannot be made,
unless the plaintiff has given to the sheriff, or to the jailer
where the bond was taken by him, notice thereof. And if
the notice is adjudged unreasonable,le court may continue the motion to some day in the same or the succeeding term. ‘ '

§ 214. If the motion is not made, or the bail is not thereupon adjudged insufiicient, the oilicer shall be exonerated
from liability by reason of the insutiiciency of the bail.

§ 215. Thc‘bail adjudged insufficient, shall not be thereby released, but an order shall forthwith be made to re-arrest the defendant; and, thereupon, the same proceedings
may be had, and with the like effect, as are directed upon
an order of arrest. ' '

§ 216. Upon judgments in actions in which the defendant has been arrested and held to bail, and in which the order of arrest has not been vacated, an execution against
the body of the defendant may be issued. upon which the
same proceedings shall be had, and the defendant shall be
dealt with in the same manner, as provided by law in the
civil actions in which executions may be issued against the
body of the defendant; except that the oath of insolvency,
upon reasonable notice, may be taken at any time after the
arrest, by delivering to 'the plaintiil', his agent or attorney,
a schedule of the property intended to be surrendered, although said schedulc may not have been delivered ten daVs

before the taking of such oath. This exception shall also
apply to section >306 of this code.

ARTICLE u.
Liability and discharge of bad, and of q/}Zcer.

§ 217. A surrender of the defendant to the sheriff of the
county in which he was arrested, with a delivery to him of
a copy of the order of arrest and of the bail bond by the
defendant himself, or by his bail, at any time before the li‘ ability ‘of the bail is fixed, shall discharge the bail. The
sheriff shall give to the bail a, written acknowledgment of
the surrender, and commit the defendant to the jail of his

county with his order indorsed upon the copy of the bail
bond delivered to the jailer. .

§ 218. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant,
the bail may, at any time or place, arrest him, or authorize,
in writing indorsed upon a copy of the order of arrest and
bail bond, the sheriff or any constable to do so. .

§ 219. A return of “not found” upon an execution
against the body of the defendant, placedin the hands of
the sheriff of the county in which he was arrested, within
twenty days after it might have issued upon the judgment,
shall be necessary to fix the‘liahility of the bail, which shall
be, to pay the amount of the judgment and costs.

§ 220. The bail can be proceeded against, in a separate
action only.

§ 221. He will he exonerated by the. death of the defends
ant, or his removal from this state under process of law as
afugitive, before the return day of the summons served
upon the bail in the aetion to enforce his liability, or by the
imprisonment of the defendant in the penitentiary, or his
legal discharge from the obligation to render himselt'amena
able to the process of the court, or by his surrender, to the
sherilfof the County in which he. .was arrested in execution thereof, by the return day of the summons in the action against the bail, or within such further time as the
court, in which the action is pending, may allow. If the
defendant is confined in any jail of this state, the bail will
he exonerated by delivering to the jailer thereof, at any
time before the return day of the summons in the action
against the bail, a certified copy of the order of arrest and
of the bail bond, 'with a written order thereupon to detain
the defendant in custody until discharged by law from the
action in which the bond was given. "I‘hejailer shall give'
a written acknowledgment of the receipt of the order, which
shall be filed with the original bond.

§ 222. If, after being arrested, the defendant escapes or
is rescued, or bail is not taken or is adjudged insufficient,
or a deposit is not made, the‘sherifl‘ shall be liable as bail,
unless he had committed the defendant to jail and obtained
a written acknowledgment thereof from the jailer; in which
case, the jailer shall he so liable. Either ollicer may discharge himself from such liability, by putting in suflicient
bail at any time before judgment. '

§ 223. The liability of the oflicer as bail, shall be fixedin
the manner provided in section two hundred and nineteen,
and can be enforced only in a separate action against him,
or against him and his 'sureties in his otlicial bond, as in
other cases of delinquency.

§ 224. The bail. adjudged insuflicient, shall be liable to
the ollicer for the damages he may sustain by reason of

such insufficiency.

ARTICLE IV.

Jilolion to vacate an order of amsl.

§ 225. A defendant against whom an order of arrest has
been obtained, may, at any time before judgment in the
action, and before a decision of a motion on account of the
insulliciency of the bail, apply to the court, or, in vacation
and before executing a bail bond, to the judge thereof, or
to any circuit judge, or to the presiding judge of the countycourt, by motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or to
reduce the amount of bail. Reasonable notice of the mo- '
tion shall be given to the plaintiff. If satisfied that the bail .
ought not to have been required, or that the sum for which ‘
it was demanded is too large, the court or judge may vavate the order of arrest, or reduce the amount of bail. The
decision of the motion shall be final in the action, but shall
not affect the rights of the parties in any other action.
Upon the vacation of the order of arrest, the defendant
shall be discharged, or the bail bond, if any is given, shall
be cancelled. ‘

§ 226. If the motion is supported by aliidavi'ts or other
evidence out of the record, the plaintiff may oppose it by
amdavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which
the order of arrest was obtained.

§ 227. The writ of scirefacias against bail, is abolished.

CHAPTER 2.
Claim and delivery of personal property.

§ 228. The plaintiff in an action to recover the possession of specific personal property, may, at the commencement of the action, or at any time before judgment, claim
the immediate delivery of the property, as herein provided.

§ 229. An order for the delivery of property to the plaintiff, shall be made by the clerk. when there is filed in his
office an afiidavit of the plaintiff, showing.

I. A particular description of property claimed.

2. Its actual value, and the damages which the affiant believes the plaintiff ought to recover for the detention thereof. 3. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property,
or has a special ownership or interest therein, stating
the facts in relation thereto, and that he is entitled to
the immediate possession of the property. ,

4. That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant.

6. That it has not been taken for a tax or fine against
the plaintiff, or under any order orjudgment of a court
against him, or seized under an execution or attachment against his property, or, if so seized, that it is,
by statute, exempt from such seizure. ,

6. That the plaintiff ’5 cause of action has accrued
within one year.

Where the action is brought to recover property
taken under an execution or distress warrant, the afii- '
davit must state the fact of the taking and the nature
of the process under which it was done.

§ 230. Where the delivery of several articles of property
is claimed, the affidavit must state the value of each.

§ 231. The order for the delivery of the property to the
plaintiff shall be addressed and delivered with a copy thereof to the sheriff. It shall state the. names of the parties
to the action and the court in which the action is brought,
and direct the sheriff to take the property, describing it and
stating its value as in the affidavit of the plaintiff, and deliver it to him, and to make return of the order on a day
to be named therein. The order shall he made returnable,
as an order of arrest is directed to be returned. ,

§ 232. The order shall not be complied with by the sheriff, until there has been executed in his pres‘ence,by one or
more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, a bond to the de—
fendant to the effect that the plaintiff shall duly prosecute
the action, and that he shall perform the judgment of the.
court therein, by returning the property, if a return thereof
shall be adjudged, and by paying such sums of money as
may be adjudged against him in the action, not exceeding
double the value of the property, and the costs of the action. . ‘

§ 233. Where the action is brought against a sheriff, or
other officer, to recover the possession of property taken
by him under an execution against a person other than the
plaintiff, or under a distress warrant, the bond provided for
in the last section shall be to the effect that the plaintiff
shall duly prosecute the action, and that he shall perform
the judgment of the court therein, by returning the property, if a return thereof shall be adjudged, and by paying
to the defendant, or to the plaintiff in the execution or
party who sued out the distress warrant, as may be directed by the court, such sums of money as may be adjudged
against the plaintiff in the action not exceeding double the
value of the property, and the costs of the action.

§ 234. The sheriff shall execute the order by taking the
property therein mentioned, if it is found in the possession
of the defendant or of his agent, or of any other person
who obtained possession thereof fretn the defendant directly or indirectly after the order was placed in the sheriff’s
hands. He shall also deliver a copy of the order to the
defendant, or to the person from whose possession the
property is taken, or, if neither can be found, leave it at
the usual place of abode of either, with some white person
of the age of sixteen years.

§ 235. If the affidavitof the plaintiff states that the property was taken under an execution or distress warrant, the
sheriff shall deliver it to the plaintiff. In every other case,

he shall retain the property in his possesion for two days,
unless the bond mentioned in the succeeding section shall
be sooner executed. 

§ 236. Within two days after the taking of the property
by the sheriff, the defendant, or any one for him, may, in
the case in which the property was not taken under an execution or adistress warrant, cause a bond to be executed
to the plaintiff, in the presence of the sheriff, by one or
more sufficient sureties, in double the value of the property,
to the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment
of the court in the action ; whereupon, the sheriff shall~restore the property to the defendant, or to the person in whose
possession it was found. If such bond is not executed
within the time above limited, the sheriff shall deliver the
property to the plaintiff. He shall return the bonds with
the order. A

§ 237. Before taking any bond, the sheriff shall, upon
the suggestion of either party that theyalue of the property is not truly stated in the order for its delivery, and, where
the suggestion is on the part of the defendant, on his pro~
ducing the property to the sheriff, select three disinterested
housekeepers, to appraise the same under oath to be administered by him; whose appraisement indorsed upon the
order, shall be regarded as the value of the property, in taking the bonds. .

§ 238. The sheriff shall safely keep the property, and
shall be allowed by the court the necessary expenses of doing so, to be paid by the plaintiffyand taxed in the costs.

§ 239. If another person than the defendant or his agent,
claims the property taken by the sheriff. and delivers to the
sheriff his affidavit that he is entitled to the possession
thereof, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep it, or deliver
it to the plaintiff, unless he shall, within two days after the
delivery to him, or to his agent or attorney, by the sheriff,
of a copy of the affidavit, indemnify the sheriff against the
claim,_by a bond executed by one or more sufficient sureties, in double the value of the property. No claim to
such prOperty by any other person than the defendant or
his agent, shall be valid against the sheriff, unless so made.
He shall return the affidavit of the claimant, with his proceedings thereon to the clerk‘s office. ‘

§ 240. An order may, at any time before judgment, be
directed to any other county for the delivery of the property claimed. And several orders may issue at the same
time, or successively, at the option of the plain iff. But
only one of them shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the court.

§ 241. Where it appears by the affidavit of the plaintiff,
or by the return of the order of delivery, that the property
claimed has been disposed of or concealed, so that the or, der cannot be executed, the court may compel the attendance,of the defendant, examine him on oath as to the situation of the property, and punish a disobedience of its orders in this respect as in cast-s of contempt.

CHAPTER

Attachment.

Anncu: I. General Attachments.
2. Attachments in certain actions.
3. Attachments against specilic property.
4. Discharge and reinstatement qf attachments.

ARTICLE I.

General attachments.

Sremvmrox 1. Grounds of attachment. .
2. How an attachment is obtained.
3. Execution and return of attachment.
4. Disposition of attached property.
5. Proceedings upon attachments.

SUBDIVISION I.‘
Grounds of attachment.

§ 242. The plaintiff in acivil action, may, at or after
the commencement thereof, have an attachment against
the property of the, defendant, in the cases and upon the
grounds hereinafter stated, as a security for the satisfaction of suchjudgment as may he recovered : ‘
First. In an action for the recovery of money where
the action is against

1. A defendant or several defendants, who, or
some one of. whom, is a foreign corporation, or a
non-rt‘sident of this state; or

2. Who has been absent therefrom four months;
or

3. Has departed from this state with intent to
defraud his creditors: or i

4. Has left the. county of his residence, to avoid
the service of a summons ‘; or r

5. So conceals himself that a summons can
not be served upon him; or '

6. 13 about to remove his property, or a material part thereof, out of this state, not leaving
enough therein to satisfy the plaintiff’s claim; or

7. Has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed
of his property, or suffered or permitted it to be
sold, with the fraudulent intent to cheat, hinder, or
delay his creditors ; or ‘

8. Is about to sell, con vey, or otherwise dispose
of his property,with such intent.

But an attachment shall not be granted on the
ground that the defendant or defendants, or any
of them, is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this state, for any claim other than a debt
or demand arising upon contract.

Stcondly. In an action to recover the possession of
personal property, where it has been ordered to be delivered to the plaintiff, and where the property, or part
thereof, has been disposed of, concealed, or removed,
so that the order for its delivery cannot be executed

by the sheriff.
SUBDIVISION 11.

How an attachment is obtained.

§ 243. An order of attachment shall be made by the
“clerk of the court in which the action is brought, in any
case mentioned in the first subdivision of section two hun- '
dred and forty-two, when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintiff, showing
1. The nature of the plaintiff’s claim.
2. That it is just.
3. The amount which the afiiant believes the plaintiff ought to recover; and r
4. The existence in the action of some one of the
grounds for an attachment enumerated in that subdivision; and in the case mentioned in the second subdivision of section two hundred and forty-two, where
it is shown, by such affidavit or by the return of the
sheriff upon the order for the delivery of the property
claimed, that the facts mentioned in that,subdivision
exist.
§ 244. Where the return by the proper officer upon a
summons against a defendant, states that he has left the
county to avoid the service of the summons, or has concealed himself therein for that purpose, it shall be equivalent to the statement of the fact in the affidavit mentioned
in the last section.
§ 245. The order of attachment shall not be issued by
the clerk, until there has been executed in his office by one
or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, a bond to the
effect that the plaintiff shall pay to the defendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if
the order is wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the
amount of the plaintiff’s claim.
§ 246. The order of attachment shall be directed and
, delivered to the sheriff, with as many copies thereof as the
plaintiff may direct. It shall require him to attach and
safely keep the property of the defendant in his county not
exempt from execution, or so much thereof as will satisfy
the plaintiff’s claim specified in his affidavit, which shall
be stated in the order, and the probable costs of the action
not exceeding thirty dollars; also to summon the garnishees to answer in the action on the return day of the order, and'to make due return thereof. The order shall be
made returnable as an order of arrest is directed to be retdrned.

§ 247. Orders of attachment may be issued to the sheriffs
of other counties; and several of them may, at the option
of the plaintiff, be issued at the same time, or in succession. ut such only as have been executed in whole or in
part, shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise directed
by the court. *

SUBDIVISION III.
Execution and return of attachment.

§ 248. Where there are several orders of attachment
against the same defendant, they shall be executed in the
order in which they were received by the sheriff. 7

§ 249. The order of attachment shall be executed by the
sheriff without delay, in the following manner:

1. Upon real property, by leaving with the occupant
thereof, or if there is no occupant, in a conspicuous
place thereon, a copy of the order.

2. Upon personal property capable of manual delivery, by taking it into his custody, and holding it subject to the order of the court.

3. Upon other personal property. by delivering a
copy of the order, with a notice specifying the property attached, to the person holding the same; or as to
a debt or demand, to the person owing it; or as to
stock in ,a corporation, or property held, or a debt or
demand owing by it, to the chief of’dcer, or to the secretary, cashier, treasurer, or managing agent thereof,
and by summoning the person or corporation to answer as a garnishee in the action. The sheriff shall
deliver capies to and summon such persons as garnishees. as the plaintiff may direct.

§ 250. It shall be the duty of every person mentioned in
the third subdivision of the last section, to whom the sheriff shall apply therefor, to furnish him with a certificate of
the number of shares of the defendant in the stock of the
corporation, or a description of the property held by such
corporation or person, belonging to or for the benefit of the
defendant, or the amount of the debt owing to the defendant by such corporation or person, whether due or not;
and a failure to perform this duty may be punished by the
court as a contempt.

§ 251. The defendant’s personal property, other than
slaves, shall be first taken under an attachment ; if enough
thereof is not found, then his slaves, and lastly,‘ his real
property. ‘

§252. Where the property to be attached is a fund in
court, the execution of the order of attachment shall be, by
leaving with the clerk of the court a copy thereof, with a
notice specifying the fund ; and where several orders of
attachment are executed upon such fund on the same day,
they shall be satisfied out‘of it ratably.

§ 253. The sheriff shall not, in executing an order of attachment upon personal property held by the defendant
jointly or in common with another person, take possession
of such property, until there has been executed a bond to
such other person, by one or more sufficient sureties of the
plaintiff, to the effect that he shall pay to such person the
damages he may sustain by the wrongful suing out of the
order, not exceeding double the amount of the plaintiff ’3
claim.
§ 254. An order of attachment binds the defendant's
property in the county which might be seized under an execution against him, from the time of the delivery of the
order to the sheritf, in the same manner as an execution
would bind it; and the lien of the plaintiff is completed
upon any property or demand of ' the defendant, by executing the order upon -it in the manner directed in this article. §255. If, after an order of attachment has been placed
in the hands of the sheriff, any property of the defendant
is removed from the county, the sheriff may pursue and
attach the same in another county, within twenty-four
hours after the removal.

§ 256. The sheriff may deliverany attached property to
the person in whose possession it was found, upon the execution, in the presence of the sheriff, of a bond to the
plaintiff, by such person, with one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the obligors are bound, in double the
value of the property, that the defendant shall perform the
judgment of the court in the action, or that the property or
its value shall be forthcoming, and subject to the order of
the court for the satisfaction of such judgment.

§ 257. For the purpose of taking this bond, the sheriff
shall cause the property to be appraised by three disinterested housekeepers to be selected and sworn by him to
make a fair appraisement, who shall indorse their appraisement on the order of attachment.

§ 258. In any proceeding on this bond, it shall not be a
defense that the property was not subject to the attachment.

§ 259. The sheriff shall return upon every order of attachment, what he has done under it. The return must
show the property attached, the time it was attached, and
the disposition made of it. Where garnishees are sums
moned, their names and the time each was summoned
must be stated. And, where real property is attached, the
sheriff shall describe it with sutlicient certainty to identify
it, and, where he can do so, by a reference to the deed or title under which the defendant holds it. He shall return,
with the order, all bonds taken under it.

SUBDIVISION IV.
Disposition of attached ' property.

§ 260. The court shall make proper orders for the preservation and use of the property during the pendency of I:
the action, and for paying into court or securing the debts t
and funds attached. It may direct a sale of the property,
other than slaves, where, by reason of its perishable nao
ture, or of the cost of keeping it, a sale would be for the
benefit of the parties. In vacation, such sale may be ordered by the judge of the court, or, of any such property
other than a steamboat, by the presiding judge of the
county court. The sale shall be public, after advertisement, and made in such manner and upon such terms of
credit, with security, as the court or judge, having regard
to the probable duration of the action, may direct. The
proceeds, if collected by the sheriff, together with all the
moneys received by him from garnishees, shall be held and
paid over by him under the same requirement and responsibilities of himself and his sureties, as are provided in
respect to money deposited in lieu of bail.

§ 261. The sheriff shall be allowed by the court the
necessary expenses of keeping the attached property, tb
be paid by the plaintiff, and taxed in the costs. In the
case of a steamboat attached, he may be allowed, for his
own superintendence thereof, not exceeding one dollar per
day, and such sums as he may actually expend for the
safe-keeping of the boat, not to exceed, for the pay of
persons employed, the usual wages of a mate and a deck
b

“and, unless more than two persons have been employed
y the order of the court or the judge thereof.
§ 262. The defendant or claimant of any attached property, may be required by the court to attend before it, and
give information, on oath, respecting the property.

SUBDIVISION V.

Proceedings upon attachments.

§ 263. If the defendant, at any time before judgment,
causes a bond to be executed to the plaintiff by one or
more sufficient sureties to be approved by the court, to the 3
effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the ‘
court, the attachment shall be discharged, and restitution
made of any property taken under it, or the proceeds thereof.

§ 264. The bond mentioned in the last section, may, in
vacation, be executed in the presence of the sheriff having the order of attachment in his hands, or, after the return of the order, before the clerk, with the same effect
upon the attachment as if executed in court; the sureties,
in either case, to be approved by the officer. '

§ 265. A garnishee may pay the money owing to the
defendant by him, to the sheriff having in his hands the
order of attachment, or into the court. He shall be discharged from liability to the defendant, for any money so
paid, not exceeding the plaintiff’s claim. He shall not be
subjected to costs beyond those caused by his resistance of
the claim against him ; and if he discloses the property of
the defendant in his hands, or the true amount owing by
him, and delivers or pays the same according to the order
of the court, he shall be allowed his costs.

§ 266. Each garnishee summoned shall appear. The
appearance may be in person, or by the athdavit of the
garni'shee filed in court, disclosing truly the amount owing
by him to the defendant, whether due or not, and the
property of the defendant in the possession or under the
control of the garnishee; and in the case of acorporation,
any shares of stock therein held, by or for the benefit of
the defendant, at or after the service of the order of attacbment.

§ 267. Where a garnishee, or oflicer of a corporation
summoned as a garnishee, appears in person, he may be
examined on oath ; and, if it is discovered on such examination that, at or after the service of the order of attachment upon him, he or the corporation was possessed of
any property of the defendant, or was indebted to him,
the court may order the delivery of such property, and the
payment or security for the payment of the amount owing

y the garnishee, into the court, or to such person as it may

direct, who shall give bond, with security, for the same; or
the court may permit the garnishee to retain the property
or the amount owing, upon the execution of a bond with
one or more suH‘lcient sureties, to the effect that the amount
shall be paid, or the property shall be forthcoming, as the
court may direct. Performance of these bonds may be
summarily enforced by orders and proceedings as in cases
of contempt. r

§ 268. The court may, on the motion of the plaintiff,
compel the appearance in person, and examination of any
garnishee, or officer of a corporation summoned as a garnishee, by process as in cases of contempt; or, where a
garnishee makes default by not appearing, it may hear
proof of any debt or property owing or held by him to or
for the defendant, and make such order in relation thereto,
as if what is so proved had appeared on the examination
of the garnishee.

§ 269. Upon the service of a summons upon any garnishee, or after his failure to make a disclosure satisfactory to
the plaintiff, the latter may proceed in an action against
him, by filing a petition verified as in other cases, and
causing a summons to be issued open it; and, thereupon,
such proceedings may be had as in other actions, and
judgment be rendered in favor of the plaintiff to subject
the property of the defendant in the hands of the garnisher, Or for what shall appear to be owing to the defendant by the garnishee. The judgment may be enforced by
execution, or other proper means. '
§270. If judgment is rendered in the action for the defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the property attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to him.

§ 271. If judgment is rendered for the plaintiff, the court
shall apply in satisfaction thereof . ‘

1. The moneys arising from the sales of perishable
property.

2. The proceeds of the debts and funds attached in
the hands of the garnishee.

If these are not suflicient 'to satisfy the plaintiff’s
claim, the court shall order a sale, by the sheriff, of any
other attached property which may be under its con.
trol, in the following order:

1. Personal property, other than slaves.

2. Slaves. 3. Real property, or so much thereof as‘ may be
necessary to satisfy the plaintiff’s claim.

§ 272. No order for the sale of real property attached in
virtue of the provisions of this article, shall be made in
any action in which the defendant has not appeared or
been actually summoned, until there has been filed an afiidavit of the plaintiff, or of his agent or attorney, tothe effect that the defendant has no personal property, or not
enough to satisfy the claim of the plaintiff, in this state,
known to the afiiant. ‘

§ 273. Any surplus of the attached property, or its proceeds, shall be returned to the defendant.

§ 274. The sales shall be public, upon such notice, and
at such time and place as the ‘court may direct. When
credits are given, bonds, with security, shall be required;
and the credit shall not be longer than three months for‘
personal property. and not less than three nor more than
twelve months for real property, or on instalments equivalent to not more than twelve months’ credit on the whole;
and, upon real property, a lien shall be retained. '1 he sales
shall be subject to the confimation of the court.

§ 275. The court may compel the delivery to the sheriff,
for sale, of any of the attached property for which a bond
may have been given, and may proceed summarily on such
bond to enforce the delivery of the property, or the payment
of such sums as may be due upon the bond, by rules and
attachments as in cases of contempt.

§ 276. The court may, from timeto time, make and enforce proper orders respecting the property, sales, and the
confirmation thereof, and the application and payment of
the moneys collected. a _

§ 277. It may order the sheriff to repossess himself, for
the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached property

which may have passed out of his hands without having
been sold or converted into money; and the sheriff shall,
under such order, have the same power to take the property as upon an order of attachment.

§ 278. Any person may, before the sale of any attached
property, or before the payment to the plaintiff of the proceeds thereof, or of any attached debt, present his petition,
verified by oath, to the court, disputing the validity of the
attachment, or stating a claim to the property or to an interest in or lien on it under any other attachment, or otherwise, and setting forth the facts upon which such claim is
founded, and his claim shall be investigated. A non-resident petitioner shall, in all such cases, give security for
costs. The court may hear the proof, or may order a reference to a commissioner, or may impannel a jury to inquire into the facts. If it is found that the petitioner has title to, a lien on, or any interest in such property,the court
shall make such order as may be necessary to protect his
rights. The costs of this proceeding shall be paid by either
party, at the discretion of the court. '

Where several attachments are executed on the same
property, the court, on the motion of any one of the attaching plaintiffs, may order a reference to a commissioner,
to ascertain and report the amounts and priorities of the
several attachments.

§ 279. The defendant may, at any time before judgment,
after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court for
additional security on the part of the plaintiff; and if. on
such motion, the court is satisfied that the surety in the
plaintiff ’s bond has removed from this state, or is not sufficient for the amount thereof, it may vacate the order of
attachment and direct restitution of any property taken under it, unless in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court,
sufficient security is given by the plaintiff.

ARTICLE II.
Attachments in certain actions.

§ 280. In an action brought by a creditor‘against his
debtor, the plaintiff may, before his claim is due, have an
attachment against the property of the debtor, where

1. He has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of
his property, or suffered or permitted it to be sold, with
the fraudulent intent to cheat or defraud his creditors,
or to hinder or delay them in the collection of their
debts; or '

2. Is about to make such fraudulent sale, conveyance, or disposition of his property, with such intent;
or

3. Is about to remove his property, or a material
part thereof, out of this state, with the intent, or to the
effect, 'of cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of

hindering or delaying them in the collection of their
debts. I ~

§ 281. The attachments authorized by the last section,
may be granted by the court in which the action is brought
or by the judge thereof or any circuit judge, or by the presiding judge of the county court, where the petition verified by the oath of the plaintiff, shows any of the grounds
for an attachment enumerated in that section,-and the nature and amount of the plaintid"s claim, and when the
same will become due.

§ 282. The order of the court or judge granting the attachment, shall specify the amount for which it is allowed,
not exceeding a sum suflicient to satisfy the plaintiff’s
claim, and the probable costs of the action. .

§ 283. The order of attachment as granted by the court
or judge, shall not be issued by the clerk, until there has
been executed in his oflice such bond on the part of the
plaintiff as is directed in section two hundred and fortylive.

§ 284. The provisions in the first article of this chapter
subsequent to section two hundred and forty-five, shall, so
far as they are applicable, regulate the attachments authorized by this article.

ARTICLE III.Attachments against .SYMTin property.
Srsmvrsiox 1. Against steamboats. '

2. Other specific attachments.
3. General provisions.

SUBDIVISION 1.
Against steamboals.

§ 285. In an action to enforce the liability, by statute,
of a steamboat or other vessel, for the removal of a slave,
or to enforce alien upon a steamboat for the wages of its
officers or crew, or for work, materials, provisions, stores, or
supplies, or to enforce the liability of such boat for an injury to another boat or craft, or for a trespass of its oilicers
or crew, if the petition shows a sufficient cause of action
and the amount of the plaintiff’s claim, and is verified by
his oath, an attachment may be granted against such boat
or vessel and her engine and furniture by the court in which
the action is brought, or by the judge thereof or any circuit judge, or by the presiding judge of the county court.
Every order for such attachment must specify the sum for
which it is granted, not exceeding the plaintiff "8 claim for
principal and interest, as existing at the time of the order,
with three years’ interest thereon and the probable costs of
the action.

§ 286. Where the action mentioned in the last section is
for the wages of the officers or ore“ of a steamboat, or for
work done. upon, or materials, provisions, stores, or supplies
furnished to such boat, and there are several plaintffs having distinct claims separately stated in the petition, an at' tachment may be granted in favor of each plaintiff for his
claim. And where, in any such case, the plaintiff, or any
one of several plaintiffs, shall annex to the petition his
affidavit that he is unable to give security, and the affidavit of' some disinterested person that his claim is just, the
court or judge granting the attachment for such claim,
may direct that it shall issue for an amount not exceeding
fifty dollars, without security on the part of such plaintiff.

§ 287. The order of attachment as granted by the court,
' shall not be issued by the clerk, except. where security is
dispensed with as provided in the last section, until there
has been executed in his office such bond on the part of
the plaintiff as is directed in section two hundred and forty-five.

§ 288. The order of attachment shall be issued, directed,
executed, and returned as an order of general attachment
is directed to be returned. ‘

§ 289. The sheriff may deliver any steamboat or other
vessel attached, to the master or person in charge of such
boat or vessel when attached, upon the execution of a bond
to the plaintiff, in the presence of the sheriff, by such person, with one or more sureties, sufficient for the sum for
which the attachment was granted, to the effect that the
obligors will pay to the plaintiff such sums of money as
may be adjudged to him in the action, or that the boat or
vessel shall be forthcoming, and subject to the order of the
court, for the satisfaction of such judgment as may be rendered therein—whichever shall be directed by the court.

§ 290. In any proceeding on the bond mentioned in the
last section, it shall be no defense that the boat or vessel
was not subject to the attachment.

§ 291. If the defendant, or any owner of the boat, shall,
at any time before judgment, cause a bond to be executed
to the plaintiff by one or more sureties, sufficient for the
sum for which the attachment was granted, to be approved
by the court, to the effect that the defendant shall perform
the judgment of the court, the attachment shall be discharged, and restitution made of the boat.

§ 292. The bond mentioned in the last section may, in
vacation, be executed in the presence of the sheriff having
the order ,of attachment in his hands, or, after the return
of the order, before the clerk, with the same effect as if
executed in court. The sureties shall be such as are approved by the officer.

§ 293. Where the attachment is for a sum exceeding the
value of the boat, which the sheriff may have appraised as

provided in section two hundred and fifty—seven, he may

take the bond of the master, or person in charge of the '

boat when attached, mentioned in section two hundred and
ninety-two, with sureties suflicient for the appraised value
of' the boat; and such bond, in that case, shall provide

that the liability of the obligors shall not exceed such appraised value. ‘

SUBDIVISION II.

Other  attachments.

§ 294. In an action to enforce a mortgage of or lien upon
personal property, or for the recovery, partition, or sale of
such property, or by a plaintiff having a future estate or interest therein, for the security of his rights, Where it satisfactorin appears, by the petition verified on oath, or by affidavits or the proofs in the cause, that the plaintiff has a
just claim, and that the property is about to be sold, concealed, or removed from the state, or where the plaintiff
states on oath that he has reasonable cause to believe and
does believe that, unless/prevented by the court, the property will be sold, concealed, or removed from the state, an
attachment may be granted against the property.

§ 295. In an action by a vendor of property fraudulently
purchased, to vacate the contract and have a restoration
of the property or compensation therefor, where the petition shows such fraudulent purchase of property and the
amount of the plaintiff ’s claim, and is verified by his oath,
an attachment against the property may be granted.

§ 296. The attachments in the cases mentioned in the

last two sections, may be granted by the court in which 3
the action is brought, or by the judge thereof or any cir- ‘
cuitjudge, or the presidingjudge of the county court, upon 1
such terms and conditions as to security, on the part of the 3

plaintiff, for the damages which may be occasioned by
them, and with such directions as to the disposition to be
made of the attached property, as may be just and proper
under the circumstances of each case. ,

§ 297. In every case, the plaintiff shall be required to
give security for the damages to the defendant, in an adequate sum to be specified in the order granting the attachment; and, Where it may be proper, the court or judge
may direct that the defendant or person in possession of
the attached property, shall be permitted to retain it, upon
giving such bond with security, and for such sum as the
court or judge may prescribe.

§ 298. No order of attachment shall be issued by the
clerk, until the bond on the part of the plaintiff required
by the order of the court or judge, is executed in his office, 
by one or more suflicient sureties of the plaintiff'.,
§ 299. The order of attachment shall describe the specific property against which it is issued, and shall have indorsed upon it the direction of the court or judge, as to
the disposition to be made of the attached property. It
shall be directed, executed, and returned as other orders of
attachment.

§ 300. The sheriff shall make such disposition of the
attached property as may be directed by the court or
judge, and, where there is no direction upon the subject,
he shall safely keep the property subject to the order of
the court.

§ 301. The court may, in any of the cases mentioned in sections two hundred and ninetyofour and two hundred
and ninety-five, direct the terms and conditions of the bond
to be executed by the defendant with security in order to
obtain a discharge of the attachment.

SUBDIVISION III.
General provisions.

§ 302. Where, after an order of attachment against a
steamboat or other specific property has been placed in the
hands of the sheriff, such boat or property is removed from
the county, the sheriff may ursue and attach it in another
county, within twenty-four hours after such removal.

§ 303. Where it appears, by the return of the sheriff or
by the afiidavit of the plaintiff, that any specific property
against which an order of attachment is issued, has been
concealed or removed by the defendant, the court may
require him to attend and be examined on oath respecting
such matter, and may enforce its orders in this respect
as in cases of contempt.

§ 304. Performance of bonds to obtain discharge of
specific attachments, or for the forthcoming of steamboats
or other property specifically attached, may, in all cases,
be summarily enforced by rules and proceedings as in
cases of contempt. 1

§ 305 The provisions of the first article of this chapter
not inconsistent with the foregoing sections of this article,
may be applied, so far as shall be proper, to regulate the
proceedings in cases of attachments against specific
property.

ARTICLE IV.

Disc/tame and reinstatement: of attachments.

§ 306. The defendant may, at any time before judgment, move to discharge an attachment. Reasonable notice of the motion shall be given to the plaintiff.

§ 307. The motion may be founded upon the papers and
evidence in the case, or sustained by affidavits; and,
where it is so sustained, it may be opposed by aflidavits in
addition to that on which the order of attachment was
obtained; and, where the court is satistied that the order

was obtained on false suggestions, or without sufficient
cause, it may discharge the attachment.

§ 308. Where the plaintiff desires a reinstatement of the
attachment, he may have an entry made upon the record
of leave to apply therefor within a reasonable time not
exceeding twenty days. And in such case, the order of
discharge shall be made, to take effect at the end of the
period so limited, unless the attachment is reinstated in the
meantime.

§ 309. A judge of the court of appeals, in any case in
which the plaintili‘ has secured the right to apply therefor
in the manner provided in the last section, may, upon an
inspection of copies of the record and of the depositions
and atiidavits read upon the motion to discharge, reinstate
the attachment; and, if the order of reinstatement shall
be filed in the clerk’s office of the court in which the action
is pending within the time limited as provided in the last section, the execution of the order of attachment shall
proceed; otherwise, it shall stand discharged, and restitu.
tion shall be made of any property taken under it.

ARTICLE I.

ll‘lccn and how an injunction may be obtained.

§ 310. Injunctions to stay proceedings in actions or suits
commenced before this code takes effect, are not affected by
its provisions, but are to be granted, to proceed in all respects, and be determined as if it had not been adopted.

§ 311. The injunction provided by this code, is a command to refrain from a particular act. It may be the final
judgment in an action, or may be allowed as a provisional
remedy ; and where so allowed, it shall be by order. The
writ of injunction is abolished.

§ 312. Where it appears by the petition that the plaintiff
is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any
part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act which would produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintiff, or where, during the litigation,
it appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens or is
about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some
act, in violation of the plaintiff’s rights, respecting the
subject of the action and tending to render the judgment
inetfectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such act. It may also be granted in any case where
it is specially authorized by statute.

§ 313. The injunction may be granted at the commencement of the action, or at any time before judgment, by the
court, or by the judge thereof or any circuit judge, or by
the presiding judge of the county court, where it appears
by the petition that the plaintiff is entitled thereto. And,
during a litigation, it may be granted by the court, or by
the judge thereof or any circuit judge, where it satisfactorily appears by affidavits that sufiicient grounds exist
therefor.

§ 314. All injunctions granted before final judgment,
shall be subject to the further order of the court.

§ 315. The court or judge to whom an application for
an injunction is made, may direct a reasonable notice to
be given to the party against whom the injunction is asked, to attend and show cause against it at a specified time
and place, and may, in the meantime, restrain such party.

§ 316. An injunction shall not be granted against a defendant who has answered, unless he has had notice of the
application therefor. .

§ 317. An injunction to stop the general and ordinary
business of a corporation, or the operations of a turnpike,
, railroad, or canal company, or of a municipal corporation,
or of the trustees of a town, or any building, erection, or
other work, or to restrain a nuisance or the unlawful issue
or circulation of small notes or bills, can only be granted
by the court, or by the judge thereof or any circuit judge,
upon reasonable notice of the time and place of the application therefor, to the party injoined.

§ 318. On the hearing of an application for an injunc7 tion of which notice has been given, each party may read
affidavits.

§ 319. In every case, the court or judge granting an injunction shall specify in the order therefor an amount, for
. which the party obtaining it shall give security in a bond to
the party injoined, before the injunction shall become ef‘ fectual; which amount shall be sufficient to cover all the
probable damages and costs that may be occasioned by
the injunction. The court or judge may prescribe the
effect of the bond, so as to secure to the party injoined the
damages to which he may become entitled, if it is finally
decided that the injunction ought not to have been granted.
Where the injunction is to stay proceedings upon a judgment or final order for money, the amount for which security is required shall be sufiicieut to cover, with other
damages, the sum injoined, with live years‘ interest thereon. Where the injunction is to stay proceedings upon a
judgment for property, the amount specified in the order
shall be sufiieient to cover also the rent, hire, or value of
the use thereof for two years; and in case of personal
property, its value likewise.

§ 320. The order of injunction shall not be issued by the
clerk, until the bond mentioned in the last section has been
executed in his office by one or more suflicient sureties of
the party obtaining the injunction. Where the injunction
is to stay proceedings upon a judgment or final order, the
bond shall be to the effect that the party obtaining the injunction will satisfy the judgment or order, or so much of
it as is injoined, to the extent to which the injunction may
be dissolved; and that he will also satisfy any modified
judgment or order that may be rendered or made in lieu of
it. or so much of it as exceeds the amount left uninjoined.
In other cases, unless otherwise directed by the court or
judge, the bond shall be to the effect that the party giving
it will pay to the party injoined such damages as he may
sustain, if it is finally decided that the injunction ought not
to have been granted.

§ 321. Sureties in injunction bonds shall be taken by the
clerk, under the same responsibilities as in other cases of
sureties taken by him.

§ 322. The order of injunction shall be addressed to the
party injoined, shall state the injunction, and shall be dated
and signed by the clerk. Where it is issued at the commencement of the action, it shall be indorsed upon the
summons, and the copy thereof delivered to the sheriff.
Where it is issued during the litigation, it shall be delivered to him with as many copies thereof as there are parties injoined. The sheriff shall forthwith serve it, by delivering a copy to each party injoined, and make return
thereof on the order.

§ 323. \Vhere notice of the application for an injunction
has been given to the party injoined, it shall not be necessary to serve the order upon him; he is bound by the injunction as soon as the bond required of the adverse party
is executed.

§ 324. An injunction binds the party from the time he is
informed thereof. .

§ 325. No injunction shall be granted to stay proceedings
upon a judgment of a justice of the peace, or of a county
court, where the value of the matter in dispute does not
exceed five pounds. .

§ 326. An injunction to stay proceedings on a judgment
or final order of a court, shall not be granted, in an action
brought, by the party seeking the injunction, in any other
court than that in which the judgment or order was rendered or made. Nor shall such injunction be granted, unless the party applying therefor makes aflidavit that no injunction has been previously granted to stay the proceedings on such judgment or order.

§ 327. No injunction shall be granted by a judge, after a
motion therefor has been overruled by the court. Nor shall,
any be granted by a judge of a county court, where it has

been refused by the judge of the court in which the action
is brought, or by any circuit judge. A judge refusing an
application for an injunction, shall, if requested by the defendant, give him a certificate thereof.

§ 328. Disobedience of an injunction may be punished
by. the court, or by the judge thereof, or any circuit judge
in vacation, as a contempt. An attachment may be issued
by the court or judge, upon the production of evidence by
affidavit of the breach of the injunction, against the party
committing the same. And unless he purges the contempt,
if in vacation, the judge may commit him to jail until the
sitting of the court, or take a bond with security for his appearance, to answer for the contempt at the next term of
the court, and, in the meantime,to obey the injunction.

§ 329. The aflidavits read upon an application for an injunction, shall be tiled with the papers of the case.

§ 330. A party injoined may, at any time before judgment, upon reasonable notice to the party who has obtained
the injunction, move the court for additional security on
behalf of such party; and, if it appears on such motion that the surety in the injunction bond has removed
from this state, or is insufiicient, the court may vacate the
order of injunction, unless in a reasonable time sufficient

security is given. '
ARTICLE II.
Dissolution and reinstatement of injunction.

§ 331. The party injoined may, at any time,upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court, upon the plaintiff ’s petition and afiidavits alone, to dissolve or modify an
injunction of the application for which no notice was given.

§ 332. A motion to dissolve or modify an injunction
granted by a county judge, may, at any time, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, be made before the judge of the
court or any circuit judge, upon the plaintiff ’s petition and
aflidavits alone. The order of the judge overruling the
same, or dissolving or modifying the injunction, with the
notice, shall be returned to the office of the clerk of the
court. They shall be noted upon the record and the order
obeyed, as if made by the court.

§ 333. After answer filed by the party injoined, he may
give notice to the plaintiff of a motion to be made to the
court in not less than ten days thereafter upon the whole
case, to dissolve or modify the injunction. Upon such motion, each party may read depositions and other competent
evidence in writing. 'The court shall be bound to take the
answer, as true. ’

§ 334. The motion upon the whole case to dissolve or
modify the injunction, may be postponed on the application
of either party, to a subsequent day, or, to the next term,
where the court is satisfied that, under the circumstances of

the case, the delay is proper. When delay is asked in or?
der to obtain the testimony of a witness, it must appear by
affidavit what facts the witness is expected to prove, that
the afliant believes his testimony will be true, and that it
could not have been obtained by due diligence.

§ 335. After hearing the motion, the court or judge shall
overrule the same, or dissolve or modify the injunction, according to the right of the case.

§ 336. Only one motion to dissolve or modify an injunction upon the whole case, shall be allowed.

§ 337. Upon the dissolution in whole or in part of an injunction to stay proceedings upon a judgment or final order, the damages shall be assessed by the court, which may.
hear the evidence and decide in a summary way, or may,
’ at its discretion, cause a jury to be impanneled to find the
damages. VVbere money is injoined, the damages may be
any rate per cent. on the amount released by the dissolution, which, in the discretion of the court, may be proper,
not exceeding ten per cent. And, where the delivery of
property has been delayed by the injunction, the value of
the use, hire, or rent thereof shall be assessed. Judgment
shall be rendered, against the party who obtained the injunction, for the damages assessed; and the assessment
shall be conclusive against the surety of such party.

§ 338. Where the plaintiff desires to apply for a reinstatement of an injunction dissolved or modified on motion,
the court or judge shall make the order of dissolution or
modification to take effect in a reasonable time thereafter,
not exceeding twenty days, and shall express in the order
that the plaintiff has leave to apply in the meantime for a
reinstatement of the injunction.

§ 339. A judge of the court of appeals, in any case, in
which the plaintiff has secured the right to apply therefor
as provided in the last section, may, upon an inspection of
copies of the record, and of the depositions and evidence
read upon the motion to dissolve or modify the injunction,
reinstate the same in whole or in part. And, if the order
of reinstatement is filed in the clerk’s office in the time
limited as rovided in the last section, the injunction, as reinstated, s all be obeyed; otherwise, the order of dissolution or modification shall take effect.

CHAPTER 5.
Receiver.

§ 340. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent
purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim, or between partners or others
jointly owing or interested in any property or fund, on the
application of the plaintiff or of any party whose right to or
interest in the property or fund. or the proceeds thereof, is
probable, and where it is shown that the property or fund

is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured,
the court may appoint a receiver to take charge thereof du- 7
ring the pendency of the action, and may order and coerce
the delivery of it to him. .

§ 341. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of
his mortgage, and sale of the mortgaged property, a receiver may, in like manner, be appointed, where it appears
that the mortgaged property is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured, or that the condition of the
mortgage has not been performed, and that the property is
probably insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt.

§ 342. No party, or attorney or person interested in an
action, shall be appointed receiver therein.

§ 343. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must
be sworn to perform them faithfully, and, with one or more
sureties approved by the court, execute a bond to such person and in such sum as the court shall direct, to the effect
that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in
the action, and obey the orders of the court therein.

§ 344. The receiver has, under the control of the court,
power to bring and defend actions, to take and keep possession of the property, ,to receive rents, collect debts, and,
generally, to do such acts respecting the property as the.
court may authorize.

CHAPTER 6.anosit in court.

§ 345. Where it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a party, that he has in his possession, or under his
control, any money, or other thing capable of delivery,
which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as
trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to
another party, the court may order the same to be deposited
in court, or delivered to such party with or without security, subject to the further direction of the court.

§ 346. Wherever in the exercise of its authority, a court
has ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other thing,
and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the
disobedience, may make an order requiring the sheriff to
take the money or thing, and deposit or deliver it in conformity with its direction.

§ 347. The court may direct the sheriff to keep safely
any property delivered pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and may allow him the necessary expenses attending the same, to be paid by such party as the court shall direct, and taxed in the costs of the action.

§ 348. It may confide to the sheriff money deposited or
paid into court, which shall be kept by him under the same
requirements and responsibilities of himself and his sureties as are provided by this code in respect to money deposited in lieu of bail.

§ 349.  court sitting in a county in which, or in any
county adjoining which, there is a bank, or a branch of a
bank, created by the laws of this state, transacting regular banking business, may order money paid into court to
be deposited in such bank or branch to the credit of the
court, in the action or proceeding in which the‘money was
paid. Money 80‘ deposited, shall be paid only uponthe
check of the clerk of the court, annexed to its certified order for the payment, and in favor of the person to“ whom
the order directs the payment to be made. .

§ 350. Money deposited or paid into court in any action,
shall not be loaned out by the court, unless with the consentof all the parties having an interest in or making claim

to the same. 
TITLE IX.

TRIAL AND JUDGMENT.
CRAP. 1. Issue.
2.  .
3. Judgment.
CHAPTER 1.
Issue.

§ 351. Issues arise on the pleadings. 'where a fact, or
conclusion of law, is maintained by one party and controverted by the other. They are of two kinds :
1. Of law.
2. Of fact.
§ 352. An issue of fact arises
1. Upon‘a material allegation in the petition, denied by the answer. ,
2. Upon a set-off or counter-claim presented in the
answer, and denied by the reply.
3. Upon material new matter in the answer or re4
ply, which shall be considered as controverted by the
oppositeparty without further pleading.

CHAPTER 2.
Trial.
Ant. 1. Trial in general.
‘2. Trial by jury.
3. Trial by the court. ‘
4. Exceptions. '
5. New trial.
6. General provisions.
7. Thus if trial.
ARTICLE I.
. Trial in general.

§ 353. A trial isoa judicial examination of the issues,
whether of law or of fact, in an action. ' ‘

§ 354. Issues of law must be tried by the court. Issues
of fact, arising in actions by ordinary proceedings for the
recovery of money, or of specific real or personal property, shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived.

§ 355. All other issues of tact, whether arising in ordinary or equitable proceedings, shall be tried by the court, subject to its power to order any issue or issues to be tried by
a juror.

§ 356. The trial in each action shall be in the order in
which it stands upon the docket.

§ 357. A motion to postpone a trial .on account of the
absence of evidence, can be made only Upon aflidavit
showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to obtain it;
and, if it is for an absent witness, the affidavit must show
what facts the alliant believes the witness will prove, and
not merely the effect of such facts in evidence, and that the
afliant himself believes them to be true. If, thereupon, the
adverse party will consent that, on the trial, they shall be
.taken as true, the trial shall not be postponed for that
cause.

ARTICLE II.
Trials by jury.

tS‘osmvisxox 1. Formation of the jury.
:2. Conduct of the trial.
3. Verdict.

SUBDIVISION I.
' Formation of the ury.

§ 358. The general mode of summoning, impanneling,
challenging, and swearing the jury, is not changed by this
' code.

SUBDIVISION II.

Conduct (f the trial.

§ 359. When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall
‘ proceed in the following order, unless the court for special
reasons otherwise directs : . '

l. The plaintiff must briefly state his claim, and
the evidence by which he expects to sustain it..

2. The defendant must then briefly state his defense,
and the evidence he expects to offer in support of it.

3. The party on whom rests the burthen of proof
in the whole action, must first produce his evidence ;

.the adverse party will then produce his evidence.

4. The parties will then be confined to rebutting
evidence, unless the court, for good reasons in furtherance of justice, permits them to offer evidence in their
original case. I .

5. When theevidence is concluded, either party may

requestinstructions to the jury on points of law, which
shall be given or refused by the court; which instructions shall be reduced to writing. if either party require it.

6. The parties may then submit or ague the case to
the jury. In the argument, the party having the burthen of proof shall have the conclusion, and the ad-'
verse, party the opening. If there is more than one
speech on either side, or if several defendants having
separate defenses, appear by different counsel, the
court shall arrange their relative order.

§ 360. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper .
for the jury to have'a view of real property which is the
subject of litigation, or of the place in which any material
fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted in a body
under the charge of an officer to the place, which shall be
shown to them by some person appointed by the court for .
that purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no person,
other than the person so appointed, shall speak to them on
any subject connected with the trial. . ,

§ 361. When the case is finally submitted to the jury,
they may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they
retire, they must be kept together in some convenient place,
under the‘charge of an officer, until they agree upon a verdict or are discharged by the court, subject to the discretion
of the court to permit them to' separate temporarily at
night, and at their meals. The officer having them under'
his charge, shall not suffer any communication to be made
to them,or make any himself, except to ask them if they
have agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the court ;'
and he shall not, before their verdict is rendered,¢ommuni- A
I cute to any person'the‘ state of their deliberations, or the
verdict agreed upon. ~

§ 362. If the jury are permitted to separate either during ‘
the trial or after the case is submitted to them, they may be I
admonished by the court that it is their duty not to converse '
with, or suffer themselves to be addressed by, any other person, on any subject of the trial ; and, during the trial, that
it is their duty not to form or express an opinion thereon,
until the cause is finally submitted to them. _

§ 363. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there
is a disagreement between them as to any part of the tes- j
timony, or if they desire to be informed as to any point of ;
law arising in the case, they may request the oflicer to conduct them into court, where the information required shall
be given in the presence of or after notice to the parties or
their counsel.

§ 364. The jury may be discharged by the court on account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity requiring their discharge, or by consent of both parties, or. after they have been kept together until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability of their agreeing.

§ 365. In all cases where the jury are dischargedduring
' the trial or after the cause is submitted to them, it may be
tried again, immediately or at a future time, as the court
may direct.

§ 366. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict,
they must be conducted into court, their names called by
the clerk, and the verdict rendered by their foreman. “7 hen
the verdict is announced, either party may require the jury
to be polled, which is done by the clerk or court asking each
juror if it is his verdict. If any one answers in the negative. the jury must again be sent out for further deliberation.

§ 367. The verdict shall be written, signed by the foreman, and' read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry
made, whether it is their verdict. If any juror disagrees,
the jury must be sent out again ; but if- no disagreement is
expressed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled,
the verdict is complete, and the jury discharged from the
case.

SUBDIVISION III.
Verdict.

§ 368. The verdict of a jury is either general or special.
A general verdict is that by which they pronounce, generally, upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which
the jury find the facts only. ltmust present the facts as
established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove
them; and they must be so presented as that nothing remains ,to the court but to draw from them conclusions of
law. '

§ 369. In all actions, the jury, in, their discretion, may
render a general or special verdict, but may be required by
the court, in anycase in which they render a general verdict, to find specially upon particular questions of fact to be
stated in writing. This special finding is to be recorded
with the verdict. .

§ 370. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent
, with the general verdict, the former controls the latter, and
the court may give judgment accordingly.

§ 371. When, by the verdict, either party is entitled to
recover money of the adverse party, the jury, in their
verdict, must assess the amount of recovery.

§ 372. In actions for the recoveronf specific personal
‘ property, the jury must assess the value of the pr0perty, as
also the damages for the taking or detention, whenever, by
their verdict, there will be’a judgment for the recovery or
return of the property.

ARTICLE III.

Trial by the court. .
§ 373. The trial by jury may be waived by the parties in

actions arising on contract, and, with the assent of the
court, in other actions, in the following manner:
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent in person, or by attorney, tiled
with the clerk.
§ 374. By oral consent in open court entered on the recor .
§374. Upon trials of questions of fact by the court, it
shall not be necessary for the court to state its finding, except, generally, for the plaintiff or defendant, unless one of
the parties requests it, with the view of escepting to the
decision of the court upon the questions of law involved
in the trial; in which case the court shall. state in writing
the conclusions of fact found, separately from the conclusions of law.

ARTICLE IV.
Eruptions.

§ 375. An exception is an objection taken to a decision of
the court upon a matter of law.

§ 376. The party objecting to the decision, must except
at the time the decision is made, and time may be given to
reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond the succeeding term. . - . .

§ 377. No particular form of exception’is required. .The
objection must be-stated, with" so much of the evidence as
is necessary to explain it and no more, and the whole as
briefly as possible.

§ 378. Where the decision objected to is entered on the
record, and the grounds of objection appear in the entry,
the exception may be taken by the arty causing to be noted, at the end of the decision, that he excepts. ~

§ 379. Where the. decision is not entered on the record,

or the grounds of objection do not sufficiently appear in
the entry, the party excepting must reduce his exception
to writing, and present it to the judge for his allowance
and signature. If true, it shall be the duty of the judge to
allow and sign‘it; whereupon, it shall be filed with the
pleadings as part of the record, but not spread at large on
the order book. If the writing is not true, the judge shall
correct it, or suggest the correction to be made, and sign
it. If the party excepting is not satisfied with the correction, upon his procuring the signatures of two by-standcrs
attesting the truth of his exception as by him prepared, the
same shall be tiled as part of the record; but the truth of
the exceptions may be controve’rted and maintained by aflidavits, not etceeding five in number on each side, to be
filed with the clerk within ten days after the filing. of the
exception.

§ 380. No exception shall be regarded, unless it is material and prejudicial to the substantial rights of the party
excepting. ‘ ‘

ARTICLE V. .

JVew Tlials.

§ 381. A new trial is a re-examinatioa in the same court
of an issue of fact after a verdict by a jury or a decision
by the court. The former verdict or decision may be vacated and a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes affecting materially the substantial rights of such party: .

l. Irregularity in theproceedings of the court, jury,
or prevailing party, or any order of court or abuse of
discretion, by which the party‘was prevented from
having a fair trial. _ .

2. Misconduct of the jury er prevailing party.

3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against. ‘

4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influence of passion or prejudice.
- . 5. ‘Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too large or too small, where. the action
is upon a' contract or for the injury or,detention of
property. ' r .

6. That the verdict or decision is not sustained by
sutlicient evidence, or is contrary to law. a

7. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
applying, which he could not, with reasonable diligence,'have discovered and produced at the trial. A

8. Error of law occurring at the trial, and excepted
to by the party making the application.

§ 382. A new trial shall not be granted on account of

the smallness of damages in an action for an injury to the
person or reputation, nor in any other action where the
damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury’ sustained.

§ 383. The application for a new trial must be made at
the term the verdict or decision is rendered, and, except for
the cause mentioned in subdivision seven of section three
hundred and eighty-one, shall be within three days after
the verdict or decision was rendered, unless" unavoidably
prevented. .

§ 384. The application mtht be by motion upon written
grounds filed at the time of making the motion. The
grounds mentioned in the second, third, and seventh subdivision of section three hundred and eighty-one, must be
sustained by aflidavits showing their truth, and may be
controverted by aflidavits. '

§ 385. Where grounds for a new trial are discovered after the term at which the‘ verdict or decision was rendered,
‘ the application may be made by a petition tiled with the
' clerk not later than the second term after the discovery, on
which a summons shall issue, as on, other petitions, requiring the adverse party to appear'and answer it, on or before the first dayof the next term. The application shall '

stand for hearing at the term to which the summons is returned executed, and shall be summarily decided by the
court. The evidence may be either by depositions, or by
witnesses examined in court. But no such application
shall be made more than three years after the tinaljudgment was rendered.

\

ARTICLE rt.
General provisions.

§ 386. Wherever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff
'may claim and recover any rateof damages to which he
may be entitled for the cause of action Established.

§ 387. The provisions of this title respecting trials by
jury, apply, so ,far as they are in their nature applicable, 
to trials by the court.

ARTICLE VII. '
§ 388. The clerk shall keep three separate deckets, whic
shall be called the “common docket,” the “equity docket,”
and the “motion docket.” "

§ 389. On the common docket shall be entered all actions
prosecuted by ordinary proceedings, in the order in which
they were brought. ‘ '

§ 390. The common docket shall be made out for each
term of the court; and the actions shall be set for particu~
lar days, and so arranged by the clerk that the cases set
for each day shall be tried, as nearly as may be, on that
day.

§ 391. The trial of any issue of fact or assessment of
damages by a jury in any case, shall be on or after the
do which it is set on the docket.

§ 392. On the equity docket shall be entered all actions
prosecuted by equitable proceedings, in the order in which
they were brought.

§ 393. On the motion docket may be entered any motion
relating to proceedings in the court. '

§ 394. The entry on all the dockets shall give the name
of the plaintiff and defendant, or if there are more than
one, then, of the first named in the pleadings, with the
words “and others" added thereto, and the names of the
attorneys.

§ 395. The entry on the common docket shall also show
whether or not the summons has been fully served in due
time for trial, and whether or not the issues have been
formed.

§ 396. The entry on the motion docket shall show the
date of the entry and the object of the motion. ‘

§ 397. The first hour of each day of the term shall be

devoted to hearing motions, in which the court shall first
 call the motion docket, and then, upon the attorneys present, for motions.
§ 398. If the hour is not consumed in motions, the court
‘ may proceed, during the remainder thereof, to call the equi, ty docket. ‘ . ‘
§ 399. At the eXpiration of the motion hour, the court,
except on the third day of the term, shall proceed to the
call of the common docket and the trial of the issues until
the call is completed, and then to the call of the equity
docket. '
§ 400. On each day of the term, the court shall, immediately after the hearing of motions, call all the cases on the.
common docket set for that day in which the summons has
been served in due time, as provided in section one hundred
and sixty-one, and in which no issue of fact has been
formed ; and, upon failure to defend, may render judgment;
and at the same time may hear and determine all issues of
law in such actions, and render judgment, or give further
time for hearing and deciding them.
§ 401. On the third day of each term, the court shall
call all cases on the equity docket in which the summons
has been served as provided in section one hundred and
sixty-three; and, upon failure to defend, may give judgment. .
§ 402. On the third day, the court may hear and decide
all issues of law in the actions as they are called, and render judgment, or give further time for hearing or deciding
them. '
§ 403. The entry of a motion on the motion docket, shall
be considered as making the motion.
§ 404. Actions .by ordinary proceedings shall stand for
trial at the first term after process has been served on the
defendant as specified in section one hundred and sixtyone. An action upon contract, wherein the summons has
been served in due time as provided in section one hundred I
and sixty-one upon part only of the defendants, shall stand
for trial at the first term as to those so summoned, and may
‘ be continued as to the others for further proceedings. In
other actions by ordinary proceedings, the plaintiff can only
demand a trial at any term as to part of the defendants,‘
upon his discontinuing his action on the first day of such
term as to the others.
§ 405. Actions prosecuted by equitable proceedings shall
stand for trial at any term, where the pleadings have been,
or, by the provisions of sections one hundred and sixtythree, one hundred and sixty-four, and one hundred and
sixty-five, should have been completed ninety days before
the commencement of such term. But where they have
not been so completed, though they should have been by
those sections, the party in default as to time, shall not be
entitled to demand a trial. '

§ 406. Where interrogatdries have been annexed to a

pleading in an action by equitable proceedings, the party '
interrogated shall not be entitled to demand a trial, unless ‘

he has answered the interrogatories either within twenty
days after they were tiled, or twenty days before the term.

§ 407. The plaintiff shallbe entitled to a trial in actions
by equitable proceedings, at the first term after the summons has been served on all the defendants as provided in section one hundred and sixty-three, where no issue of fact
is made by the pleadings, or where the plaintiff consents
that the statements of the answer may be taken as true.

§ 408. Where the summons in an action by equitable proceedings, has been served in due time on part only of the j
defendants, the plaintiff may dismiss his action as to those :

not summoned, and proceed to trial as to the others, in all
cases where he could have maintained his action against
them without joining'those not summoned. ' '

CHAPTER 3.

Ant. 1. Judgment in general.
2. Judgment upon failure to answer.

3. Judgment by conjiuion.

4. Manner qf giving and entering 

5. conveyance by commissioners under a judgment.
' ARTICLE I.
Judgment in general.

§ 409. A judgment is the final determination of the rights
of the parties in an action.

§ 410. Judgment may be given for or against one ormore
of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants. _ .
§ 411. In an action against several defendants, the court

may,.in its discretion, render judgment against one or more
of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others,
whenever a several judgment is proper.

§ 412. An action may be dismissed, without prejudice to

a future action— .
1. By the plaintiff, before the final submission of the
case to the jury, or to the court where the trial is by I

the court.
2. By the court, where the plaintiff fails to appear

on the trial.
3. By the court, for the want of necessary parties.
4. By the court, on the application of some of the
defendants, where there are others whom the plaintiff
fails to prosecute with diligence. ‘
5. By the court, for disobedience by the plaintiff of
an order concerning the proceedings in the action.
In all other cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision must be upon the merits.

§ 413. In any case where a set-off or counter-claim has
' been presented, the defendant shall have the right of pro-'
ceeding to the trial of his claim, although the plaintiff may
have dismissed his action or failed to appear. A
§ 414. Though all the defendants have been summoned,
judgment may be rendered against any of them severally,
- where the plaintiff would be entitled to judgments against
such defendants if the action had been against them alone.
§ 415. It shall not be necessary, in any action upon a
mortgage or lien, to enter an interlocutory. judgment or
give-time for the payment of money, or for doing any other
act; but final judgment may, in such cases, be given in the
first instance. .
§ 416. In the foreclosure of a mortgage, 9. sale of the
mortgaged property shall, in all cases, be ordered.
§ 417. Sales of personal property or slaves made by order
of court, shall be on a credit of three months ; sales of real
property, on a credit of not less than three nor more than
twelve months, or on installments equivalent to not more
than twelve months’ credit on the whole, to be determined
by the court. In all sales on credit, the purchaser shall,
execute bond, with good surety, to be approved by the person making the sale, which bond shall have the force of a
judgment; and in sales of real property, a lien shall be retained on the property for its price.

ARTICLE II.
Judgment upon failure to answer.

§ 418. If the taking of an account, or the proof ofa fact,
or the assessment of damages is necessary to enable the
court to pronounce judgment upon a failure to answer,.or
after a decision of an issue of law, the court may take the’
account, hear the proof, and, in actions founded on contract,
assess the damages, or may refer the same to a commissioner, or may direct the same to be ascertained or assessed by a jury. If a jury is ordered, it shall he on or
after the day on which the action is set for trial.

ARTICLE III.
Judgment by confession.

§ 419. Any person indebted, or against whom a cause of
action exists, may personally appear in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, with the assent of the creditor or
person having such cause of action, confess judgment therefor; whereupon, judgment shall be entered accordingly.

§ 420. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly stated
in the judgment, or in a writing to be filed as pleadings in
other actions.

§ 421. Such judgment shall authorize the same proceed» ings for its enforcement as judgments rendered in actions

regularly brought and prosecuted, and the confession shall
operate as a release of errors.

ARTICLE IV.
Manner of giving and entering judgment.

§ 422. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be entered by the clerk in conformity to theverdict,
unless it is special, or the court orders the case to be reserved for future argument or consideration.

§ 423. Where the verdict is special, or where there has
been a special finding on particular questions of fact, or
where the c0urt has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall
order what judgment shall he entered.

§ 424. Where, uponothe statements in the pleadings, one
party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment
shall be so rendered ‘by the court though a verdict has been
found against such party. ‘
§ 425. If a set-off established at the trial, exceeds the
plaintiff ’s claim so established, judgment for the defendant
must be given for the excess; or. if it appears that the defendant is entitled to any other aflirmative relief, judgment
shall be given therefor. .

§ 426. In an‘ action to recover the possession of personal
property, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the delivery
of the property, or for the value thereof, in case a delivery
cannot be had, and damages for the detention. Where the
property has been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant claims a return thereof, judgment for the defendant
may be for the return of the property, or its value in case
a return cannot be had, and damages for the taking and
withholding of the property.

§ 427. Where special damages are given by statute, and
it appears, by the’verdict of the jury or other decision of
the action, that such special damages are due and recoverable by one of the parties against the other, the court shall
render judgment for them; and if, in ascertaining the
amount thereof, it is necessary to assess the value of any
property, or amount of any debt Or claim, the court may
hear the proof and assess such value or amount, or have
the same made by ajury.

§ 428. The judgment must he entered on the order book,
and specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the action.

§ 429. It shall not be necessary to reserve, in a judgment
or order, the right of an infant to show cause against it after his attaining full age; but in any casein which, but
for this section, such a reservation would have been proper,
the infant, within twelve months after arriving at the age
of twenty-one years, may show cause against 'such order
or judgment. ‘ ~ ’

§ 430. The clerk must keep, among the records of the

court, a book to be called the “judgment book,” in which
shall be alphabetically cross-indexed all the judgments of
the court, according to the surnames of the plaintiff and
defendant; and if there is more than one plaintiff or defendant, then, of the plaintiff and defendant first named in
the petition. It shall be so arranged that all the judgments
in cases of plaintiffs whose surnames commence 'with the
same letter, shall be together, and all of each term shall
immediately succeed each other. The entry in the judgment book, must show the names of the plaintiff and defendant, and if more than one, then of the first named of
each in the leadings, with the words “and others,” the
term at which the judgment was entered, and a reference
to the order book and age at which the judgment is to be
found, with a space leg for the entry of the satisfaction of
the judgment. . .

§ 431. Whenever the whole judgment shall appear to be
satisfied by the return of an execution, it shall be the duty of
the clerk to enter in the judgment book, in the space left for
that purpose, “satisfied by execution.” Whenever a judgment is satisfied otherwise than upon execution, it shall be
the duty of the party or his attorney to enter satisfaction
in the judgment book, which shall be sutl'iciently done, by
writing the words “satisfied in full,” with the date of the
entry, and the signature of the party making it; and the
court may, on motion and notice, compel an entry of satisfaction to be made.

ARTICLE V.
Conveyance by commissioners.

§ 432. Real property may be conveyed by a commissioner
appointed by the court

1. Where, by the judgment in an action, a party is
ordered to convey such preperty to another.

2. Where such property has been sold, under a judgment or order of the court, and the purchase money
paid.

§-433. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer to the
judgment, orders, and proceedings authorizing the conveyance, as that the same may be readily found.

§ 434. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment,
shall pass to the grantee the title of the parties ordered to
Convey the land.

§ 485. A conve 'ance made in pursuance of a sale ordered by the court, s all passto the grantee the title of all the
parties to the action or proceeding. '

§ 436. A conveyance by a commissioner shall not pass
any right, until it has been examined and approved by the
court, which approval shall be indorsed on the conveyance,
and recorded with it. ‘

§ 437. It shall be necessary for the conveyance to be signed by the commissioner only, without afiixing the names of
the parties whose title is conveyed; but the names of such
parties shall be recited in the body of the conveyance.

§ 438. The conveyance shall be recorded in the office in
which, by law, it should have been recorded, had it been
made by the parties whose title is conveyed by it.

 

TITLE X.

PROCEEDINGS IN CERTAIN ACTIONS.
Cur. I. In actions against absent and non-resident dqfondontl, unknown
heirs, and unknown owners of property.
2. In action: against steamboau.

CHAPTER 1.

In action: against absent and'non-resident defendants, unknown
heirs, and unknown owners of property.

§ 439. A defendant constructively summoned, shall be allowed, at any time before judgment, to appear and defend
the action; and, upon a substantial defense beingdisclosed,
time may be given on reasonable terms to prepare for trial.
§ 440. The statements of the petition as against a defendant constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, except such as are for his benefit, shall not be taken
as true, but are to be established by proof. But where the
plaintiff tiles with the petition his own aflidavit, stating
that any of the allegations thereof recited in the atiidavit
are true, and‘known to be so by the defendant, and that
they cannot be proved or shown otherwise than by his
answer, so far as affiant knows or- believes, such allegations, unless denied by the answer, shall be taken as true.
§ 441. Before judgment is rendered against a defendant
constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, it
shall be necessary

1. That an attorney be appointed. at least sixty days
before the judgment is rendered, to defend for the defendant, and inform him of the action and of such other matters as may be useful to himin preparing for his
defense. The attorney may be appointed by the clerk
when the warning order is made, or by the court, and
shall receive a reasonable compensation for his services, to be paid by the plaintiff, and taxed in the costs.
2. That a bond be executed to such defendant, by
one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, to the
effect that, if the defendant within the period prescribed by law, shall appear, make defense, and set aside
the judgment, the plaintiff shall restore to him the
property taken under any attachment in the action,or
under the judgment therein, the restoration of which
may be adjudged, and pay to the defendant such sums

of money as the court may award to him.

§ 442. The attorney appointed pursuant to the last sec' tion, shall bea regular practicing attorney of the court;
and, before an order for his compensation is made, he must
make a written statement of all that he has done in the
case, which shall be signed by him, and filed with the papers of the action. , .
§ 443. If the bond mentioned in section four hundred and
forty-one is not given, the court may enter a judgment ascertainingthe rights of the parties, but shall retain control
over and preserve any money, or property or the proceeds
thereof, which may have been attached in the action, until
the expiration of the period allowed to the defendant to appear and make defense; when, if no defense is made, such
money, or property or its proceeds, shall be delivered 'according to the judgment.
§ 444. Before rendering judgment against a defendant
constructively summoned, and who has not appeared. the
court may cause the plaintiff to appear personally in court,
or before a commissioner, and answer under oath interrogatories concerning the matters in the petition, or any matters of defense thereto, including matters of set—off or counter-claim, and may order the examination to be reduced to
writing and filed with the papers of the action.
§ 445. If, upon the examination provided in the last section, any matters of set-off or counter-claim are disclosed,
the same may be adjusted and allowed in the judgment.
§ 446. Where ajudgment has been rendered against a
delendant or defendants constructively summoned, and who
did not appear, such defendants, or any one or more of
them, may, at any time within five years alter the rendition of the judgment, appear in court, and move to have
the action retried; and security for the costs being given,
they shall he admitted to make defense; and, thereupon,
the action shall be retried as to such defendants, as if there
had been nojudgment; and, upon the new trial, the court
may confirm the formerjudgment, or may modify or set it
aside, and may order the plaintiff to restore any money of
such defendant paid to him under it, or any property of the
defendant .obtained by the plaintiff under it and yet remaining in his possession, and pay to the defendant the
value of any property which may have been taken under
an attachment in the action, or under the judgment, and not
restored.
§ 447. The plaintiff may, at any time after the judgment,
cause a certified copy thereof to be served on a defendant
constructively summoned; whereupon, the period in which
such defendant is allowed to appear and have a new trial,
shall be reduced to one year after such service. ‘
§ 448. The service of the copy of the judgment, ifin this
' state, shall be made and proved in the same manner as the service of a summons ; and if out of this state, in the manner prescribed in section one hundred and thirteen as to
the service of a copy of the petition and summons, and
proof thereof. '

§ 449. The title of purchasers in good faith to any property sold under an attachment or judgment, shall not be affected by the new trial permitted by section four hundred
and forty-six, except the title of property obtained by the
plaintiff and not bought of him in good faith by others.

§ 450. No lien on the property of a defendant constructively summoned, shall be created otherwise than by an attachment as provided in Chapter 3 of Title viii, or byjudgment. Nor shall any other defendant be restrained from
paying or delivering any money or property in his hands
belonging or due to such defendant, by notice indorsed on
the summons, or otherwise than by attachment or judgment.

§ 451. No personal judgment shall be rendered against
a defendant constructively summoned, or summoned out of
this state as provided in section one hundred and thirteen,
and who has not appeared in the action.

CHAPTER 2.
In actions against steamboats.

§ 452. An action to enforce the liability, by statute, of a
steamboat or other vessel for the removal Of a slave, or to
enforce a lien upon a steamboat for the wages of its officers
or crew, or for work done upon, or materials, supplies,
stores, or provisions furnished to such boat, or the liability
thereof for an injury to another boat or craft, or fora trespass of its oflicers or crew, shall stand for trial at the first
term of the court commencing not less than ten days alter
the service of the summons. '

§ 453. In any action mentioned in the last section, a person made a party pursuant to the provisions of section
seventy-five, may obtain an attachment in the same manner and upon the same conditions as are prescribed concerning the attachment of the plaintiff in the action.

§ 454. Where, in any action mentioned in section four
hundred and fifty-two, no owner of the boat has been summoned or has appeared, the statements of the petition shall
not be taken as true upon the trial, but are to be established by proof. '

§ 455. Where any action mentioned in section four hun-.
dred and fifty-two, is for an injury, the facts shall be tried
by a jury upon such issue or issues as the court may prescribe; and, in every such case, the damages shall be as-_
sessed by a jury.

§ 456. Where any action mentioned in section four hundred and fifty-two, is upon contract, the court may determine the facts and assess the damages or amount of recovery, or, in its discretion, may direct a trial or assessment

by a jury, or a reference to a commissioner to ascertain the
facts or make an assessment.

§ 457. Sales of steamboats or other vessels ordered in
any action mentioned in section four hundred and fifty-two,
shall not be upon a credit longer than six months, nor,
where by installments, upon credits longer than an average
of six months for the whole.

 
TITLE
REVIVOR 0F ACTIONS.

§ 458. Where there are several plaintiffs or defendants
in an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the right of action survives
to or against the remaining parties, the action may proceed,
the death of the party, or the cessation of his powers, being
stated on the record.

§ 459. Where one of several plaintiffs or defendants dies,
or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the
cause of action does not admit of survivorship, and the
court is of opinion that the merits of the controversy can
be properly determined, and the principles applicable to
the case fully settled, it may proceed to try the cause as between the remaining parties; but the judgment shall not
prejudice any who were not parties at the time of the trial.

§ 460. Where one of the parties to an action dies, or his
powers as a personal representative cease, before the judgment, if the right of action survives in favor of or against
his representatives or successor, the action may be revived,
and proceed in their names.

§ 461. The revivor shall be by an order of the court that
the action be revived in the names of the representatives
or successor of the party who ‘died or whose powers ceased,
and proceed in favor of or against them.

§ 462. The order may be made on the motion of the ad- ,
verse party, or of the representatives or successor of the
party who died or whose powers ceased, suggesting his
death or the cessation of his powers, which, with the names
and capacities of his representatives or successor, shall be
stated in the order. ,

§ 463. If the order is made by consent of the parties, the
action shall forthwith stand revived; and, if not made by
consent, the order shall be served, in the same manner as a
summons, upon the party adverse to the one making the
motion. And, at the first term commencing not less than
ten days after such service, the party upon whom it is made
may show cause againstthe revivor; and, if sufficient cause
is not then shown, the action shall stand revived.

§ 464. If ten days’ notice has been given to the representatives or successor of the party who died or whose

powers ceased, of the motion by the adverse party for an
'order to revive the action in their names, or to the adverse
party where the motion is by such representatives _ or successor, and due return is made of the service of the notice"
the court may, if sufficient cause is not shown to the contrary, make an order reviving the action in the names of
such parties; whereupon, the action shall stand revived.

§ 465. Where it appears to the court by the affidavit of
'the plaintiff that the representatives of the defendant, or
any of them, in whose name the action is ordered to be revived, are non-residents ‘of this state, or have left the same
to avoid the service of the order, or have been absent therefrom four months, or so conceal themselves that the order
cannot be served upon them, or that the names of the heirs
of the defendant against whom the action is ordered to be
revived, or of some of them, are unknown to the atliant, an
.order may be made by the court warning such representatives or unknown heirs to ap ear on the first day of its next
'term, and show cause why t c action should not be revived .
.against them. The parties so warned shall be deemed
constructively served with a copy of the order of revivor
ten days before the term at whio they are warned to appear; and, if suflicient cause is not shown to the contrary,
the notion shall, at that term, stand revived. §466. Upon the death of the plaintiff in an action, it
may be revived in the names of his representatives to
whom his right has passed. "Where his right has passed
tohis personal representative, the revivor shall be in his
name; where it has passed to his heirs, or to his devisees,
who could support the action if brought anew, the revivor
may he in their names.

§ 467. Upon'the death of a defendant in an action wherein the right, or any part thereof, survives against ‘his personal representative, the revivor shall be against him; and
it may also be against the heirs or devisees of the defendant, or both; and where ’one year has elapsed after the
death of the defendant and no person has ualified as his
personal representative, the action may e revived and
proceed against his heirs 0r devisees, or both.

§ 468. Upon the death of a defendant in an action for
the recovery of real property only, or which concerns only
his rights or claims to such property,the action may be revived against his heirs or devisees, or both, and an order
therefor may be forthwith made in the manner directed in
the preceding sections of this title. '

§ 469. An order torevive an actidn against the personal
arepresentative of a defendant, or against him and the heirs r
or devisees of the defendant, cannot be made, unless by.
consent,'until after six months from the qualification of the
personal mpresentative. .

§ 470. An order to revive an action against the representatives or successor of a defendant shall not be made,
without the consent of such representatives or successor,
unless in one year from the time it could have been first
made. . . ‘
§ 471. An order to revive an action in the names of the
representatives or successor of a plaintiff, may be made
forthwith, but shall not be made without the consent of the
defendant after the expiration of one year from the time
the order might have been first made ,1 except that, where
the defendant shall also have died or his powers have
ceased in the meantime, the order of revivor on both sides
may be made‘in the period limited in the last section. '

§ 472. When it. appears to the court by atiidavit that either party to an action has been dead, or, where he sues
or is sued as apersonal representative, that his powers
have ceased for a period so long that the action cannot be
revived in the names of his representatives or successor
without the consent of both parties, it shall order the action to be stricken from the docket.

§ 473. At an term of the court succeeding the death of
the plaintiff, w ilst the action remains on the docket, the
defendant having given to the plaintiff’s proper representatives, in whose names the action might'be revived, ten
days’ notice of A the application therefor, may have an
order to strike the action from the docket, and for costs
against the estate of the plaintiff, unless the action is
forthwith revived.
§ 474. When, by the provisions of the preceding sections,
an action stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be post—
poned by reason of the revivor, if the action would have
stood for trial at the term the revivor is complete, had no
death or cessation of powers taken place.

TITLE XII.

PROCEEDINGS TO REVERSE, VACATE, OR MODIFY JUbG- ’
MEN TS. '

§ 475. A judgment rendered. or final order made in the
circuit court may be reversed, vacated, or modified either
by the court of appeals, on by the court in which the judgment was rendered or order made. .

§ 476. A judgment or final order may be reversed or
modified by the'court of appeals for errors appearing in
the record. '

§ 477. The proceedings to obtain such reversal or modilfication shall be by appeal or writ of error prosecuted as
prescribed by law.

§ 478. A misprision of the clerk shall not he a ground for,
an appeal or writ of error, until the same has been presented and acted upon in the circuit court. ,
§ 479. Rendering judgment before the action stood for
trial according to the provisions of this code, shall be
deemed a clerical misprision.
§ 480. The court in which a judgment or final order has
been rendered or made, shall have power, after the expiration of the term, to vacate or modify such judgment or order.

1. By granting a new trial forthe cause and in the
rganner prescribed in section three hundred and eighty-I

VP.

2. By a new trial granted in proceedings against de-i
fendants constructively summoned, as prescribed in Chapter 1 of Title x. ‘

3. For misprisions of the clerk. , '

4. For fraud practiced by the successful party in the
obtaining of the judgment or order. I .

5. For erroneous proceedings against an infant, married woman, or person of unsound mind,.where the
condition of such defendant does not appear in the
record, nor the error inthe proceedings.

6. For the death of one of the parties before the
judgment in the action. .

7 . For unavoidable casualty or misfortune, preventing the party from appearing or defending.

8. For errors in a judgment, shown by an infant in
twelve months after arriving at full age, as prescribed
in section four hundred twenty-nine.

§ 481. The proceeding to correct misprisions of the clerk
shall be by motion, upon reasonable notice to the adverse
party, or his attorney in the action. The motion to vacate
ajudgment because of its rendition before the action regularly stood for trial, can be made only in the first three
days of the suceeding term. , .

§ 482. The proceeding to vacate or modify the judgment
or order on'the grounds mentioned in subdivisions four, five,
six, seven, and eight of section four hundred and eighty,
shall be by petition verified 'by affidavit, setting forth the
judgment or order, the grounds to vacate or modify it, and
the defense to the action, if the party applying was defendant. On the petition. a summons shall issue and beserved and other proceedings had, as in anaetion by ordinary
proceedings. . .

§ 483. A judgment shall not be vacated on motion or petition, until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense, to
the action in which the judgment is rendered, or, if the
plaintiff seeks its vacation, that there is a valid cause of
action; and where a judgment is modified, alliiens and
securities obtained underit, shah be preserved to the modified judgment. ‘ '

§ 484. The court may tirst try and decide upon the grounds
to vacate or modify a judgment or order, before trying, or,
deciding upon, the validity of the defense or cause of action. '

§ 485. The party seeking to vacate or modify a judgment
or order, may obtain an injunction suspending proceedings
on the whole or part thereof, which injunction may be
granted by the court or any oflicer authorized to grant in—
junctions, upon its being rendered probable, by affidavit or
by exhibition of the record, that the party is entitled to have,
such judgment, or order vacated or modified.

§ 486. Where the judgment was rendered before the action stood for trial, the suspension may be granted as provided in the last section, although no valid defense to the
action is shown; and the court shall make such orders concerning the executions to be issued on the judgment, or on
any replevy or forthcoming bond taken under it, as shall
give to the defendant the same rights of delay that he
would have had, if the judgment had been rendered at the
proper time.

 

TITLE XIII.

EVIDENCE.

Par 1. Produdioaofcu'dem. .

9. Competency of witness“.
3. Perpetuation of evidence.

PART 1.
Production If evidence.

Cum. 1. By whom to bcpreduesd.
2. Means of production. '
3. Mode qf trading the teatime, q’ Influences.

Curran 1.

By whom to be produced.

§ 487. The party holding the adirmative of an issue, must
produce the evidence to prove it. A =
§ 488. The burthen of roof in the whole action lies on
the party, who would be efeated if no evidence were given.
on either side. .. .
§ 489. Where a writing pu orting, to have been execut~
ed by one of the parties, is re erred to in and tiled with a
leading, it may be read as genuine against such arty, an:
bias he denies its genuineness by aflidavit before e trial is
gun. 

§ 490. The process by which the attendance of a witness is required, is a subpoena. It is a writ directed to thesheriti‘;
requiring him to summon the person named therein, to attend at a particular time and place, to testify as a witness.)
It may, when the court or the judge thereof so directs, require
the witness to bring with him any book, writing, or other.
thing under his control, which he is bound by law to produce in evidence.

§ 491. Where the attendance of the witness is required
before the court, or on the trial of an issue ordered by it,
or before a commissioner directed to take evidence, the,
subpcena shall be issued by the clerk on the request of
either party.

§ 492. Where the attendance of the witness is required
for the purpose of giving his deposition, the subpmna shall“
be issued by an ofiicer authorized to take the de osition.

§ 493. The service of a subpmna is made by s owing the
original, and delivering a copy or a ticket containing the
substance thereof to the witness. '

§ 494. A subpmna may be served by the sheriff, jailer,
coroner, or any constableof the county, WhOse return there-.
on shall be proof of the service; it may also be served by‘
any white erson of full age, whose aflidavit indorsed
thereon sha I be proof of the service, or the witness may
acknowledge service in writing on the subpdana. .

§ 495. A witness shall not be obliged to attend for examination on the trial of a civil action, except in the county of '
his residence or an adjoining county; nor to attend to give'
his deposition out of the county where he resides, or where.
he may be when the subpmna is served on him.

§ 496. Disobedience of a subpaana, or a refusal to be
sworn or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an afiidavit or deposition when lawfully ordered, may be punished
as a contempt of the court or oflicer by whom his attendance or testimony is required.

§ 497. Where a witness is brought before a court for con-,
tern t by disobedience of a subpcena, if it is shown that ‘
the egal fees for travel and one days’ attendance were paid. ‘
or tendered to him when the subptena was served, and that
he failed to attend without reasonable cause, the court may
summarily order him to pay to the party, on 'whose behalf
he was summoned, the costs occasioned to him by the discbedience of the subpaana, not exceeding twenty dollars,
besides being liable for any damages occasioned by the
failure to attend. ' ' ,

§ 498. Where a witness fails to attend in obedience to a
subpaana, the court or officer before whom his attendance
was required, may issue a warrant for arresting and bringing him before the court or officer, at a time and place to,
be fixed in the warrant, to give his testimony, and answer
for the contempt. If the warrant is not for immediate]
bringing the witness before thecourt or otiicer, a sum sh l

be fixed in which the witness may give bond ‘with surety
for his appearance ; and, il no sum is fixed by the court or
oliicer, it shall be one hundred dollars.

§ 499. The punishment for the contem t mentioned in Section four hundred and ninety-six, shal be by fine, not
exceeding thirty dollars, and imprisonment, not exceeding
twenty-four hours. But in the case of refusal by the witness to testify or be sworn, or to give a dep0sition, he shall
continue to be imprisoned so long ashe retuses; and,if the
court finally adjourns before he submits, he shall remain
imprisoned until the next term. The final disposition of
the ease in which he so refuses, shall discharge him from
im risonment. - '

§ 500. A witness so imprisoned or lined by an ollieer before whom his depOsltion is being taken, may apply to the
presiding judge of the county court, who shall have power todiseharge him, if it appears that his imprisonment is
illegal. .

§ 501. Every warrant of commitment to prison issued by
a court or oflicer pursuant to this chapter, must specify particularly the cause of the commitment; and, if it is for refusing to answer a question, such question must be stated
in the warrant. And every warrant to arrest or commit a
witness must be directed to the sheriff or the county where
he may be, and executed in the same manner as process
from the court. ' ' ,

§ 502. A person confined in any prison in this state for
any other cause than a sentence for felony, may, by order
of court, be‘required to be produced for oral examination
in the county where he is imprisoned ; but in all other cases, his examination must be taken by deposition.

§ 503. While aprisoner’s deposition is being taken, he
shall remain under the control of the oflicer having him in
custody, who shall afford reason able facilities for the taking
of the depositidn. .

§ 504. A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a county in which he does not reside, by being served with a summons‘ in such county while going; returning, or attending
in obedience to a subpqenaf

CHAPTER 3,
Mode of taking the testimony of witnesses.

AM. 1. AMauit.

2. Deputies. '
3. General rule: of rumination.

' §505. The testimony of witnesses is taken in three
modes:
1. By aliidavit.
2. By‘ deposition.“ ' ‘ 4
3. By oral examination. ' i

§ 506. An affidavit is a written declaration under oath,
made without notice to the adverse party.

§ 507. A deposition is a written declaration under oath,
made upon notice to the adverse party for .the purpose .of
enabling him to attend and cross-examine; or, upon written interrogatories. ‘ , r ‘

§ 508. An oral examination, is an examination in the
presence of the tribunal which is to decide the fact or act

upon it, the testimony. being heard by the tribunal from the
lips of the witness. ‘

ARTICLE I.

Ayidam't. A

§ 509. An aiiidavit may be read to verify a pleading, to
prove the service of a summons, notice, or other process
in an action, to obtain a provisional remedy, an examination of a witness, a stay of proceedings, or a warning order, or upon a motion, and in any other case permitted by
law.

§ 510. Where a provisional remedy is granted'upon an
affidavit, and a motion is made to discharge or vacate it,
the party against whom it is granted may, by written notice to the party by whom it was obtained, or by order or
rule of court, require the production of the person who
made the aflidavit for cross-examination ; whereupon, the
party notified shall produce the afiiant within ten days before an ofiicer authorized to take depositions, at a time and
place of which he shall give the adverse party three days’
notice. If the aliiant is not produced, his aflidavit shall
be suppressed; and if produced, he may be examined by
either party. . ‘

§ 511. An affidavit ma be made out of this state before
a commissioner appointe by the governor of this state to
take depositions,or before a judge of a court, mayor of a

city, notary public. or justice of the peace, whose certifi' cate shall be proof of the, time and manner of its being
made. 

§ 512. An aflidavitmay be. made in this state before a

judge of acourt, a justice of the peace, notary public, an
examiner, or a clerk of a court. Wherever,-by the provisions of this code, the aflidavit of the plaintiff or defendant
is required to verify a pleading, to obtain a warning order,
a provisional remedy, or any other order in an action, or on
a motion or proceeding. therein, it. may, unless otherwise
expressed, be made by the agent or attorney of the party,
if he is absent from, the county, in which case-the affidavit
shall state his absence, and that the affiant is his agent or
attorney. . . i _ .

§ 513. Every amdavit shall be subscribed by the afiiant,
andthe certificate of the officer. before: whom it-Jis made,

shall be written separately, following the signature of the
adiant.


ARTICLE II.
Sunnivruon 1. Wins to be used.
9. Ojcm authorised to take depositions.
3. Manner of taking 
4.
5.

Exceptions to depositions.
Deposition to be and in other atom.

. SUBDIVISION I. .

Whentobeused. '

§ 514. Depositions may be used on the trial of all issues
and upon all motions in actions by equitable proceedings,
,gxcept where the court otherwise directs on an-issue tried
aJur . 
§ 515. They may be used on the trial of all issues in any
,action in the following cases: p
1. Where the witness does not reside in the county
where the action is pending, or in an adjoining county,
or is absent from the state. - 2. Where the witness is the governor, secretary of
state, register, auditor, or treasurer of this state, a
judge or clerk of a court, a president, cashier, teller,
or clerk of a bank, a practicing physician, surgeon, or
lawyer, or keeper, oflicer, or guard of the penitentiary.
3. Where, from age, infirmity, or imprisonment, the
witness is unable to attend court, or is dead.
§ 516. A witness shall not be compelled to attend in
court for oral examination, where his deposition may be
used unless he has failed, when duly summoned, to appear
and give his deposition. ,
§ 517. The plaintiff .may commence taking depositions
immediately after the service of the summons; and the defendant, immediately after filing his answer.
§ 518. A party may take the deposition of any witness
do bane 6.986, which may be used under the circumstances prescribed in section five hundred and fifteen.

§ 519. The circuit judges shall appoint two, andnot more
,than four, examiners in each county of their respective districts, who, before acting shall be sworn in open court' to
discharge faithfully and impartially the duties of their of,fioe. ‘
§ 520. An examiner’s ofiice shall be kept in or near the

county seat; and if.there is more than one, the others at

such place as the court may direct. . . l
§ 521. There shall riot be more than three examiners’ of,fices in a county, nor more than two examiners to each of.iicel

§ 522. All depositions taken in this state to be used in
the courts thereof, shall be taken before an examiner, exce t ‘ ' '
p 1. Where an examiner cannot be obtained in the
county in which the deposition is to be taken.

2. Where‘the witness is unable, from age, infirmity,
or imprisonment, to attend at the examiner’s oflice, and
the examiner refuses to go to him.

3. Where all the examiners of the county are interested in the action. .

§ 523. In the cases mentioned in the exceptions to the
last section, the depositions may be taken before a judge of
a court, a justice of the peace, a notary public, or a clerk of
a court.

§ 524. Where a deposition is taken before any other oflicer than an examiner, the Cause of it being so taken shall
be made to appear'by an accompanying aflidavit.

§ 525. It shall not be the duty of an examiner to go out
of his oflice to take depositions, but he may take them at
any place in the county for which he is appointed. ,

§ 526. Depositions may be taken out of this state before
a commissioner appointed by the goVernor thereof, a judge
of acourt, a justice of the peace, mayor of a city, notary
public, or any other person empowered by a commission
directed to him by consent of the parties, or by order of the
court. 

SUBDIVISION III.
Manner of taking dcposilions.

§ 527. Depositions shall be taken upon reasonable notice to the adverse party, or upon interrogatories. .

§ 528. The notice must be in writing, signed by the party
giving it, or his attorney, addressed to the party on whom
it is to be served, and specify the time and place of taking
the deposition, and the action or proceeding in which it is
to he used.

§ 529. Where the notice is to be given to the defendant,
it may be served as the summons in the action is authorized
to be served.

§ 530. A notice shall be deemed reasonable thatgallows
one day for each thirty miles of distance which the party
will have to travel, and one day for preparation where the
distance is less than one hundred miles, and two days where
it is more. _ .

§ 531. Where a notice has been given to take a deposition at an examiner’s office, but the attendance of the witness cannot be procured, owing to his age, inlirminty. or
imprisonment, the taking of the deposition may be adjourned to the next day, and to some other convenient
place—a written notice of which shall be posted upon the
front door of the examiner’s office before noon of the day
on which the deposition was to have been taken.

§ 532. Where a notice has been given to take a deposition at an examiner’s oflice, but from any cause not mentioned in the last section,the deposition cannot be taken at
that oiiice, an adjournment to the nearest convenient place
shall be made—a written notice of which shall be posted
upon the front door of the examiner’s oiiice for one hour
before the deposition is commenced at the place to which
the adjournment is made.

§ 533. Where an adjournment has been made pursuant
to either of the last two sections, an affidavit as to the causes
thereof, with a copy of the notice certified by the sheriff,
cdnstable, or examiner, or sworn by a private person to
have been posted upon the door as therein directed, shall
accompany the deposition.

§ 534. A party to whom more than three days’ notice to
take a deposition out of this state is given, may, by netice
to the adverse party or his attorney, served in one day after
the service of the first notice, require the deposition to be
taken upon interrogatories.

§ 535. The court, on motion of either partyfmay permit
depositions to be taken upon interrogatories

1. Where the ascertainment of a fact or the stating
of an account is referred to a commissioner.

2. Where the party against whom the depositions
are to be read, is absent from the state, and has not
appointed an agent or attorney in the county where
the action is pending, known to the party taking the
deposition.

3. Where the parties against whom the deposition
is to be read are numerous, and have not designated
agents or attorneys residing in the county on whom
notice may be served.

4. In cases where an infant, lunatic, or married woman is a party, by the consent of the guardian, com—
mittee, or husband. ’

5. In any action mentioned in section seventy-three,
where the Owner of the boat or vessel has not appeared. §536. The interrogatories shall be filed in the clerk’s office ; and, if the adverse party or his agent or attorney resides in the same county, notice thereof shall be given to
either of them; and, while they remain in the clerk’s office, the adverse party may file cross interrogatories. If
cross interrogatories are not filed, the clerk shall file the
following : 1. Are you directly or indirectly interested in this
action, and if interested,explain the interest you have.

2. Are all your‘statements in the foregoing answers
made from your personal knowledge; and if not, do
your answers show what are made from your personal knowledge, and what from information, and the
source of that information.

3. State every thing you know concerning the subject of this action, favorable to either party.

§537. The interrogatories shall remain in the clerk’s of~
fice fifteen days, or, if notice is served as provided in the
last section, ten days after such service, unless the cross
interrogatories are sooner filed.

§ 538. After remaining the due length of time in the.
clerk’s oflice, one or more commissions, at the request of
the party, shall be issued by the clerk, with copies of the
interrogatories and cross interrogatories annexed, authorizing the person to whom it may be directed, to examine
witnesses on themmwhich commission may be directed,
generally, “to any officer authorized to take depositions in
or out of this state.” ~

§ 539. Upon filing with an examiner, or other officer aus
thorized to take depositions, a notice duly served, or a commission with interrogatories to take a deposition, it shall
be the duty of such ofiicer to issue his subpoena requiring
the witness, whose deposition is desired, to appear, at a
time and place to be named in the subpaana, for examines
tion; and if the witness fails to attend, after being duly
summoned, the ofiicer may issue his warrant for arresting
and bringing the witness before him, to give testimony and
answer for the contempt of disobedience of the subpcena.

§ 540. The officer before whom the deposition is taken
shall decide, summarily, all objections to questions, but in
matters of doubt shall permit the questions to be answered,
noting the objection in the deposition. He shall have power to prevent insulting questions being put to a witness,
and to stop a course of interrogation pursued unreasonas
bly long, and for mere vexation and delay.

§ 541. The statements of the witness shall be written, in
the presence of the oflicer taking it, either by the witness
or the oflicer. ’

§ 542. Where a deposition is taken upon interrogatories,
neither party, nor his agent or attorney, shall be present at
the examination of the witness, unless both parties are
present, or represented by an agent or attorney, or unless
the opposite party or his agent or attorney has been reasonably notified of the time and place of taking the depositions or the party attending has been notified by the op

posite party to attend. .
§ 543. The certificate of the officer shall state the time

and place of taking the de osition, that the witness was
duly sworn before he gave is testimony, and that his tes«
timony was written, read to, and subscribed by him, in the
presence of the officer: and also state by whom it was
written, and which of the parties, in person or by agent or
attorney, was present at the examination of the’ witness. 

§ 544. When the depositions are completed they shall be
sealed up by the ofiicer and directed to the clerk of the

court in which the action is pending, with a note showing

them to be depositions,.and the. style of the case in which
they were taken, and either delivered to the clerk or mailed
to him by the officer taking them.

§ 545. The fee allowed an officer for taking depositions
shall be one dollar for each deposition, and five cents per
mile for each mile that an examiner may have to travel in
going to and returning from the place of the taking—the
distance to be estimated from his office. But whatever is
the number of depositions taken in one day for the same
party in any action, the fees therefor shall not exceed three
dollars. 5 .

§ 546. For issuing a subpcena or warrant of arrest, and
for summoning or arresting the witnesses, the same fees

shall be; paid as are allowed to clerks and sheriffs for similar services.

SUBDIVISION IV.

Exceptions to depositions.

§ 547. No deposition shall be read on a trial, unless, before the commencement thereof, it was filed with the papers of the case. ‘ '

§ 548. Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing specifying the grounds of objection, filed with the papers of thecase, and noted on the record. '

§ 549. No exception, other than to the competency of the
witness, or to the 'relevancy‘ or competency of the testimony, shall be regarded, unless filed and noted on the record
before the commencement of the trial.

§ 550. The court, on the motion of either party, shall decide upon the exceptions before the commencement of the
trial. ‘

§ 551. Errors of the court in its decisions upon-exceptions
to depositions, are waived unless excepted to.

§ 552. Where the trial is by jury, the swearing of the j ury
shall be deemed the commencement thereof.

SUBDIVISION V.

Depositions to be used in other states.

§ 553. A party desiring to take depositions in this state
to be used in judicial proceedings in other states, may produce to a judge of the county court in the county where the
witnesses reside a commission authorizing the taking of
such. depositions, or a notice duly. served; whereupon, it
shall be the duty of the judge to issue a subpcena requiring
the witnesses to attend at a specified time and place for
examination; and, in case of their failure to attend or re-.
fusal to be sworn. or to testify, they may be punished as
provided in section four hundred and ninety-nine.

ARTICLE III.
General rules of examination.

§ 554. The party who begins the case, must ordinarily
exhaust his evidence before the other begins. But the order of proof shall be regulated by the court, so as :to eXpe~
dite the trial, and enable the tribunal to obtain a- clear view
01 the whole evidence. it 7

§ 555. The court shall exercise areasonable control over
the mode of interrogation so as to make it rapid, distinct,
as little annoying to the witness,'and as‘ effective for the
extraction of the truth as may be ; but subject to this control, the parties may put such legal and pertinent questions
as they may see fit. The court, however, may stop the
production of further evidence on a particular point, where
the evidence upon it is already so full as to preclude reasonable doubt.

§ 556. The examination of a witness by the party producing him, is the direct examination; the examination of
the same witness upon the same matter, by the adverse
party, the cross-examination. The direct examination must
be completed-before the cross~examinaticn begins, unless
the court otherwise directs.

§ 557. A question that suggests to the witness the answer
which the examining party desires, is a leading question.
On the direct examination, leading questions are not allowed, except under special circumstances making it appear that the interests of justice require it. On cross-examination, the adverse party may put leading questions;
but if he examines the witness on new matters, such examination is subject to the same rules as the direct examination. 7

§ 558. The party producing a witness is not allowed to
impeach his credit by evidence of bad character, unless it
is a case in which it was indispensable that the party should
produce him ; but he may contradict him by other evidence,
and by showing that he has made statements different from
his present testimony.

§ 559. A witness may be impeached by the party against
whom he is produced, by contradictory evidence, by showing that he has made statements different from his present
testimony, or by evidence that his general reputation for
truth or immorality renders him unworthy of belief, but not
by evidence of particular wrongful acts, except that it may
be shown by the examination of a witness, or record of a
judgment, that he has been convicted of felony.

§ 560. Before other evidence can be offered of the witness
having made at another time‘ a different statement, he must
be inquired of concerning the same, with the circumstances
of time,place, and persons present, as correctly as the examining party can present them; and if it is in writing, it
must be shown to the witness, and he allowed to ex plain it.

§ 561. Evidence of the good character of a witness is inadmissible until his general reputation has been impeached.

§ 562. A witness once examined, cannot be rc-examined
as to the same matter, without leave of the court. But he
maybe re-examined as to any new matter upon which he
has been examined by the adverse party. After the examination on both sides is concluded, the witness cannot be recalled without leave of the court. ' '

§ 563. If either party requires it, the judge may exclude
from the court room any witness of the adverse party not.
at the time under examination, so that he may not hear the
testimony of the other witnesses.

§ 564. A person present before a court or a judicial oflicer, may be compelled to testify in the same manner as if
he was served with a subpmna.

§ 565. The judge or a juror may be called as a witness
by either party, but in such case, it is in the discretion of
the court to suspend the trial and orderit to take place before another judge or jury; and where a party knows, at
the time the jury are sworn, that a juror is to be called by
him’ as a witness, he shall then disclose it, and the juror
shall be excluded from thejury.

§ 566. Whenever a writing is shown to awitness, it may
be inspected by the adverse party, and, if proved by the
witness, it must be read to the jury before his testimony is
closed; otherwise, it cannot be read, unless the witness is

recalled.

ARTICLE 2.

Competency of witnesses.

§ 567. All persons, except those enumerated in the next section, shall be competent to testify in a civil action. 

§ 568. The following persons shall be incompetent to testif ' : - '
3 1. Persons convicted of a capital offense, or of perjury, subornation of perjury; burglary, robbery, larceny, receiving stolen goods, forgery, or counterfeiting.

2. Infants under the age of ten years, and over that
age, if incapable of understanding theobligation of
an oath.

3. Persons who are of unsound mind at the time of
being produced as witnesses. ‘

4. Husband and wife, for or. against each other, or
concerning any communication made by one to the
other, during the marriage, whether called as a witness while that relation subsisted or afterwards.

5. An attorney, concerning any communication
made to him by his client in that relation, or his advice
thereon, without the client’s consent.

6. Persons interested in an issue, in behalf of themselves, and parties to an issue, in behalf of themselves

or those united with them in the issue. i

7. Negroes, mulattoes, or Indians, in any action or
proceeding where a white person, in his own right, or
as representative of a white person, is a party, except in actions brought to recover a penalty or forfeiture for a violation of law, against a negro, mulatto,
or Indian. - '

§ 569. All other objections to witnesses shall go to their
credit alone, and be weighedby the jury or tribunal to which
their evidence is offered. ' ‘

§ 570. In actions by equitable proceedings, if a party, in
answering interrogatories, states new matters not responsive to the inquiries, the party interrogating may, before
the trial, file his written statement under oath, concerning
such new matters, which shall be read as a deposition.

§ 571. In actions by ordinary proceedings, if a party, in
answering interrogatories or when introduced as a witness.
states new matters not responsive to the inquiries of the
adverse party, the latter shall be allowed to testify orally
concerning such new matter. ' '

§ 572. A personal representative or trustee not personally interested in the action, shall not be incompetent to testify by reason of being a party.

§ 573. An officer or inhabitant of a county, city, or town,
or an officer, member, or trustee of a corporation or religious society, although a party to the action, shall be competent to testify in behalf of such county, city, town, corporation, or religious society. '

ARTICLE 3. q _
Pcrpctuation of evidence.

§ 574. A person desiring to perpetuate the testimonyof
a .witness residing in this state, may present to a circuit
judge or the presiding judge of a county court an affidavit
stating

I. That the afliant expects to be a arty to an action in a court of this state, and that t e expected adverse party, whose name shall be stated, is of full age,
and a resident of this state. .

2. That the evidence of a witness, whose name and
residence, together” with the facts, generally, expected
to be proved, shall be stated, is believed by the atfiant
to be material for him. '

§3. The obstacles preventing the action being im—
mediately brought, where the afliant expects to be
plaintiff.

§ 575. The judge may, thereupon,in his discretion, make
an order for the examination of the witness.

§ 576. The applicant may then, after serving the expected adverse party with a copy of the affidavit and order, and
with a reasonable notice of the time and place of examination, proceed to take the deposition of the witness in the
manner prescribed in this code for taking depositions.

§ 577. The copy of the atlidavit and order, and the notice can be served only by a personal delivery to the eXpected adverse party, and the proof of such service shall be a
return by a sheriff, or an atlidavit of a disinterested person
who made the delivery.

§ 578. The deposition, when completed, together with
the affidavit, order, notice, and proof of service, shall be
filed in the clerk’s oflice of the circuit court of the county
in which the deposition was taken.

§ 579. In the event of a trial between the persons named
in the ailidavit as expected parties, or their successors in
interest, the deposition taken as above prescribed, may be
read by either party, where the witness is dead or insane,
or, if alive and of sound mind, where his attendance for
oral examination cannot be required; and every part of it
shall be subject to like objections as if taken pending the
action.

§ 580. Where the trial is not in the connty in which the
deposition is filed, a certified copy of it and of the aflidavit,
order, notice, and proof of service, may be read as evidence.

 

TITLE XIV.

MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.

Can. 1. Security for costs.
2. Motion: and notices.
3. Ofer to compromise.
4. Submitting a controversy.
5. Ofer toconfess judgment. .
6. Proceedings upon executions and distress warrants.

CHAPTER 1.

Securityfor costs.

§ 581. A plaintiff who is a non-resident of this state, or
a corporation other than a bank created by the laws of this
state, before commencing an action, shall file in the clerk’s
office a bond of a sutlicient surety to be approved by the
clerk, for the payment of all'costs which may accrue in the
action in the court in which it is brought, or in any other
to which it may be carried, either to the defendant or to the
' oflicers of the courts.

§ 582. An action in which a bond for costs is required by
the last section and has not been given, shall be dismissed
on the motion of the defendant at any time before judgment, unless in a reasonable time to be allowed by the
court, after the motion is made therefor, such bond is filed,
securing all past and future costs; and the action shall not
be dismissed or abated, if a bond for costs is given in such
time as the court may allow.

§ 583. If the plaintiff in an action, after its institution,
becomes a non-resident of this state, he shall give security
for costs in the manner and under the restrictions provided
in the preceding sections of this chapter.

§ 584. A guardian, committee, or next friend suing for an
infant or person of unsound mind, and every plaintiff suing
as an assignee, except an indorsee of a bill of exchange or
a promissory note placed upon the footing of a bill of exchange, when insolvent, may- be required to give security
for costs; and, on failure to do so in a reasonable time after it is directed by the court, upon the motion of the defendant, his action shall be dismissed.

§ 585. In an action in which a bond for costs has been
given, the defendant may, at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court for additional security on the part of the plaintiff; and if, on such
motion, the court is satisfied that the surety in the plaintiff’s
bond has removed from this state, or is not sufficient for the
amount thereof, it may dismiss the action, unless,in a reasonable time to be fixed by the court, suflicient security is
given by the plaintiff. '

§ 586. Where process is issued in an actibn by the direction of an attorney for a plaintiff who is required by the
first section of this chapter to give security for costs, but
who has failed to do so, the attorney shall be liable as
suretyfor the costs of the action, until a bond is given ;
and his liability may be enforced by orders of court and
by proceedings as for contempt, if they are not obeyed.


§ 587. Every direction of a court or judge entered upon
the order book, or made in writing in a civil action, and
not included-in the judgment, is denominated an order.

§ 588. An application for an order, is a motion.

§ 589. The notices mentioned in this code shall be in
writing, and may be served by a sheriff, constable, jailer,
coroner, or marshal of a town or city, whose return thereon
shall be proof of the service. Notices may also be served
by any person not a party or interested in the action or
proceeding, whose affidavit shall beproof of the service.

§ 590. The service of a notice shall be by giving a copy
thereof ‘to the person to whom it is directed, or, if he cannot be found at his usual place of abode, by leaving acopy
there with a white person over the age of sixteen years
residing in the same family with him, or, if no such white
person is there, then, by affixing a copy to the front door
of such place of abode. If the person to Whom the notice
is directed cannot be found, and has no known place of
abode in this state, the notice may be served by'delivering
a capy to his attorney. The return of the officer, or the

aflidavit of the person who served the notice, shall state
the time and manner of the service ; and where a copy of
the notice is not given to the person to whom it is directed,
the return or afiidavitshall state the facts authorizing the
manner of service pursued. - .

§ 591. Where the party has no known place of abode in
this state, and no attorney in the county where the action
is pending, or where the parties, plaintiffs or defendants,
are numerous, the court may direct the mode of serving
notices and to what persons they shall be given.

§ 592. A notice to an infant or person of unsound mind
shall be served on the guardian, committee, or next friend
bringing or defending the action for him.

§ 593. A notice to a corporation may be served in the
same manner as a summons in an action against it.

§ 594. Where husband and wife unite in bringing or defending an action, the service of a notice on the husband
shall be deemed a service on the wife.

§ 595. A notice to a person constructively summoned and
not appearing, shall be served on the attorney appointed

to defend for him.

§ 596. Where it is not otherwise specially provided in
this code, a notice to a party in an action of any motion or
proceeding to be made or taken therein in court, or before
a judge, may be served upon such party or his attorney;
but the service upon the attorney, in any such case, must
be by delivering to him a copy of the notice. ‘

§ 597. Where a party to an action does not reside in the
county in which it is pending, a notice to him to take depositions may be served by delivering a copy thereof to his
' attorney. . '

§ 598. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, and of every constable to whom any notice in an action may be delivered
for service within his county, to serve and return such notice to the party who delivered it to him. A failure to perform this duty may be punished as a disobedience of the
process of the court. ‘

CHAPTER 3.
Offer to compromise.

§ 599. The defendant in an action for the recovery of
money only, may. at any time before the trial, serveupon
the plaintilf or his attorney an offer in writing to allow
judgment to be taken against him for the sum specitied
therein. If the plain-tiff accepts the offer, and gives notice ‘
thereof to the defendant or his attorney within five days
after the offer was served, the offer and an affidavit that
the notice of acceptance was delivered in the time limited,
may be filed by the plaintiff, or the defendant may file the
acceptance, with a copy of the offer veriE‘ed by aflidavit,
.and, in either case, the offer and acceptance shall benoted '

upon the record ; and judgment shall be rendered aceord-‘
ingly. If the notice of acceptance is not given in the period limited, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and.
shall not be given in evidence or mentioned on the trial.
If the plaintiff fails to obtain judgment for more than was
offered by the defendant, he shall pay the defendant’s costs
from the time of the offer. ‘

§ 600. In an action for the recovery of money only, the
defendant having answered, may serve upon the plaintiff
or his attorney an offer in witing that, if he fails in his defense, the amount of the recovery shall be assessed at a
specitied sum. If the plaintiff accepts the offer and gives
notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney within five‘
days after it was served, and the defendant fails in his de- ‘
fense, the judgment shall be for the amount so agreed upon.
1f the plaintiff does not accept the offer, he shall prove the
amount to be recovered, as it the offer had not been made.
The offer shall not be given in evidence or mentioned on
the trial. And if the amount recovered by the plaintiff
does not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover his costs incurred in the defense in respect
to the question of amount, to be taxed under the direction
of the court.

§ 601. The making of any offer pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall not be a cause for a continuance
of an action or a postponement of a trial.

CHAPTER 4.
Submitting a controvc my.

§ 602. Parties to a question which [might be the subject
of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case
containing the facts upon which the controversy depends,
and present a submission of the same to any court which
would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought.
But it must appear by aflidavitthat the controversy is real,
and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights
of the parties. . The court shall, thereupon, hear and determine the case, and render judgment as if an action were
pending.

§ 603. The case, the submission, and the judgment shall
constitute the record.

§ 604 The judgment shall be with costs, may be enforced, and shall be subject to reversal, in the same manner as
if it had been rendered in an aetion, unless otherwise provided in the submission.

§ 605. After an action for the recovery of money is
brought, the defendant may offer in court to confess judgment for part of the amount claimed, or part of the causes

involved in the action. Whereupon, if the plaintiff, being
present, refuses to accept such confession of judgment in
all of his demands against the defendant in the action, or
having had such notice that the offer would be made, of its
amount, and of the time of making it as the court shall
deem reasonable, fails to attend, and, on the trial, does not
recover more than was so offered to be confessed, such
plaintiff shall pay all the costs of the defendant incurred
after the offer. The offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the. cause of action or amount to which the
plaintiff is entitled, nor be given in evidence upon the trial.
§ 606. Before an action for the recovery of money is
brought against any person, hyeumay go into the court of
' the county of his residence, or ‘of that in‘ which the person
having the cause of action resides, which would have jurisdiction of the action, and offer to confess judgment in
favor of such person for a specified sum on‘such-cause of
action. Whereupon, if such person having had such notice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and of the
time and place of making it as the court shall deem reasonable, does not attend to accept the confession, or attending, refuses to acce t it, and should afterwards commence
an action upon such cause, and not recover more than the
amount so offered to he confessed, he shall pay all the costsof the action; and on the trial thereof the offer shall not
be deemed to be an admission of the cause of action or
amount to which the plaintiff is entitled, nor be given in
evidence.

§ 607. If an oliicer who levies or is required to levy an
execution upon personal property, doubts whether it is subject to the execution, he may give to the plaintiff therein,
or his agent or attorney, notice that an indemnifying bond
is required. Bond may, thereupon, be given by or for the
plaintiff, with one or more sufficient sureties to be approved
by the oHicer, to the effect that the .obligors therein will indemnify him against the damages which he may sustain in
consequence of the seizure or sale of the property, and will
pay to any claimant thereof the damages he may sustain
in consequence of the seizure or sale, and will warrant to
any purchaser of the property such estate or interest therein as is sold; and, thereupon, the oflicer shall proceed to
subject the property to the execution, and shall return the
indemnifying bond to the circuit court of the county in
which the levy is made.

§ 608. If the bond mentioned in the last section is not
given, the officer may refuse to levy the execution; or, if
it has been levied, and the bond is not given in a reasonable time after it is required by the otiicer, he may restore

the property to the person from whose possession it was
taken, and the levy shall stand discharged.
§609. The claimant or purchaser of any property. for
the seizure or sale of. which an indemnifying bond has been
taken and returned by the officer, shall be barred of any
action against the oflicer levying on the property, if the
surety in the bond was good when it was taken. And
such claimant or purchaser may maintain an action upon
the bond, and recover such damages as he may be entitled to. , 7
§ 610. Where property, for thefsale of which the oflicer
is indemnified, sells for more than enough to satisfy the execution under which it was taken, the surplusshall be paid
into the court to which the indemnifying bond is directed
to be returned. That court may order such disposition or
payment of the money to be made temporarily or absolutely, as may be proper, in respect to the rights of , the parties
interested.
§ 611. The sale of personal property upon uhich an execution is levied, shall be suspended at the instance of any
person, other than the defendant in the execution, claiming
the property, who shall execute, with one or more suretics
suHicient for double its value, a bond to the plaintiff in the
execution, to the effect that, if itshall he adjudged that the
property or any part of it is subject to the execution, he
will pay to the plaintiff the value of the property so subject, and ten per cent. thereon, not exceeding the amount
due on the execution,.and ten per cent. thereon.
§ 612. For the purpose'of taking the bond mentioned in
the last section, the officer shall select three disinterested
housekeepers, and administer to them an oath to make a
fair appraisement of each article of the property, whose,
appraisement in writing shall be recited in the bond.
§ 613. The bond with the appraisement annexed thereto
shall be returned to the circuit court of the county in which
the levy was made.
§ 614. The party towhom the bond is executed, may
move the court to which it is returned, for a judgment there—
on against all or any of the obligors or their representatives, having given to them ten days’ notice of the motion.
The court shall direct a jury to be impanneled, and may
cause such issues to be tried as it may prescribe, and direct
which party shall be considered plaintitf in the issues. If
the property, or any part of it, is found subject to the execution, judgment shall be rendered in favor of the plaintiff
therein for the value oi the roperty so subject, and ten
per cent. thereon, not exce ing the amount due on the
execution and ten per cent. thereon. An execution may
be issued upon the judgment forthwith, on which-the same'
indorsement shall be made as on the execution in virtue of
which the property had been seized.

§ 615. Upon the trial of the motion, either party may
object that the property was not fairly a praised ; and,
thereupon, the jury trying the facts shall hear evidence
respecting and find the value of the property.

§ 616. The giving of the bond mentioned in section six
hundred and twelve, shall not discharge the levy of the
execution upon the pmperty claimed. But the ofiicer may
leave it, subject to the lieu of the levy, with the person in
whose'posses‘sion it was found, pending the proceeding on
the bond; and may, in the meantime, proceed with the execution against any other property of the defendant.

§ 617. The provisions of the preceding sections of this chapter, shall apply to proceedings upon executions issued
by justices of the peace. Indemnifying bonds, in such cases, shall be returned with the executions under which they.
are taken, and bonds of claimants of property may be returned to any justice of the-county, and motion thereon
made before him on five days’ notice. He shall cause a
jury to he impanneled to find whether the property was
subject to the execution, subject to an appeal where the
value of the property exceeds ten dollars.

§ 618. The provisions of the preceding sections of this chapter, shall also apply to proceedings upon distress warrants levied or about to be levied Upon' personal property
claimed by any person other than the tenant, his assignee,
or under-tenant. In every such case the bond of the claimant of the property, where'it exceeds the value of fifty dollars, shall be returned to the circuit court of the county, and
the motion thereon made in that court; and, where the
value of the property does not exceed filty dollars, to some
justice of the peace of the county, and the motion may be
made before him. Indemnifying bonds in such cases shall
be returned with the Warrants under "which they were
taken. ‘

§ 619. Where an oliicer levies or is aboutto levy a distress
warrant upon any property, the tenant, his assigoee, or
under-tenant may execute, with’ one or more sutlicient
sureties to be approved by the oflicer, a bond to the party
in whose favor the warrant issued, to the effect that he will
pay to such party the amount of the rent specified in the
warrant, with ten per cent. thereon, if the property is of
the value of the rent so specitied; or, if it is of less value,
that he will pay to such party the value thereof, and ten
per cent. thereon. For the purpose of taking this bond,
the officer shall cause the property to be appraised as provided in section six hundred and twelve. The appraisement shall be annexed and referred to in the bond. Upon
the giving of the bond, the levy. if one is made, shall be
discharged, and the bond and warrant shall be returned to
' some justice of the peace'of the county, where the amount
claimed does not exceed fifty dollars; and, where it‘ does

exceed that sum, to the clerk’s office of the circuit court of
the county.

§ 620. The party to whom the bond is executed, may
move the justice of the peace or the court: for a judgment
thereon, against all or any of the obligors or their representatives, having given to them five days’ notice of the motion. The defendants may make defense, upon the ground
that the distress was for rent not due in whole or in part,
or was otherwise illegal; or,-if property was levied upon,
that it was by statute exempt from the levy.

§ 621. Where the motion is made before a justice of the
peace, he shall cause a jury to find the facts, subject to an
appeal where the amount exceeds ten dollars.

§ 622. Where the motion is made in court, it shall direct
ajury to find the facts.

§ 623. If the judgment is against the defendants, it shall
be for the rent due, and ten per cent. thereon, not exceeding the amount secured by the bond. An execution may
be issued forthwith.

§ 624. Where the. tenant, his assignee, or under-tenant
contends that apart of the rent is not due, he may suspend
the distress warrant for such part, by giving bond, with a
surety, for it, upon. which proceedings may be taken, as
prescribed in the preceding sections.

§ 625. Trials by juries summoned by sheriffs or other officers, of the right of property taken by them under execution or distress warrant, are abolished.

CHAPTER 7.
Proceedings by suretics.

§ 626. A surety may maintain an action against his principal, to compel him to discharge the debt or liability for
which the surety is bound, after the same has become due.

§ 627. A surety may maintain an action against his principal, to obtain indemnity against the debt or liability for
which he is bound, before it is due, whenever any of the
grounds exist upon which, by the provisions of Chaptersl
and 3 of Title vii. an order may be made for arrest and
hail, or for an attachment.

§ 628. In such action, the surety may; obtain any of the
provisional remedies mentioned in itle vii, upon the
grounds and in the manner therein prescribed.

TITLE XV. ~ I
GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO' THE WHOLE CODE.

Cur. 1. Process.

Duties of clerks.

Duties of shes-Vs.

Miscellaneous  .
Provisions respecting existing actions.
Provisions respecting special proceedings.

Curran l.

9999»

Process.

§ 629. No summons or order for a pr0visional remedy
shall be issued by the clerk in any action before the plaintiff’s petition therein is filed in his office. .

§ 630. It shall be no objection to any process, writ, summons, affidavit, or order for a provisional remedy that it was
issued, made, or is dated on a holiday; nor shall itbe an
objection to any bond given by or for any party to an action, or taken by an officer in the course of the same, that
it was made or isdatcd on any such day. .

§ 631. A summons ororder for a provisional remedy may
be issued on a holiday, where an affidavit of the plaintiff
or some other person is made, to the effect that, unless it is
issued on that day, there is reasonable cause to believe that
it cannot be executed. ‘

§ 632. An order of attachment, or for the delivery of prop.
erty, may be executed on a holiday, when the otlicer having the process believes, or an affidavit. of ‘ the plaintiff or
some at er person is made to the effect that the affiant believes, that the property is aboutto be concealed or removSd, or that the-process cannot  executed after such holiay. , ‘ '

§ 633. A summons, subpcena, notice, or order of arrest
or of injunction may. be executed on a holiday, where the
officer having the process believes, or an affidavit of the
plaintiff or some other person is made to the effect that the
aHiant believes, that the process cannot be executed after
such holiday. - y ‘
§ 634. The defendant shall have no privilege of exemptionfrom the service of the process mentioned in the last section, except from an arrest, by reason of his attendance
at any muster, election, or order of survey, or as a witness
at any court or other place. .

§ 635. An order for a provisional remedy, or any other
process, in an action wherein the sheriff is a party, or-is
interested, shall be directed to the coroner, or, if he is interested, to the jailer. If both these officers are interested,
the process shall be directed to and executed by any constable of the county.

§ 636. The court, for good cause may appoint a person
to serve a particular process or order, who shall have the
same power to execute it which a sheriff has. The person

may be appointed on the moion of the party obtaining the
process or order, and the return must be verified by his af6davit. He shall be entitled to the fees allowed to sheriffs

for similar services.

§ 637. The clerk shall indorse, upon every paper filed
in an action, the day of filing it; and upon every order for
a provisional remedy, and upon every bond taken thereunder, the day of its return to his office.

§ 638. He shall, upon the return of every summons served, enter upon the docket the name of the defendant or defendants summoned, and the day of the service upon each
one. The entry shall be evidence of the service of the
summons, in case of the loss thereof. ‘

§ 639. He may administer any oath or take any aflidavit
required or permitted in the progress of an action.

§ 640. He shall prepare‘in a proper manner every bond
to be taken by or given before him or his court.

§ 641. He shall refuse any surety offered in a bond to be
taken by him, who is, in his opinion, insuilicient.

§ 642. The sheriff shall indorse, upon every summons,
order of arrest or for the delivery of property, or of attachment or injunction in his hands, the day and hour it was
received by him.

§ 643. A sheriff having an order of attachment, or for
the delivery of property, may enter any building or inclosure containing the property, to take it; and, if necessary
for this purpose, may break the building or inclosure, having first publicly demanded the property.

§ 644. A sheriff having an order of arrest, may enter any
house or inclosure in which the party to be arrested may
be, to arrest him; and, if necessary for this purpose, may
break the house or inclosure, after having informed any person therein of his object, or, where no erson appears to

whom such information can be given, a er having publicly
demanded the person to be arrested, and, in either case,
after having given suliicient time for the house or inclosure

to be opened.
§ 645. It shall not be a suflicient return of any process,

that the oflicer was kept of by force from executing it.

§ 646. Any duty- injoined by this code upon a ministerial
oflicer, and any act permitted to be done by him, may be
performed by his lawful deputy. ~

§ 647. An authority conferred upon three or more persons, may be exercised by the majority of them; and a
majority of three or more persons may do any act directed
to be performed by them.
§ 648. Wherever an oath is required by this code, the affirmation of a person conscientiously scrupulous of taking
an oath, shall have the same effect.
§649. Where a certain number of days is required to intervene between two acts, theday of one only of the acts
may be counted. .
§ 650. When any bond provided for by this code is adjudged to be defective, a new and suliicient one may be
executed in such reasonable time as the court may fix, with
the same effect as if originally executed.
§ 651. The ministerial officer whose duty it is to take a
surety in any bond provided for by this code, shall have the
right to require the person offered as surety to make affidavit of his qualification, which affidavit may be made before such officer. The taking of such an affidavit shall not
exempt the officer from any liability to which he might
otherwise be subject for taking insufficient security.
§ 652. The surety in every bond provided for by this
code, must be a resident of this state, and worth double the
sum to be secured, beyond the amount of his debts, and
have property liable to execution in this state equal to the
sum to be secured. Where there are two or more sureties
in the same bond, they must, in the aggregate, have the
qualification prescribed in this section.
§ 653. No action to obtain a discovery shall be brought,
except in aid of some other action pending when this code
takes effect.
§654. Successive actions may be maintained upon the
same contract or transaction, whenever, after the former
action, a new cause of action has arisen therefrom.
§ 655. The writ of ne exeat, as a remedy in a civil action,
is abolished. 
§ 656. Where, by the provisions of this code, a provisional remedy may be granted by the judge of the court in
which the action is brought, or any circuit judge, or by the
presiding judge of the county court, it may be granted by
any two justices of the peace of the county.
§ 657. The provisions of' Title 2 of this code, shall not
apply in the following cases: 7
1. In the case of a continuing and subsisting trust.
2. To an action by a vendee of real property, in
possession thereof, to obtain a conveyance of it.
§ 658. Where there are several plaintiff‘s, the verification
of the petition or reply may be made by any one of them;
and, where several defendants unite in the same answer
and defense, the verification may be by either of them.

§ 659. In an action where an attachment has been
granted, the execution by or for the defendant of a bond
whereby the attachment is discharged, or the possession of
the attached property is obtained or retained by him, shall
.be an ap earance of such defendant in the action.

§ 660. n an action against a steamboat or other vessel,
the execution by or for an owner of the boat of a bond
whereby the attachment is discharged, or the possession of
the boat is obtained or retained by him, shall be an appearance of such owner as a defendant in the action.

§ 661. Rights of civil action and suit arising under existing laws, may be prosecuted in the manner provided by
this code. If a case shall ever arise in which an action for
the enforcement or protection of a private right, or the redress or prevention of a private wrong, cannot be had under this code, the practice heretofore in use may be adopted,
so far as is necessary to prevent‘a failure of justice.

§ 662. The provisions of this code do not apply to pro’ceedings in actions or suits pending when it takes effect.
They shall be conducted in all respects as if it had not been
adopted. '

§ 663. Where, by the existing laws, a party would be
entitled to proceed by bill in chancery to injcin a judgment
or other proceeding at law in an action brought before this
code takes effect. he may proceed in such case for relief as
if this code had not been adopted, and its provision shall
not affect his case.
§ 664. The provisions. of this code do not affect the laws
regulating actions, suits, or proceedings in the following
cases:
1. For the administration and settlement of the estate of a deceased person.
2. To establish or set aside a will.
' 3. For alimony or divorce.
4. For the sale of the real property and slaves of an
infant. '
5. Motions, authorized by statute, of a surety against
his principal or co-surety.
‘ 6. Motions, specially authorized by statute, to obtain
a judgment or final order.
7. Appeals from justices of the peace and county
courts and writs of error to county courts.
8. Caveats.

9. Arbitrations and awards. 6

10. A traverse on a writ of forcible entry and detainer, or a traverse on any other proceeding.

11. Sara {acids to repeal or vacate a patent or charter.
12. Proceedings on writs of habcas corpus, mandamus,
qua warranto, prohibition, and ad damnum.

13. Civil proceedings in behalf 0 thecornmonwealth,
specially authorized by statute.

TITLE
THE COURTS TO WHICH THIS CODE APPLIES.

Our. 1. General court.
2. Circuit courts.

3. Louisoiuuhaucery crud.
Cannes 1.

General court.

§ 665. The provisions of this code shall regulate actions
and proceedings in the general court.

§ 666. Wherever, by the provisions of thi code, any
process is to be directed to the sheriif of the county in which
an action or proceeding is brought, or any act is required or
permitted to be done by him, the word sheriff shall, in reference to any action or proceeding in the general court, be
taken to mean the sergeant thereof.

§ 667. The provisions of this code shall regulate proceedings in civil cases in the circuit courts of this commonwealth, subject, in respect to the Jefferson circuit court, to
the modifications made in this chapter, which apply to that
court alone.

§ 668. Where by the provisions of Title 1 an action commenced in the Jefferson circuit court by ordinary proceedings, is changed into equitable proceedings, the court shall
order it to be transferred to the Louisville chancery court.
Whereupon, the papers in the action, with a copy of the
order for its transfer, shall be delivered by the clerk to the
clerk of the chancer‘y court, who shall place the case upon
the docket of that court, and the action shall proceed as if
originally brought therein.

§ 669. Where by the provisions of section nine, any issue
j arising in an action is to be tried as in cases of equitable
‘ proceedings, without a change of the whole action into
such proceedings, the trial of such issue shall be by the Jet'ferson circuit court: and where all the issues are such as
before the adoption of this code were cognizable in chancery, and the defendant elects to have them all tried as in

(macs of equitable proceedings, the court shall order the ac.
tion to be transferred to the Louisville chancery court ;
whereupon, the same proceedings shall be had as are directed in the last section.

§ 670. The provisions of sections 400, 401, and 402, shall
not apply to the court. . I

§ 671. On each day of the term, the court shall, imme- ‘
diately after hearing the motions, call all the cases on the ‘
common docket for that day, in which the summons has
been served in due time, as provided in section 161, and in
which no issue of fact has been formed; and upon failure
to defend, may render judgment.

§ 672. The court may hear and decide all issues of law in
the actions as they are called, and render judgment, or give
further time for hearing and deciding them.

§ 673. An action by‘ordinary proceedings shall stand for
trial at the first term after the process has been served on
the defendant, as provided in section 161. An action upon
contract, wherein the summons has been served in due
time, as provided in that section, upon part only of the defendants, shall stand for trial at the first term as to those so
summoned, and may be continued as to the others for further proceedings. In other actions by ordinary proceedings, the plaintiff can only demand a trial as to part of the
defendants, upon his discontinuing his action as to the
others.

CHAPTER 3.
Louisville Chancery court.

§ 674. The jurisdiction of the Louisville chancery court
is not affected by this code, except as rovided in section
669. The proceeding in that court s all conform to the
provisions of this code respecting actions by equitable proceedings, subject to the modifications contained in this chapter, which a-re applicable to that court alone.

§ 675. Where by the provisions of Title 1 an action commenced in the *Louisville chancery court by equitable proceedings,is changed into ordinary proceedings, the court
shall order it to be transferred to the Jefferson circuit court;
whereupon, the papers in the action, with a certified copy
of the order for its transfer, shall be delivered by the clerk
to the clerk of the Jefferson circuit court, who shall place
the case upon the docket of that court, and the action shall
proceed asif originally brought therein.

§ 676. There shall be no stated terms of the court. It
shall be deemed to be always open for the transaction of
business; and may be held at any time by the judge thereof, or in case of his sickness or unavoidable absence, by the
judge of the judicial district which includes the county of
Jefferson.

§ 677. The summOns in an action shall be directed to the
marshal of the court, or at the request of the plaintiff, to

the sheriff, coroner, or jailer of Jefferson county; and shall
be made returnable to any day, at the option of the plaintid‘, not less than ten nor more than sixty days after its date.

§ 678. The time fixed in the summons for the defendant
to answer shall be twenty days after the service thereof, if
in Jefferson county, and thirty days if elsewhere in the
state.

§ 679. A warning order shall warn the defendant to answer within sixty days after the time of making the order.

§ 680. A defendant against whom a warning order is
made, shall _ be deemed to be constructively summoned
thirty days after the making of the order, and the action
shall proceed accordingly. 
§ 681. The defense to an action must be filed within
twenty days after the service of the summons in Jeii'erson
' county, or within thirty days after such service elsewhere
in the state. Where the service is out of this state, as provided in section 113, the defense must be filed within sixty
days thereafter. .

§ 682. If the answer contains a counter-claim or set-oil',
the plaintiff shall reply within twenty days after the answer
is filed.
§ 683. The filing within the proper time of an answer or
reply, in the clerk’s oliice, and causing it to be noted upon
the clerk’s memorandum book and rule docket, shall be
equivalent to a filing in court. Exhibits may be tiled in the
same manner in the clerk’s ofIice.

§ 684. Where interrogatories are annexed to a petition,
they shall be answered at the time the party is required to
answer the petition; where they are annexed to an answer
or reply, they shall be answered within twenty days after
notice of the tiling thereof is given to the adverse party or
his attorney.

§ 685. No amendment of a petition or answer containing a counter-claim or set-off, in a material part, shall,
without consent, be taken as true at the trial, unless the
adverse part ' shall have had such reasonable notice of the
filing thereo as the court may by rule prescribe.

§ 686. The clerk shall keep three separate dockets, which
shall be called the “rule docket,” the “trial docket,” and the
“motion docket.”

§ 687. The rule docket shallbe kept, and all actions shall
be placed and shall remain thereon without continuance,
as authorized by the existing law, until they are put upon
the trial docket.

§ 688. On the trial docket shall be entered the actions
that are ready for trial. Where further time is allowed by
the court to plead or prepare for trial in an action, it may
be remanded to the rule docket.

§ 689. On the motion docket may be entered any motion
relating to proceedings in the court.

§ 690. The cases upon the trial and motion dockets shall
be called at such times as the court, with a view to the dispatch of business, may deem to be properx

§ 691. Where the summons has been served in Jefferson
county twenty days, or elsewhere in the state thirty days,
or out of the state sixty days, or where a regular‘warning
order has expired, and no defense is made, the plaintiff may
place the action upon the trial docket. §692. Where defense is made by an answer, which the
plaintiff consents may be taken as true, the action may be
immediately placed upon the trial docket.

§ 693. Where defense is made by an answer, which the
plaintiff does not consent may be taken as true, the action
may be placed on the trial docket thirty days after the
pleadings have been, or by the provisions of sections 681,
682, should have been completed. But where they have
not been so completed, though they should have been by
those sections, the party in default as to time, shall not be
entitled to place the action on the trial docket. ,

§ 694. Where interrogatories are annexed to a pleading,
the party interrogated shall not be entitled to place the action on the trial docket, within twenty days after he has
answered the interrogatories.

§ 695. An application for a new trial, except for the cause
mentioned in the seventh subdivision of section 381, shall
be made within fifteen days after the decision is rendered;
and where the application is for the cause mentioned in
that subdivision, it shall be made within sixty days after
the decision.

§ 696. Where grounds for a new trial are discovered after the expiration of sixty days from the decision, the application may be made as provided in section 385, within
two months after the discovery. The proceedings thereupon shall be such as are directed in that section, and subject
to the limitation therein prescribed.

§ 697. No execution shall be had of any judgment within fifteen days after its rendition, unless otherwise ordered
by the court.

§ 698. An appeal may be granted within fifteen days after a final judgment or order.

§ 699. The power which the court has heretofore had over
its orders and decrees during the term in which they are
rendered, shall continue as to any final judgment or order
for sixty days after its rendition.

§ 700. The proceedings authorized by section 480, and
the succeeding sections of Title 12, may be had in reference
to any judgment or final order of the court after the expiration of sixty days from its rendition. The proceedings
upon the petition authorized by section 482, shall be as in
an action by equitable proceedings. A motion to vacate
a judgment, because of its rendition before the action could

regularly be placed upon the trial docket, can only be made
’ within three months after its rendition.

§ 701. Within thirty days after the service of an order to
revive an action, as provided in section 463, the party up’ on whom it is made, may show cause against the revivor,
and if suflicient cause is not shown within that time, the
action shall stand revived.

§ 702. An order warning parties to appear and show
cause why an action should not be revived, in the cases
mentioned in section 465, shall allow not less than sixty
days for their appearance; and if, within the period mentioned in the order, sufficient cause is not shown to the contratrary, the action shall stand revived.

§ 703. A commissioner shall be appointed by the court,
and shall hold his office during its pleasure. He shall discharge the duties of the present masters of the court, and
may receive the fees therefor which are authoriZed to be taken by them. He shall perform such other duties as are
provided by this code, or, as by rules and orders pursuant
thereto, may he directed by the court.

§ 704. Before entering upon the performance of his duties, the commissioner shall take. in 0 en court, the oath
prescribed by the existing laws for a aster of the court.

§ 705. The commissioner may, with the approbation of
the court, appoint one or two deputies, who shall, in open
court, take an oath to perform faithfully their duties.

§ 706. The commissioner may administer any oath and
take an aflidavit directed or permitted in an action or proceeding in the court.

§ 707. The judge of the court may require all depositions
to be taken upon interrogatories filed in the clerk’s oflice.

§ 708. Depositions to be read in the court shall be taken
and certified in the manner, and by the otlicers directed, by
the provisions of this code, subject to the following modifications, viz:

l. Depoitions in the city of Louisville shall be taken before the commissioner of the court.

2. Notice to the adverse party of the filing of interrogatories shall not be necessary. The court shall
by rules prescribe days for the filing of interrogatories,
and the time they shall remain in the clerk’s oflice.

3. A deposition may be taken by the commissioner

.of the court without a commission therefor.

4. Where a deposition is taken upon interrogatories,
neither party, nor his agent or attorney, shall be present at the examination of the witness, unless the adverse party or his agent or attorney is present, or unless such party or his attorney has had reasonable notice of the time and place of taking the deposition :
But a party notified to attend may be present, although
the party who gave the notice is not.

5. Where it appears by the certificate of the officer,
that one only of the parties was present at the examination of the witness, the reason for' his being p‘ermitted to be present, shall be stated, and, where a notice to attend has been given, the evidence thereof ,
shall be annexed to the certificate.

6. Depositions to be read intthe court, may be taken
by the commissioner at any place in the state.

§ 709. Sales of personal property made by order of the
court shall be upon such credits as the court may direct,
not exceeding four months; but the courtmay, in its discretion in a special case, direct a sale of such property to
be for cash. Sales of real property shall, unless by consent of the parties. be upon a credit of not less than three
nor more than twelve months, or on instalments equivalent
. to not more than twelve months credit on the whole ; but
the court may direct a sale of real property over the value ’
of three thousand dollars to be on a credit, or if on instale
meats, an average of credits not exceeding two years. 
§ 710. Sales of property in Louisville or the county of
Jefferson, by order of the court or under execution from it,if not otherwise specially directed by the court, shall be
made at the court house deor, after ten days’ notice by
printed advertisements posted at that and such other places
as the court may, by ’rule, direct. The court may, by rule
from time to time, prescribe a day or days of the week,
and the hours of the day within which all sales shall be
made.

§ 711. In the sale of a small portion of real estate, if:
the defendant does not require less than the whole to be
sold, where less will produce the debt, the ofiicer making
the sale may exercise his discretion, with a view to the interest of the defendant, whether to sell the whole or less
than'the whole, as he may or not think it advantageously
susceptible of division. ' The officer shall be allowed no
commission for any excess over the amount of the debt, and
an abuse of his discretion either way, shall be a sutficient
cause to set aside the sale. 
§ 712. The bonds of the purchasers of property sold by
order of the court, shall bear interest from the day of sale,
and shall be made payable to the “clerk of the Louisville
chancery court,” and shall be signed or acknowledged before, and attested by the othcer who made the sale. Proceedings on such bonds may be had in the name of the
“clerk of the Louisville chancery court,” without using the
name of the clerk for the time being, at the instance, as relator, of any person interested, he being responsible for
the costs. Performance of such bonds may be summarily
enforced by orders of court, and by proceedings as for contempt if they are not obeyed. The bonds shall have the

force of judgments, and, upon executions thereon, no rcplevy shall be allowed, and sales shall be for cash.

§ 713. An objection to bail for insutliciency, can only be
Elude by motion within ten days after the return of the bail

and.

§ 714. An indemnifying bond given pursuant to section
607, to obtain a levy upon, or sale of property, in Jefferson
county, under an execution from the court, shall be returned
to it. ‘

§ 715. A bond pursuant to section 611, to suspend a sale
of propeity levied upon in Jefferson county, under an execution from the court, shall be returned to it, .and the proceedings authorized in section 614, may be had therein.

§ 716. Process of the court to other counties may be issued and directed, and shall be executed and returned, as
such process from a circuit court.

§ 717. Wherever, by the provisions of this code, any
process is to be directed to the sheriff of the county in which
an action or proceeding is brought or is pending, or any act
is required or permitted to be done by him, the word ‘sheriff’ shall, in reference to any action or proceeding in the
Louisville chancery court, be taken to mean the marshal
thereof. And where the marshal is a party to or interested
in any action or proceeding in the court, any process therein may be directed to the sheriff of Jefferson county, or if
he is interested, to the coroner or jailer thereof.

§ 718. A debt incurred by any person or corporation, as
receiver or depositary of money paid into the court, shall
rank with debts due “to the commonwealth, and shall have
priority over other debts owing by such receiver or depositary, and precedence over any mortgage or lien upon his
property made after his appointment. Accounts shall be

ept of all moneys paid into the court, and with every receiver or depositary of such moneys, by the clerk or com‘
missioner, as may be directed by the court.

§ 719. An action upon the oilicial bond of the clerk or
marshal of the court, may be brought and prosecuted therein as other actions of which it has cognizance, subject to
the right of the defendant to a trial by jury.

§ 720. The court may, from time to time, prescribe and
enforce rules for the orderly conduct and dispatch of the
business of the court and of its officers, pursuantto the provisions of this code and of the existing laws not inconsistent
therewith.

§ 721. Words used in this code in the past or present

tense, include the future as well as the past and resent;
words used in the masculine gender include the eminine

and neuter ;‘ the singular number includes the plural, and
the plural, the singular; the word person includes a corporation as well as a natural person; writing includes printing or printed paper; signature or subscription includes
mark, when, the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and witnessed by a person who writes his own
name as a witness. . . .
§ 722. The terms explained in the following sections of
this chapter have, in this code, the significations attached to
them, unless it is otherwise apparent from the context.
§ 723. The words “real property” mean lands, tenements, and hereditaments. ‘
§ 724. The words “personal property” include slaves,
anoney, goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences of
debt. 
§ 725. The word “property” includes property, real and
personal. - '
§ 726. The word “clerk” means the clerk- of the court in
which the action is brought or is pending, or in which the
paioceeding is had; and the words “clerk’s odioe” mean his
0 ce. ‘
§ 727. The words “presiding judge ‘ot the county court”
signify the presiding jud e of the county court of the couno
ty in which the action isirought or is pending, or in which
the proceeding is had, .
§ 728. The word “sheriif” means the sheriff of the county in which the actioh is brought or is pending, or in which
the proceeding is had, or to which the process is directed;
and where it is used in connection with any process or order, or the execution thereof, or of any ministerial act, shall
be taken to signify also any other ofIicer to whom the pro-’
cess or order may be directed, andwho may be acting under it, or by whom the ministerial act may be performed.
§ 729. The words “coroner,” “justice,” “jailer,” and “constable,” mean officers of the county in which the action is
brought or is pending, or in which the proceeding is had, or
to which the process is directed.
§ 730. The words “personal representative” signify the
executor or administrator of a deceased person, or the oilicer or other person appointed to take charge of his estate.
§ 731. A “foreign corporation” is one created by the laws
of some other state or country.
§ 732. The words “other country” signify any part of the
world out of this state. .
§ 733. The words “United States” embrace every state
in the union, all the territories thereof, and the District of
Columbia.
§ 734. The words “person of unsound mind” include
every persOn who is an idiot, lunatic, or deranged.
§ 735. The word “oath” includes adirmation in any case
. in which it may be substituted for an oath, and in like cases
the word “sworn” includes “aHirmed.” '

§ 736. The word “month” means calendar month.

§ 737. “Process” is a writ or summons issued in the
course of judicial proceedings. .

§ 738. “Writ” is an order or precept in Writing, issued. by
a court, clerk, or judicial officer.

§ 739. The rule of the common law that statutes in derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, shall not be
applied to this code. The provisions of this code, and all
proceedings under it, shall be liberally construed, with a
view to promote its object, and to assist the parties in obtaining justice. . '

§ 740. All statutes and laws heretofore in force in this
state in any case provided for by this code or inconsistent
with itsprovisions, are hereby repealed and abrogated ; but
this repeal does not revive any statute or law which may
have been repealed or abolished by the statutes or laws
hereby repealed; nor does it affect any right already existing, or any proceeding already taken, except as provided
- in this code. >
§ 741. This act shall take effect on the first day of August

next.
Approved March 29, 1851.

