CIVIL ACTIONS.

TITLE IX.]

611
Chap. 81.

TITLE

NINE.

Civil Rights and Remedies.

Chap. 81. Commencement of civil actions; indorsement and service of writs; attach
ment of property; arrests; and limitation of civil actions.
82. Proceedings in civil actions in court.
88. Trial Justices, their jurisdiction, and proceedings in civil actions.
84. Levy of executions on personal property.
85. Bail in civil actions.
86. Trustee process.
87. Actions by or against executors and administrators.
88. Partition of real estate by the supreme judicial court.
89. Petitions and actions of review.
90. Mortgages on real estate.
91. Mortgages of personal property. Liens and their enforcement.
92. Right of erecting mills and mill dams; flowing lands; diverting water for
supply of mills; and the mode of obtaining damages therefor.
93. Inquests of office and informations for intrusion.
94. Forcible entry and detainer, and tenancies.
95. Waste and trespasses on real estate.
96. Replevin of beasts and chattels.
97. Bastard children and their maintenance.
98. Personal property seized, and lost goods, and proceedings thereon.
99. Habeas corpus.
100. Writ of audita querela.
101. Writ for replevying a person.
102. Writs of error and certiorari.
108. Estates in dower and by courtesy, and actions of dower.
104. Real actions.
105. Limitation of real actions.
106. The selection and service ofjurors.
107. Depositions.
108. Reference of disputes by consent of parties.
109. Timber and cord wood, and how it may be disposed of in certain cases.
110. Commissioners to take acknowledgment of deeds and other contracts, and
depositions in other states.

612

CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 81.
CHAPTER 81.
COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL ACTIONS; ENDORSEMENT AND SERVICE OF
WRITS; ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY; ARRESTS; AND LIMITATION
OF CIVIL ACTIONS.
Forms and Requisites op Whits.
Sec. 1. Forms of writs to remain as they are, till changed by conrt.
2. Actions commenced by original writs. When to be issued by clerk, and to be
capias and attachment, or original summons. Issued in one county, and
returnable in any other.
8. Justice writs to be signed and sealed.
4. Attachments and arrests on scire facias as on other writs.
5. Unknown defendant may be sued by an assumed name, and writ amended.
Endorsement op Writs.
Sec . 6. What writs must be endorsed.
7. Liability of endorser. Suit within a year.
8. When new endorser may be required.
Actions, where to be Brought.
Sec. 9. Personal and transitory actions, where to be commenced. Transfer from one
county to another.
10. Actions on sheriffs bonds, where to be brought.
11. Actions on judgment, brought where judgment rendered, or either party lives.
12. Jurisdiction sustained if defendant's property is attached in the state. ■» (
18. Local and transitory actions, in which counties, towns and other corporations
are parties, where to be brought.
14. Actions for forfeitures, where brought.
15. Justice actions against one or several defendants, where brought and how
served.
Whits how served on Residents.
Sec 16. Summons to be left when property is attached, except in trustee writs.
17. Original summons served by reading or copy.
18. Service on county, town or other corporation made by giving copy to clerk,
treasurer, agent or member thereof, thirty days before court.
How served on Non-Resident.
Sec 19. Service made on defendant out the state by leaving with agent or attorney,
or as ordered by the judge or trial justice.
90. In actions against foreign insurance and express companies, service to be made
on agent in the state, thirty days before court.
HOW WANT OR DEFECT OF SERVICE MAT BE CURED.
Sec 21. How want or defect of service may be cured.
Attachment of Personal Property.
Sec 22. What personal property may be attached.
23. When attachment of hay and animals, though left in hands of debtor, good
against other attachments.

TITLE IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

613

Sec. 24. Attachment of bulky personal property may be recorded in the town clerk's CHAP 81
office, and how and when. Clerk's fees.
•
25. How shares in a corporation may be attached. Office of corporation to fur
nish defendant's number of shares; if he refuses, action for damages.
26. The franchise or right to take toll, and other property of corporation may be
attached, and how.
27. Attachments on same writ may be made in different counties by different
officers.
When Personal Property Attached may be Sold on Writ.
Sec, 28. Personal property attached may be sold on writ by consent.
29. Living animals, or goods liable to perish or be kept at great expense, may be
sold, without consent, after appraisal.
SO. On request, officer to give notice of timo and place of appraisal, and how ;
and cause appraisers to be chosen, and how.
81. Appraisers to be sworn, and appraise the property at its cash value.
32. To be delivered to debtor on his depositing money or giving bond to satisfy
judgments. Bond to be returned with officer's doings,
88. Bond may be sued by any creditor. Nature of judgment thereon. Money
recovered, how applied.
84. How attaching creditor, not a party to suit on bond, may avail himself thereof,
or of the judgment therein.
85. Property not so delivered to debtor, to be sold on writ and proceeds
applied to attachments.
36. Proceeds of property sold, may be further attached in hands of officer; but
after retaining enough to pay attachments, he is to pay balance to debtor.
ST. Eight by priority in case of sale, preserved.
88. Property attached and claimed by one not a party to suit, may be replevied in
ten days after notice; and if not, to be sold by officer with consent of cred
itors, unless debtor forbids.
HOW PROPERTY OF PART OWNER ATTACHED MAT BE DISPOSED OF.
Sec. 89. Property of part owner attached, to be appraised and delivered to other owner
on giving bond. Bond to be returned with writ and sued if forfeited.
40. Part owner so paying has a lien on the property, and may sell it; but if the
attachment is dissolved, he shall restore it
Attachment of Property Mortgaged or Pledged.
Sec. 41. Personal property mortgaged or pledged, may be attached by creditor redeem
ing it,
42. When mortgaged property is attached, no action against the officer till fortyeight hours' notice; and officer or creditor may redeem within that time.
43. Mortgagee not rendering account of sum due in ten days after notice, waives
his mortgage. If account false, action for double the excess.
44. If creditor redeems, that amount first repaid on sale of the property, and bal
ance applied to the debt.
When Attaching Officer Dies, is Removed, or Property is Replevied.
Sec. 45. Goods attached by an officer, and his claim for damages when they arc taken
from him, on his death, not assets of his estate, but subject to attachments.
46. Such property replevied, liable to further attachments; replevin bond liable
for whole value.

614

CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 81. Sec. 47. If officer dies or is removed, property attached liable to further attachments
by other officers, and how they are made.
48. Limitation of right to attach goods replevied.
Attachments and Actions when a Party Dies.
Sec. 49. Decree of insolvency, before sale on execution, dissolves the attachment, and
officer to restore the property on demand and payment of his fees.
50. If property is sold before demand, officer liable for proceeds. If paid over to
creditor, he is liable, and cannot set off his demands against the estate.
51. After decease of debtor and before decree of insolvency, officer to give copy
of his return to administrator, and allow view by the appraisers. Penalty.
52. Actions by officers for goods attached and taken from them, not to abate by
death of parties, but go on as if alive.
58. If officer dies pending suit, and no administrator is appointed in three months,
party in interest may carry it on by giving security for costs.
Attachments of Real Estate.
Sec. 54. What real estate and interests therein are liable to attachment. Officer need
not enter or view the same.
55. When right of redemption is attached and incumbrance is removed before
sale, attachment holds premises free.
58. No attachment valid unless recorded in registry of deeds in five days, and
claim specified in writ.
57. When right of redemption, or to a deed by contract, is attached, creditor may
redeem or pay; and then title of mortgagee or contractor shall vest in him.
58. Mortgagee or contractor shall furnish the sum due him on demand; and on
payment thereof, shall release or be compelled to do so by bill in equity.
Pbopebtt Exempt from Attachment.
Sec. 59. What personal property is exempt from attachment.
Homesteads Exempt.
Sec. 60. Homesteads exempt from attachmeht except for liens.
61. Honseholder to have his claim for exemption recorded in registry, with descrip
tion of homestead, and then $500 worth exempt from debts subsequently
contracted.
62. When creditors claim that homestead is worth more than $500, appraisers first
to set off that value, and apply residue to the execution.
68. After death of householder, widow and children to occupy during widowhood
and minority.
.How and when Attachments abe Dissolved.
Sec. 64. Attachments of real and personal estate continue thirty days after judgment
and no more, except in certain cases.
65. Attachments dissolved by judgment for defendant; insolvency before levy or
sale on execution; reference of all demands, and by increasing ad damnum.
66. Clerk of court to give owner certificate of dissolution of attachment, to be
recorded in registry of deeds. Creditor may release attachment on record,
or by certificate recorded.
67. Debtor whose real estate is attached, may petition judge of court for a valua
tion and release. Judge to issue notice, to be served ten days before
hearing.

TITLE IX .J

CIVIL ACTIONS.

615

Sec. 68. Judge to fix value of such real estate, and release same on bond of debtor. CHAP. 81.
Conditions of bond.
69. Proceedings and bond to be filed in the clerk's office.
TO. Certificate of proceedings from clerk, recorded in registry of deeds, vacates
the attachment.
71. Same proceedings to vacate attachment of personal property; and also of
stocks, only certificate to be recorded where attachment is.
72. Foreign attachments vacated in same way, only bonds to be given to trustees
also, and certificate filed with them.
73. Fees of clerk and register of deeds; and all costs of proceedings to be recov
ered by prevailing party.
Cross Actions Against Non-Residents.
Sec. 74. In cross actions and set-off against parties out the state, service made on their
attorneys, sufficient.
75. Court may order continuances to enable absent party to defend, or either to
set off his judgment or execution.
Days on which no Arrests can be hade or Process Served.
Sec. 76. Days on which arrests cannot be made or process served.
77. Voters not to be arrested on election days.
78. Civil process served on Lord's day void; and officer liable.
Limitation of Personal Actions.
Sec. 79. What actions must be commenced within six years.
80. Actions against an officer for escape of prisoner, in one year; for any other
misfeasance, in four years.
81. Actions for assault and battery, false imprisonment, slander and libel, in two
years.
82. Scire facias against bail, sureties in criminal recognizances, and trustees, to be
brought in one year.
88. These limitations not to apply to witnessed notes, bank bills or cases limited
by other statutes.
84. When the cause of action accrues in mutual and open accounts current.
85. Minors and others under disability, may bring suits after the disability is re
moved within the times herein limited.
86. General limitation of twenty years.
87. When writ fails of service, or is defeated for any cause, or judgment reversed,
new suit commenced in six months; and cause of action survives.
88. Provision in case of death of either party before suit is commenced.
89. Saving of the rights of alien enemies during a war.
90. Limitation of suits by individuals for penalties, and of suits and indictments
by the state on penal statutes.
91. The making of a writ with intention of service, is the commencement of an
action.
92. Limitation extended in cases of fraud.
93. Renewal of promise must be in writing; such renewal by a joint contractor
cannot affect the liability of the other contractors.
94. If the action is barred as to one defendant and not as to the others, what judg
ment is to be rendered.
95. Non-joinder of defendants shall not abate the suit, if the action is barred
against the one not sued.

CIVIL ACTIONS.

616
CHAP. 81. Sec. 96.
'.
97.
98.
99.

[TITLE IX

Effect of indorsement of partial payments. No promisor affected, except
those making the payments.
Presumption of payment after twenty years.
Application of the statute of limitations to set-offs.
Provision if defendant is out the stato.

FORMS AND REQUISITES OF WRITS.
Forms of writs
Sec 1. The forms of writs in oivil actions remain as established;
they are, till but the supreme judicial court, by general rules, may make such
court^e<iby
alterations therein, for all courts, as changes in the law or other
E- 8 c 81, il. causes require.
Actions como^igiimi writs,
issued by clerk
and tobe^
attachment, or
mons!alissued

Sec. 2. All civil actions, except scire facias and other special
writs, shall be commenced by 'original write; which, in the supreme
judicial court, may be issued by the clerk in term time or vacation,
and be framed to attach the goods and estate of the defendant, and
for want thereof to take the body, or as an original summons with or
without an order to attach goods and estate ; and in actions against

andreturaaWe corporations and in other cases where goods or estate are attached,
K |nc°8ier- m^ ^e defendant is not liable to arrest, the writ and summons may
W 12,
12 Me. 196.
r
89 McTiw. 501.
£♦4- f) J (f j^tice writs to
i '
be sinned and
>
B.S.c8i,$ttanTarrest'on
scire facias, as
on other writs.
R.S.C. 81,^45.
Unknown
befsuc<i byinay
Jndwritname
amended.
R.S.c. 81,^26.

be combined in one. A writ issued by the clerk of any county, may
be made returnable in any other county, in which the action might be
legally brought.
^ec. ^* ^"ts issued by a trial justice, or judge of municipal or
police court, shall be signed by him and sealed.
Sec. 4. All write of scire facias may contain a direction to the
officer serving them, to attach the property of the defendants and to
arrest their bodies when liable to be arrested, the same as in case of
...
-writs of attachment.
Sec. 5. When the name of a defendant is not known to the
plaintiff, the writ may issue against him by an assumed name ; and if
du]y served, it shall not be abated for that cause, but may be
amended on such terms as the court orders.
ENDORSEMENT OF WRITS.

What writs
Sec. 6. Every writ original, of scire facias, of error, of audita
endorsed.
querela, petition for writ of certiorari, for review, or for partition, and
l Me.C899! * 9 bill in equity, shall, before entry in court, be endorsed by some suffiio5Me."48 216 c^en^ inhabitant of the state, when the plaintiff or petitioner is not an
89 Me 18?
inhabitant thereof; and if pending such suit the plaintiff or petitioner
48 Me. nr.
removes from the state, such indorser shall be procured on motion of
56 Me. 146.
the defendant or other party to the suit ; but if one of such plaintiffs
or petitioners is an inhabitant of the state, no indorser shall be
required except by special order of the court.
Liability
of
gEC> 7. in Case m of avoidance or inability
or petiendorser.
• of the plaintiff
r
*
Suit within a tioner, the indorser is liable, in an action on the case, brought within

TITLE IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

one year after the original judgment, in the court in which it was
rendered, to pay all costs recovered against the plaintiff. A return
upon the execution by an officer of the county, where the indorser
lives, that he has demanded of the indorser payment thereof, and that
he has neglected to pay, or to show the officer personal property suflicient to satisfy the execution, or that he cannot find the indorser
within his precinct, shall be conclusive evidence of his liability in the
Suit.
Sec. 8. If pending any such suit or petition, any such indorser
becomes insufficient or removes from the state, the court may require
a new and sufficient indorser, the defendant consenting that the name
of the original indorser shall be struck out; and such new indorser
shall be liable for all costs from the beginning of the suit, as if he
had been the original indorser ; and if such new indorser is not pro
vided, the action shall be dismissed and the defendant recover his
costs.
Sec. 9. Personal and transitory actions, except process of foreign
attachment, and except as provided in the six following sections, shall
be brought, when the parties live in the state, in the county where

617
Chap. 81.
^eagr-c gl
\i 16, 96. '
467, wi. '
\l J[c! it'.
*J J*e. 885.
lf^8^
89 Me! 181.
Sdaraer^ay
^c ^"gj^'n
«' Me. 840.

Personal and
actions, where
menced.m"

any plaintiff or defendant lives ; and when the plaintiff does not live one TOunt^to
in the state, in the county where any defendant lives; and when not gngthcergl ^2
so brought, on motion, or inspection by the court, they shall be abated 12 Me. 17.'
and the defendant allowed double costs. When the plaintiff and M Me! 814!
defendant live in different counties at the commencement of any such
*
action, except process of foreign attachment, and during its pendency
one party moves into the same county with the other, on motion of
either it may be transferred to the county where both then live, if the
court thinks justice will thereby be promoted ; and tried as if origi
nally commenced and entered therein.
Sec. 10. Actions on bonds given by sheriffs and coroners to the Ahc^!,s on
treasurer of the state, shall be brought in the county in which such bonds, where
sheriff or coroner is commissioned to act.
ILsfc.^^'
Sec. 11. All actions of debt, founded on judgment rendered by Actions on
. ,
,. ,
,
judgment
any court of record m this state, may be brought in the county where brought where
it was rendered, or in the county in which either party thereto, or his derfd, or either
executor or administrator, resides at the time of bringing the action. r^cI'sm 4.
Sec. 12. In all actions commenced in any court proper to try g^^0^
them, jurisdiction shall be sustained, if goods, estate, effects or credits p^p"^1/8
of any defendant are found within this state and attached on the attached in the
state
original writ ; and service shall be made as provided in the nineteenth r. s.'c. 81, § 5.
section hereof.
Sec. 13. Local and transitory actions shall be commenced and Local and
"
.
.
transitory
tried as follows : When both parties are counties, m any county actions, in
adjoining either; when a county is plaintiff, if the defendant lives ties, townsand

618

CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 81.
other corporaparrtcvwhere
R.secb™i"f6.'
53 Me. 419.

therein, in an adjoining county; if he does not live therein, in the
county in -which he does live; when a county is defendant, if the
plaintiff lives therein, in that county or in any adjoining county ; if
he does not Uve therein> 'm that county or in that in which he does
live ; when a corporation is one. party and a county the other, in any
adjoining county; when both parties are towns, parishes or school dis
tricts, in the county in which either is situated ; when one party is a
town, parish, or school district, and the other some corporation or
natural person, in the county in which either of the parties is situated
or lives; but all actions against towns, for damages by reason of
defects in highways, shall be brought and tried in the county in which
the town is situated. All other corporations may sue and be sued in
the county in which they have any established place of business, or in
that in which the plaintiff or defendant, being a natural person, lives.
Actions for
Sec. 14. When a forfeiture is recoverable in a civil action, it
where to be shall be brought in the county in which the offence was committed,
R?s!fh8i, § 7_ unless a different provision is made in the statute imposing it ; and if
on trial it does not appear that it was committed in the county where
the action was brought, the verdict shall be in favor of the defendant.
Justice actions Sec. 15. Any action against two or more defendants residing in
B^rofdefend- different counties, to be tried before a trial justice or municipal or
bebroughtand police court, may be brought in the county where either resides ; and
r°s fsil's
and execution shall be directed to and executed by the
15 Me 188
proper officers in each of such counties ; but if there is but one
defendant, such action shall be commenced in the county where he
resides.
WRITS, HOW SERVED ON RESIDENTS.
Summons to
gEC# jg. When goods or estate are attached on either of said
be left when
...
property is at- writs, except in trustee writs, a separate summons, m form by law
intrustee"*1" prescribed, shall be delivered to the defendant, or left at his dwelling
B.8.'c81,$M. house or place of last and usual abode, fourteen days before the sitSee R. S. c. 86,
0f ^e com^ fa which it is returnable, which shall be a sufficient
81 Me. 494.
serviCe.
48 Me. 401.
Sec. 17. Where the process is by original summons, wherein the
Sons MTvcd"" law does n0* recluire a separate summons to be left with the defendby reading or
^e service shall be sufficient by reading the writ or original sum45 fic 'iw 16 mons *°
defendant, or by giving him in hand, or leaving at his
47 Me. 298.
dwelling house or place of last and usual abode, a certified copy
thereof, fourteen days before it is returnable.
Service on
Sec. 18. In suits against a county, the summons shall be served
oro°iicrcorpo- by leaving an attested copy thereof with one of the county commisby'Svingcopy sioners or their clerk; against a town, parish, religious society, or
urer Mentor" scno°l district, with the clerk, or one of the selectmen or'assessors, if
member there- there is any such officer, if not, with a member of such corporation ;
of, thirty days
'
'
'
1
and against any other corporation, hjjwever^created,, with Jts presiin

TITLE IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

dent, clerk, cashier, treasurer, general agent or director ; if there is
no such officer or agent found within the county where such corporation is established, or where its records or papers are by law required
to be kept, with any member thereof; and in each case, it shall be so
served thirty days before the return day thereof.

619
Chap. 81.
before court,
4410', 26, 21, 28.
\® ^l]

HOW SERVED ON NON-RESIDENTS.
* Sec. 19. If any one defendant is not an inhabitant of the state, service mode ]
the writ may be served on him by leaving a summons or copy, as the outli/e sfaxe'
case may be, with his tenant, agent or attorney in the state, fourteen ^[t^^Jft or
days
before the sitting of the court ; and if his goods or „estate are ordered
attorney,bvorthe
as
J ,,,,,,
attached, and he has no such tenant, agent or attorney, after entry, jud^e or trial
justice
the court in the county where the process is returnable, or before r. s. c. 81,
entry, the court in any county, may order notice to the defendant, or g\ic! 1%^'
a justice thereof in vacation may make such order signed by him on J®
JJJ|'
the back of the process ; and if it is complied with and proved, he *J
sjjjshall be held to answer to the suit. A trial justice or judge of a 55 Me. 549.
municipal or police court, may in like cases, order like notice on any 3/ „ ' j/y ^ ^
process returnable or pending before him.
£ l*,w4"w
'
Sec. 20. In actions by inhabitants of this state against insurance in actions
companies established by any other state or country, on policies of c^illnsurance
insurance, signed or countersigned by agents in this state, on property rompmdes,3
or lives or against accidents in this state ; and in such actions against !*??fe t0 be .
o
'
o
made on agent
express companies so established, service shall be sufficient if made in.tlie state,
,
,
.
......
thirty days beon the person who signed or countersigned such policies, or on any fore court.
agent or attorney of either such company, or left at his last and 452228. '
usual place of abode thirty days before the return day of the suit; cf leif" 188;
but the court may, in any case, order further notice.
See c. 49, H 63,
HOW WANT OR DEFECT OF SERVICE MAT BE CURED.
Sec. 21. When the property of a defendant is attached on a writ,
and no service is made on him before entry, or if service in any case
is defective for any cause, without the fault of the plaintiff or his
attorney, the court may order a new service, which, when made, shall
be as effectual as if proper service had been made in the first instance.

now want or
vfc^may tie
g1^ gJ ^25
i860, c. 188,41.

ATTACHMENT OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Sec. 22. All goods and chattels may be attached and held as What personsecurity to satisfy the judgment for damages and costs which the maybe atuichplaintiff may recover, except such as, from their nature and situation, r!s.c.81,42T.
have been considered as exempted from attachment according to the
principles of the common law as adopted and practiced in this state,
and such as are hereafter mentioned. Such personal property may
be attached on writs issued by a trial justice, or judge of a police or
municipal court in any county in the state, when directed to the
proper officer.

620

ClVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 81.
Sec. 23. When hay in a bam, horses or neat cattle are attached,
Whcnattach- and are suffered to remain, by the permission of the officer, in the
hayandani- defendant's possession on security given for their safe keeping and
hands of debt- delivery to the officer, they shall not be subject to a second attachaga^fother ment to the prejudice of the first.
rTc'ibmm
^EC- 24. When any personal property is attached, which by rea7„^,°¥J?;
son
of its bulk or other special
cause cannot be immediately
18 Me. 125,272.
r
* removed,
19 Me. 92.
the officer may, within five days thereafter, file m the office of the
87 Me 826
Attachment of clerk of the town, in which the attachment is made, an attested copy
bulky person- 0f so
0f ^ retiirn on the writ, as relates to the attachment,
al property
'
_
'
may be record- ^ith the value of the defendant's property which he is thereby comcierk's office, manded to attach, the names of the parties, the date of the writ, and
where. Clerk's the court to which it is returnable ; and such attachment shall be as
R8.C.81 $85. effectual and valid, as if the property had remained in his possession
i8iie'v>i
an<* custoay- The clerk shall receive the copy, and note thereon the
45 Me 61* 185 ^me °^ ^ rece^nS "t, an<^ enter 't m a book kept for that purpose,
and keep it on file for the inspection of those interested therein, for
which he shall be entitled to ten cents. When such an attachment is
made in an unincorporated place, such copy shall be filed and record
ed in the office of the clerk of the oldest adjoining town in the county.
^corporaUon1
^Ec> ^5- When the share or interest of any person in any incormay^be atporated company is attached on mesne process, an attested copy of
ficc of 'corpo- the writ with a notice thereon of the attachment, signed by the
nish defend-* officer, shall be left with the clerk, cashier or treasurer of the comof tsharcs;bii Pan7 '■> m& sucn attachment shall be a lien on such share or interest,
tion for dama- m^ ou au* MCTvmg dividends ; and if the officer having the writ of
RCS c 81 $42 attachment exhibits it to the officer of the company having custody of
the account of shares or interest of the stockholders, and requests a
certificate of the number held by the defendant, and such officer
unreasonably refuses to give it, or willfully gives him a false certifi
cate thereof, he shall pay double the damages occasioned by such
refusal or neglect; to be recovered against him in an action on the
case by the creditor.
The franchise
gEC, 26. The franchise and all right to demand and take toll,
take toil and and all other property of a corporation, may be attached on mesne
of^orporatioii process, and the attaching officer shall leave an attested copy of the
attached, and writ with a notice of the attachment thereon, signed by him, with the
r°s c 8M48 cier^5 treasurer, or some officer or member of the corporation, as pro42 Me. 414.
yided in section eighteen.
Attachments
Sec. 27. Different attachments in one or more counties may be
may"™emade made successively upon the same writ, and by different officers,
countieafand before the service of the summons upon the person whose property is
offlcer?rent attached; but none after such service. And personal property
R.s. cm, Hi- attached by a coroner may be again attached by a sheriff, deputy
sheriff, or constable, subject to the former attachment by giving notice

TITLE IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

621

thereof to the coroner and furnishing him with a copy of the precept Chap. 81.'
within a reasonable time thereafter, and so property attached by the
last named officers may be again attached by a coroner in like man
ner; and personal property attached by a constable may be again
attached by a coroner or by a deputy in the same manner.
WHEN PERSONAL PROPERTY ATTACHED MAY BE SOLD ON WRIT.
Sec. 28. When personal property is attached, by consent of the
debtor and creditor, the officer may sell it on the writ before or after
entry, observing the directions for selling on execution ; and if it is
attached by different officers, it may be so sold by the first attaching
officer; or in case of his death, if\he was a deputy sheriff, by the
*
sheriff or another deputy by the written consent of the debtor and all
attaching creditors ; and the proceeds of sale, after deducting

Personal propmay be sold on
£.nt.b> eon"
gjA c£;8]^ 46>
i8Me. 296.
89 Me 29 886
48 Me. 533.
54 * 16T"

necessary expenses, shall be held by the first attaching officer or the
sheriff, subject to the successive attachments as if sold on execution.
.
Sec. 29. When, ltvSig /ammat% ^go^lo liable to perish, be n^^od*
wasted, greatly reduced in value by keeping, or kept at great jjj*ie to perish
expense, are attached, and the' parties do not consent to a sale great expense,
thereof, the same may be examined and appraised before or after the be sold on
i» ,1
,•
»n
^ ' writ, without
entry 01 the action, as lollows.
^ consent, after
Sec. 30. At the request of either party interested, the officer r^s™1!^!' $47.
shall give notice of the time and place of the appraisal, with the JJ^fJJijj
names of the parties
and
V . to the
. action,
,
, • of the supposed owner
, ,. , of the
. 89
49 Me.
Me. 29.
59.
property, by posting notices thereof m two or more public places m on request,
the town where it was attached, or by giving personal notice thereof
jjjjj
to all parties
to
the
suit
in
which
it
is
attached,
four
days
at
least
and
P^ee
r
'
appraisal, of
and
before the appraisal. He shall prepare a schedule of the property} how; and
and cause three disinterested appraisers, acquainted with the nature ers to bcPnU3
and value of such goods, to be appointed, one by the creditor, one by h<wr?°'
the debtor, and one by himself; and if the creditor or debtor neglects
^»
to appoint one, he shall appoint one in his behalf.
86 Me- 161Sec. 31. The appraisers shall be sworn by the officer without fee, ^0™"^
or by a justice of the peace or trial justice, and examine such prop- p^™^.^'^
erty ; and if in their opinion, any part of it is liable to perish, be cash value,
wasted, be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or kept at great $$'49,50.
expense, they shall appraise it at its value in money.
MMf& WU
Sec 32. Thereupon, at the request of the debtor, the property J^J^jJfjj,,
shall be delivered to him, on his depositing with the officer the on depositing
appraised value thereof in money, or giving bond to him with two mg"mone/to
sufficient sureties, conditioned to pay him said value, or satisfy all mems.^Bond
judgments recovered in the suits in which the property is attached, if
demanded before the attachments expire, or within thirty days after doi^Kc8- gl
the time when the creditors might demand payment out of the pro- $$ si, hi. '
ceeds of the property if sold as hereinafter provided ; and he shall 86 Me! in*.

>
'

622

CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 81. return such bond with the writ on which the first attachment is made,
with a return of his doings in relation thereto.
Bond may be
Sec. 33. If the bond is forfeited any one or more of the creditors
creditor.*"17 ma7 bring an action of debt thereon in the name of the officer, and
jud'^iient
sna^ endorse their names on the writ. If judgment is for the defendMoncyrecov- an^' execu^on f°r cost shall be issued against them jointly, or one
c5cd how ap" a8a"lst ea°k *°r k*3 proportion, as the court thinks just. If judgE. s. c.81,
ment is for the plaintiffs, the money recovered shall be applied to pay
H 52, 58, 54, 55. fl^ir necessary expenses in prosecuting the suit, not reimbursed by

How an |
ftOTCnot^cred"
party
the
Buit ontobond,
may avail himof thejudgK.es*c!si7i156.

costs recovered of the defendants; and the residue belongs to the
attaching creditors according to their priorities; but no execution
shall be awarded for the use of any creditor, without reserving what
may be due on any prior attachment, whether the creditor therein is
a party to the suit on the bond or not.
Sec. 34. An attaching creditor not a party to such suit, on his
motion before final judgment therein, may become a party on such
terms as the court orders,, the same as if he had been, a party
r J orieri°
nally; and his name shall then be endorsed on the writ; or he may
bring scire facias on the judgment and recover the sum due him on
the bond. But no creditor whose cause of action on the bond

Property not
debto^o*!*!10
and proceeds
applied to
attachments.
R. s.c.81, $50.
89 Mc 887
48 Me. 588.
propeny sold
may be further
attached
in
hands of
after retaining
attechmcnts"y

accrued more than a year prior to the suit thereon, shall have judg
ment or execution therein ; nor bring such scire facias unless within
a year after the cause of action accrued.
Sec. 35. If such property, after its appraisal, is not delivered to
the debtor as aforesaid, the officer shall sell it, make return of all his
doings relating thereto, and hold and dispose of the proceeds as in a
gale by consent,
'
Sec. 36. The proceeds of such property sold by consent or after
an appraisal, may be further attached by the officer as the property
°^
defendant while remaining in his hands, and held and disposed
of as , if the property
attached ; but after retaining
f r
. itself
. . had been
...
,. °
enough to satisfy all attachments existing thereon at any time, nothing
herein shall prevent his paying the surplus to the debtor.
Sec- 37- When goods, which are sold, or appraised and delivered

balance to7 *° *ne ^e^*°r m tne manner before provided, have been attached by
£e*Ltor.
several creditors, any one of them may demand and receive satisfacK. S. C 81 , $ 58. .
.......
..
.
48 Me. 587.
tion of his judgment, notwithstanding any prior attachments, if he is
ority'in case of otherwise entitled to demand the money, and a sufficient sum is left,
served™
°^
proceeds of the goods, or of their appraised value, to satisfy all
R. s.c.81, §57. prior attachments.
attached and
not a^arty°to
reptevfeYin
ten days after
not, to be sold

Sec. 38. When personal property, attached on mesne process, is
claimed by a person not a party to the suit, he may replevy it in ten
^s
not'ce given mm therefor by the attaching creditor, and
not afterwards; and after that the attaching officer, without impairing
the rights of such person, at the request and on the responsibility of

TITLE IX.J

CIVIL ACTIONS.

623

the plaintiff, and with the consent of other attaching creditors, if any, Chap. 81.
may sell it at auction as on execution, unless the debtor claims it as by officer by
,.
j » ..j ,1
,
consent of
his, and forbids the sale.
creditors,
unless debtor
HOW PROPERTY OF PART OWNERS ATTACHED MAY BE DISPOSED OF. forbids.
R S c 81 $ 60
Sec. 39. When personal property is attached in a suit against Property of
one or more part owners thereof, at the request of another part owner, attached "to be
it shall be appraised as hereinbefore provided, one appraiser chosen jgiwcred'to"1
by the creditor, one by the officer and the other by the requesting other owner,
*
on giving a
part owner ; and thereupon it shall be delivered to such part owner bond. Bond
on his giving bond to the officer with two sufficient sureties, condi- writ™nd sued,
tioned to restore it in like good order, or pay the appaised value of r/s.^"^'
the defendant's share therein, or satisfy all judgments recovered in ^ Me68953'
the attaching suits, if demanded within the time it would be held by i'l •< /i 2_
the attachments. Such bond shall be returned with the writ with the
doings of the officer thereon, and if forfeited, the like proceedings
may be had as are provided in section thirty-three.
Sec. 40. If any part of such appraised value is so paid, the paylng^has'a
defendant's share of the property shall thereby be pledged to the proPCTtyand
party paying; and if not redeemed, he may sell it, and account to J^'.^11 i(;
the defendant for the balance, if any ; but if the attachment is dis- ment is dis
solved, he shall restore such share to the defendant or to the attach- restore it! ShaU
ing officer for him.
„ yTt^i^f^ ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY MORTGAGED Or PLEDGED.

erty mortgagP"

Sec. 41. Personal property not exempt from attachment, mort- may'beaittfchgaged, pledged, or subject to any lien created by law, and of which J^j^^Sg ur
the debtor has the right of redemption, may be attached, held, and R.s.c.8i,$64.
sold as if it was unencumbered, if the attaching creditor first tenders 50 Me.127%95.
or pays the mortgagee, pledgee, or holder, the full amount unpaid on gagedpropthe demand so secured thereon.
c"y is attached, no action
Sec. 42. When personal property, attached on a writ or seized aguinst officer
on execution, is claimed by virtue of such mortgage, pledge or lien, hours notice;
the claimant shall not bring an action against the attaching officer crcdrtoVmay
therefor, until he has given him at least forty-eight hours, written
in that
notice of his claim and the true amount thereof; and the officer or ^5j9,6c- m*
creditor may, within that time, discharge the claim by paying or ten- d1^)t"1°rtSttfce
dering the amount due thereon, or restore the property. (ft/
der amount of
...
.
.
. account due in
Sec. 43. The officer may give the claimant written notice of his ten days after
.
notice li©
attachment ; and if he does not, within ten days thereafter, deliver to waives bis
the officer a true account of the amount due on his claim, he thereby accoifnffaise^
waives the right to hold the property thereon ; and if his account is Joa^e^ ^
false, he forfeits to the creditor double the amount of the excess, to K. c>. c. 81 , f**'
$ 65.
be recovered in an action on the case.
1859. c. ih,
§42,8,5.
Sec. 44. If the creditor redeems such property, and it is subse- 18C0. 0. i«8quently sold by the officer, he shall, from the proceeds, first pay to deemfthat"^

624
Chap. 81.
repaid on sale
o f property,
am
nd balance
applied todebt.
1859, c. 114,
« 1, 5.
Goods attachccrbandnhi3ffl
claim for dam
ages when
they are taken
his death.' not
estote.butsubtachment.at
R. S.c8i,i7l.
rep'ieTied'jta^
attachments"
Ha?bTcVforb°ni
gh°lec™Jue\i 72, 78. '
or Amoved,
tached'bv^hini
thw attach1"
mcnts by other
how to be
R.as.ec. 81,
" 74> 75,

Limitation of
right to attach
goods repievR. s.c. 81, §76.
Decree of inforeTa^eon0"
execution, dis
solves attachmcnt, and offlpropertv'on6
payment of1
fees.
k. y. c. oif
M 77, 79.
1 869 c 87 k 2
1Sec.'^M,
Me. 883. 6»!
16 Me. 818.

CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

the creditor the amount with interest paid by him to redeem, and
aPP^ ^e balance, if m7> *° the debt on which it was attached or
seized on execution.
WHEN ATTACHING OFFICER DIES, IS REMOVED, OR PROPERTY IS
REPLEVIED.
Sec.
Personal property attached by an officer and in his possession, and his claim for damages when taken from him, shall remain
subject to such attachment in case of his death as if he was alive, and
shall not be assets belonging to his estate.
Sec. 46. Such property replevied from the officer, shall be liable
*° frther attachments as if in his possession ; and if there is judgment
for a return in the replevin suit, the plaintiff and his sureties shall be
liable for the whole property or its value, though some attachments
Wer6 ma^e a^er the replevin.
Sec- 47- If an attaching officer dies or is removed from office
while the attachment is in force, whether the property was in his
possession or not, it and its proceeds may be further attached by any
other officer, the same as it might have been by the first officer,
Sucn furtner attachments shall be made by a return setting forth an
attachment in common form and by whom the property was previously attached ; and if the goods have not been replevied, by leaving
a certified copy of the writ, omitting the declaration, and of the
return of that attachment, with the former officer, if living, or if
dead, with his executor or administrator, or if none are appointed,
with the person having possession of the goods ; or if the goods have
been replevied, and the officer who made the original attachment is
dead, such copy shall be left with the plaintiff in replevin, or his
executors or administrators ; and the attachment shall be considered
as made, when such copy is delivered in either of the modes before
described.
Sec. 48. Goods, that have been taken by replevin from an
;
.
attaching officer, shall not be further attached as the property of the
original defendant in any other manner, than that provided in the
four preceding sections, so long as they are held by the person who
replevied them, or by any one holding under him, unless the original
defendant has acquired a new title to the goods.
ATTACHMENTS AND ACTIONS WHERE A PARTY DIES,
Sec. 49. The attachment of personal property continues in force
a^ter
death of the debtor as if living, unless before a sale thereof
on execution, his estate is decreed insolvent : but it is dissolved by
such decree, and the officer, on demand thereafter, shall restore such
property
or administrator on rpayment
of his legal fees
/ , to the- executor
,
J
and charges of keeping.
\ \

TITLE IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

625

Sec. 50.. If, after such decree and before such demand,' the Chap. 81.
officer has sold the property on execution, he shall be liable to the if property is
executor or administrator in an action, not of trespass, but for money such demand,
had and received, for the proceeds if in his hands; but if paid over ^proceeds,
to the judgment creditor, such creditor shall be so liable ; and shall „£i"lt(orOVhe i°
not set off any demand he has against the executor or the adminis- liable, and can»
°
not set off his
trator on the estate of the deceased.
demands
Sec. 51. After the death of a defendant and before a decree of tate!"''
insolvency on his estate, the executor or administrator may demand R^ S csi,8182.
of the attaching officer a certified copy of his return on the writ with After decease
°
CJ
of debtor and
a description of the property attached, so that it may be described before decree
in the inventory of the estate subject to the attachment, and the officer to (five
appraisers may demand a view thereof so as to appraise it; and if turn tondminthe officer fails to comply with either demand, he forfeits to the ^5™^""^
executor or administrator not less than ten nor more than thirty pPP™jyersdollars.
BJJ.C.8MW.
Sec. 52. An action, brought by an officer for taking from him Actions by ofpersonal property attached by him, shall not abate by the death of attached unci
either party ; but may be prosecuted by or against his executor or them, ncTto
administrator. If the officer is dead and his representative recovers *f p'artics^bS
the property or money, it shall be held and applied as if he was alive ; g>^< as u
but if he fails to recover, he shall return the property or pay the R. S. cjji,
damages awarded in full, though the estate of the deceased is
insolvent.
Sec. 53. If any officer authorized to serve precepts, dies pending if officer dies
a suit for or against him for official neglect or misconduct, and no andlno^imiiiadministration is granted on his estate within three months thereafter, pofntcd in ap
the party for whose benefit the suit is so prosecuted or defended, may tnrec months,
....
.
.
. .
party in intercany it on in his own name by entering his appearance and giving est may cany
security for costs, as the court directs,
ing security
for costs.
ATTACHMENT OF REAL ESTATE.
R. S. c. 81, 5 85.
Sec. 54. All real estate liable to be taken in execution as pro- what real esz
vided in chapter seventy-six ; the right to cut and carry away grass
aercirTn- ^
and timber from land sold by this state or Massachusetts, the. soil of abIe ro a"ilch"
*
'
ment. Officer
which is not sold, and all other rights and interests in real estate, may need not view
.
ii
iiii
• n i
. i
tne same.
be attached on mesne process, and held to satisfy the judgment R. s. c. si,
recovered by the plaintiff; but the officers need not enter on or view i870%'7iio.
the estate to make such attachment, (a)
s??c' ~*| \%t-<ip
Sec. 55. When a right of redeeming real estate mortgaged or When right of
taken on execution, is attached ; and such estate is redeemed or the Mtached^and
incumbrance removed before the levy of the execution, the attach- ^ removedCbe{-/. m. /3
(a) 10 Me. 113; 14 Me. 84; 15 Me. 15T; 19 Mc. 49; 23 Me. 165, 170; 27 Me, 449; 28
Me. 392; 35 Me. 520; 89 Me. 841; 42 Me. 282, 822; 40 Me. 486, 480; 52 Me. 355; 55 Me.
570.
1,-Q „ qi
40

626

*

CIVIL ACIONS.
[TITLE IX.
i
Chap. 81. ment shall hold the premises discharged of the mortgage or levy, as
tachment
^
n°* ej"S*e^'
lioids premises
Sec. 56. No attachment of real estate on mesne process shall
ffi
f~f-(~ R. s. c.8i,^29. create any hen thereon, unless the nature and amount of plaintiff's
J~
*8Me!'242.
demand is set forth in proper counts, or a specification thereof is •
£ y j./S No attnch- ^ annexed to the writ, nor unless the officer making it, within five days
*"
estate valid, thereafter, files in the office of register of deeds in the county or disedin^re^i'stiy' trict in which all or any part of said estate is situated, an attested
flv^dayt'and C0Py °f 50 much of his return on the writ, as relates to the attachmawritPe°med men*> witu tne value of the defendant's property which he is thereby
R. 80,
s. c81.81,
commanded to attach,' the names of the parties,
W
r
' the date of the writ,'
is Me, 296.
and the court to which it is returnable. If the copy is not so filed
48 Mc.'4io,'5G6. within five days, the attachment shall take effect from the time it is
52 jic'.14098"1'<^ted, if before the entry of the action, although it is after service on
55Me"450 570 '*^e defendant. And such proceedings shall be had in such office, by
29 Me. 268.
the register of deeds, as are prescribed in the chapter respecting the
registry of deeds.
_
When right of gEC 57 When a right to redeem real estate under a mortgage,
redemption or
o
_
o o >
to
a deed isbyat- levy,
contract,
•" sale . on execution or for
. taxes,
. ' or a . right
, , to a conveyance
~
, by
tnched, the
contract, is attached, the plaintiff m the suit, before or after a sale on
rcdeem^pay, execution, may pay or tender to the person entitled thereto, the
of^oMgagce amoun*; required to discharge such incumbrance or fulfil such conshaii vesUn1 *rac*; » an^ thereby the title and interest of such person shall vest in
1m c 149 4 1 ^e P^amt'^"> subject to the defendant's right to redeem as he might
1868! c. 161*. from such person ; but such redemption by the defendant or any per
son claiming under him by a title subsequent to the attachment, shall
not affect such attachment, but it shall continue in force, and the prior
incumbrance as against it, shall be deemed discharged.
The mort^aSec. 58. Such person, on written demand, shall give the plaintiff •
H«e or contrac•
*
'
,
tor shall fur- a true written statement of the amount due him ; and on payment or
rnniid'thc sum tender thereof, shall release all his interest in the premises ; and if he
onepaymcnt,d refuses, ho may be compelled to do so by a bill in equity. But such
on payment,
shall release release shall recite that under the authority of this and the preceding
shaii
or be compcllby wiun0
secti°n> the plaintiff had attached the premises and paid or tendered
equity.
the amount due the grantor; the plaintiff shall thereupon hold such
1862 c 149,§2. . , .
.
. .
1863,' c. 161. ' title in trust for the defendant, and subject to his right of redemption,
without power of alienation till after one year from the termination of
said suit, or from the sale of the equity on any execution recovered
Personal property exempt therein.
from attach
ment.
PROPERTY EXEMPT FROM ATTACHMENT, rjffs&St
R. S.c81,*8«
s^c! 64', \ 46.
Sec. 59. The following personal property is exempt from attachWearin»a ^ men*' an<^ exeCution:
parei, furnfFirst.—The debtor's wearing apparel; household furniture necesi6irMe.n268. 3 sary for himself, wife, and children, not exceeding fifty dollars in

*

title ix.l ^

W ' /fii&^Tifa/.

r

value, and one bed, bedstead and necessary bedding for every two
sucb persons.
Second.—All family portraits, all bibles and school books in actual
„
n
n
i n.
use in the family ; one copy of the statutes of the state, and a library
not exceeding a hundred and fifty dollars in value.
TJiird.—All his interest in one pew in a meeting house where he
and his family statedly worship.
Fourth.—One cooking stove : all iron stoves used exclusively for
■it
iii
t
i
j
warming buildings ; charcoal, and not exceeding twelve cords of wood
conveyed to his house for the use of himself and family ; all anthracite coal not exceeding five tons ; all bituminous coal not exceeding

. 627
Chap. 81.
Portraits,
bibles, school
books, statryCS an
ra"

'<

One pew.
Cooking and
warming
stoves, wood,
lumber,
1867' e" 102'^ 4"

fifty bushels ; and ten dollars' worth of lumber, wood or bark.
Fifth.—All produce of farms until harvested ; one barrel of flour ;
corn and grain necessary for himself and family, not exceeding thirty
bushels ; all potatoes raised or purchased for himself and family ; and
all flax raised on a half acre of land, and all articles manufactured
'
therefrom for the use of himself and family.
Sixth.—The tools necessary for his trade or occupation, and one
sewing machine not exceeding one hundred dollars in value for actual
use by
J himself or family.
J
,
.

Produce growCorn, grain,
flatf.'063' "nd
Jf6*-ac-™,
;w>
41 Me. 78. f.y''24tt l'/
Tools of trade
j^adchinging
i'^ ^ ^
ijj6i. c. 9.
io
Me.c. 135.
1865,
801.

Seventh.—One pair of working cattle, or instead thereof one pair Qxpn mu]es
of mules or one or two horses not exceeding in value three hundred horses, hardollars, and a sufficient quantity of hay to keep them through the sicdandhay.
winter season. If he has more than one pair of working cattle, or HH] c. 1^9.
more than one pair of mules, or if the two horses exceed in value *' 102'
three hundred dollars, he may elect which pair of cattle or mules or *jj
*~ ^fi;
which horse shall be exempted. If he has a pair of mules or one or 48 Me. 410.
55 Me. 107.
two horses so exempt, he may also have exempt for each of said
horses or mules, one harness not exceeding twenty dollars in value ;
and one horse-sled not exceeding the same value ; but if he has at
the same time an ox-sled, he may elect which sled shall be exempt.
Eighth.—Two swine, one cow, and one heifer under three years fheep0,' iamb's,
old, or if he has no oxen, horse or mule, two cows, and he may elect ^'""oo^s'
the cow or cows and heifer, if he has more than is exempt,
14 Me.
Me- 70.
813>
r ten sheep
r 17
and the wool from them, and the lambs raised from them until they 88 Me. 135.
are one year old, and a sufficient quantity of hay to keep said cattle,
sheepr and lambs through
0 the winter season.
Plow, cart or
Ninth.—One plow, one cart or truck-wagon, one harrow, one yoke truck-wagon,
r
'
.
.
harrow, yoke,
with bows, ring and staple^ two chains, one ox-sled and one mowing chains, ox-sled
,.
and mowing
machine.
machine.
Tenth.—One boat not exceeding two tons burthen, usually Boa^
employed in fishing business, belonging wholly to an inhabitant of this
. (
state. '
.
// '
J % aMdA" Vfe*~fri~ fi»A**$T W**"* ? '»

CIVIL ACTIONS.

628

Chap. 81.
empt from at^s^c/si,
Sccc*5'h85
I6,
ii. »
See 37;*
c. 15, $$6,7.
Householder
to have his
emption reregfsH7,nwith
honTitem!'of
and then ?50o.
worth exempt
from debts
contracted!'7
R.s.c,8i,§88.

gEC>

[TITLE IX.

HOMESTEADS EXEMPT.
^ ^ 0f jan(j an(j dwelling house and outbuildings

thereon, the property of a householder in actual possession thereof
and not the owner of an exempted lot purchased of the state, is
£xemP* from attachment and levy on execution as .provided in the
following sections.
.01
^EC"
Such person may file in the registry of deeds in the
county or district where the land lies, a certificate signed by him,
declaring his wish to have such exemption and describing the land and
buildings ; and the register, for the fees for recording deeds, shall
record it in a book by him kept for that purpose; and so much of
gucjj property as does not exceed five hundred dollars in value, shall
r r *
'
be forever exempt from attachment or levy on execution issued on a
judgment recovered for any debt, contracted jointly or severally by
person af).er flje date of the recording thereof; and the record

in the register's office shall be prima facie evidence that the certifi
cate purporting to be there recorded, was made, signed, and filed as
there appears.
cSn£CthftitOT
Sec- 62- W^11 8uch property is claimed by a creditor to be of
wonifmore*
than f'^^Pto set oft that
p?yUres?due to

greater value than five hundred dollars, it may be seized on execution,
and the appraisers shall first set off such part of the property as
the debtor may select, and if he neglects so to do, as the officer may
select for him, to such value, by metes and bounds ; and shall then

l^s^sTA'ai!.' appraise and set off to the creditor, so much of the remainder as may
be necessary to satisfy the execution ; and the appraisers shall be sworn
accordingly and the officer shall make return of his doings thereon.
After death of
Sec. 63. After his death, the exempted premises shall not be
widow and ' sold for the payment of his debts during the widowhood of his widow,
cupy during0" or the minority of any of his children ; but may be occupied by his
and°mmority. widow during her widowhood and by his children during minority,
Homestead
free from any claim by any creditor of his estate. But this and the
not exempt
.
,
from mechan- three preceding sections shall not exempt such property from the lien
r. s. c. si,
of mechanics or material men.
SS 40, 41.
HOW AND WHEN ATTACHMENTS ARE DISSOLVED.
Attachment
sonnl estate
ty d"y"Caftcrr"
no'nwre 'ex"d
mscsin ccrUlin
r. s. c. 8i,
12 Mef'ii.
22 Me. 380.

Sec. 64. An attachment of real or personal estate continues
thirty days and no more after final judgment in the original suit, and
not in review or error, except attachments of equities of redeeming
re*l estate mortgaged or taken in execution ; or equities of redemption sold on execution ; or an obligee's conditional right to a conveyance of real estate on execution ; or property attached and replevied ;
or property attached belonging to a person dying thereafter, or spec. 11
•j j * ■
lv
lally provided for in any other case.
1^ Attachments
Sec. 65. All attachments of real or personal estate are dissolved
rv--| judgment for by final judgment for the defendant ; by a decree of insolvency on his

TITLE IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

629

estate before a levy or sale on execution ; by a reference of tlie suit Chap. 81.
and all demands between the parties thereto, by a rule of court, and defendant;
judgment on the report of the referees ; and by an amendment of fore sale or
the declaration, by consent of parties, so as to embrace a larger lion; nVcrenco
demand than it originally did, and judgment for the plaintiff thereon,
'^f"n""ds'
unless the record shows that no claims were allowed the rplaintiff not damnum.
creasing the ad
originally stated in the writ, (a)
R- s. c. si.
Sec. 66. When an attachment is dissolved by judgment for the 86, 87.
defendant, the clerk of the court, on payment of twenty-five cents, 2%^-" owner*
shall give any person applying therefor a certificate of that fact, 5^1'^"^
which the register of deeds shall note on the margin of the record of attachment, to
the attachment; and before or after judgment, the plaintiff, in such registry of
suit may cause a discharge of such attachment, signed by him, to be foTmay rc^'
entered on the margin of the record thereof; or he may give a cer- Jnen^on'record
tificate, signed, sealed and acknowledged by him, that such attach- or by a certifi. .
.
.
.
.
cate t0 1,0 re"
ment is, in whole or in part, discharged ; which the register of deeds corded.^
shall record, with a reference thereto on the margin of the record of
the attachment, for which he shall be entitled to twenty-five cents,
and for entering such discharges, twelve cents each.
Sec. 67. Any defendant, whose interest in real estate is attached Debtor, whose
»
.....
.
reH* estate is
on mesne process, may petition in writing to a justice of the supreme attached, may
• j- • i
i • x
.. 6 ...
n
petition judge
judicial court, in term time or vacation, setting forth the names ot of court for a
the parties to the suit, the court and county in which it is returnable release. Judge
or pending, the fact of the attachment, the particular real estate, and {° ^"en-aT6
his interest therein, its value, and his desire to have it released from \en d.a-vs before
'
'
hearing.
the attachment. Such iustice shall issue a written notice, which 1865, c. 333,
H 1, 2, 8.
shall be served on all parties to the suit living in the state, including
trustees mentioned in section seventy-one, and on the plaintiff's
attorney, ten days at least fyefore the time fixed therein for a hearing.
Sec. 68. If at the hearing, such iustice finds that such interest Judge to fix
J*
i
i • i
•
it value ot s»ch
is worth as much as the amount ordered in the writ to be attached, real estate,
he shall order such defendant to give bonds to the plaintiff, with suffi- same, on bond
cient sureties, conditioned to pay the judgment recovered by the conditions of
plaintiff, with his costs on the petition, within thirty days after judg- \^'c 8S3 ^ i
ment. If he finds it is worth less, the bond shall be conditioned to
pay the value of such interest so found and costs on the petition,
within said time.
Sec. 69. The petition and proceedings thereon shall be filed in Proceedings
the clerk's office in the county where the action is pending or return- fHed'lTderk's
able, and recorded as a part of the case; and the bond, when if6l% 3S3 $5
approved by such justice, shall also be filed therein for the use of the
plaintiff.
(a) 1869, c. 87, $ 2; see c. 76, $44; 4 Me. 227; 7 Me. 848; 14 Me. 429; 19 Mc. 420; 48
Me. 468; 49 Me. 285, 809; 53 Me. 414; 55 Me. 528.

630

CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 81.
Sec. 70. The clerk shall give the petitioner an attested copy of
Certificate of the petition and proceedings, with a certificate, under seal of the
ingsCfrom the court, attached thereto, that such bond has been duly filed in his
^reg^toMrf1
theat'tach- tCS
™-nt.
,.
1865, e. 838, §6.
Same proceeda"fachnicntor
e^ry^aYroo?"
stocks, only
certificate to •
be recorded
mentis.
m'

office ; and the recording of such copy and certificate in the registry
°^ deeds m the county where such real estate or interest therein lies,
shall vacate the attachment.
Sec. 71. When personal property is attached and actual posses8^on ™ taken by the attaching officer, the same proceedings may be
na<^' 8,8 Provided in the four preceding sections, and the officer shall
a]s0 be notified of the hearing and the delivery to him of the copy
....
.
\~
and certificate mentioned in the preceding section, shall vacate the
attachment, and he shall return the property to the petitioner on
demand. When the property attached is stock in a banking or other

corporation, or is such that the attachment is required to be recorded
in the town clerk's office, such copy and certificate shall be filed with
the officer of such corporation or the town clerk with whom the
attachment is filed ; and thereby the attachment is vacated.
Foreign
at-va- .Sec.
72. In cases of. foreign
tachnients
.
° attachment the same proceedings
r
~
cated by same originated by any principal defendant may be had, except that the
on^bondsto bond to the plaintiff shall be conditioned to pay the amount, if any,
truswesViso, which he may finally recover against the trustees, with costs on the
filed with'10'"8 petition, within thirty days after judgment, not exceeding the amount
186™ c 888 4 9 °^ ^e ju^omen'> against the principal defendant. The justice shall
also require the petitioner to give bond to each trustee named in the
petition, with sureties, in a sum sufficient to protect him against any
judgment recovered by the plaintiff and paid by him, and his logal
costs in the suit, and the costs allowed him by such justice at the
hearing on the petition if he appears. Such bonds, when approved
by such justice, shall be filed in the clerk's office for the use of the
trustees. The delivery of the copy and certificate, hereinbefore
mentioned, to the trustees, shall vacate the attachment of any goods,
effects or credits in their hands belonging to the petitioner.
Fees of clerk
sEC. 73. The clerk shall be entitled to two dollars for recording
and register of
..
.
.«
deeds; and au the petition and proceedings, and making the copy and certificate ;
ceedings'tobc the register of deeds, seventy-five cents for recording the same ; and
prevaiiingby the officer or clerk, twenty cents for each filing and necessary certifilseFc. 888
< io.

ca^e thereof; an(l the party finally prevailing in the suit shall recover
the costs of these proceedings, taxed as costs of court in other cases,
and certified by such justice, and execution shall issue therefor.

In cross acCROSS ACTIONS AGAINST NON-RESIDENTS,
tions and setparties'out the ^EC'
^ien ^ action 13 brought by a person not an inhabmad '■ onth * 1 * °^
a^a,^°' nor *° ^e ^oxm^ therein to be served with process,
attorneys, suf- he shall be held to answer to any action brought against him here by
R^c. 81,
the defendant in the first action, if the demands in the two cases are

TITLE IX.]

CIVIL ACTIONS.

of such a nature that the judgment or execution in the one can be set
off against the judgment or execution in the other ; and if there are
several defendants, each may bring such cross action, and set-off his
judgment against the judgment recovered against him and his co-de
fendants as if against him alone ; and the service of the writs in such
cross actions, made on the attorney of the plaintiff in the original
suit, shall be as valid as if made on the party himself in this state.
Sec. 75. The court in which either of such actions is pending,
may grant continuance, to enable the absent party to defend, or
either party to set off his judgment or execution against the other ;
but they shall not be delayed by the neglect or default of either
•nartv.
1 J
DAYS ON WHICH NO ARRESTS CAN BE MADE OR PROCESS SERVED.
Sec. 76. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, on mesne

631
Chap. 81.
j|gg » "^J0,
Mi'2,8.

Court may
Sons'to'mabie
*o drfcn^or
0*^°^.
meat or exccution.
«• W.i/O.
18oo, c. 156, ? 4.
*J Me- *18-

process or execution, or on a warrant for taxes, on the fourth day of arrests cannot
July, Christmas day, or on the day of annual fast or thanksgiving; processServed,
and no officer or soldier who is required by law to attend a military mm 89?*'
training, inspection, review or election, shall be arrested on any such 16 Me- 182processes on such days.
Sec. 77. No elector shall be arrested, except for treason, felony, Voters not to
1
'
^ ' be arrested on
or breach of the peace, on the days of election of United States, eiection^davs^
state, or town officers.
'
Sec. 78. No person shall serve or execute any civil process on Civil process
served i)n
the Lord's day ; but such service shall be void, and the person execut- Lord's day,
ing such process shall be liable in damages to the party aggrieved, as cer liable.0
if he had no process.
SKWa
LIMITATION OF PERSONAL ACTIONS.
Sec. 79. The following actions shall be commenced within six Whetaetto'na
* ,1
«.
t
n
1
must be comyears next after the cause of action accrues and not afterwards.
menced within
First.—All actions of debt founded upon any contract or liability b. ^c. 81, $ 92.
not under seal, except such as are brought upon the judgment or \*rt&2\'<n.
decree of some court of record of the United States or a state,7 or of 11
20 Me. ??a
uou.
some municipal or police court, trial justice, or justice of the peace in J| JJjj- 3^
this State.
88Me.'l49."
Second.—All actions upon judgments of any court not a court
„ if)
record, except municipal and police courts, trial justices, and justices
of the peace in this state.
Third.—All actions for arrears of rent.
Fourth.—All actions of assumpsit or upon the case founded on any
contract or liability, express or implied.
Fifth.—All actions for waste, of trespass on land, and of trespass,
except those for assault and battery and false imprisonment.
Sixth.—All actions of replevin, and other actions for taking, de
taining, or injuring goods or chattels.

632

CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX-

Chap. 81.
Seventh.—All other actions on the case, except actions for slanderActions lor
ous worJs an(J for ifog]^
escape of pnsoner,
one
Sec.. 80. All actions
on
year; inagainst
. for the escape
r of rprisoners committed
....
sheriff for mis- execution, shall be actions on the case, and commenced within one
four years.
year after the cause of action accrues ; but all actions against a
Actlomffor " sheriff, for the negligence or misconduct of himself or his deputies,
assault and
shall be commenced -within four years next after the cause of action
battery, libel
*
and slander, in accrues.
R.sJc. 8™,'§ 94.
Sec. 81. All actions of assault and battery, false imprisonment,
Scire facias
for slanderous words, and for libels, shall be commenced within two
s»r"tk' in" ' years next after the cause of action accrues.
dances anT
Sec- 82- No scirc facias shall be served on bail unless within one
orougS in°one year nex* after judgment rendered against the principal; nor on
K*" c 81 495 sure^es m recognizances in criminal cases unless within one year next
1859, c. 99.
after the default of the principal; nor against any person adjudged
See'i 7.
trustee, unless within one year from the expiration of tbe first execuThese
limitathe principal
goods,' effects and credits in the
tions do not jjon against
°
r
r and his °
apply to wit- hands of the trustee.
bank bills or
Sec. 83. The foregoing limitations do not apply to actions on
brother "tat- promissory notes signed in the presence of an attesting witness, or on
RtCs c 81
*ne bills, notes or other evidences of debt issued by any bank ; nor to
tt 97 , 98.
any caae or suit limited to be commenced within a different time by
When cause of
...
- N
action accrues any statute, {a)
opeTaccounts
Sec. 84. In all actions of debt or assumpsit to recover the balB,u«Cc 81 $ 99 ance ^ue' ^n cases where there have been mutual dealings between
1888' c ''06' ^e Par^es> *ae items °f which are unsettled, whether kept or proved
4 Me. 887.
by one party or both, the cause of action shall be deemed to accrue
51 Mo. 104.
at the time of the last item proved in such account,
othcrs^under
Sec. 85. If a person entitled to bring any of the- aforesaid
^rinij'suits'af^ actions is a minor, married woman, insane, imprisoned, or without the
ter disability is limits of the United States when the cause of action accrues, he may
removed with.
'
f
in times herein bring his action within the times limited herein, after the disability is
Umited.
° ,
'
*
R. s. c. si,
removed.
WMc. 89i,''"i''5 Sec. 86. All personal actions on any contract, not limited by any
37 Me 806!
54 Me. 8i.
tionof twenty
S&eAi Hot
so Mc 164
88 Me. 217.
fai'uof^crvice,
for'anv'cause
or judgment is
reversed, new
suit in six
months, and
cause of action
survives.

°^ *b.e foregoing sections or other law of the state, shall be brought
within twenty years after the cause of action accrues,
Sec. 87. When a writ fails of a sufficient service or return by
unavoidable accident, or default, or negligence of the officer to whom
was delivered or directed, or is abated, or the action otherwise
defeated for any matter of form, or by the death of either party ; or
if a judgment for the plaintiff is reversed on a writ of error, the
plaintiff may commence a new action on the same demand within six
m0nths after the abatement or determination of the original suit, or
°
'
(a) ^ Me. 25; 16 Me. 470; 19 Me. 72; 21 Me. 176; 28 Me. 497; 26 Me. 880; 80 Me. 118;
81 M 15g 88 Me m 850; 49 Me 880; M Me 801 ^-g ^ j
'

TITLE IX.J

CIVIL ACTIONS.

633

reversal of the judgment ; and if he dies and the cause of action sur- Chap. 81.
vives, his executor or administrator may commence such new action *^ »j c. 81,
within said six months.
8 M?- 4*710 Me. 899.
Sbc. 88. If any person entitled to bring or liable to any action 88 Me. 217.
before mentioned, dies before, or within thirty days after the expira- Provision in
case of death
tion of the time herein limited therefor, and the cause of action sur- of cither party
vives, the action may be commenced by or against the executor or commenced,
administrator at any time within two years after his appointment, and ^j^.0- 81'
not afterwards if barred by the other provision hereof.
Sec. 89. If any person is disabled to prosecute an action in this Saving of
state by reason of his being an alien subject or citizen of a country "rfemies in e°
at war with the United States, the time such war continues shall not Emg°f $*r'
be a part of the period herein limited for the commencement of any * 104of said actions.
Sec. 90. All actions and suits for any penalty or forfeiture on Limitation of
any penal statute, brought by a person to whom the penalty or forfei- nidesf0' p€n'
ture is given in whole or in part, shall be commenced within one year ^iq5_c' '
after the offence was committed ; and if no individual so prosecutes, * M|it may be recovered by suit, indictment, or information, in the name 89 Me. 212,858.
and for the use of the state, at any time within two years after the
offence was committed, and not afterwards.
Sec. 91. The time when a writ is actually made, with an inten- The making of
•
wnt deemed
oj»
tion of service, shall be deemed the commencement of the suit.
commence- / r J^y
Sec. 92. If a person liable to any action mentioned herein, k's! c. si""/^
31 1~
fraudulently conceals the cause thereof from the person entitled gsMe. 581.
thereto, or if a fraud is committed which entitles any person to an Limitation' ex
action, the action 'may be commenced at any time within six years ^"{Su™ 08868
after the person entitled thereto discovers that he has just cause of
c- 81,
action, (a)
Sec. 93. In actions of debt or on the case founded on any con- Renewal of
tract, no acknowledgment or promise shall be allowed to take the l^"™1 writing,
case out of the operation of the provisions hereof, unless the acknowlc. 8i,
edgment or promise is an express one, in writing, signed by the party
chargeable thereby. No such acknowledgment or promise made by a
joint contractor shall affect the liability of the other. (6)
Sec. 94. In actions against two or more joint contractors, if it
appears, on trial or otherwise, that the plaintiff is barred by the provisions hereof as to one or more of the defendants, but entitled to
■
recover against any other by virtue of a new acknowledgment, promise, or otherwise, judgment shall be rendered for the plaintiff as to
such others, and for the other defendants against the plaintiff.

if acti0n is
j^™'amu'ioT'
°£e™> Dlain"
tin may re^'^fre"51
r. s.c. si,"
\ Me." 26.
15 Me. 890.
fo) 8 Me. 405; T Me. 870; 9 Me. 181; 81 Me. 448 ; 87 Me. 818; 39 Me. 404; 40 Me. 197. l~ " 3?/

(6) 15 Me. 860, 448; 17 Me. 145, 184; 21 Me. 448; 22 Me. 100; 23 Me. 458; 24 Me. 534;
29 Me. 47; 85 Me. 864; 88 Me. 350.

CIVIL ACTIONS.

634

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 81.
Sec. 95. In an action on contract, if the defendant pleads in
dcSta'r °f aDatement, that any other person ought to have been jointly sued,
abate'writ if an<^ 'S8ue *s jomed thereon, and it appears on the trial, that the action
action was'
was barred by the provisions hereof against such person, the issue
those nofU°!t shall be found for the plaintiff.
itsTc. 81,
Effect of ar
tiai payment
ment thereof,
?iii.C" 81'

Sec. 96. Nothing herein contained shall alter, take away, or
'essen ^e G^ec^ of payment of any principal or interest made by any
person ; but no indorsement or memorandum of such payment made
on a promissory note, bill of exchange, or other writing, by or on
behalf of the party to -whom such payment is made or purports to be

//^, ri
f 1*3 facjt. z i

made, shall be deemed sufficient proof of payment to take the case
ou* °^
^tute °f limitations ; and no such payment made by one
joint contractor, or his executor or administrator, shall affect the lia
bility of another, (a)
Presumption
Sec. 97. Every judgment and decree of any court of record of
afterEtwenty *ne United States, or any state, or of a trial justice or justice of the

JuPc 81
peace in this state, shall be presumed to be paid and satisfied at the
81
expiration of twenty years after any duty or obligations accrued by
88 Me! 850.
virtue of such judgment or decree.
AppUcatton of Sec. ^8. All the provisions hereof respecting limitations, shall
iimita«oneto°f aPP^ *° &Ti?
or con':ract
Dy way of set-off on the part of
set-offs.
the defendant; and the time of such limitation of such debt or conR S c 81
$ hi. 1
tract shall be computed, as if an action had been commenced therefor
at the time when the plaintiff's action was commenced, unless the
defendant is deprived of the benefit of the set-off by the non-suit or
other act of the plaintiff; and when he is thus defeated of a judg
ment on the merits of such debt or contract, he may commence an
action thereon within six months after the final determination of the
suit aforesaid.
Provisions if
Sec. 99. If any person is out of the state when a cause of action
outrfthestate, accrues against him, the action may be commenced within the time
K^s. c. 8i,
limited therefor after he comes into the state; and if any person is
20 Me. 269.
absent from and resides out of the state after a cause of action has
87 Mc. 3oo,3so.' accrued against him, the time of his absence shall not he taken as a
48 Me! 319!
Par* °f the time limited for the commencement of the action.
54 Me.' 899."
55 Me. 280.
A.*} « 2.1 7
(a) 20 Me- Si5> 21 Mc- 176> 438; 22 Mc- 497 ; 23 Me- 156 ; 28 Me' 419; 80 Me- 258» 425;
U4 ^ 3 y 82 Me. 169, 260; 88 Me. 182; 85 Me. 188, 864; 88 Me. 179; 51 Mc. 84. 201; 58 Me. 892;
I cv~k~+o n^x Or- *-JZAZ

i '

TITLE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

635
Chap. 82.

Sbc. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
18.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

20.
21 .
22.
28.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
80.
81.
82.
88.
84.
85.

CHAPTER 82.
PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS IN COURT.
Actions to be entered first day. Further service may be ordered.
When default may be reoordcd; when taken off.
Defendant out of state, proceedings.
Execution stayed one year, unless bond is given ; review.
Bond left with clerk; may petition for a review, if review of right not pros
ecuted.
May allow appeals and complaints to be entered after first term.
On petition within one year; attachment or bail not revived.
On appeals, original papers to be sent up, except writ and pleadings.
Proceedings not abated, arrested, or reversed for want of form.
Writ or process lost, leave granted to file a new one.
Defendants may be struck out or new ones inserted, on payment of costs.
Distinction between trespass and trespass on the case, abolished.
Treasurers may sue in their own names on contracts given to them or their
predecessors.
Penalties recoverable by action of debt.
Assignee of a grantee may sue on real covenants of first grantor.
Several breaches may be assigned in actions of covenant and general perform
ance pleaded.
In actions of covenant, if encumbrance is a right of dower, it may be assigned
and be the measure of damages.
General issue may be pleaded with brief statement and must be joined.
Demurrers, when filed, to be joined and not withdrawn ; amendents after
decision on them. Amendments allowed before exceptions filed. If de
murrer is overruled, defendant may plead anew, on payment of costs, un
less judged frivolous, when judgment shall be entered on the demurrer.
In involuntary trespasses or lands tender may be made, or money brought
into court.
Offer to be defaulted and its effect.
Tender may be made before entry of action. Towns may tender or offer de
fault in actions for injuries by defective ways.
Property of a deceased debtor on joint contract, liable same as if several.
Libel actions for, truth a justification ; except for corrupt and malicious mo
tives.
Counts, misjoinder, and wrong joinder not cause for reversal.
Motions in arrest of judgment not allowed in civil actions.
Damages to be assessed by a jury on certain bonds and contracts.
Interest on judgments allowed.
Judge not disqualified by residence in a town interested when there is a waiver.
Death of a parte, administrator may appear or be summoned, heirs also in
equity.
Husband may appear in action brought by an unmarried woman.
When parties insane, guardians may be appointed ad litem.
Motions to set aside verdicts, proceedings on them. Costs.
Willful trespasses, proceedings respecting them.
Damages on protest of bills.

636

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 82. Sec. 86. Ten hours of actual labor a legal day's work; exceptions.
87. Action by a public officer not abated by his ceasing to be in office.
88. Action not maintainable on demands discharged by payment of part.
When subsequent attaching Creditors mat defend Suits.
Sec. 89. Subsequent attaching creditors may petition court to defend suits.
40. If leave is granted, he gives bond and is admitted to defend.
41. Judgment to be entered when defence fails.
42. How entered when defence prevails.
43. When judgment in such prior suit is rendered at first term, creditor may have
renew. Proceedings.
44. Prior attachment made to defraud creditors is void.
Sec. 45.
46.
47.

Sec. 48.
49.
00.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
Sec. 62.
68.
64.
65.
Sec. 66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.

Suits by and against Bankrupts.
A bankrupt may sue in his own name, unless suit is abated.
An action in which an attachment is made four months before bankruptcy of
defendant, to be disposed of in ordinary way.
Other actions against voluntary or involuntary bankrupts, to be continued
till bankrupt proceedings closed, unless their names arc struck out, which
may be done without cost.
Set-off.
Set-off; defendant files first day of term; clerk enters date and notice on
docket.
Set-off, kind of demands.
Set-off must be between all of plaintiffs and all of defendants.
Set-off of demand assigned, when made.
Set-off of demand subsequently acquired, not to be made.
Set-off of demand in suits in name of one for benefit of another.
Set-off of sums equitably due only.
Set-off of demands due from one deceased.
Set-off in actions brought in a representative capacity.
What demands may be set-off in actions brought by creditors or administra
tors of insolvent estates; and proceedings therein.
Set-off, pleadings and issue how made.
Set-off actions not discontinued ; statute of limitations.
Set-off no balance against a plaintiff suing on a demand assigned.
Set-off proceedings before inferior tribunals.
Auditors.
Auditors appointed in certain cases, parties notified, witnesses attend.
Auditors all hear, majority report, may be discharged, report recommitted.
Auditors report evidence, may be disproved.
Auditors, neglect to appear before them in actions of account, effect.
Juries.
Juries, how impanneled and sworn, or drawn by lot,
Juries, supernumeraries, transfers, excuses.
Juries, form of their oath,
Juries, their foreman how chosen.
Juries, talesmen for, when and how returned.
Juries, new may be summoned during term time.
Juries, challenges how tried, and when jurors are to be excluded.

TULE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

637

Sec. 78. Each party may challenge, peremptorily, one juror; court may regulate this ClIAP. 82.
right by general rules.
~~
74. Juries may find special or general verdicts in cases of law.
75. Juries, when they do not agree, proceedings.
76. Jurors not disqualified by residence when their town or county is a party.
77. Jurors, objections known and not stated before trial, waived.
78. Juries, their verdicts not affected by irregularities, not injurious or objected
to before verdict.
79. Juries, verdict set aside for improper practices with them.
Witnesses and Evidence.
Sec. 80. Witnesses may be summoned by clerks and justices of the peace.
81. Witnesses, religious belief affects credibility only.
82. Witnesses, parties to suits and others interested may be. Husband and wife
may be by consent of the other.
83. Witnesses, except where cause of action implies an offence.
84. Witnesses, attestations not affected.
85. Witnesses, testimony of a party out of the state, how taken.
86. Witnesses, testimony of a party may be contradicted.
87. Witnesses, provisions not applicable to suits in representative character, ex
cept in cases named.
88. Nor where party is insane.
89. Witnesses, same rules respecting them in all tribunals.
90. Witnesses, duly summoned and neglecting to appear; attachment.
91. Witnesses, refusing to answer, may be fined.
92. Witnesses, oaths how administered to them.
93. Witnesses, scrupulous of oath, affirm.
94. Witnesses, conviction of crime affects credibility only.
95. Witnesses, fees for travel and attendance first paid or tendered.
96. Records of other courts evidence.
97. Printed copy of statutes evidence.
98. Foreign and unwritten law, how proved.
99. When office copies of deeds admissible.
100. Copies of consular and of custom house documents and records. Evidence.
101. Adjutant general's certificate to be evidence.
102. Testimony of deceased subscribing witness or magistrate may be used in
subsequent suit.
t
108. Deed or other writings, not void for being dated on the Lord's day unless
made on that day.
Costs.
Sec. 104. Party prevailing recovers costs.
105. Costs when plaintiff appeals from judgment in his favor.
106. Costs In actions of replevin regulated.
107. Costs in actions that should have been brought before a justice. Full costs
on report of referee.
108. Costs when damages reduced by set-off.
109. Costs of evidence not doubled or trebled.
110. Costs, discretionary on petitions for review and the like.
111. Costs for first suit paid before second suit for same is tried.
112. Costs, a person liable for, who sues in the name of the state.
118. Costs, stateliablc for in a civil suit.

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

638

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 82. Sec. 114. Costs, not taxable for travel of attorney for the state.
'.
—
115. Assignee to indorse writ in name of assignor, or defendant may sue him for
costs on stay of proceedings.
116. If assignee is not known defendant may recover costs in an action on the
case and off-set the judgment.
117. Costs in one action only when several are brought that should be joined.
118. Costs not allowed in actions on judgments where executions might have
Issued.
119. Costs for travel in actions by corporations, how computed.
120. Costs, power of the court over, on amendments and continuances, not affected.
121. Bankrupt recovers no cost until certificate is produced in court.
122. Costs, U. S. tax paid recoverable as costs.
128. Costs to be passed upon by the court during term and exceptions filed.
Otherwise clerk's decision final.
Action for Damages against Perjcred Parties and Witnesses.

—
U(h/t<^^ ^

Sec. 124. When judgment has been obtained by perjury, action for damages against
party or perjured witnesses.
Executions.
Sec. 125. Execution, when issued and returnable.
126. Execution not to be issued after one year; exception.
127. Execution may be renewed within three years.
128. Execution, if cannot be renewed, scire facias may issue.
129. Executions framed to collect interest on judgment.
ISO. Execution lost or destroyed, new may issue.
181. When amount allowed to a creditor by commissioners on solvent estate is not
paid in thirty days, S. J. C. may order execution issued for debt, interest
and costs. Clerk's fees.
Stenographers.
Sec. 182. Stenographers, their appointment, duties and compensation.
<*^£
£L0-/- /iff
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

wredflrstday
&c. Further
service may be
ordered.
56 lie. 426!
ma^bel-ccordtaken otf
p.. s. c. 82, s 2.

^EC< ^" ^° ac^on can bo entered after the first day of the ses8;on 0f tne supreme judicial court without special permission. When
r
*
.
it appears that the defendant has not had sufficient notice, the court
may order such further notice as it deems proper,
Sec ^" When a legal service of the writ has been made, and
^e defendant does not appear by himself or attorney within the
three first days of the term, his default may be recorded, and the
charge in the declaration taken to be true. If the defendant, before
the jury are dismissed for the term, enters his appearance and pays
to the plaintiff such costs as the court orders, the default shall be
taken off. The court may permit it to be taken off for sufficient
cause, (a)
(a) 14 Me. 20; 16 Mc. 224; 17 Me. 428; 21 Ble. 88; 28 Me. 458; 26 Mc. 885; 30 Me.
557 ; 33 Me. 100, 250; 41 Mc. 436; 45 Me. 104.

TITLE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

639

Sec. 3. When the defendant was an inhabitant of the state and Chap. 82.
absent from it at the time of service, and it does not appear that he Defendant out
has returned, or has actual notice of the suit, the court may continue °ee<un^pro"
the action, not exceeding twice unless for special cause, or enter
judgment on default. If the defendant was not an inhabitant of the
state or within it, and had actual notice of the suit, the court may
order a continuance if he does not appear at the first term.
Sec. 4. When judgment is rendered on default of an absent
defendant in a personal action as provided in the preceding section,
execution cannot be issued thereon within one year thereafter, unless

j^f'^f'j/Z
^
>& t-¥
^^
^/fy
^ / {r } ")
Execution j^L /
year, unless
jj£vd^ given,

the plaintiff first gives bond to the defendant, with one or more
sureties, in double the amount of damages and costs, conditioned to
repay the amount to the defendant, if the judgment is reversed on
review, to which he is entitled of right, brought within one year, or
so much of the amount recovered as is recovered back on such
review.
Sec. 5. The bond shall be deposited with the clerk, who shall
..
.
,.
decide upon the sufficiency of the sureties subject to an appeal to a
justice of the court, and if the review of right is not so prosecuted,
the defendant may, within one year after he first has notice of the
judgment, petition the court for a review, and the court may grant it
on such terms as it deems reasonable.
Sec. 6. When an appeal is taken from a judgment of a trial
justice or municipal or police court, and the action by mistake or
accident is not duly entered, and the judgment has not been affirmed,
the court may, on petition of either party, allow the action or complaint to be ente'red at another term of the court, upon such terms
as are deemed reasonable, and if entered the court shall proceed
thereon as if entered at the proper term.
Sec. 7. Such petition must be presented to the court, or filed in
the clerk's office within one year after the term at which the action
ought to have been entered ; and no attachment or bail shall be revived or continued by such proceedings.

g^0^'

Sec. 8. In cases carried from a trial justice, municipal or police
court, to a higher court, depositions and original papers, except the
process by which the suit was commenced, the return of service thereon, and the pleadings, shall be! certified by the proper officer, and carried up without leaving copies, unless otherwise ordered by the court
having original cognizance.
° 63
6
.
Sec. 9. No process or proceeding m courts of justice shall be
abated, arrested, or reversed, for want of form only, or for circumstantial errors or mistakes which by law are amendable, when the person
and case can be rightly understood.

Bond left with
clerk if review
of ri^ht not
may pftitio'n
r.^c.'sT, $ 5.

May allow cncZactions^r
anmh'er'tcnn.
^ Me%892' * T'
*g M£- Jo«.

Petition for
year, attach?
noTrevivcd!1
R- s- c- 82> $ 8*
P*™ t0 '>« sent
writ and
^a'"^, $ 9.
89 Me" 185"
Proceedings
not abated,
arrested or rcof form,
oie.Cso7'.*10'

Such errors and defects may be lli^6' 263'266,
22 Me. 811.

640

■»

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IS.

Chap. 82. amended, on motion of either party, on such terms as the court
orders, (a)
Writ or proSec. 10. When in an action pending, the loss or destruction of a
cess lost, new
.
°
«. 3
•
one may be writ or process after service is proved by affidavit or otherwise, the
K.'s.'cf82, 5 11. court may allow a new one to be filed, corresponding thereto as near15 Me. 425.
M
^ jiaye
game effect ^ the one lost or destroyed.
* fA.-Z/f/ Defendants
Sec. 11. "When there are two or more defendants, the writ may
^y9
outon°paj^lck be amended by striking out one or more of them, on payment of costs
Mncwoncs8' to mrn to that time. A writ founded on contract, express or implied,
inserted and may De amended by inserting additional defendants : and the court
service made.
J
*
0
?
R.
be made on them,, and their property
87 s.
Me.c. 82,
563.s 12. may
J order service to .....
r - r . to, be
attached as in case of original writs; and on return of service duly
made, they shall be deemed parties to the suit, but not liable to costs
before such service. (5)
between tresSec. 12. The distinction between actions of trespass and trespass
pass and tres- on ^e case ;g abolished. A declaration in either form is good,
pass on the
_
o
case abolished.
Sec. 13. The treasurers of state, counties, towns, and corporaTreasurer's
tions, may maintain suits in their own names as treasurers on conthelr own"
tracts given to them or their predecessors, and prosecute suits pendnames on con- ing in the name of their predecessors.
them or tlieir
Sec. 14. Penalties may be recovered by an action of debt, when
r! s!ec.es2°§ii. no other form or mode of recovery is provided by the statute imposPenaltiesre- • l>l
coverable by mo wiem.
action of debt.
gEC_ 15 The assignee of a grantee, or his executor or adminisR. 0. c. 82, 9 15.
0
0
'
56 Me. 77.
trator, after eviction by an older and better title, may maintain an
of a'grantee18* action on a covenant of seizin or freedom from incumbrance contained
reafcoTenants m absolute deeds of the premises between the parties, and recover
°f|rscl «™ntor. gucn damages as the first grantee might upon eviction, upon filing, at
56 Me. 453.
the first term, in court for the use of his grantor, a release of the
covenants of his deed and of all causes of action thereon. The prior
grantee shall not, in such case, have power to release the covenants
of the first grantor to the prejudice of his grantee.
Several
Sec. 16. In actions on contract in a penal sum for performance
breaches may
. .
.
'
be assigned in of covenants or agreements, and in actions 01 covenant, several
actions of cov
enant and gen- („) 3 Me. 29; 10 Me. 278; 18 Me. 807; 15 Me. 400, 425, 4G4; 18 Me. 249 ; 23 Me. 284,
oral perform- 49s; m Me. 830; 20 Me. 209. 277; 29 Me. 164; 30 Me. 80, 168; 89 Me. 231; 44 Me. 92;
ance pleaded. 46Me.827; 45 Me. 284; 47 Me. 152, 184 ; 48 Me. 20, 34, 252 ; 53Me.l74; 54 Me. 196, 498,
496.
3 ff
Amendment
of declaration; 2 Me. 46; 8 Me. 243; 4 Me. 479; 13 Me. 87, 245,
417; 11 Me. 495; 14 Me. 48; 15 Me. 186; 16 Me. 288, 489, 171, 282; 17 Me. 222, 409; 18
Me. 166, 409; 19 Me. 355 ; 20 Me. 145; 23 Me. 74; 24 Me. 14, 242; 25 Me. 249, 308; 26
Me. 18, 209.
Ad damnnm; 6 Me. 807; 15 Me. 481.
Seal of writ; 3 Me. 29; 19 Me. 204.
Date of writ; 14 Me. 895.
Of changing a writ of original summons, to a writ of attachment; 15 Me. 400, 464;
26 Me. 263.
Teste of writ; 15 Mc. 481.
Return day of writ; 16 Me. 266, 17 Me. 416; 85 Me. 121.
(!>) 2 Me. 120; 5 Me. 379; 11 Me. 127: 18 Mc. 386; 20 Me. 48; 28 Me. 244; 25 Mc. 880;
Me. 23 524 ; 34 Me. 34; 35 Me. 534; 87 Me. 563; 45 Me. 17, 438, 444 ; 56 Me. 172

TITLE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

641

breaches may be assigned, and in defence, performance generally,
both in affirmative and negative covenants, may be alleged.
Sec. 17. In an action for a breach of covenant against incum•
iiT•
brances contained in a deed of real estate, when the incumbrance is
a right of dower, if such dower has been assigned and not released,
the value thereof shall be the measure of damages ) but if it has been
demanded and not assigned, on application of the plaintiff, the court
shall cite the claimant of dower to appear and become a party by
personal service made fourteen days before the term of court to which
it is returnable ; if she does not appear, or if she appears and refuses
to release such right of dower, the court shall appoint three commis
sioners to assign the same, who shall proceed in the manner provided
for commissioners appointed by the probate court ; and when their
report is made and accepted by the court, it shall be a legal assign
ment of dower, and the value thereof shall be the measure of damages
in said action.
Sec. 18. The general issue may be pleaded in all cases, and a
brief statement of special matter of defence filed, or a special plea, or
double pleas in baf^ may be filed. The plaintiff must join a general
issue, and may file a counter brief statement, (a)

^ ,d
S^JL Jf? 5~ 3
intctSfos of
covenant, if
incumbrance
dowcrfinnay
an^be^thc^
™a*msa^™ of
1870, c. 166.

_
. issue
.
General
may be p1®^
statement
be joined.""18'
lsWe^si* W'

Sec. 19. A general demurrer to the declaration may be filed ;
and in any stage of the pleadings either party may demur, and the
demurrer must be joined, and it shall not be withdrawn without leave
of the court, and of the opposite party ; but the judge shall rule on
it, and his ruling shall be final unless the party aggrieved excepts to
it ; and before exceptions filed and allowed, he shall have the same
power as the full court to allow the plaintiff to amend, or the defend-

Demurrers!
bejrfnedfnnd
draw^and111"
^e,n^™m1([je
if overruled
Pieau again?7
costs*yunicss0f

ant to plead anew. If the law court deems such exceptions frivolous, oulf^hen01"
it shall award treble costs against the party excepting from the time {j^^^ered^n0
the exceptions were filed. If the declaration is adjuged defective, jj,emuJIU ^ 19
and is amendable, the plaintiff may amend upon payment of costs 1859, c. 78.
from the time when the demurrer was filed. If the demurrer is filed 51 Me.'889,'414.
at the first term and overruled, the defendant may plead anew on 54 j}";
payment of costs from the time when it was filed, unless it is adjudged
frivolous and intended for delay, in which case judgment shall be
entered. At the next term of the court in the county where the
action is pending, after a decision on the demurrer has been certified
by the clerk of the district to the clerk of such county, and not before,
judgment shall be entered on the demurrer, unless the costs are paid,
and the amendment or new pleadings filed on the second day of the
term.
Sec. 20. In actions of trespass on lands, the defendant may file a be made or^
brief statement disclaiming all title to the land described, and alleging brought into
court, in ac
ta) 10 Me. 256; 11 Me. 157, 218; 13 Me. 86; 16 Me. 84, 428; 29 Me. 471; 47 Me. 850,
489; 49 Me. 888; 58 Me. 184, 427; 55 Me. 159. '
41

642

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 82. that the trespass was involuntary, or by negligence or mistake, or in
tions involving the prosecution of a legal right, and that before action brought he
land*83 0n
tendered sufficient amends therefor, or that he brings money into
fi sic. 407? 20" court to satisfy the damages with costs to that time ; and if on trial
he establishes the truth of his allegations, he shall recover costs.
Offer to be de- Sec. 21. In any personal action, the defendant may, in writing
effect? and 118 entered of record with its date, offer to be defaulted for a specified
?864-c. 274V1' sum' ^ accepted, interest may be added from that date to date of
18J0, c.jjh- judgment. If not accepted within such time as the court orders, it
shall not be offered in evidence or have any effect upon the rights of
^-^
&e parties, or the judgment to be rendered, except the costs. If
the plaintiff fails to recover a sum as due at the time of the offer
greater than the sum offered, he recovers such "costs only as accrued
before the offer, and the defendant recovers costs accrued after that
time ; and his judgment for costs may be set off against the plaintiffs
S,mble judgment for debt and costs, (a)
entry of acsEC. 22. A tender, with the costs then accrued, may be made
tion. Towns
.
.
...
may tender, after action brought and before its entry, to the plaintiff or his attordefauitcd.in ney, with the same effect as if made before aation brought. In
JeaWe'waysf" actions against towns founded on injury to the person or damage to
» iie'in'*22' property from defect in ways, a town may make a tender before the
fz M.0' fficommencement or entry of the action, or offer to be defaulted for a
deceased debt- specified sum, with the same effect as in actions on contract,
or on joint
SEC. 23. The goods and estate of a deceased debtor in a joint
contract liable
.....
for payment, contract, express or implied, or in a judgment on contract, are as
erai.
liable, and the creditor has his remedy, as in case of a joint and sevR.
8.c.82,$28.
,
.
.
T„
„„,.
'
In actions for eraI contract.
trutha'justifi
^EC'
^n a su^ ^or wr^'in£ an<^ publishing a libel, evidence
cation; except shall be received to establish the truth of the matter charged as libelmai^toufmo- ous. If the truth of it is established, it shall be a justification,
B.Ts!"c. 82, $24. unless the publication is found to have originated in corrupt or
Joinde/of
maucious motives.
good and bad
Sec. 25. When iri a civil action, the declaration contains a good
wrong joinder count and bad ones, or a wrong joinder of counts, and no written
causcof're'ver- objection is made till after the cause is committed to the jury, and a
rs c 82 <, 25 general verdict has been recorded, the judgment cannot for such
55 Me. 414, 417. cause be reversed on writ of error.
rcstofnjudg-nr' Sec. 26. No motion in arrest of judgment in a civil action can
mejunotai- be entertained. (6)
R.s.c.82, §26.
sEC> 27. In actions on bond or contract in a penal sum, for the
In actions on
r
-V
. //
.
certain bonds performance ot covenants or agreements, or on a recognizance to
zancesju'ry'to prosecute an appeal, when a jury finds the condition broken, tb^ej
assess dama
ges,
(a) 4 Me. 274; 5 Me. 890 ; 9 Me. Ill; 13 Me. 812; 19 Me. 204; 20 Me. 87, 812: 21 Me.
lt.S.c.82,$27. 529; 80 Me. 458; 81 Me. 409; 88 Me. 216; 39 Me. 71,474; 42 Me. 58, 289 ; 46 Me. 544;
47 Me. 852, 354; 48 Me. 800, 801; 51 Me. 882, 888 ; 95 Me. 532, 534. ~~
(b) 44 Me. 29; 58 Me. 109; 54 Me. 857.

TITLE IX.]

643

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

shall estimate the plaintiff's damages, and judgment shall he entered Chap. 82. . ^"^^mm/for the penal sum, and execution shall issue for such damages and tUf--^\^u
?}costs, (a)
Sec 28.

c/. ?f S2c. sInterest is to be allowed on amount found due for dam- interest on
judgments alages and costs, in actions on judgments of a court of record, (i)
g1^' 82 $ 28
Sec. 29. A judge shall sit in the trial or disposition of an action, jud<re not disin which the county or town where he resides is a party or interested, ?esWeivceby
if the . party adverse to such county or town enters on the docket a when his V""1
r »
»
or county is a
waiver of 'all objections.
party.
x
K S c 8^ 4 29
Sec. 30. When a party in a pending suit dies, and his death is Death of a *
suggested on the record, and the cause of action survives, his execu- gu^^cd"^
tor or administrator may
of the
executor or ad* become a party,
r * * or at the request
1
, ministrator
other party, be summoned to appear and become a party. Service may appear,
of the summons shall be made on him fourteen days before the term ed. Heirs also,
to which it is returnable. If he neglects to appear, judgment may r. s?""^"'so.
be entered by non-suit or default according to the provisions of chap- 'jfjfe4?.^'
ter eighty-seven. If the suit is in equity, his executor, administrator,
or heirs at law, may in like manner appear or be summoned without a
bill of revivor.
Sec. 31. When an unmarried woman, a party to a pending suit, become party7
is married, her husband, on his request, may be admitted as a party unmarriedwo3as if originally joined in the suit.
m"j"' c 82 § 31
Sec 82. When a party to a suit becomes insane, it may be pros- Guardians ad
ecuted or defended by his guardian, who, on application of his friend, appointed' toC
or of the other party, may be appointed for that purpose by a justice k.ss"c.8M82!
of the court in term time -or in vacation. He shall be entitled to a
reasonable compensation, and not be liable for costs.
Sec 33. When a motion is made in the supreme judicial court
to have a verdict set aside as being against law or evidence, a report
of the whole evidence shall be signed by the presiding judge. When
the motion is founded on any alleged cause not shown by the evidence
reported, the testimony respecting the allegations of the motion, shall
be heard, and reported by the judge, and the case is then to be
marked law. When the court of law is of opinion that the motion
was for frivolous causes, or intended for delay, it may award double
or treble costs, (c)
Sec 34. In action of trespass on property, the court and jury, or
magistrate, shall determine whether it was committed willfully ; if so
found, a record thereof shall be made, and a memorandum of it on

JJuiifvi^icts'
Po^6**111183'
b. s. c. 82, § 88.
* ^
?i '
'

wuifui treseeemngs,r&c.
B-8-0-82^84-

the margin of the execution.
Sec 35. Damages on protest of bills of exchange of a hundred p^^s0°n
dollars or more payable by the acceptor, drawer, or indorser of one in wbjR. S. c. 82,§ 85.
(a) 17 Me. 448 ; 21 Me. 206: 22 Me. 488, 486: 24 Me. 166: 89 Me. 418: 49 Me. 825: 52
*-JQ5\ 56 Me. 498.. <"1r 1>k<, (3/
~~
(b) 19 Me. 458; 22 Me. 116.
(c) 15 Me. 70; 16 Me. 200; 19 Me. 27, 402 ; 20 Me. 188, 849 ; 22 Me. 181 : 40 Me. 287 ; 48
Me. 463, 580; 45 Me. 281; 48 Me. 248, 489; 58 Me. 171; 54 Me. 256; 56 Me. 281, 246.

644

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX.

Ciiap. 82. this state, are, if payable at a place seventy-five miles distant, one per
cent. ; if payable in the state of New York or in any state northerly
of it, and not in this state, three per cent. ; if payable in any Atlan
tic state or territory southerly of New York and northerly of Florida,
six per cent. ; and in any other state or territory, nine per cent.
Ten hours laSec. 36. In all contracts for labor ten hours of actual labor shall
day's >york; be a legal day's work, unless the contract stipulates for a longer time ;
&8?e. SM s6- °ut this ru^e d°es n°t aPPty to monthly labor or to agricultural em
ployments.
Action by a
Sec. 37. No action, commenced in his official capacity by a pubnMabated6' lie officer, is abated by his ceasing to hold the office ; it may be pros
tyle m^ffl^r ecuted by his successors to the same uses ; and the necessary amendK. s.c.82§48.
may De ma(}e an(j notices given.
No action on
Sec. 38. No action shall be maintained on a demand settled by
chawed by a a creditor, or his attorney entrusted to collect it, in full discharge of
men!*1 pay' it Dy the receipt of money or other valuable consideration, however
R.S.C.8M44. gmalL (a)
WHEN SUBSEQUENT ATTACHING CREDITORS MAY DEFEND SUITS.
Subsequent atSec. 39. When property has been attached, a plaintiff, who has
tor 'may peti- caused it to be attached in a subsequent suit, may, by himself or
defend suits! attorney, petition the court for leave to defend the prior suit, and set
r. s. c. 82, 4 3T. fortn therein the facts, as he believes them to be, under oath ; and
the court may grant or refuse such leave,
if
leave
is
Sec.. 40. If leave
granted he
_ is. granted,
fe
' he
. shall, 6give bond,' or enter .into
gives bond and recognizance with sufficient surety, in such sum as the court orders,
detend!"041 '° to pay the plaintiff in the prior suit all damages and costs occasioned
R. S.c.82,§88.
such defence j and an entry of record shall be made that he is
admitted to defend such suit.
Judgment to
Sec. 41. When the petitioner enters into recognizance, and fails
when defence in his defence, execution on his recognizance shall be issued against
r.1s."c.82,§89. mm f°r the damages found by the court, and costs; and judgment
rendered between the original parties as if no such defence had been
made.
How entered
Sec. 42. When the petitioner prevails, judgment shall be renprevaiis.
dered against the plaintiff and in favor of the petitioner, and execu12 tie. 502? 40 tion issued thereon for his costs; and costs may or may not be
awarded to the original defendant.
When jiidg^
Sec. 43. When judgment in such prior suit has been rendered,
prior suit is since April 9, 1856, at the first term of the court, the plaintiff in such
first term,
subsequent suit, within one year thereafter, first giving bonds to each
haw review! party as provided in section forty, may petition as provided in section
1^0*82 ^ii thirty-Dine for leave to sue out a writ of review of such action ; and
such leave may or may not be granted. If granted, and on final jttdg(a) 46 Me. 484; 47 Me. 546 ; 48 Me. 434; 56 Me. 582. f~?/

TITLE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

ment the sum originally recovered is reduced, judgment shall be
entered and execution issued for the difference, not exceeding the
amount due from the original defendant to the petitioner, with costs for
his sole use ; and it shall operate as a payment of his debt to the
amount of damages recovered.
Sec. 44. When it appears by the verdict, or otherwise, that such
,
. .
,
,
prior attachment was made with intent to delay or defraud creditors,
or that there was collusion between plaintiff and defendant for
that purpose, such attachment shall be void.

645
Chap. 82.

Prior attachment made to
delay or detors is void,
R. s.c.82,$42.

SUITS BY AND AGAINST BANKRUPTS.
Sec. 45. A person who has been declared a bankrupt, may maintain an action respecting his former property in his own name, unless
objection is made by plea in abatement, if before final judgment the
assent of his assignee is filed in the office of the clerk of the court in

A bankrupt
own name, unabated!'
R- s- c- 82» H»-

which the action is pending.
Sec. 46. Actions in which an actual attachment of property was
made four months prior to the filing of a petition in bankruptcy by
any
therein,
shall be disposed
of under the ordinary
• defendant
..
.
r
* rules
of proceedings in court.
Sec. 47. All other actions brought in any court or before any

wSich'an'aS
^JjJ"^^*3
months
before
bankruptcy
of
defendant, to
m ordinary °f

trial justice, for the recovery of any debt provable in bankruptcy, Xm, c. 228.
when it appears that any defendant therein has filed his petition in ^6 Me- 55®bankruptcy or has been adjudged a bankrupt on petition of his creditors before or after the commencement of the suit, shall be continued,
until the bankrupt proceedings are closed, unless the plaintiff strikes
such defendant's name from the suit, which he may do without costs ;
but when such defendant does not use due diligence in the prosecu.
...
tion of his bankrupt proceedings, after one term s notice to him, in
writing, from the plaintiff, the court may refuse further delay. •

against
be"ominued°
proceedings'
f™^8?1' un"
names are
struck out,
which may be
cosUts.Wlth0ut
1868. c. 157.
SET-OFF.
1870, c. 79.
Sec. 48. Demands between plaintiffs and defendants may be set- Defendant fo^^-ft*- f
a,
. .
, ',,
-n
must file set-off A^h-tO fi
off against each other as follows :
on first day of . /
4'
The defendant, on the first day of the term to which the writ is «n™ "on
returnable, must file a brief statement of his demand in substance as j^s^'go ^6
certain as in a declaration, which, by leave of court, may be amend
ed. The clerk shall enter on it and on the docket the date, and on
the docket under the action, notice of its filing, before the new entries
are called, (a)
Sec. 49.
A demand. originally
to the defendant
in his mauds
Whatdev
°
* payable
r *
.
may be
own right, founded on a judgment or contract, express or implied, for g!t|°ff- g2 ^
(a) 6 Me. 240; 10 Me. 187; 15 Me. 268; 19 Me. 28; 20 Me. 121 ; 25 Me. 128 ; 81 Me 181; y
82 Me. 283 ; 85 Me. 78 ; 88 Me 114 ; 47 Me. 867. What claims may be set off ; 28 Me. /
468 ; 29 Me. 422; 81 Me. 158; 82 Me. 283; 83 Me. 228; 84 Me. 509; 85 Me. 78, 535; 87
Me. 72; 89 Me. 420, 445; 58 Me. 176; 57 Me. 168.
How presented and allowed. 85 Me. 179; 86 Me. 221 ; 41 Mc. 258. Set-off of judg
ments and executions; 29 Me. 9; 84 Me. 122.

/3
'<

« ,„

646

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 82. the price of real or personal estate sold, for money paid or had and
received, for services done, for a liquidated sum, or for one ascertain
able by calculation, may be set off. (a)
""mall p"L- Sbc- 50- The demand must be due from a11 the Pontiffs to all
tiffs to all de- the defendants iointly. When there is a dormant partner, claims due
fendants.
J
J
1
»
R. S. c. 82 $ 48. from the ostensible one may be set off as if there was no dormant
15 Me. 268.
*
Whatdepartner.
mands assigngBC> 51 When a plaintiff has received notice that a demand
ed, may be set*
0 „
,
against him has been assigned to the defendant, and has agreed to
R S. c 82 4 49.
Demand '
pay it to him, or to receive it as payment towards his demand, before
SSttoJrf a£CT his 8uit was commenced, it may be set-off. (J)
signment
gEC 52. When a defendant had notice of the assignment of a
not to be set°
RS c 82 $50 demand' ne canno*; have any demand set-off that accrued or was
Set-off in suits acquired after such notice, (c)
oilier6 f°r an
^EC. 53. When an action is brought by one person for the use of
R.S.C. 82,^51. another, a demand against the latter may be set-off.
Sum equitably sEC> 54, When the demand to be set-off is a bond or contract
due set-off.
.•ii
i
.
n>
R. s.c. 82 S 52. with a penalty, the sum equitably duo only can be set-off.
Demands due
Sec. 55. Demands against a person belonging to a defendant at
ed "person,
the time of the death of such person, may be set-off against claims
how to be set- pr03ecute^ ^ his executor or administrator ; and if a balance is
R. S. c. 82, $ 58. founfl due to defendant, judgment shall be in like form and of like
effect as if he had commenced a suit therefor ; but if the estate is
insolvent, it must be presented to the commissioners or added to the
list of claims, as other judgments are. (d)
What claims
Sec. 56. In actions against executors, administrators, trustees,
inactions ° or others in a representative capacity, they may set-off such demands
sonsinarep- 13 those whom they represent might have set-off in actions against
padty1VOCa them ; but no demands, due to or from them in their own right, can
R. s.c.82,§54. be set-off in such actions, (e)
What dc-^ ^
set-offin acby executors'
tora^nn^i-*"
and'proceed'
186' thei4in

Sec. 57. In joint or several actions by the executor or administrator of an estate represented insolvent, against two or more persons
having joint or several demands against such estate, the demands
may be filed in set-off by either of the defendants, at the first term
°^
cour'i' or a*
^rs* *enn a^er 8ucb representation of insolvency' ^ made after the commencement of such actions ; and if, on
the trial, a balance is found due to the defendants jointly, or to either
of them, judgment shall be entered for such balance as the jury find
or the court orders, and it shall be treated and disposed of as other
judgments against insolvent estates.
(a) 5 Me. 415; 7 Me. 82; 11 Me. 850; 18 Me. 288; 15 Me. 268; 16 Me. 60; 18 Me. 179:
20 Me. 421 ; 22 Me. 460; 24 Me. 86, 851 ; 89 Me. 420, 445.
(6) 19 Me. 70; 26 Me. 114 ; 56 Me. 167.
(c) 8 Me. 468; 17 Me. 267.
(<f) 6 Me. 240 ; 84 Me. 146; 88 Me. 114; 41 Me. 258; 49 Me. 570.
(e) 1 Me. 182; 8 Me. 869 ; 24 Me. 86; 88 Me. 228.

TITLE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

Sec. 58. The trial may proceed in cases of set-off on issue joined
without a plea of set-off; and if an issue is not otherwise formed, the
defendant may, except in actions of assumpsit, plead that he does not
owe the sum demanded; and the plaintiff will be entitled to every

647
Chap. 82.
Pleadings and
of set-off.
R-S-c-82'*55-

defence against such set-off, that he might have, by any form of when set-off
pleading, to an action against him on the same demand, (a)
notVbedisSec. 59. When a demand is filed in set-off, the action cannot be continued
'
without eondiscontinued without consent of the defendant. /The statute of lim- sent. Statute
....
.
.. ,.
.
, .
.
.
of limitations
itations is applicable to demands filed in set-off, as if actions were applies to setcommenced on them at the date of the plaintiff's action.
RffS.c.82,$56.
Sec. 60. When no balance is found due to either party, no costs No balance, no
r •"
costs; costs
are recoverable. The party recovering a balance recovers costs, follow balance.
No judgment for debt can be entered against a plaintiff, when the for {"balance
demand sued was assigned to him before the suit was commenced, or pfuintirr when
for a balance due from another person.
asS^etUc"
Sbc. 61. Similar proceedings in set-off may take place before h|™ before
municipal and police courts and trial justices, the demand in set-off R.s. c. 82, $57.
being filed on the return day of the writ; but judgment cannot be similar prorendered for a defendant for more than twenty dollars, exclusive of
inferior
COStS. (b~)
tribunals.
V 7
R.S.C. 82, $58.
AUDITORS.
Sec. 62. When an investigation of accounts, or an examination
of vouchers is required, the court may appoint one or more auditors
^
'
» rr
to hear the parties and their testimony, state the accounts, and make
a report to the court. They shall notify the parties of the time and
place of hearing, and have power to adjourn. Witnesses may be
summoned and compelled to attend, and may be sworn by the auditor.
Sec 63. When there is more than one auditor, all must hear,
but a majority may report, stating whether all did hear. Their
report may be recommitted. They may be discharged and others
appointed. They shall be allowed a reasonable compensation, fixed
by the court, paid by the plaintiff, and taxed in the costs if he prevails.
Sec 64. Their report may be used as evidence by either party,
j -j.
v jj v it
-j
and it may be disproved by other evidence.
■
Sec 65. When in an action of account, judgment has been
entered that the defendant do account, and he shall unreasonably
neglect to appear, or appearing, to render an account before auditors
appointed to take it, they shall certify the fact, and the court may
enter a default and judgment thereon, or cause the damages to be
, ,
assessed by a jury.
(a) 87 Me. 72; 54 Me. 498; 56 Me. 141.
(6) 80 Me. 27; 81 Me. 158.

Antlitors may
!,c appointed
in certain
cases.
^
tied; witnessR.s'.'cl'sH^oi).
40 " 887'
ah hear, a
repoTt^they1
^rilecifre
j^itj(!o?c0m"
R- S. c. 82, $ 60.
The report
prima facia evidence.
R.S.C.82J61.
if defendant
account "eg-°f
a^Vceountar
a°5^™tt0 re"
and a default
to be entered.
r. s. c. 82, $ 62.
15Mc.Hl.

648

PROCEEDINGS IX COURT.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 82.
juries.
Jurors, how
gEC- gg "when venires for jurore are returned to court, the
impanneled
J
'
ami sworn, or clerk shall prepare, at the commencement of each term of the court,
drawn by lot.
■>
i
it. s. c. 82, i) 63. separate alphabetical lists of the names of the several persons
H l, 2. ' returned as traverse jurors ; and the court, in impanneling the
traverse jurors, shall cause the names of the first two persons who
attend, to be called, who shall be first sworn, and then the others in
succession, as they are named on the list, and in such divisions as the
court directs, or all at the same time ; and the first twelve shall com
pose the first jury; and the next twelve, on the same list, shall be
impanneled and sworn in like manner, and shall compose the second
jury ; but before proceeding to the trial of any civil or criminal case,
5 Mc 838
other than capital, the clerk may, under the direction of the court, at
49 Me. 573, 588. the request of either party place the names of all jurors legally sum
moned and in attendance, and. not engaged in the trial of any other
cause, separately upon tickets in a box, and the names shall be drawn
from the box by the clerk, after having been thoroughly mixed, one at
a time, for the purpose of constituting a jury; and each party shall
have a right peremptorily to challenge two jurors ; but in such case
all peremptory or other challenges and objections to a juror drawn, if
then known, shall be made and determined, and the juror sworn or
set aside, before another name is drawn, and so on until the panel is
completed. A new jury shall be thus drawn for the trial of each
cause ; and after the panel is thus completed, the presiding justice
shall appoint a foreman for the trial of the case.
HelTtrZsfers"
Sec. 67. Supernumerary jurors may be excused, from time to
Sfs"^
*"ne' *^ wanted, and they maybe placed on either jury, as occasion
requires ; and jurors may be transferred from one jury to the other
when convenience of business requires it ; and for good reason, any
juror may be excused.
Formofjurors'
gEC- g8> The flowing shall be the form of the oath, axJminisR. s. c.82, § 65. tered to traverse jurors in civil causes : " You and each of you swear,
that in all causes betwixt party and party, committed to you, you will
give a true verdict therein according to the law and the evidence
given you. So help you God." When a juror is conscientiously
scrupulous of taking an oath, the word "affirm," shall be used instead
of " swear," and the words " this you do under the pains and penal
ties of perjury," instead of the words " so help you God."
Foreman, how
Sec. 69. Each jury shall retire, after being thus impanneled and
R. s. c. 82, § 66. sworn, and choose their foreman by ballot, or make the choice upon
retiring with the first cause with which they are charged ; and when
a foreman is absent or excused from service, a new foreman shall be
chosen as aforesaid; subject in each case to appointment by the
court, as provided in section sixty-six.

TITLE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS IN COUKT.

Sec. 70. When, by reason of challenge or other cause, a sufficient number of iurors duly drawn and summoned cannot be obtained
.
*
*
,
for the trial of any cause, the court shall cause iurors to be returned
from the by-standers, or from the county at large, to complete the
panel ; if there are on the jury not less than seven jurors drawn and

649
Chap. 82.
Talesmen,
when nnd how
returned.
K S c 82 § 67
s Me. 215!
51 Me' 895'

returned as before provided. Such jurors shall be returned by the
sheriff or his deputy, a coroner, or such other disinterested person as
the court appoints.
Sec. 71. The court may, in term time, issue venires for as many ^jj™.
jurors as are wanted ; to be drawn, notified, and returned forthwith, momed durinS
or on a day appointed ; and when in any county, the business requires R s. c.j2, §jsss.
a protracted session, the court may, during the term, excuse all or
any of the jurors originally returned, and issue venires for new jurors
to supply their places ; who shall be drawn and notified to attend at
such time as the court directs.
Sec 72. The court, on motion of either party in a suit, may Challenge of
'
r *
. jurors, how
examine, on oath, any person called as a juror therein, whether he is tried, and
•
j
• ■
•
• whcn tlie-v are
related to either party, has given or iormed any opinion, or is sensi- to he excluded.
ble of any bias, prejudice, or particular interest in the cause ; and if ?M"e.C807. * 69
it appears from his answers, or from any competent evidence intro- gS Me." 310.'
duced by the party objecting to the juror, that he does not stand indif- *" *|e. 44.
ferent in the cause, another juror shall be called and placed in his
stead.
Sec. 73. In addition to challenges otherwise provided, either
ip
....
., party may, betore the trial commences, peremptorily challenge one
juror from the panel unless the right of challenge provided in section
sixty-six has been exercised; and the court may, by general rules,

Either party
may challenge
peremptorily
courtUmay
by^lnerai8ht

prescribe the manner in which such right shall be exercised.
1867**4 108
Sec. 74. The traverse jury may, in all cases, find a special or Juries may
general verdict, subject to the opinion of the court on a case agreed ver'uctsCfor
by the parties and reserved, or on the facts as reported by the judge R^s^UTio.
presiding at the trial.
Sec. 75. When a jury, not having agreed, return into court Whcnjuricsdo
stating the fact, the judge may in his discretion, explain any ques- prweemngs.
tions of law, if proposed to him, or re-state any particular testimony, S.cffl,lTl.
and send them out again for further consideration ; but they shall not
be sent out a third time in consequence of their disagreement, unless
on account of some difficulties not stated when they first came into
court, (a)
Sec. 76. In prosecutions for the recovery of a sum of money,
or other thing forfeited, it shall not be a cause of challenge to a juror
that he is liable to pay taxes in a county, town, or plantation, which
may be benefited by the recovery.
(o) 22 Me. 453; 24 Me. 509; 81 Me. 155; 88 Me. 488; 86 Me. 466.

qUri]'j'ii™bdis"
residence,
town or
party? *S a
R.S."c'.82,$72.
48 Mc" 486-

650
Chap. 82.
Objections
known and
not stated
before trial,
SiTcV §78
Verdict not
fr^eguiarit'ies
or^ected to8
before verdict,
R.S.c.82,§74.
8 Me. 42.
aside'forimUccswith10"
inTc! 8° § 75

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE 13.

Sec. 77. If a party knows any objection to a juror in season to
propose it before trial, and omits so to do, he shall not afterwards be
* 1
allowed to make it ; unless by leave of court for special reasons, (a)
.
^E°'
^° "rreS^a"*y *n
vemres> or drawing, summoning,
returning, or impanneling jurors, shall be sufficient to set aside a ver^'c*' un^e8S *ne party making the objection was injured by the irreg^"'JS or unless the objection was made before the return of the
verdict, (b)
SeO. 79. if either party, in a cause in which a verdict is returned, shall, during the same term of the court, before or after the
*"a^» giye to an7 °f *ne jurors who try the cause, anything by way
°^ ^rea* or gratuity, or purposely introduce among the papers in the
case which are delivered to the jury when they retire with the cause,
any papers which have any connection with it, but were not offered
in evidence, the court, on motion of the adverse party, may set aside
the verdict and order a new trial, (c)
witnesses and evidence.

By whom witSec. 80. The clerks of the several courts, and any justice of the
summoned.
peace, may issue summonses for witnesses to attend before courts to
R. s. c. 82, § 76. gjye evjjience concerning any matters there depending.
Religions
belief affects
credibility
18 Me. 157.

^

Sec. 81. No person shall be deemed an incompetent witness on
.
.
account of his religious belief, but shall be subject to the test of credibility ; and any person who does not believe in the existence of a
Supreme Being, shall be permitted to testify under solemn affirmation, and shall be subject to all the pains and penalties of perjury.
othe'r^intlr^EC'
^° Person 8na^ De excused or excluded from being a
ested may be witness in any civil suit or proceeding at law, or in equity, by reason
Husband or of his interest in the event thereof as party or otherwise, except as
consent ofthe 13 hereinafter provided, but such interest may be shown for the purRhs.rc. 82 » 78. P°8e °f affecting his credibility ; and the husband or wife of either

iY%*< f l r Par*y may ^e a w^ne8S when either is called to testify with the conr^ui^- ^^^vBent of the other, (c?)
Exception
Sec. 83. No defendant shall be compelled to testify in any suit
action implies when the cause of action implies an offence against the criminal law,
lsM^Sre. on his part. If he offers himself as a witness, he waives his privilege
55 Me. 490!
°f n0* criminating himself, but his testimony shall not be used in evi
46 Me.' 325.'
(a) 6 Me. 807; 47 Me. 594; 52 Me. 412, 500; 58 Me. 581.
(6) 8 Me. 215; 48 Me. 486.
(c) Setting aside verdict for misconduct, or errors of any jnror. 2 Mc. 87 ; 8 Me. 204;
6 Mo. 140, 879; 11 Mc. 495; 17 Mc. 19, 808; 20 Me. 98; 22 Me. 198; 25 Me. 474; 88 Me.
187; 41 Mc. 549 ; 52 Mc 412; 58 Mc. 468; 55 Me. 568.
For excessive damages. 8 Me. 805, 276; 12 Me. 808; lo Me. 187: 28 Me. 219; 42 M
247 ; 50 Me. 222.
(d) 44 Me. 11, 842; 46 Me. 280, 289, 825, 877, 470; 47 Mc. 252, 478 ; 50 Me. 592; 55 Me.

i

TITLE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS IK COURT.

651

dence against him in any criminal prosecution involving the same Chap. 82.
subject matter.
Sec. 84. Nothing in section eighty-two shall in any manner affect £"f/^°£e°f
the law relating to the attestation of the execution of last wills and instruments
not affected.
testaments,
or of any
to 82
R. s.
82, \'so.
,
„ .
J other instrument,' which by
J law is required
*
Me.c. 579.
be attested.
48 Me. ih.
Sec. 85. When a party to a suit resides without the state, or is Testimony of
r .'
.
'a party out of
absent from the state during the pendency of the suit, and the oppo- the state, how
site party desires his testimony, a commission, under the rules of r. s.c.82,§81. '
court may issue to take his deposition , and such non-resident or
absent party, upon such notice to him or his attorney of record in the
suit of the time and place appointed for the taking his deposition, as
the court orders, shall appear and give his deposition. If he refuses
or unreasonably delays to do so, he may be non-suited or defaulted by
order of court, unless his attorney will admit the affidavit of the party
desiring his testimony, as to what the absent party would say if pres
ent, to be used as testimony in the case.
Sec. 86. When one of the plaintiffs or defendants is used as a Testimony of
.
apartymaybe
witness by the opposite party, testimony may be introduced by his contradicted.
co-plaintiffs, or co-defendants to contradict or discredit him, as if he RS"C" 82'* 82'

was not a party to the suit.
=*y-z
Sec. 87. The provisions of the five preceding sections shall not ^l^^^6 ^eJ-cO
be applied to any cases, where, at the time of taking testimony, or administrators
g 3
the time of trial, the party prosecuting, or the party defending, or except in
any one of them, is an executor or an administrator^or made a party SjsIc. 82?88.
as heir of a deceased pariy ; except in the following cases :
46 Me. m, 287.
j/^
First.—The deposition of a party may be used at the trial, after 478Me! «8.
//v ■-' ■
his death, if the opposite party is then alive ; and in that case the 52 Jfe 576
' ■'
latter may also testify.
?aJi£j?jL%
Second.—In all cases in which an executor, administrator, or other 1862, c. 109.
legal representative of a deceased person is a party, such party may 1867! c 72.
/
testify to any facts, legally admissible upon the general rules of evi- flll^ 0 &'L*r
dence, happening before^ox-aftetthe death of such person ; and when
such person so testifies, the adverse party shall neither be excluded nor
excused from testifying in reference to such facts.
Third.—If the representative party is nominal only, both parties 1859, c. 79.
may be examined as witnesses ; if the adverse party is nominal only, 1869| c. 59.
and had parted with his interest, if any, during the lifetime of the,^
representative party's testator or intestate, he shall not be excluded ' ^
from testifying if called by either party ; and in an action against an
executor or administrator, if the plaintiff is nominal only, or having
had an interest, disposed of it in the lifetime of the defendant's tes
tator or intestate, neither party to the record shall be excused or
excluded from testifying.

_
,/z /

652

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 82.
Fourth.—In an action by or against an executor, administrator or
1870 c 182* °tner legal representative of a deceased person, in which his account
books or other memoranda are used as evidence on either side, the
other party may testify in relation thereto.
Rule appiicaSec. 88. The rules of evidence which apply to actions by or
blc to an
.
. .
it.-,.
.
,
insane party, against executors or administrators, shall be applied in actions where
a person shown to the court to be insane, is solely interested as a
party.
Same rules
Sec. 89. The rules of evidence in special proceedings of a civil
tribunals,
nature, such as before referees, auditors, county commissioners, courts
R. s.c. 82. $84. 0f probate, shall be the same as herein provided for civil actions.
Witnesses
moned"ncgattend, may
and flnedlind
damages6 f°r
R. s. c. 82 s 85.

Sec. 90. When a person, duly summoned and obliged to attend
before any judicial tribunal, fails to do so without a reasonable excuse,
ne snall De liable to the party aggrieved for all damages sustained
thereby. The judge of such tribunal may issue a capias to appre^end an(^ bring mm before him ; and he may be fined not exceeding
twenty dollars and the cost of the attachment, and committed until
the same and the costs of commitment are paid.
Refusing in
Sec. 91. When a witness in court refuses to answer such quesswer maybe tions as the court allows to be put, he may be fined not exceeding
mittedr °°m" twenty dollars, and committed until the fine and costs of commitment
R.s.c"8M86. are paid.
Oaths, how
Sec. 92. A person, to whom an oath is administered, shall hold
to witnesses, up his hand, unless he believes that an oath administered in that
R.S.e.8., §87. fQTm jg n0(. binding, and then it may be administered in a form
believed by him to be binding. One not believing the christian
religion may be sworn according to the ceremonies of his religion.
Witnesses
Sec. 93. Persons conscientiously scrupulous of taking an oath
scrupulous of
.
»
_ j
swearing, may may make an affirmation as follows : " I do affirm under the pains
Rffls!c. 82, $88. and penalties of perjury," which shall be deemed of the same force
and effect as an oath,
crime'a^fects'
^EC"
^° Person 8DaH De incompetent to testify in any court
credibility
0r legal proceeding, in consequence of having been convicted of a
1861,C 58.
criminal offence ; but such conviction maybe shown to affect his credSeec.l84,H»/- N
lbility. (a)
obuSedto
^EC*
^° Person '8 obliged to attend in any court as a witness
attend court in civil suit, or at any place to have his deposition taken, unless his
gaidor ten- legal fees for travel to and from the place, and for one day's attendR. s. c. 82, $ 90. ance, are first paid or tendered ; and his fees for each subsequent day's
attendance must be paid at the close of the preceding day, when he
requests it.
^cTcourts
^EC*
-''ke records and proceedings of any court of the United
admitted as
States, or of any state, authenticated by the attestation of the clerk,
evidence.
*
*
'
R. S. c. 82, (91.
(o) 47 Me. 102; 48 Me. 827; 51 Me.' 112, 125; 55 Me. 200.

TITLE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

or officer having charge thereof, and by the seal of such court, shall
be admitted in evidence.
Sec. 97. Printed copies, purporting to be published under the
authority of government, of statutes, acts, and resolves of the United
States, or of this, or any other state or territory of the United States,
may be admitted as evidence ; those of this state as sufficient, those of
other states as prima facie.
may be proved by
, Sec. 98.
, , Foreign
° laws....
.J parol evidence,, but
.
when such law appears to be existing in a written statute or code, it
may be rejected unless accompanied by a copy thereof. The unwritten law of any other state or territory of the United States may be

653
Chap. 82.
^J^tcs^
U- s. or^of the
ted as evikTsc. 82, § 92.
Foreign
laws
and unwritten
laws of the
proved. °W
s' °' 82, * 98,

proved by parol evidence, and by books of reports of cases adjudged
in their courts.
Sec. 99. In all actions touching the realty, or in which the title in what cases
to real estate is material to the issue, and where original deeds would dw^s aTmTssibe admissible, attested copies of such deeds from the registry may be b^-5 m
used
without
execution, when the party
54 Me.
Me. 166.
186.
„ . in evidence,
,
.
rproof of their
.,11,.
, • 55
offering such copy is not a grantee m the deed, nor claims as heir,
nor justifies as servant of the granteo or his heirs.
Sec. 100. Copies of all papers and documents belonging to or Copies of confiled, or remaining in the office, of any consul, vice-consul, or commer- torn house
cial agent of the United States, and of all official entries in the books Records are"1'1
or records of any such office, when certified under the hand and official ^ff™ 229,
seal of the proper consul, vice-consul or commercial agent, are admis- 1870> c-77sible as evidence. Copies of registers or enrollment of vessels, or of
any other custom house records or documents deposited in the office
of the collector of customs, attested by him or his deputy, under seal
of office, may be used in evidence, and have the same effect as the
production of the records in court, verified by the recording officer in
person.
Sec. 101. The certificate of the adjutant general relating to the Adjutant penenlistment of any person in the United States' service, from this to be'evidcu'ee.
state, and of all facts pertaining to the situation of such person, to 1867, c' 1 "
the time of and including his discharge, as found upon the records
of his office, shall be prima facie evidence of the facts so certified,
in any suit or proceeding in any of the courts and tribunals of this
state.
Sec. 102. When the testimony of a subscribing witness to any
deed, or of the magistrate who took the acknowledgment thereof, has
.
. .,
.
.
been taken in the trial of any civil cause, in relation to the execution, delivery, or registry of such deed, and such witness has since
died, proof of such former testimony shall be admissible in the trial
of any other civil cause involving the same question, if the parties
are the same, or where one of the parties is the same, and the
adverse party acted as agent or attorney for the adverse party in

Tc.stimonv of
a deceased subscribing witness, or m»ggiven insubseiger^'ns.

654

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 82. the former suit, but such testimony shall be liable to impeachment,
like the testimony of a living witness.
Writing dated gKC> 103, T$0 deed, contract, receipt, or other instrument in
on the Lord s
\
.
day, not void writing, shall be held void by reason of being dated on the Lord's
that day.
day, without other proof than the date, of its being made and deliv
ered on that day.
6*'/ t/l'79 t>k''»*'~* fttt COSTS

M

Party prevailSec. 104. In all actions, the party prevailing, shall recover
colt.™00*
costs, unless otherwise specially provided, (a)
Coftshow tegplaintiff ap"
udTnent'in
is^avor.
R. S. c. 82, h 95.
4 Me. 66.
tions of re£Ies'c 82 §96

Sec. 105. When a plaintiff appeals from a judgment of a
municipal or police court, or a trial justice in his favor, and
^oes no* recover> m *ne appellate court, a greater sum as damages,
he shall recover a quarter of the sum last recovered, for costs. (5)
1
Sec. 106. In actions of replevin, when the jury find that each
party owned a part of the property, they shall find and state in their
vei"dict the value of the part owned by the plaintiff when replevied,

without regard to the value as estimated in the replevin bond ; and
if such value does not exceed twenty dollars, the plaintiff shall
recover for costs only one quarter part of such value, (c)
Costs in acSec. 107. In actions commenced in the supreme judicial court,
tions which
.
»
.„ .
should have except those by or against towns for the support of paupers, if it
mencedbefore appears on the rendition of judgment, that the action should have
coition report Deen commenced before a municipal or police court, or a trial justice,
Rf sCcCI8-M97
plaintiff shall n,ot recover for costs more than one quarter part of
82 Me ioo
debt or damages. On reports of referees, full costs may be
/"( t f. , 7 '/Oca
allowed, unless the report otherwise provides, (d) '
whcndamaSec. 108. 'When an account is filed in set-off and plaintiff
bySse"o'ff)lfuii recovers not exceeding twenty dollars, he is entitled to full costs, if
R. 8. c. 82, § 98. the jury certify in their verdict that the damages were reduced aa
low as that sum by reason of the amount allowed in set-off. (e)
Costs of cviSec. 109. When a party recovers double or treble costs, the fees
douWedor
of witnesses, depositions, copies, and other evidence are not to be
rI'^jw. doubled or trebled.
(a) When parties recover costs. 2 Me. 897; 5 Me. 19, 281; 6 Me. 116; 12 Me. 845,
458; 15 Me. 58; 19 Me. 22; 20 Me. 124; 26 Me. 74; 80 Me. 557; 87 Me. 548; 88 Me. 190;
89 Me. 465; 54 Me. 437.
When parties do not recover costs. 18 Me. 49; 19 Me. 204 ; 43 Me. 14; 85 Me. 14; 88
Mc. 255.
Parties liable for cost. 5 Me. 174; 6 Me. 48; 7 Me. 899; 10 Me. 481; 18 Me. 255; 18
Me. 882; 29 Me. 802, 559; 41 Me. 458.
(b) 1 Me. 15, 17; 7 Me. 856; 10 Me. 69; 54 Me. 486.
(c) 2 Me. 162; 6 Me. 261 ; 12 Mc 51 ; 40 Mc. 284; 49 Me. 322.
(rf) 1 Me. 406; 4 Me. 66; 8 Me. 106,138; 11 Me. 143; 12 Mc. 845; 21 Mc. 885; 28 Me. 204;
82 Me. 80,100 ; 84 Me. 207; 48 Me. 818; 47 Me. 456 ; 49 Mc. 885; 50 Me. 886 ; 51 Me.
460; 58 Me. 514.
Report of referees, 14 Mc. 896.
(e) 5 Me. 74; 81 Me. 180; 44 Me. 427; 56 Me. 70.

TITLE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS Iff COURT.

655

Sec. 110. On application of a private person for a writ of review, Chap. 82.
certiorari, mandamus, or quo warranto, or like process, the court m°ySn™ta£eor
may
appearing
allowed onfor
» or not allow costs to a person
r
rr
° on notice as respondent,
.
petitions
Sec. 111. When costs have been allowed against a plaintiff on review and
nonsuit or discontinuance, and a second suit is brought for the same r. s. c. 82,
cause, before the costs of the former suit are paid, further proceed- Ii'mc. ioo.
ings shall be stayed, till such costs are paid, and the suit may be dis- Costs of first
r
,
.,
.
,
.
suittobepaid
missed, unless they are paid at such tune as the court appoints.
before second
Sec. 112. When a suit is brought in the name of the state for r" s!c. 82, '
the benefit of a private person, his name and place of residence shall \%Mk so.
be indorsed on the writ : and if the defendant prevails, judgment for *8 Me- 161ij
•
i
,
. .
,A person suing
his costs shall be rendered against such person, and execution issued, in the name of
.„ ,
, .
the state is liaas if he were plaintin.
bie for costs.
Sec 113. When a defendant prevails against the state in a civil f102.°' 82'
suit, judgment for his costs shall be rendered against it, and the treas- State liable for
» .
i ii
ii
,
,
i
n i costs in a civil
urer of the county shall pay the amount on a certified copy of the suit.
judgment ; and the amount shall be allowed to him in his account $ ios °' 82,
with the state.
.
...
Netted
Sec. 114. When the state recovers costs in a civil suit no fees for attorney
shall be taxed for the travel of an attorney.
covers costs.
8 c ' 82 ' fa&i- ,
Sec. 115. The name and place of residence, if known, of an K
4 ioi.
assignee shall, at anytime during the pendency of the suit, be m~ J^meof'a*- • '
dorsed by the request of the defendant on the back of a writ or pro- sisnorj ascess commenced in the name of his assignor, or further proceedings to^e^endo'sed
thereon shall be stayed ; and if the defendant prevails, judgment for muy'sueium
his costs shall be rendered against the plaintiff and Buch assignee, as k^sTss
if both had been originally joined in the action ; but if not so indorsed
and *proceedings
29 Me.
Me. 455.
560.
S. are
. ,stayed,
' . the , defendant
,.
. may
J maintain an action 55
on the case against the assignee for his costs.
. if sncn „_
Sec. 116. If the name of such assignee is not known to the kn^wndefenddefendant until after he has recovered judgment against the plaintiff a^n™JJytn° ac" "
for costs, he may maintain an action on the case against such assignee case recover
for his costs, within six years from the time of judgment ; and such Wmand^ff-set
judgment for costs may be set-off between such assignee and the ii.'sTc? 82,
defendant, as if the assignee had been plaintiff in the suit.
inm-v rs
J £
Sec. 117. When a plaintiff brings divers actions at the same tions against L_/J^A^n
term of a court against the same party, which might have been joined ataeTam"'3^^^ y j_ (
in one, or brings more than one suit on a joint and several contract, wn^of°coatone
he shall recover costs in only one of them, unless the court certifies
that there was good cause for commencing them.
Sec. 118. A plaintiff shall not be allowed costs in an action on a
judgment of any tribunal, on which an execution could issue when
such suit was commenced, except in trustee process.

g^gg
MMe 278
55 Me. 454!
not anowed
judtroents°n
R. S.c. 82*$ 108.
88 Me. 211.
56 Me. 80.

656
Chap. 82.
Travel in ac
tions by a cor
poration.
R. S. c. 82,
$109.
Power of the
court over
costs on
amendments
or continu
ances not af
fected.
R. S. c. 82,
$ 110.
Bankrupt re
covers no costs
until certifi
cate is pro
duced in court.
R. S. c. 82,
$ 111.
U. S. tax paid
recoverable as
costs.
1862, c. 144.
Costs may be
passed upon
by the court
during term
and exceptions
filed. Other
wise clerk's
decision final.
1868, c. 130.

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

[TITLE IX.

Sec. 119. In actions of a corporation, its travel is to be com
puted from the place -where situated, if local, otherwise from the
place where its business is usually transacted, not exceeding forty
miles, unless its agent actually travels a greater distance to attend
court.
Sec. 120. The power of the court to require payment of costs,
or to refuse them as condition of amendment or continuance, is not
affected by the provisions of this chapter.
Sec 121. When a defendant pleads a discharge in bankruptcy,
obtained after the commencement of the suit, he can recover no costs
before the time when the certificate was produced in court.
Sec 122. Any tax required by act of congress on any pro
cess or proceeding in court, or on any evidence used therein, shall
be allowed, as costs, to the prevailing party paying it.
Sec 123. When a nonsuit or default is entered, or verdict ren
dered, or a report of referees accepted, in an action, either party on
application to the court, may have the costs recoverable taxed by the
clerk, and passed upon by the court during the term ; and any party
aggrieved by the decision, may file exceptions thereto ; but if no such
application is made, the clerk, after adjournment, shall determine
costs, and his decision shall be final.
ACTION FOR PERJURY.

Rights of
action against
the party or
perj ured wit
nesses for
damages,
when a judg
ment has been
obtained by
perjury.
1864, c. 253,
$$ 1. 2.

Sec 124. When a judgment has been obtained against a party
by the perjury of a witness or witnesses introduced at the trial by
the adverse party, the injured party may bring an action on the case
within three years after such judgment or after final judgment in
any proceedings for a review thereof, against such adverse party, or
any perjured witness, or confederate in the perjury, to recover the
damages sustained by him, by reason of such perjury ; and the judg
ment in the former action shall be no bar thereto.
executions.

Execution,
when issued,
and return
able.
R. S. c. 82,
$112.
8 Me. 207.
Not after one
year, excep
tion.
R .S. c. 82,
$ 118.
May be
renewed with
in three years.
R. S. c. 82,
$114.

Sec 125. Executions may be issued on a judgment of the
supreme judicial court after twenty-four hours from its rendition,
returnable within three months, (a)
Sec 126. No first execution can be issued after one year from
the time of judgment, except in cases provided for by section four
in which the first execution may be issued not less than one, nor
more than two years from the time of judgment.
Sec 127. An alias or pluries execution may be issued within
three years after the day of the return of the preceding execution
and not afterward.

(a) 2 Me. 109; 8 Me. 20T; 11 Me. 177; 15 Me. 64; 24 Me. 804; 27 Me. 557; 49 Mc. 414.

TITLE IX.]

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

■

657

Sec. 128. When execution is not issued -within the times pre- Chap. 82.
scribed by the two preceding sections, a -writ of scire facias against
the debtor may be issued to show cause -why execution on the judg- j^"^'^^
ment should not be issued, and if no sufficient cause be shown, exe- brought on
cution may be issued thereon.
Sec. 129. On executions, issued on judgments or acknowledg- Execution8
ments of debt, interest shall be collected from the time of judgment, framed tocoi'
.j.
lect interest on
or payment, and the form of the execution be varied accordingly.
^udgmente. >
Sec. 130. A justice of the court in which the judgment was ren- § he. '
dered, upon proof by affidavit or otherwise of the loss or destruction ^ay te°issiicd
of an execution unsatisfied in whole or in part, may order a new exe- 0"s9proof of
cution to be issued for what remains unsatisfied.
R. 8. c. 82,
Sec. 131. When the report of commissioners appointed by the When amotmt
probate court to decide upon exorbitant, unjust or illegal claims J^^r by&
against a solvent estate, has been returned and finally accepted in commissioners
m
f
t
i i
i -j -if on solvent esfavor of a creditor, and the amount allowed mm is not paid within tate, is not
thirty days thereafter, he may file a certified copy of such report in days/s.'j'cf
the office of the clerk of the courts, and apply in writing to a judge l^u0ttonr an
of the supreme judicial court for an execution ; and he shall order a jnst"r^°an,(f)t'
hearing thereon, with or without notice to the adverse party. The cost. Clerk's
application shall be entered on the docket of the court if in session, 1865, c. 298.
otherwise on the docket of the preceding term. If no sufficient
cause is shown to the contrary, the judge shall direct an execution to
be issued for the amount allowed the creditor by such report, with
interest from its return to the probate court, and costs allowed by the
probate court, if any, three dollars for clerks' fees, and travel and
attendance, and expense of copies and service of notices, as in suits
at law.
stenographers.
Sec. 132. At any term of the supreme judicial court, the presi- stenograding justice may appoint a stenographer to report the proceedings appointment,
thereof, who shall be an officer of the court, and be sworn to a faith- romplmsation
ful discharge of his duty. Under the direction of the court, he shall }§SI' c- HStake full notes of all oral testimony, and other proceedings in the trial p^sCf
of causes, including the charge of the judge, and furnish, for the use C*s3u^,
*1
of the court, a fair, legible, long-hand copy of so much of his notes <2^--^3 as the court directs. He shall receive for his services, from the
l/i^r^
treasury of the county in which the court is held, the sum allowed by
/$\ ^
the court, not exceeding five dollars a day for attendance, six cents a ^ tfvZd-t^r
mile for actual travel, and ten cents for every one hundred words of
the long-hand copy furnished for the use of the court. He shall also
furnish a copy of so much of the evidence and other proceedings,
taken by him, as either party to the trial requests, on payment there
for, by such party at the rate aforesaid.
42

658

TRIAL JUSTICES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 83.
CHAPTER 83.
TRIAL JUSTICES, THEIR JURISDICTION AND PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL
ACTIONS.
Appointment, Qualification and Jurisdiction.
Sec. 1. TrialJustlces, their appointment and term of office.
2. Oath or affirmation to be taken.
8. Jurisdiction in civil actions; not to exceed twenty dollars.
4. Title to real estate pleaded, case to be removed to supreme judicial court.
Recognizance in such case; if not given, to be tried.
5. Copy, &c, to be produced at appellate court; proceedings, if not entered.
6. Writs, form and service of.
7. Actions where brought, when parties live in same county.
8. Where brought, when parties live in different counties.
9. Writs issued by one justice returnable before another.
10. Writs returnable between certain hours.
11. Nonsuit or default if no appearance within one hour. May be stricken off.
12. Continuance when justice is unable to attend. Proceedings.
18. Trial justices and justices of the peace may issue subpoenas.
14. Justice may hold courts at his dwelling house or office. May adjourn court.
General issue to be pleaded. Only one travel in action continued at plain
tiff's request.
15. Judgments on defaults, nonsuits or trial.
16. Costs for defendant, if plaintiff does not prevail.
Of Appeals.
Sec. 17. Appeal, when and how claimed ; effect of.
18. Appeal, recognizance for, when and how given.
19. Appeal, papers to be produced at appellate court; failure to enter, &c,
effect of.
Executions.
Sec, 20. Executions; when issued; when returnable.
21. Executions may be directed into other counties in certain cases.
Scire Facias.
Sec. 22. Writs of scire facias, when he may issue.
28. Writs of scire facias when directed into other counties.
Records, now Kept and Transcribed.
Sec. 24. Records, how to be kept; on his death may be transcribed into the book of
another justice.
25. Execution issued on the transcribed record.
28. Removing from the state, must deposit his records with the clerk. Adminis
trators of deceased justice also. Penalty on administrator for neglect.
Duty of the clerk in such cases.
27. Proceedings if his records are not completed. When an execution may be
used in place of a copy of the record.
28. Justice whose commission has expired may certify copies and issue new exe
cutions for two years; how done afterwards,

TITLE IX.]

TRIAL JUSTICES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

659

Justice not to be of Counsel.
Chap. 83.
Sec. 29, Justice not to be of counsel in any case before himself. Not to try any case
commenced by himself.
Ex-Officio, Justices of the Peace and Quobum.
Sec. 30. Trial justices arc, ex-offlcio, justices of the peace and quorum.
APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATION AND JURISDICTION.
Sec. 1. Trial justices shall be appointed and commissioned by Trial justices,
the governor, with the advice and consent of the council, to act within mcn\and°term
the county for which they are appointed, and shall hold their offices i86ofcei64.
for the term of seven years from the date of their commissions.
Sec. 2. Before entering upon the duties of the office, each shall
take and subscribe the oaths or affirmations prescribed by the constitution and the laws of the state, to be taken by other officers
appointed in like manner.
Sec. 3. Every trial justice, may hold a court in his county, as
provided in this chapter, and have original and exclusive jurisdiction
of all civil actions, including prosecutions for penalties in which his
town is interested, when the debt or damages demanded do not
exceed twenty dollars, except fhose in which the title to real estate,
according to the pleadings or brief statement filed in the case by
either party, is in question ; and except that in those towns in which
a municipal or police court is established, his jurisdiction shall be
restricted to those cases in which jurisdiction has been heretofore
given to justices of the peace, in the act establishing such court,
and to cases wherein jurisdiction has been or may be given to trial
justices in like manner, (a)
Sec. 4. When it appears by the pleadings or brief statement in
the case, that the title to real estate is in question, it shall be
„ .,
,
.
.
removed, on the request of either party, to the supreme judicial
court ; and such party shall recognize to the other party in a reason-

Q^ar^us?"
tices.
1860 c 164

Jurisdiction in
not to exceed
k! s!'?. 8M l"
J[jf ^

Jj^p^^68'
case to be removed. Proceedings.
R" S' °' 881 * 2-

able sum, with sufficient sureties, to enter the case at the next term
of said court ; and if he does not so recognize, the justice shall hear
and decide the case, as if such request had not been made. (6)
Sec. 5. The party so recognizing shall produce at said court a Copies to
copy of the record, and all such papers as are required to be pro- appellate
duced by an appellant ; and if he fails so to do, or to enter the action craiinss^iiot
as before provided, he shall, on the complaint of the adverse party, ^ slf'ss § 8
be nonsuited or defaulted, as the case may bo ; and such judgment
shall be rendered as law and justice require.
Sec. 6. The writ in civil actions commenced before a trial ius- Writs, form .
1
•
•
» nnd scn'lc« of.
face, shall be a summons, a capias and attachment, or scire facias, of R. s. c. 88, Si.
(a) 12 Me. IT; 18 Me. 186; 15 Me. 188; 18 Me. 28; 29 Me. 581; 85 Mc. 129; 89 Me. 267,
176; 48 Me. 481.
(6) 8 Me. 256 ; 9 Me. 219; 27 Me. 8.

660

TRIAL JUSTICES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX-

Chap. 83. the form prescribed by law, signed by the justice, and duly served
not less than seven, nor more than sixty days before the return day
thereof.
Actions where
SEC. 7. AH actions between parties residing in the same county,
brought when
r
0
•"
parties live in returnable before any trial justice, shall be commenced before some
same county.
.
.
...
.
, .
..
.
1866, c. 27, $ 1. such disinterested justice residing or holding his court in the town
where one of the parties, or his attorney, or person summoned as
trustee in such action, resides ; and if there is no such justice resid
ing or holding his court therein, then before some such justice, if any,
Whcre
in an adjoining town, otherwise before any such justice in the county,
brought when
Sec. 8. When the parties reside in different counties, such
differentcoun- actions shall be commenced before any disinterested trial justice
1866, c. 27, $ 2. residing in the county where any defendant resides ; but all trustee
actions, returnable before such justice, shall be commenced within
the county where some trustee, therein named, resides.
Writs issued
Sec. 9. Original writs issued by any trial justice may be made
retu"nab"eb{£' returnable before any other trial justice of the same county, and shall
i866,ac°27,eV8. nave the 8ame eff"ect as if signed by the latter justice.
Writ retumacertain hours,
present with
i860, a 164,
n t, 8.

Sec. 10. No writ shall be made returnable before any trial justice, at an earlier hour than nine o'clock in the forenoon, nor later
than four in the afternoon. No judgment of such justice shall be
valid unless he shall be present with the plaintiff's writ at the place,
and witb,in one hour after the time therein named, unless the case is

continued by some other justice, as provided in section twelve.
Nonsuit
or
deSec.
The *„,
justice may
fault if no
. . 11.
,
J enter judgment
,
. on
. nonsuit
,or default
«
appearance in against the party failing to appear, at the expiration of one hour after
May be strick- the time of return set forth in the writ ; but may in his discretion, on
tw^mjMfour" m°tion of either party, strike off the same within twenty-four hours
lSo'Vief**'' thereafter, upon such terms as he deems reasonable.
M ». 10.
Sec. 12. When a trial justice is unable to attend at the time and
is unabieSto°e place appointed by him for the trial of any suit already entered, or at
er'/uslic^may
Proceedin s
1861 ° 26 * *i'
17 Me. 413. '
li Me! 886.
89 Me. 465.

which any writ is returnable before him, any other trial justice who
m'ght legally try the same, or any justice of the peace and quorum,
res^'nS m the same or adjoining town, may attend and continue such
action, once, to a day certain, not exceeding thirty days, and note
the fact on the writ, and in his own docket ; and if the inability is not
removed at that time, such action, at the time and place fixed in the

continuance, may be entered before, and tried by some other trial
justice of the same town, or if none such resides therein, then before
some trial justice of the same county, who may render judgment and
issue execution as if die action had been originally returnable before
Trial justices
and justices of him.
issue raCb-may
Sec. 13. Every trial justice and justice of the peace may issue
R°Esac'88iio subpoenas for witnesses in civil actions pending before any court, or
i860, c. 164, $3. persons authorized to examine witnesses.

TITLE IX.]

TRIAL JUSTICES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

661

Sec. 14. Any trial justice may hold a court at his dwelling Chap. 83.
house, office, or other suitable place, and the writ shall be made ^ytotaid
returnable accordingly. He may adjourn his court by proclamation, J^/^q"™,.
from time to time, as justice requires. In actions before him the m issue to be
defendant shall plead the general issue, and need not file any brief o'nTy one travstatement, except where the title to real estate is in question. When tiVuedat00"'
an action in which the defendant does not appear, is continued at the JJUeg"tlff,s r0"
request of the plaintiff, only one travel and attendance shall be taxed
for him, unless the defendant agrees, in writing, to such continuance.
Sec. 15. If any person duly served with process does not appear
and answer thereto, his default shall be recorded, and the charge in
the declaration taken to be true : and on such default, and when the
. .
.
action is, on trial, maintained, the justice shall enter judgment for
such sum, not exceeding twenty dollars, as he finds due to the plain
tiff, with costs, and issue execution.
Sec. 16. If the plaintiff fails to enter and prosecute his action,
or if, on trial, he does not maintain his action, the defendant shall
'
'
'
recover judgment for his costs to be taxed by the justice ; and execution shall issue therefor.

I860,c.i64,§8.
judgment on
^[f^"^^!
R- s. c. 83, § 5.
49 Me. 412.

does"otpreyaH. costs for
defendant.
R. s c. 83, $ 6.

APPEALS.
Sec. 17. Any party aggrieved by the judgment of the justice, and?hoV'hCn
may appeal to the next supreme judicial court in the same county, jjagngd',cgff^'
and may enter such appeal at any time within twenty-four hours, 24 lie. 487'.
Sunday not included, after the judgment; and in that case no execu
tion shall issue,' and the case shall be entered and determined in
. the
^
Bnpreme iudieial court.
Sec. 18. Before" such appeal is allowed, the appellant shall ^S^ance
recognize with sufficient surety or sureties to the adverse party, if^^ec'827
required by him, in a reasonable sum, with condition to prosecute his
appeal with effect, and pay all costs arising after the appeal.
Sec. 19. The appellant shall, at the appellate court, produce a to^eprafuced
copy of the record, and of all the papers filed in the cause, except Ry s1^0^"1^
depositions or other written evidence or documents, the originals of 44 Me- 29which shall be produced ; and if he fails to produce such papers, and
enter and prosecute his action, the court, on complaint of the adverse
party, may affirm the former judgment with costs.
executions.
Sec. 20. Executions shall not be issued by a trial justice, until
twenty-four hours after the rendition of judgment, and shall be made
returnable in three months from the day they are issued.
Sec. 21. When a debtor removes or is out of the county in
which judgment is rendered against him by a trial justice, or municipal or police court, such justice or judge may issue execution against

Yhcn exccutions limy
issue and when
K. s.c.88,iis.
Jfe! 530*.
Executions
edhno other*"

662

TRIAL JUSTICES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX

Chap. 83. him, directed to the proper officers in the county where he is supcounties,
posed to be ; and it shall have the same force as if issued by a justice
or court of the latter county.
■
SCIRE FACIAS.
When writs of Sec 22. Every trial justice may issue writs of scire facias
may issue.
against executors or administrators, upon a suggestion of waste, after
R. .c. 88J 15. ju(jgment against them ; against bail in civil actions, and indorsers of
writs ; and enter judgment and issue execution, as any court might
do in like cases.
"Writs
of
scire
Sec. 23. In cases
of scire
bail, indorsers
of writs,
facias, when
. ,
, facias against
°■
....
directed into executors or administrators, in all trustee processes, or original writs
R. s.c.88,U6. against two or more defendants, before a trial justice, or a judge of
a municipal or police court, where the defendant or trustee resides
out of the county where the proceedings are had, the justice or
judge may direct the writ or execution to any proper officer of the
county where the defendant or trustee resides, who shall charge fees
of travel from the place of his residence to the place of service only,
and postage paid by him.
RECORDS, HOW KEPT AND TRANSCRIBED.
Records, how
Sec. 24. Every trial justice shall keep a fair record of his protranscribedand ceedings ; and if he dies after giving judgment in a cause and before
cjjmit.

Execution
tran^ribed16
R^sTc 83 $18
On removal or
tobe^ieposited
Pcnakyon
adminstrutor
i'or nc'loct,
Duty of the
clerk in sucli
cases.
R. s.c.88,H9.

's satisfied, any other justice of the county may, on complaint of
the creditor, issue a summons to the person in whose possession the
record of such judgment is, directing him to produce and deliver it
to him; and if he contemptuously refuses to produce it, or to be
examined respecting it on oath, the justice may commit him to prison,
as punishment for the contempt, to be detained until he submits to
such examination and produces the record ; and when the record is
so delivered to him, he shall transcribe it upon his own book of
records, and return the original to the person who produced it; and
a copy thereof attested by the transcribing justice, or otherwise
proved, shall be legal evidence in all cases where an authenticated
copy of the original might be received.
Sec. 25. On such transcribed record, the justice may issue execution as if the judgment was rendered by himself, changing the form
^ ^e case re(luiresj but n0 such first execution shall issue after one
year from the time the judgment was rendered, unless on scire facias.
Sec. 26. Every justice, who removes from the state, shall first
deposit with the clerk of the judicial courts in the county for which
be was comm'ssi°neuj all his official records and papers ; and the
executor or administrator of a deceased justice shall so deposit all the
•
deceased's official records and papers that come into his hands ; and
• •
•
if either neglects to do so, he shall forfeit one hundred dollars. The
cierk shau receive an(j safely keep such records and papers, and may

TITLE IX.

TRIAL JUSTICES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

663

grant certified copies thereof, which shall he as good evidence as if Chap. 83.
certified by the justice.
Sec. 27. If any justice dies or removes from the state, without Proceedings if
j..
-i
ii.
• records are not
recording and signing any judgment by him rendered m an action completed.
before him, and his docket, original writ, and papers pertaining ecudonmay
thereto, and execution if any issued, are so deposited in the office of of record.Stead
the clerk, he shall, on payment of usual fees, make out and certify
copies of all the papers in such cause, and all facts appearing in such
docket; and such copies shall be legal evidence. But if such
records have not been deposited with the clerk, the plaintiff in any
action may use, in place of such certified copy, an execution issued on
such judgment by the justice, with an affidavit thereon made by the
plaintiff or his attorney, that it is not satisfied, or satisfied in part
only, as the case may be.
Sec. 28. Any justice, whose commission expires and is not
renewed, may, during two years thereafter, certify copies of judgments rendered by him while in commission, and issue and renew
executions thereon, which shall be obeyed by the officer, as if the
commission of the justice had not expired; and after two years such
copies may be certified and executions issued and renewed, as in case
of the death of the justice.
JUSTICE NOT TO BE OF COUNSEL.

fj jic'^is*20Me. no.

Jnstice whose
J^^p-j^
may certify
hsue new extw^yeara;1
afterwards,
*y>- c- *fe * 21 ■
11 jie.'877.
85 Me. 187.

Sec. 29. No justice shall be of counsel for or give advice to justice not t0
either party, in a suit before him, or be subsequently employed as gegfcc^n|2o
counsel or attorney in any case tried before him ; nor hear or deter
mine any civil action commenced by himself; and every action so
commenced shall abate.
Sec. 30. Trial justices are declared to be, ex-officio, justices of Ex-offldo, justhe peace and of the quorum, and all their official acts, attested by p^e°andC
them in either capacity, except those pertaining to the exclusive juris- Jg^™™^
diction of trial justices, are of equal effect.

EXECUTIONS.

664

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 84.
CHAPTER 84.

Sec. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
18.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
28.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
80.
81.

Execution;
may be sold
RJ3. c. 84, it.
m Me' 556'
Coin and bank
Jevkd onT
R. s. c. 84, s 2.

LEVY OF EXECUTIONS ON PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Execution; what goods may be sold on.
)
Execution; coin and bank notes, how levied on.
Execution ; goods, in what time sold on.
Execution ; notice of sale on.
Execution ; adjournment of sale, time.
Execution; adjournment of sale to another place.
Indemnity; officer may require.
Rc-salc, if purchaser refuses to take; officer to account for proceeds of second
sale, and for damages paid by such purchaser.
Return of sale on execution, how made. Penalty for fraud in sale or return.
Proceeds of sale how disposed of.
•
Buildings on leased lands how sold for land rent. Sale of buildings in other
cases and right of redeeming same.
Shares in incorporated companies, how sold.
Notice of seizure of, how given, if not attached, and how, if attached.
Officers of corporations to certify number of shares of debtor under penalty.
Shares sold to be transferred; new certificates to purchaser. Dividends.
Notice of sale, how given.
Franchise of corporation, how sold; notice of sale of, how given.
Mode of sale. Possession, what and how given to purchaser.
Rights and duties of the purchaser.
Rights of redemption by the corporation.
Proceeds of sale applied in order of attachment; balance paid to debtor.
Notice of second attachment, to be given to the first attaching officer.
Warrant against turnpike corporation for damages. Sale of the franchise
thereon may be adjourned. In what county sale may be had.
In case of a prior attachment, how the lien by seizure on execution may be
preserved.
Proceedings when such attachment is removed.
Executions, to be set off against each other.
Cases in which it may not be done.
Proceeds of, how applied. Sale without tender.
Executions and warrants of distress against towns, how issued and enforced
on personal estate. How levied on real estate.
Notice and incidents of the sale.
Remedy of owner of property so sold.

Sec. 1. All chattels real and personal liable at common law to
attachment, and not exempted therefrom by statute, are liable to be
taken and sold on execution as prescribed in this chapter.
^EC- ^" Current gold or silver coin may be taken on execution
and paid to the creditor as money collected ; and bank notes and all
other evidences of debts, issued by any moneyed corporation and cirgutted ag money, may be taken on execution, and paid to the credi

TITLE IX.]

EXECUTIONS.

665

tor at their par value, if he will accept them; otherwise, they may Chap. 84.
be sold like other chattels.
Sec. 3. Goods and chattels, legally taken on execution, shall be Goods, in what
safely kept by the officer at the expense of the debtor, for the space execution,
of four days at least next after the day on which they were taken, 24Me?wk
exclusive of Sunday; and they shall be sold within fourteen days
next after the day of seizure, except as hereinafter provided, unless
before the time of sale the debtor redeems them by otherwise satisfy
ing the execution.
Sec. 4. The officer shall post up public notice of the time and Notice of sale
. f .
\
, .
*
on execution.
place of sale, at least forty-eight hours before the time of sale, in two R. s. c. 84, $4or more public places in the town or place of sale.
Sec. 5. If at the time so appointed, the officer is prevented by p/1^™^™4
sickness or other casualty from attending at such place, or is present R- s.. c'g84^ 5and deems it for the advantage of all concerned to postpone the sale, 84 Me. 481.
he may postpone it not exceeding six days next after the day
appointed; and so, from time to time, for like good cause, giving
notice of every adjournment as required in the preceding section. '
Sec. 6. For good reason, and for the purpose of obtaining a ^j""™™*"'
better price for the goods to be sold, he may, if he deems it for the other place,
benefit of the debtor, adjourn the auction to another place in the iiMe.87.'
same town.
Sec. 7. Where there is reasonable doubt as to the ownership of indemnity;
........
ii.
-i
officer may regoods, or their liability to be taken in execution, the officer may ^uire.
require sufficient indemnity.
' ' °" 8^ 7"
Sec. 8. If the highest bidder at such sale refuses to take and Re-saie,if pnrpay for an article, the officer shall sell it again at auction at any time S takefoffl^8
within ten days, giving due notice of the second sale; and account for^TcSTof
for what he receives on the second sale, and for any damages he sccpn<i saie
7
J
°
and damages
recovers of the first bidder for a loss on the re-sale, as for so much recovered.
R.S.c.84$8.
received on the execution.
Sec. 9. He shall, in his return on the execution, particularly Return of sale
describe each article or lot of goods sold, and the price at which it Penalty for
was sold ; and if he is guilty of any fraud in the sale or return, he I™d return^6
shall pay to the debtor in an action on the case, five times the sum of R- s- c- 84 * 9>
which he is defrauded.
Sec. 10. The money, arising from the sale of any property on Proceeds of
execution, shall be applied to pay the charges and satisfy the execu- posed of.
tion; and the residue, if any, shall be returned to the debtor on -S-C-8M10demand, or otherwise legally applied as provided in section twentyone.
Sec 11. When a lessor of lands leased for the purpose of erectr_ r •
ing a building thereon commences an action against the lessee,
attaches the buildings within six months after the rent becomes due,
and recovers such rent, he may, on execution, cause the rents and

Buildings on
leased land
how sold for
Sale of biiiidcases and right

666
Chap. 84.
of redeeming
K. 8. c 84,$ 11.
i860, c. 128.

Shares in incompanies,
R?S.c°84,$i2.
Notice of seizgiven/if not
howlfattochR S c 84 $13

Officers of corporations to
certify numof debtor, unR™M,\u.

Shares sold to
newraitincate
DivWcndsSer
E. S.c.84,$i5.

Notice of sale
E°S ? 84°$ 16

EXECUTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

profits of such buildings to be sold for a term of time sufficient to
pay the debt and costs ; or cause such building to be sold like any
other personal estate. In all cases, any mill or building seized and
gojj Qn execution aa a chattel personal, may be redeemed within one
year, as land levied upon by appraisement may be ; and the remedies
and rights of the parties are the same as those of mortgager and
mortgagee, except the rate of interest, which shall be ten per cent,
per annum.
Sec. 12. Any share or interest of a stockholder or proprietor in
an incorporated company, may be taken on execution and sold in the
following manner, and in no other manner, notwithstanding any thing
in the charter of such company to the contrary.
Sec. 13. If the property was not attached on mesne process in
the same suit, the officer shall leave a copy of the execution with the
treasurer, cashier, clerk, or other recording officer of the company,
an^ ^e property shall be considered as seized on execution when the
copy is so left. If it was so attached and remains attached, the
officer shall proceed in seizing and selling it on execution as in section
sixteen.
Sec. 14. The officer of the company having the care of the
, 1 '
„ .
records or account of shares, or interest of the stockholders, shall,
on the exhibition to him of the execution, give the officer holding it a
certificate of the number of shares held by the judgment debtor, or
of the amount of his interest, under the penalty provided in chapter
eighty-one, section twenty-five.
Sec. 15. Within fourteen days after the day of sale, the officer
sua^ leave an attested copy of the execution and of the return
^ereon>
*ne officer of the company whose duty it is to record
transfers of shares; and the purchaser shall thereupon be entitled to
a certificate or certificates of the shares bought by him, on paying
the fees therefor, and for recording the transfers ; and if such shares
or interest were attached in the suit in which the execution issued, he
shall have all dividends which accrued after the attachment.
^EC.
In selling such shares or interest, the officer holding
^e executi°n snau H?ve notice in writing of the time and place of sale
to the debtor, by leaving it at his last and usual place of abode, if
within the county where the officer dwells ; and public notice thereof
by posting it up in one or more public places in the town where the
sale is to be made, and in two adjoining towns, if there are so many,
thirty days at least before the day of sale; and shall publish an
advertisement of the same import, and naming the judgment debtor,
three weeks successively before the day of sale, in some public news
paper printed in the county, if any, if not, in the state paper ; and if
the debtor never lived in the county, posting the notification and pub
lishing the advertisement as aforesaid shall be sufficient.

TITLE IX.]

EXECUTIONS.

Sec. 17. When judgment is recovered against a bridge, canal,
or other incorporated company with power to receive toll, its franchise
.
...
.
■.
..
,r,
may be sold on execution at public auction, by giving notice ot the
time and place of sale by posting a notification in any town, in which
the treasurer, clerk, or any officer of the company, if there are any

667
Chap. 84.
Franchise of
corporation
how sold; nohow^vcn!'
R'^c^4'*17' y

officers, if not, where any stockholder resides, thirty days at least
^
before the day of sale, and by causing an advertisement, naming the
creditor therein, to be inserted three weeks successively in a news
paper printed in a county where either of said officers, or if without
officers, any stockholder resides, four days before the day of sale ;
and if there is no newspaper printed in any such county, then in the
state paper.
Sec. 18. In the sale of such franchise, whoever will pay and sat- Mode of sale,
isfy such execution, all fees, and incidental expenses, in consideration what and how
of being entitled to receive to his own use all such toll as the corpo- B,Tg°c, 84, $ is,
ration is entitled to receive, for the shortest period of time, shall be
deemed the highest bidder, and the purchaser for such period of time;
and immediately after such sale, the officer shall deliver to him pos
session of the toll houses and gates, in whatever county situated, and
state his doings therein in his return.
Sec. 19. The purchaser of such franchise, and those claiming Rights and duunder him, may receive to their own use the tolls accruing within the chaser.the pur"
time limited in the purchase, and shall have all the powers of the cor- R' s' c' u' * 19poration necessary for the convenient use of the property, and be
subject to the same duties and penalties during the term of said pur
chase, and may recover of said corporation any moneys paid or ex
penses incurred in consequence of such liability, and . without their
fault or negligence.
Sec. 20. The corporation, at any time within three months after Rightsof rethe day of sale, may redeem said franchise by paying to the pur- the'eorporachaser the sum he paid in satisfaction of the execution, with twelve r?s. c. 84, § 20.
per cent, interest thereon, in addition to the toll he has received.
Sec. 21. If goods or other property sold on execution have been Proceeds of
attached by other creditors or seized on other executions by the same, appYfecUrT*1
or another officer, or if before payment of the residue to the debtor "nchmentf"
any other writ of attachment or execution against him is delivered to ^ debtor ^
the officer who made the sale, the proceeds shall be applied to the R-S.c.84,$2i.
discharge of the several judgments, in the order in which the writs of
attachment or executions were served ; and the residue, if any, shall
be paid over to the debtor.
Sec. 22. If a share in a corporation or other property, that may ^]°(ji™t^hsec"
be attached without taking and keeping possession thereof, is attached ment to be
or taken on execution, and is subsequently attached or taken on exe- rfrst"attaching
cution by another officer, he shall give notice thereof to the officer b.8?c.84 jsa.
who sells under the first attachment or seizure ; and if, without such

668

EXECUTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 84. notice, he pays the halance of the proceeds of sale to the debtor, he
shall not be liable therefor to the person claiming under such subse
quent attachment or seizure.
When warrant
Sec. 23. When damages are assessed in favor of a person by the
^kencorpora- county commissioners, or by a committee, or verdict of a jury, for an
issued!arsaie injury sustained by him by the acts of any corporation, authorized
maybTad^
journed.
In wuat county sale may be
R.S.c.84,§28.

to demand and receive toll, and they are not paid in thirty days after
order, or the acceptance of such verdict, or report of the committee,
.
.
he may have a warrant of distress against such corporation for such
damages, interest, and costs ; and the officer holding such warrant
may adjourn the vendue, as in the sale of goods on execution ; and
all proceedings respecting the attachment and sale on execution of
the franchise of such corporation, and sales on warrant of distress as
aforesaid, may be had in the county, in which the creditor, the presi
dent, clerk, treasurer, or a director of said corporation, if there is
any such officer, if not, a stockholder, resides,
in case of a
Sec. 24. When real or personal estate is seized on execution, and
mcnt,ahow the further service thereof is suspended by a prior attachment thereof,
preservedbe 8ucn estate shall be bound by seizure until it is set-off or sold in whole
B. s. c. 84, § 24. or jn par^ under the prior attachment, or until it is dissolved, if the

Proceedings
mcnt is removgj's. c.84, $25.

Executions to
against each
K.hs.rc. 84, * 26.

officer seizing such real estate, within five days thereafter, files in the
office of the register of deeds in the county or district where it lies,
a copy of his return of the seizure, with the names of the parties,
the court at which judgment was recovered, and the date and amount
of the execution ; and the register shall file and enter the same of
record, as in case of attachment of real estate on writs ; and like fees
shall be allowed to the officer and register therefor.
Sec. 25. If the prior attachment is dissolved, or the estate is setoff or sold in part under it, the estate or remaining part thereof shall
continue bound for thirty days thereafter, by such seizure on execu
tion; and the service of the execution may be completed within that
time as if the estate had been then first seized thereon, although the
return day of the execution has passed.
Sec. 26. When, an officer has in his hands executions, wherein
the creditor in one is debtor in the other in the same capacity and
trust, he shall cause one execution to satisfy the other so far as it will

24 Me 85i.

extend ; if one of such executions is in the hands of the officer, and
the creditor in the other tenders his execution to him and requests
him so to do, he shall so set-off one against the other.
Cases in which
Sec. 27. Executions shall not thus be setoff against each other,
done? DOt be when the sum due on one of them has been lawfully and in good faith

^Me0^4'^27 assigned to another person, before the creditor in the other execution
7 Me. 82.
became entitled to the sum due thereon; nor when there are several
'
1
creditors or debtors in one execution, and the sum due on the other
is due to or from a part of them only ; nor as to so much of the first

TITLE IX.]

EXECUTIONS.

669

execution as is due to the attorney in the suit for his fees and dis- Chap. 84.
bursements therein.
Sec. 28. The officer shall apply the proceeds of the sale of prop- Proceeds of
erty mortgaged or pledged, after deducting his fees and charges of ty mortgaged,
sale, to the payment of the sum paid or tendered to the mortgagee,
^uiiout
pledgee, or holder, and the interest thereon from the time of such {£ng e,T"84 $ 28
payment ; and the residue of such proceeds shall be applied to the 24 Me. no.
satisfaction of the plaintiffs judgment as provided by law ; or the
plaintiff may have the property seized and sold on the execution, as
in other cases, subject to the rights and interests of such mortgagee,
pledgee, or holder, without paying or tendering the debt due to him.
Sec 29. All executions or warrants of distress against a town Executions
shall be issued against the goods and chattels of the inhabitants ®" diltrc™11'3
thereof, and against the real estate situated therein, whether owned jJow'issued"ns
by such town or not : and the officer executing them shall satisfy a™i satisfied
*
.
°
.
"on personal
them by distress and sale of the goods and chattels of the inhabitants estate; how
as provided by law ; and for want thereof, after diligent search, which estate.
fact the officer shall certify in his return, he shall levy upon and sell B-S-C-8M29.
so much of the real estate in said town by lots, as they are owned,
occupied, or lotted out on the plan thereof, as is necessary to satisfy
said precepts and expenses of sale.
Sec. 30. He shall advertise in the state paper, and in one of the Notice and innewspapers printed in the county where the lands lie, if any, three saic.
weeks successively, the names of such proprietors as are known to K" s' c- 84' * 80
him, of the lands which he proposes to sell, with the amount of the
execution or warrant of distress ; and, where the names of the pro
prietors are not known, he shall publish the numbers of the lots or
divisions of said land ; the last publication shall be three months
before the time appointed for the sale. If necessary to complete the
sale, he may adjourn it from day to day not exceeding three days.
He shall give a deed to the purchaser of said land in fee, expressing
therein the cause of sale. The proprietor of the land so sold may
redeem it within a year after the sale, by paying the sum for which
it was sold, the necessary charges, and interest thereon.
Sec. 31. The owner of any real or personal estate so sold, may Remedy of
recover against the town, in an action of assumpsit, the full value ertyeso°so?d0p
thereof with interest at the rate of twelve per cent, yearly, with costs i^o, ojJ8\
of suit ; and may prove and recover the real value thereof, whatever
was the price at which it was sold.

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

670

[TITLB IX-

Chap. 85.
CHAPTER 85.

Sec. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
18.
14.
15.
16.

Bail shall be
officer and rethe^vrir'111
f'ue.'tH.' *
8 Me w
40 Me. 125.
What bail he
B.
fa.
2 Me. 46.

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Bail shall be by bond to the sheriff or other officer; bond returned with the
writ.
What bail he may require.
In what cases the obligors shall be holden.
Surrender of principal before entry; how to be done and effect thereof.
Names of bail to be entered on execution.
Qfflcer to notify bail; his fees to be paid.
Surrender of principal in court.
In case of avoidance, officer's duty, and liability of bail.
When scire facias against bail may issue.
Pleadings and defence by bail.
Surrender of principal on scire facias,
Proceedings when bail is taken in a justice action.
Surrender and commitment of principal in such case and effect thereof.
Officer's fees, duty and liability for neglect.
Surrender in such case before judgment, and after judgment.
Remedy of bail against principal.

Sec. 1. When bail is taken on mesne process, it shall be by bond
to the sheriff, if taken by him or his deputy, otherwise to the officer
making the arrest, with condition that the defendant will appear and
answer to the suit, and abide final judgment thereon and not avoid.
^e k°n^ s^a^ ^e returned with the writ, and the clerk shall note on
the writ that a bail bond is so filed.
Sec. 2. No officer shall be obliged to accept a bail bond unless
signed by two sureties, at least, having sufficient property in the
county in which the principal is arrested or held in custody ; and if he

takes a bail bond with only one surety, he shall be liable to the
plaintiff for any deficiency thereof.
In what cases
Sec. 3. A bail bond shall bind the obligors though signed by
hoiden?
only one surety, or when signed by two or more sureties, when all or
B. s. c. 85, i 8. m^ 0f fljem jja(j not suffic;ent property in the county.
Surrender
of
principal t^C"
fore entry,
effect.
2 Me. 882.

. Sec. 4. Any
bail may, before the action is entered, exonerate
ww*
himself from all liability, by surrendering his principal to the jail in
the county where the arrest was made, or in the county where the
wr^ 13 returnable, and within fifteen days thereafter, leaving with
the jailer an attested copy of the writ or process whereby the arrest
was made, of the return indorsed thereon, and of the bail bond, and
notifying, in writing, the plaintiff or his attorney of the time and
place of the commitment ; and the jailer shall receive him into custody
as if committed by the officer making the arrest.

TITLE IX.]

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

'

671

Sec. 5. If judgment is rendered against the principal in the Chap. 85.
action in which the bail is taken, the clerk of the court or trial justice Names of bail
...
i ii •
• to be entered
issuing the execution on the judgment, shall insert, on the margin on execution.
thereof, the names of the bail, their addition and place of abode, if R'm0.Cio85'* 5
inserted in the bail bond ; and if the debtor is committed to jail,
the clerk or justice shall note in like manner the jail to which he is
committed.
Sec. 6. The officer holding the execution, fifteen days at least Officer to noti...
. .
1,
i,i
i
...ii
fvbail; his
before its expiration, whether the debtor has given bail to the arrest- fees to be paid,
ing officer or the jailer, shall notify the bail personally, or by leaving fifef'so?'
a notice in writing, by him signed, at his usual place of abode, if in
the officer's county, certifying that he cannot find the principal
debtor, or property wherewith to satisfy the execution, for which he
may demand and receive of the bail the usual fee for the service of a
writ, and for travel from the dwelling-house of the officer to the
dwelling-house of the bail, and shall minute in said notice the amount
of the fees, which the bail shall pay in twenty days, unless, one day
at least before the execution is returnable, the bail produce and deliver
to the officer the principal debtor.
Sec. 7. If the bail do not surrender the principal as aforesaid, Snrrenderof
they may, at any time before final judgment in the original suit, court.Pa
bring him into court where the action is pending, and deliver him into fg ue. iw'} 7
the custody thereof and be thereby discharged.
20 Me- 41 9"
Sec. 8. In case of the avoidance of the principal, and return on In c<lS0 °f
/».
i i i i i • • i• i i
avoidance, offlthe execution by the officer that he had had it in his hands at least cer'sduty; liathirty days before its expiration, and that the principal was not R.'sfcissy's,
found, his bail shall satisfy the judgment with interest thereon from
the time when it was rendered, unless they discharge themselves by
surrendering the principal before final judgment against them on the
writ of scire facias, or by some other sufficient defence.
Sec. 9. When the principal so avoids, and his property cannot be When scire
found to satisfy the execution, the original creditor may have a writ ban may 'Issue,
of scire facias, in his own name, from the same court, against the bail, R- s' c' 85' 9'
in vacation or in term time, to be sued out within one year from the
rendition of judgment against the principal, and need not declare on
the bail bond, but merely allege that the defendants became bail in
the original action.
Sec. 10. The bail may plead, jointly or severally, that they never Pleadings and
became bail as alleged in the writ, and under that plea may avail baii.nc° by
themselves of every defence which would avail them in an action of R' S" °" 85' ' 10'
debt on the bond, on the plea that it is not their bond ; or may show
any special matter of discharge, filing a brief statement thereof as
provided by law.
Sec. 11. The bail may surrender the principal in court before Snrrenderof
final judgment on the scire facias, and on paying all the costs on the principal on

672

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IS.

Chap. 85. scire facias, they shall be discharged ; and the principal shall be com
as'5cfa85a$ n mitted to jail to remain for the space of fifteen days ; and if the cred
itor does not, -within that time, take him in execution, the sheriff shall
discharge him on payment of the legal prison fees.
Proceedings
gEC- 12. When bail is taken on mesne process in an action rewhen bail is
*
taken^m^a jus- turnable before a trial justice, and there is a return on the execuR.S. c.85,H2- tion issued on the judgment therein, that the principal is not found,
the justice may issue a scire facias thereon against the bail, to be
served seven days before the day of trial ; and if no sufficient cause
is shown to the contrary, he may render judgment for the debt and
costs recovered, with interest thereon from the rendition of judgment,
against the principal, and issue execution accordingly, notwithstand
ing the debt and costs on the original judgment exceed the sum of
twenty dollars.
Surrender and
Sec. 13. If the bail, at any time before final judgment in the
commitment
....
„ . , .
........
of principal m original suit or on scire facias, brings the principal before the justice,
effect thereof, and procures the attendance of an officer to receive him, the justice
R. s. c. 85, i 18. gjjgjj make a recor(i 0f the surrender, and order him into the custody

Officer's fees,1
bmty for negrs. c. 85 $ 1*.

Surrender
in
such
case before and after
RKs^.e85,§i5.

of the officer to be committed to jail, to be proceeded with as men
tioned in the preceding sections ; and on payment of costs on the
scire facias, the bail shall be fully discharged.
Sec. 14. The officer shall attend before a justice for such purpose, when requested ; and shall be allowed therefor the same fees as
*°r arresting and committing a defendant on mesne process ; and for
neglect of official duty in such case, he shall be answerable for all
damages to the party injured thereby.
gECt J5t jf the rprincipal
. r is surrendered before final jjudgment
o
in the original suit, the bail shall deliver to the officer a copy of the
writ, with the return thereon, attested by the justice; if after such

judgment, the bail shall deliver a copy of the entry of surrender, at
tested by the justice ; and in either case the officer shall deliver it to
the jailer with the prisoner ; and it shall be a sufficient warrant to the
officer for receiving and conveying him to jail, and to the jailer for
holding him in custody.
baiTa^ainst
^Ec*
mav nave *keir remedy against their principal, by
RrisCcP85 5 16 an ac^on on
case> f°r ^ damages sustained by them by reason of
their suretyship.

TITLE IX.]

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

673
Chap. 86.

CHAPTER 86.
TRUSTEE PROCESS.
Sec. 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
18.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21 .
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
80.
81.
32.

88.
84.
85.
36.

In what actions trnstec process may be used.
Form of the writ.
Mode of serv ice.
Effect of service on the tmstee.
In what county the action shall be commenced.
Insertion of additional names of trustees.
Notice to principal, if absent from the state. Trustee may appear for him.
What corporations may be summoned as trustees.
Trustee, about to leave the state, may disclose before a justice. Proceedings
in such case.
Court may appoint commissioner to take disclosure for other causes. Proceed
ings in such case.
Any trustee may so disclose, by consent.
An inhabitant of another state may be adjudged a trustee. Where writ may
be returnable.
Costs, if the trustee be discharged the first term. If adjudged trustee, he
may retain his costs.
Disclosure to be sworn to.
Lien for costs on specific articles in his hands. Officer to pay same.
Not to proceed against the principal, if the trustees all discharged, unless ser
vice on him.
Additional compensation, if trustee dwell in another county.
Liability of trustee for not appearing at the first term.
Joint liability for costs if several fail to appear.
Exception in favor of trustees residing out of the county, or absent from the
state, at the time of service.
If the action fails, costs for defendant and trustee.
No costs to trustee on discontinuance, unless he appear.
Trustee living out of the county may appear by attorney.
Proceeding in such case.
If plaintiff thinks proper to examine such trustee, how answers may be taken.
Disclosure, how sworn to.
Trustee not appearing, to be defaulted.
Trustee may submit a statement of facts to the court.
Disclosure deemed true; but any party may allege and prove other facts.
Such proof may be snbmitted to the court or a jury.
Testimony to be in writing.
Proceedings, if trustee disclose an assignment of the principal's claim. As
signee may be summoned. If he appears, his title to be tried. If he does
not appear, his claim to be void.
Principal defendant may be a witness.
Form of judgment against principal and trustees.
Trustee may appear by consent, at a subsequent term, as of the first.
Executor or administrator liable as a trustee for a debt or legacy, and stock
holder of a corporation.
43

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

G74
CHAP. 86. Sec. 87.
88.
89.
40.
41.
42
48.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
58.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
68.
64.
65.
CO.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.

[TITLE IX.

If a person dies, after being adjudged trustee, the goods and effects arc held in
the hands of the administrator.
If trustee dies before judgment, his administrator may be cited.
If the administrator do not appear, judgment may be rendered against him.
If he does not pay, scire facias to issue.
Proceedings if trustee dies within thirty days after j udgment is rendered, to
preserve the attachment.
Manner of issuing execution if administrator is adjudged trustee.
Remedy on his bond if he neglects to pay.
Specific articles in trustee's hands to be delivered to the officer, to be sold.
Remedy, if trustee refuses.
Mode of settling the value, as between the principal and trustee.
If part only is taken, balance to be delivered to the principal.
Officer to restore surplus proceeds of sale.
Trustee process, after commitment of the debtor. Effect thereof.
Proceedings, if trustee discloses property mortgaged to him.
On return of scire facias, amount of excess determined by the court and jury.
On disclosure, trustee shall deliver over property to the officer.
Officer having sold on execution any personal property, shall pay plaintiff,
and the balance to debtor.
Trustee not prevented from selling the property mortgaged.
Cases in which a person shall not be adjudged trustee.
Effect, if defendant in a suit is summoned as trustee of the plaintiff.
Costs in such cases.
Proceedings, if defendant in an action pending is summoned as trustee of the
plaintiff.
If first suit is not continued, and judgment rendered, defendant shall not after
wards be adjudged a trustee while liable on execution.
If before final judgment is rendered, defendant is adjudged trustee in the prior
suit.
Money or goods may be attached by trustee process before they arc payable.
Proceedings, if trustee does not pay costs, when liable.
Goods fraudulently conveyed, may be held by trustee process.
Trustee may retain in his hands pay for any demand justly due him; but not
for unliquidated damages.
Form of judgment against a trustee.
Discharge of trustee no bar to the claim of principal.
Scire facias against trustee.
Judgment on scire facias.
When all defendants in writ are defaulted court may enter up joint or several
judgments.
If any trustee defaulted on the scire facias was examined, judgment shall be
rendered on the facts disclosed or proved.
Liability for costs, if discharged on scire facias, not having before been ex
amined.
If examined in the original suit, he may be examined again on scire facias.
Goods and effects liable to another attachment, if not demanded in thirty
days. Exception.
If there is no second attachment, principal may recover them.
Demand, how made, if trustee is out of the state; how if he has no dwelling
place in the state.

TITLE IX.]

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

675

Sec. 76.
77.
78.
79.
80.

Effect of judgment against trustee.
CHAP. 86.
Penalty, if trustee disclose falsely.
~
Trustee exempt from costs on scire facias in certain cases.
In case of exception, the whole case may be re-examined and remanded.
Form and service of trustee process for justice courts. In what county to be
brought.
81. Default, if trustee does not appear. Costs, if discharged. May retain costs,
if adjudged trustee. Costs on discontinuance.
82. Subsequent proceedings. Discharge of trustee, if judgment is less than five
dollars, unless in case of set-off,
88. How execution shall issue, if defendant or trustee removes from the county.
84. Proceedings, if trustee is discharged, living in a county different from plain
tiff and defendant.
Wuen Trustee Actions, brought on Judgment, mat be Abated.

Sec. 85. Trustee actions brought on judgments on which execution might issue, or to
vex, or to make costs, abated with costs.
How Trustee hay be held when Demand against him is Assigned.
Sec. 86. How demands assigned as security may be trusteed and redeemed.
87. Plaintiff's rights in case of redemption by bim.
c J. —
oc^a^^
ft?* (°^k

Sec. 1. All personal actions, expect those of detinue, replevin,
actions on the case for malicious prosecution, for slander by writing
or speaking, and for assault and battery, may be commenced by trustee process in the supreme judicial court ; or when the amount
demanded in damages is not less than five dollars, nor more than
twenty dollars, before a municipal or police court, or a trial justice.
Sec. 2. The writ shall be in the form established by law, authorizing an attachment of goods and estate of the principal defendant in
his own hands, and in the hands of the trustees.
Sec. 3. The officer serving it shall attach the goods and estate of
the principal, and read it to him or leave a copy of it at his last and
usual place of abode ; which shall be a sufficient service on the prin
cipal, whether any trustee is held or not.
Sec. 4. A like service on the trustee shall bind all goods, effects,
or credits of the principal defendant, entrusted and deposited in
his possession, to respond the final judgment in the action as when
attached by the ordinary process.

i„ what action
cesfmay'be
^stg c 86 ^ j
86 Mo. 227.

jrorra 0f
R' S- c- 86> * 2i

Service.
It S c * 86 ^ 3

Effect °f
trustee,
82 Mc7«26.' * 4
47 Me- 298-

Sec. 5. If all the trustees live in the same county, the action in what counshall be brought there ; if they reside in different counties, in any Sought" '° ^
county in which one of them resides ; and in a trustee process against
c4086' ' 5i
a corporation aggregate, its residence shall be deemed to be in the ^Me'su'sso
county in which it has its established or usual place of business, held
its last annual meeting, or usually holds its meetings.
,
, ,

,

676
Chap. 86.
addTtio°nai0f
names of trusR. s. c. 86, i) 6.
s' Me. 280.

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

[TITLE IX.

What corpora8umrnoucdbas

Sec. 6. The plaintiff may insert the names of as many persons
as *rus';eesj 88 ne deems necessary, at any time before the process is
served on the principal, but not after ; and he may have a further service made on any trustee, if found expedient, if the service is after
wards made or renewed on the principal ; but no costs for services
shall be taxed for the plaintiff in such case, except for that last made.
Sec. 7. When the principal is out of the state at the time of the
service, and has no agent therein, notice shall be given as provided in
section nineteen, chapter eighty-one ; or proceedings may be had as
provided in section three of chapter eighty-two, unless in the mean
time he comes into the state before the sitting of the court ; and when
.
°
'
he does not appear m his own person or by attorney, any one or more
of the trustees having goods, effects, or credits in their hands, and
being adjudged trustees, may appear in his behalf, and in his name
plead and defend the cause.
Sec. 8 All corporations, except counties, towns, school districts,
m& parishes, may be summoned as trustees, and the writs served on

jFs'c 386 § 8
li^vyJA^
' ^'
l<£ V g fhiAj^ (Mh ^^"i
. ^
' '
Trustee, about
state, may disjusticeef°Pro*

*nem> as other writs on such corporations ; and they may answer by
attorney or agent, and make disclosures, which shall be signed and
sworn to by such attorney or agent ; and the same proceedings shall
thereupon be had throughout, except necessary changes in form, as in
other cases of foreign attachment, (a)
Sec. 9. When any person summoned as trustee is about to depart
from the state, or go on a voyage, and not return before the term of
the coul°t where he is summoned to appear, he may apply to a justice

Notice to prinfrom testate!
appear6for17
R "s c 86 4 7
l Me. 825.
85 Me. 891.
86 Me. 298.

subcase1"
« 9S'iO 86'

Court may apskmer to'tuke"
other causes.17
^°ce«Hngs in
1868, c. 114.

Any trustee
ciosefby conK.'s.c. 86 $n.

°^ the Peace
quorum of the county where he resides, for a notice
*°
pl^tiff"1 *ne su^ *° aPPear before said justice at a place and
time appointed, for taking his disclosure. On service made and
returned according to the order of the justice, the examination and
disclosure shall be taken and sworn to before him ; and heing certified
and returned to the court, the same proceedings may be had thereon
as if it had been in court.
Sec. 10. The court before whom any trustee is summoned, may
appoint a commissioner to take the examination and disclosure of
suca trustee when any other reasonable cause appears, and prescribe
tae notice to be given to the plaintiff, of the time and place thereof ;
and upon return of such service made, the examination and disclosure
shall be taken and sworn to before the commissioner, and being certi
fied by him and returned to court, the same proceedings may be had
thereon as if it had been in court.
Sec. 11. The examination and disclosure of any person summonea 03 trustee may be taken, as provided in section nine, when the
P^amtiff and trustee consent thereto.
(a) 86 Me. 201 ; 87 Me. 820; 39 Me. 402; 45 Me. 207, 455; 47 Me. 298; 49 Me. 282 ; 51
Me. 870; 52 Me. 592; 54 Mo. 587; 55 Me. 846.

[TITLE IX.

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

Sec. 12. Any person summoned as trustee may be adjudged
trustee by tbe court, though he -was not then, and never had been an
inhabitant of this state ; and the writ may be made returnable in the
county in -which either the plaintiff or principal defendant resides.
Sec. 13. If any supposed trustee comes into court at the first
term and submits himself to examination, on oath, after having in
. of the trustee process
6
writing declared that at the time of the service

677
Chap. 86.
An inhabitant
state may be
tristefrwhere
returSie^ ■
?„ ?;C-86'H288
Me. if414.
j) jfiaj
Costs,
tins- 1U^'fx/r

upon him, he had not any goods, effects, or credits of the principal in charg«i' first
his possession, he shall be entitled to his costs, aa in civil actions judped^rustee
where issue is joined for trial; and if adjudged a trustee, may stains his
deduct his costs from the amount in his hands, (a)
R. s. c. 86, s is.
Sec. 14. The disclosure, when completed and subscribed by the be^ornto0
trustee, shall be sworn to by him in open court, or before some justice ^
|M it.
of the peace.
Sec. 15. Where any person is adjudged trustee for specific arti-' Lien for cost3
cles in his hands, he shall have a hen thereon for his costs; and the
hancisS
officer, who disposes thereof on execution, shall pay the trustee the
t0 Pa-V
amount due him for costs, and deduct it from the amount of sale, and R. s. c. 86, § 15.
account to the creditor for the balance ; the amount of such fees shall
be indorsed on the execution by the clerk, and shall be evidence of
the lien.
Sec. 16. If all the persons summoned as trustees are discharged, if an trustees
or the suit against them is discontinued, the plaintiff shall not proceed noTto'proceed
against the principal defendant, unless there was sufficient personal »«.ain.st the
°
r
1
'
r
principal, unservice of the writ on him ; but he may assume the defence of the less service on
him.
SUlt.
R. S.c.86,H6-,
Sec. 17. "When the trustee, at the time the writ was served on compensation
him, did not live in the county where the writ is returnable, the court jf tru.stec
'
J
'
lives in anshall, in case of his discharge, allow him, in addition to his legal fee, jj,*™,,0^11^
a reasonable compensation for his time and expenses in appearing and
defending.
Sec. 18. If any person resident in the county in which the writ ugbmty of
is returnable, is summoned, and neglects to appear and submit to trustee for not
'
'
o
rr
appearing at
examination at the return term, without reasonable excuse, he shall ^ csHrst8(ie™j
be liable for all costs afterwards arising in the suit, to be paid out of 29 Me. 464.
(a) 8 Me. 47; 18 Me. 861, 382; 29 Me. 464. Answers to interrogatories; 18 Me. 187;
84 Me. 586; 88 Me. 188; 41 Me! 824 ; 45 Mo. 216; 46 Me. 226.
Persons, claims and property not subject to trustee process; 8 Me. 847; 17 Me. 29; 24
Me. 448; 27 Me. 296; 82 Me. 32; 88 Me. 414; 84 Me. 128; 89 Me. 164; 42 Me. 865, 402;
46 Me. 293; 48 Me. 81, 822, 367; 49 Me. 78; 58 Me. 549.
Interest; 18 Me. 832.
Costs; 10 Me. 458, 467; 18 Me. 832; 29 Me. 464; 46 Me. 15, 91, 226 ; 54 Me. 814; 56
Me. 79.
When charged; 4 Me. 492, 542; 6 Me. 79, 881; 7 Me. 894; 8 Me. 842, 401; 11 Me. 41.
196; 12 Me. 117; 18 Me. 261, 420, 428; 15 Me. 86; 17 Me. 252; 19 Me. 42, 56; 20 Me.
869; 84 Me. 202 ; 87 Me. 281; 88 Me. 188; 4-j Me. 182.
When discharged; 6 Me. 268; 10 Me. 458; 17 Me. 29, 89; 18 Me. 382; 22 Me. 28, 282;
24 Me. 448; 26 Me. 183, 448, 531; 27 Me. 296; 28 Me. 889; 32 Me. 82; 88 Me. 8i; 84 Me.
128; 85 Me. 57, 145, 156, 227; 36 Me. 136, 201, 298; 37 Me. 314; 39 Me. 164, 402; 42 Me.
132, 296, 865, 881 ; 45 Me. 207 ; 46 Me. 167, 298 ; 48 Me. 867; 49 Me. 78, 282; 51 Me. 870;
52 Me. 592; 58 Me. 106; 54 Me. 104.

678

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 86. his own goods or estate, if judgment is rendered for the plaintiff;
unless paid out of the goods or effects in his hands belonging to the
principal.
Joint liability
Sec. 19. When several trustees, resident in the county 'where the
for costs if sey....
.
oral trustees action is pending, are summoned and-neglect to appear, the judgment
R?s!°.X^Ti9. for costs shall be rendered against them jointly.
Exception in
Sec. 20. Persons summoned as trustees, resident out of the
tecs out ofUthe county where the suit is pending, shall not be liable for any costs arisskiin^ ouTof mS on ^e original process ; and if the person summoned as trustee
*RfttS c 86 $°o 13 ou* °^ ^e ^te, a* *ne time ^e wri* is served on him, and appears

if the action
drfencinn?and
R^Tc'se § 21

No costs to
he appear.
29 Me.' 464? 22'

Trustee living
may appear by
r's™!**., § 23.
8a Mc. io6.

at the first term of the court after his return, he shall be allowed for
his costs and charges as if he had appeared at the return term,
Sec. 21. When the plaintiff does not support "his action, the
cour* snau award costs against him in favor of the principal, and in
*"avor °f ^e persons summoned as trustees severally, who appeared
and submitted to examination on oath ; and several executions shall
issue accordingly.
Sec. 22. When a person summoned as trustee does not come into
court, and declare he had no property or credits of the principal in
hi8 hands when the writ was served, and submit himself to examina
tion on oath, the court shall not award costs in his favor, though the
suit is discontinued.
Sec. 23. A person summoned as trustee, and then not living in
the county where the writ is returnable, Bhall not be required to appear
in person in the original suit, or in a suit on scire facias ; but he may
appear by attorney, and declare whether he had any goods or effects

of the principal in his hands, when the writ was served; and there
upon ofier to submit himself to examination on oath.
Proceedings.
Sec. 24. If the plaintiff proceeds no further, the declaration
R. 8. c. 86, » 24. gjjgjj De considered as true.
if plaintiff
toi«amlnePer
trustee, how
answers may
betaken.
Disclosure
R°s (T'Sm 2«'

Sec. 25. But if he thinks proper to examine such supposed trus*ee on oat^' ^e answers may be taken in the county in which the
trustee dwells, before a iudse of the supreme judicial court, or a ius" °
*
"
"
tice of the peace.
Sec. 26. When a trustee has submitted himself to examination
on oa^ m cour*> ms disclosure may be sworn to before a judge of the
court, or a justice of the peace ; and being filed in court, shall have
the same effect as if sworn to in open court.
Trustee not ap- Sec. 27. When a person duly summoned as trustee, neglects to
dcfim°twi.° ° appear and answer 'to the suit, he shall be defaulted, and adjudged
R- S-Cl86' h 27- trustee as alleged.

Trustee may
' Sec. 28. If a person summoned admits that he has in his hands
mcnTof'facts6" g°°ds, effects, or credits, of the principal, or wishes to refer that
R 8 c 8H28 1uest'on *° ^e court upon the facts, he may make a declaration of
such facts as he deems material, and submit himself thereupon to a

TITLE IX .J

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

further examination on oath ; and such declaration and further exam
ination, if any, shall be sworn to as before provided, (a)
Sec. 29. The answers and statements sworn to by a trustee, shall
be deemed true, in deciding how far he is chargeable, until the contrary is proved, but the plaintiff, defendant, and trustee, may allege
and prove any facts material in deciding that question. (6)
Sec. 30. Any question of fact, arising upoh such additional alle1
, • 1
gations, may, by consent, be decided by the court, or Submitted to a
jury in such manner as the court directs.
Sec. 31. All testimony relating to such additional allegations
shall be given by depositions taken and filed in the usual manner.
Sec. 32. When it appears by the answers of a trustee, that any
effects, goods, or credits in his hands are claimed by a third person in
virtue of an assignment from the principal debtor, or in some other
.
.
.,
way, the court may permit such claimant, 11 he sees cause, to appear,
If he does not appear voluntarily, notice may be issued and served on
him, as the court directs; and if he appears, he may be admitted as
a party to the suit so far as respects his title to the goods, effects, or
credits in question ; and may allege and prove any facts not stated
or denied in the disclosure of the trustee ; but if he does not appear
in person or by attorney, the assignment shall have no effect to defeat
the plaintiff's attachment, (c)
Sec. 33. On the trial between the attaching creditor and such
claimant, the principal defendant may be examined as a witness for
either party, if there is no other objection to his competency except
his being a party to the original suit.
Sec. 34. When the plaintiff recovers judgment against the principal, and there is any supposed trustee, who has not appeared and
been discharged by disclosure or discontinuance of the suit against
him, the court shall award judgment and execution against the goods,
effects; and credits in his hands, as well as against the principal, in
the usual form.
Sec. 35. If an agreement is entered on the docket between the
plaintiff and supposed trustee, that he may appear at a subsequent
term of the court, with all the advantages that he would have on ap-

679
Chap. 86.
Disclosure
ciccintxl true *
but any party
p^rove other"1
1862%. 120.
Proof may be
submitted to
court or jury.
29 jic.485.* 8°'
V^J^ny ^£fcdfi]h \
be hi writing.
K'
proceeding
C]0s™an as-iS*
shrnmcnt of
the principal s
claim.
^^ji^ $-(/
~

ftnj"ntanmy
^g
sj3

Form of jiuigprincipal 'ana
^g^'se^ 84.

Trustee may
^nuitanother
ncr™' ** 0 the

pearing and answering at the first term, the same shall be allowed £9 fie.' 4Gi! 85'
him by the court.
Sec. 36. Any debt or legacy due from an executor or admin- Executor or
istrator, and any goods, effects, and credits in his hands, as such, may liable as trusbe attached by trustee process. The amount, which a stockholder of ho1ders°oft<cora corporation is liable to pay to a judgment creditor thereof, may be R^jj^gMse.
19 Me. 206.
(a) 21 Me. 28; 83 Me. 81; 85 Me. 227.
„/9
89 Me. 402.
{.b) 17 Me. 89; 18 Me. 187; 25 Me. 78, 256; 42 Me. 182. J'V
5 f
,c {]' t-£ J
(c) 1 Me. 328; 8 Me. 846; 5 Me. 410; 11 Me. 446; 16 Me, 252; 17 Me. 252, 327; 22 Me.
40; 26 Me. 183; 29 Me. 485; 88 Me. 440; 87 Me. 408; 40 Me. 88; 42 Me. 381; 46 Me. 15;
48 Me. 42.

680

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 86. attached by a creditor of such judgment creditor, by trustee process
served on such stockholder at any time after the commencement of
the judgment creditor's action against him, and before the rendition of
judgment therein.
aft"? befog1168 ^ec. ^7. If any person, summoned as a trustee in his own right,
heidin umuu ^es before the judgment recovered by the plaintiff is satisfied, the
of administra- goods, effects, and credits in his hands at the time of attachment, shall
R. s.c. 86, §37. remain bound thereby; and his executors or administrators shall
n^Me.3^!
be liable therefor as if the writ had been originally served on them.
if trustee dies
SEC. 38. If he dies before judgment in the original suit, his exbeforejudg. .
,
■,
.
ment, his ad- ecutor or administrator may appear voluntarily, or may be cited to
may be cited, appear as in case of the death of a defendant in a common action ; and
•2i lie. 23!
the further proceedings shall then be conducted as if the executor or
4? Me 55?'
administrator had been originally summoned as trustee ; except that
the examination of the deceased, if any had been taken and filed,
shall have the same effect as if he were living,
if admmisgECi 39, jf m such caae the executor or administrator does not
trator do not
appear, judg- appear, the plaintiff, instead of suggesting the death of the deceased,
rcnderaT ° may take judgment against him by default, or otherwise, as if he were
R^S.^.'sc'Tb. living; and the executor or administrator shall pay, on the execution,
the amount which he would have been liable to pay to the principal
defendant; and he shall be thereby discharged from all demands on
the part of the principal defendant in the suit for the amount so paid,
as if he had been himself adjudged trustee.
IL^r™ not
Sec. 40. If the executor or administrator in the case last menjacUis^to^ssao. tioned does not voluntarily pay the amount in his hands, the plaintiff
may proceed by writ of scire facias, as if the judgment in the first
suit had been against him as trustee ; but if he is discharged, he may
recover costs or not at the discretion of the court.
Proceedings if
gEC. 41. if anv person, against whom execution issues as trustee,
trustee dies
...
...
witMn^thirty is not living at the expiration of thirty days after final judgment in
judgment, to the trustee suit, the demand, to be made by force of the execution for
atSment6 continuing the attachment as provided in the seventy-third section,
R. S.c. 86, Hi- may he made on his executor or administrator at any time within
thirty days after his appointment ; and shall have the same effect as if
made within thirty days after the judgment.
Manner of
SEC. 42. When an executor or administrator is adjudged trustee
issuing execu....
jo
tion ifadmin- on account of goods, effects, or credits in his hands or possession merely
adjudged
as executor or administrator, in a suit originally commenced against
R."s!^ 86,H2. nmi as a trustee, or against the deceased, or in the original suit, or on
a writ of scire facias, the execution shall not be served on his own goods
or estate, or on his person ; but he shall be liable for the amount in his
hands, in like manner and to the same extent only, as he would have
been to the principal defendant if there had been no trustee process.

TITLE IX.]

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

Sec. 43. If after final judgment against an executor or administrator for any certain sum due from him as trustee, he neglects to pay
'
.
it, the original plaintiff m the foreign attachment shall have the same
remedy for recovering the amount, either upon a suggestion of waste

681
Chap. 86.
?.cn?ed-7,9",
his bond if he
neglects to
rb g". c. 86, § 48.

or by a suit on the administration bond, as the principal defendant in
the foreign attachment would have had upon a judgment recovered by
himself for the same demand against the executor or administrator.
Sec. 44. "When any person summoned as trustee is bound to de- tru'stee's'hands
liver to the principal defendant any specific articles, he shall deliver *° o^^1
them, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to the officer holding «>!<•■ ^ gg ^
the execution ; and they shall be sold by the officer, and the proceeds 18 Me. 426.
applied and accounted for, as if they had been taken on execution in
common form.
Sec. 45. If the trustee neglects or refuses to deliver them, or suf- Remedy if
trustee refuses
ficient to satisfy the execution, the judgment creditor may have his R.s.c. 86,4*5.
remedy on a scire facias, as provided in sections from sixty-seven to
seventy-two inclusive of this chapter ; and the debtor his remedy for
an overplus belonging to him, as at common law.
Sec. 46. When by the terms of the contract between the trustee Mode of setand the principal debtor, any mode of ascertaining the value of the as between the
property to be delivered to the officer is pointed out, the officer shall, trustee.*1 and
on the application of the trustee, notify the principal debtor previously R- S- c- 86'* 46'
to the delivery, that the value may be thus ascertained, as far as it
may affect the performance of the contract ; and in other cases the
value of the property, as between the principal and the trustee, shall
be estimated and ascertained by the appraisal of three disinterested
men, chosen, one by the trustee, one by the officer, and one by the
principal, if he see cause ; and if he neglects or refuses, by the offi
cer ; and they shall all be duly sworn to appraise the same, and the
officer, justice, and appraisers, shall certify their doings on the
execution.
Sec. 47. When a part of such goods and articles is taken in execution as aforesaid, the trustee may deliver the residue to the principal, or tender it to him within thirty days after satisfaction of the
execution, as he might have delivered the whole.
Sec. 48. Any surplus money, remaining in the hands of the
officer, after satisfying the execution and fees, shall be paid to the
principal, if within his precinct, if not, to the trustee.
Sec. 49. When a judgment creditor has caused the debtor to be
•
•
■
■
committed in execution, and afterwards discovers goods, effects, or
credits of the debtor, not attachable by the ordinary process of law,
he may have the benefit of the trustee process like any other creditor, if, within seven days after the service of the process, he dis charges the debtor from prison by a written direction to the jailer,

if part only is
to be delivered
b. sTc! seA' 47.
Officer to reb^sT(Tse,1?^.
Trustee process ftftcr
commitment
Ktfect thereof,
Pmc^Is' * 4S>"
18 Me- 42°-

682

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 86. stating the reason therefor; but such discharge shall not annul or
affect the judgment.
Proceeding,
Sec. 50. When a trustee states in his disclosure that he had, at
if trustee dis,.
,,
■.
..
. ,.
.
,
closes property the time the process was served on him, in his possession, property
him^a!?t<1 10 n°t exempted by law from attachment, mortgaged, pledged, or deliv13 fie 42s* 5°'
3-2
Me. 174.
35 Me.
57, 145.
36 Me, 136.
42 Me.' 132,865.
49 Mc! 78*'
56 Me. 883.

ere(^ *° ^™ ^v ^e principal defendant to secure the payment of a
sum
. . of money
. J due to him,' and that the, principal
- , defendant . has. an
existmg right to redeem it by payment thereof, the court or justice,
before which the action is pending, shall order, that, on payment or
tender of such money by the plaintiff to said trustee within such
time as the court orders, and while the right of redemption exists, he

shall deliver over the property to the officer serving the process, to
be held and disposed of as if it had been attached on mesne process ;
and in default thereof, that he shall be charged as the trustee of the
principal debtor. This order shall be entered on the records of the
court or justice.
On return of
Sec. 51. On the return of the scire facias against such trustee,
ces^etcr? ex' if it appears that the plaintiff has complied with the order of the
™ ju'v y conrt court or justice, and the trustee has refused or neglected to comply
E^;c'86'^1' therewith, the court or justice shall enter up judgment against him
l*r~~
j'-'-rf f°r *ne amount due and returned unsatisfied on the execution, if there
Ag* ^f^^C^ appears to be in his hands such an amount of the property mort.——
gaged over and above the sum due him; but if not, then for the
amount of said property exceeding that sum, if any; and this
amount of excess shall, on the trial of the scire facias, be determined
-»
.
by the court or jury.
On disclosure
Sec. 52. If, by the disclosure, it appears that the property in
liver property the hands of the supposed trustees was mortgaged, pledged, or subK. sfc! 86, S 52. ject to a lien to indemnify him against any liability, or to secure the
performance of any contract or condition, and that the principal
defendant has an existing right to redeem it, the court may order,
tf<f j*u, ivt-p that, upon the discharge of such liability or performance of such con
tract or condition by the plaintiff, within such time as the court or
justice orders, and while the right of redeeming exists, such trustee
shall deliver over the property to the officer, to be by him held
and disposed of as if it had been attached.
Officer having
^EC"
The officer, having sold on execution any personal propsold property erty delivered to him in virtue of this chapter, after deducting the
on execution
tojjuv plain-' fees and charges of sale, shall pay the plaintiff the sum by him paid
ance to debtor, or tendered to the trustee, or applied in the performance of such
R. S. c. 86, s 58. con(;ract or condition, or discharge of such liability, and the interest
from the time of such payment, tender, or application, to the time of
sale; and so much of the residue, as is required therefor, he shall
apply in satisfaction of the plaintiff's judgment, and pay the balance,
if any, to the debtor, first paying the trustee his costs accruing

TITLE IX.]

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

683

before the service of the scire facias, as provided in section thirteen. Chap. 86.
Sec. 54. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the Trustee not
trustee from selling the goods in his hands for the payment of the SSm'scufnK
sum for which they were mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise liable, at £™^jrt}' mort'
any time before the amount due to him is paid or tendered as afore- «• s. c. 86, § 54.
said, if the sale would be authorized by the terms of the contract
between him and the principal defendant.
Sec. 55. No rperson shall be adjudged
trustee,
Cases
in which
.
.
a person
shall
First.—By reason of any negotiable, bill, draft, note, or other not be adsecurity drawn, accepted, made, or indorsed by him, except in the r!'s.c.8M55!
cases provided in the sixty-third section ;
i86:^ c. too.
Second.—By reason of any money or other thing received or col
lected by him as an officer, by force of a legal process in favor of the
principal defendant in the trustee process, although it has been previ
ously demanded of him by the defendant ;
Third.—By reason of any money in his hands as a public officer,
and for which he is accountable to the principal defendant ;
Fourth.—By reason of any money or other thing due from him to.
the principal defendant, unless at the time of the service of the writ
upon him, it is due absolutely and not on any contingency ; (a)
Fifth.—By reason of any debt due from him on a judgment, while
he is liable to an execution thereon ;
Sixth.—By reason of any amount due from him to the principal 22 Me. 494.
defendant as wages for his personal labor, or that of his wife or minor 87 Me. 199! *r~~£ G_jG/t~*
children, for a time not exceeding one month next preceding the ser- ^:^^^^J^_V^'--,^ '
vice of the process ; and not exceeding twenty dollars of the amount / ' '
due to him as wages for his personal labor; and this shall not be
exempt in any suit for necessaries furnished him or his family';
Seventh.—Where service was made on him by leaving a copy, and
before actual notice of such service or reasonable ground of belief
that it was made, he paid the debt due to the principal defendant, or
gave his negotiable security therefor ;
Eighth.—By reason of any amount due for board furnished any
member of the legislature, while in attendance upon the sessions
thereof.
Sec. 56. When an action is brought for the recovery of a Effect, if dedemand, and the defendant is summoned as a trustee of the plaintiff, (^fi'mmoned1'
the action shall be continued to await the disclosure of the trustee, X'™-^6 of
unless the court otherwise orders, and if the defendant is adjudged
86,
trustee, the disclosure and the proceedings thereon may be given in 86 Me. 807.
evidence on the trial of the action between the trustee and his
creditor.
(a) 8 Me. 47; 80 Me. 884 ; 85 Me. 227; 47 Me. 557; 49 Me. 282; 50 Me. 296.

■
684

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 86.
Sec. 57. If the amount disclosed is as large as the sum recovCosts in such ered in the action, the trustee shall be liable to no costs after the
JLsH'c 86, § 57. service of the trustee process upon him ; otherwise, he shall be liable
to legal costs.
Proceedings, if Sec. 58. If, during the pendency of an action, the defendant is
defendant in
,
. . *_ . „
.
,
action pending summoned as the trustee of the plaintiff, the first suit may nevertneaswus'tee'of1 less proceed so far as to ascertain by a verdict or otherwise, what
^"g^'^'g ^ 53 sum, if any, is due from the defendant ; but the court may, on motion
" Me- Yh °f *ne plaintiff in the trustee suit, continue it for judgment, until the
*

f

termination of the trustee suit, or until the attachment therein is dis
solved by the discharge of the trustee, or satisfaction of the judgment
otherwise.
if first suit is
Sec. 59. If the first suit is not continued, and judgment is renand^dLnncnt dered therein, the defendant shall not be adjudged afterwards a
rendered, de- trustee on account of the demand thus recovered against him, while
fendantnotodo
judged trustee he is liable to an execution thereon.
R. s. c. 86, i 59.
Sec. 60. If, before final judgment is rendered in the first suit,
finafjudgnient ^e defendant in that suit is adjudged trustee in the other and pays
defendant^ thereon the money demanded in the first suit, or any part of it, the
adjudged
fact shall be stated on the record of the first suit, and judgment
R. s. c.86, § 60. therein shall be rendered for the costs due to the plaintiff and for
such part of the debt or damages, if any, as remains due and unpaid.
Money, &e.
Sec. 61. Any money or other thing due absolutely, to the princieTby^rus'tce1" Pa^ defendant, may be attached before it has become payable ; but
pavS)iebef°re
trustee saa,H n°t ^e compelled to pay or deliver it before the time
K."s.c.86,$6i- appointed therefor by the contract, (a)
Proceedings if
Sec. 62. If the person summoned as trustee, and liable for costs
not pay costs, as provided in section eighteen, docs not voluntarily pay them, when
R. slV/sM 62. demanded by the officer serving the execution, he shall state the fact
in his return on the execution ; and if it appears by the return that
they have not been paid by any one, the court shall award execution
against such trustee for the amount of such costs.
uienti frand"
Sec.
^
alleged trustee has in his possession any goods,
veyedi may be effects, or credits of the principal defendant, which he holds under a
proccss.tr,IStee conveyance fraudulent and void as to the defendant's creditors, he
. S. c. 86, § 68. mav jje jujjmjged a trustee on account thereof, although the principal
defendant could not have maintained an action therefor against
him. (i)
Trustee may
Sec. 64. Every trustee shall be allowed to retain or deduct out
any demand ' of the goods, effects, and credits in his hands, all his demands against
not forlin^11' the principal defendant, of which he could have availed himself, if he
damage"1
^ad not been summoned as trustee, by way of setoff on trial, or by
R. S. c 86, § 64.
7 Me. 856.
(a) 4 Me. 582 ; 22 Me. 180.
J 7 7'
I
(6) 15 Me. 73; 25 Me. 256; 29 Me. 485; 85 Me. 828; 46 Me. 298; 48 Me. 822.

TITLE IX.]

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

685

a set-off of judgments or executions between himself and the princi- Chap. 86.
pal defendant, except unliquidated damages for wrongs and injuries ;
and he shall be liable for the balance only, after their mutual de
mands are adjusted.
Sec. 65. When a person is adjudged trustee on disclosure in the Form of j un
original suit, the amount for which he is chargeable shall be fixed by truswe!5'111"'1 *
the court, subject to exceptions, and be conclusive on scire facias, §j Me.' 256? 65'
unless, for cause shown, an additional disclosure is allowed; but
^ Me 128586
default, the amount need not be expressed in the judgment; and in 42 Me. 182.
all cases on scire facias, if he is adjudged trustee, the amount for
which he is chargeable shall be expressed in the judgment.
Sec. 66. If any alleged trustee is discharged, the judgment shall Discharge of
t
i
• i
, 'i .
• • i a i. t
•
i- trustee no bar
be no bar to an action brought by the principal defendant against him to claim of
for the same demand.
Eyases', $66.
Sec. 67. When a person adjudged a trustee in the original ac- scire facias
tion does not, on demand of the officer holding the execution pay ",?eamst trus'
over and deliver to him the goods, effects, and credits in his hands, ?3MeC 6o'^67'
and the execution is returned unsatisfied^the plaintiff may sue out a *8 Me. in.
writ of scire facias against such trustee, from the court or justice/^L'^^^**'
that rendered the judgment, to show cause why judgment and execus-^t /«u^j
tion should not be awarded against him and his own goods and estate,
yi~*<*
for the sum remaining due on the judgment against the principal de
fendant.
Sec. 68. After such writ has been duly served on him, if he Judgment on
neglects to appear and answer thereto, he shall be defaulted ; and if r.1^ c?8M 68.
he was not duly examined in the original suit, judgment shall be ren
dered against him for the whole sum remaining due on the judgment
against the principal defendant.
Sec. 69. When all the defendants in a writ of scire facias are when ail dedefaulted, not having been examined in the original suit, the court defaulted?"1
may enter up joint or several judgments, as the case requires, and iral judgment,
issue execution in common form.
R- s- c- 86» $ 69Sec. 70. . If any trustee, defaulted on the scire facias, wa3 exam- if trustee deined in the original suit, judgment shall be rendered on the facts facias waa'exstated in his disclosure, or proved at the trial, for such part of the rnenToVdis?"
goods, effects, and credits, for which he is chargeable as trustee, as R,0S"^'86 $70
remain in his hands, if any, or so much thereof as is then due and 40 JJe.
. .
46 Me. 91, 348.
unsatisfied on the judgment against the principal defendant ; but if it
appears that such person paid and delivered the whole amount thereof
on the execution issued on the original judgment, he shall not be lia
ble for any costs on the scire facias.
Sec. 71. If the trustee appears and answers to the scire facias, Liability for
and was not examined in the original suit, he may be examined as he eharged'on
might have been on the original suit ; and if, on such examination, he no^v^'
appears not chargeable, the court shall render judgment against him been oefoie

686

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

[title IX.

Chap. 86. for costs only, if resident in the county where the original process
examined.
E.8.C.&M71. ^as returnable ;' but if
, not
. resident in such county,
" he shall not pay
r "
or recover any costs, (a)
if examined in
Sec. 72. If he had been examined in the original suit, the court
maybe' exam- may permit or require him to b9 examined anew in the suit of scire
k! 8. cJJM M- fac'as > an(^ ^e may ^en prove any matter proper for his defence ;
and the court may enter such judgment, as law and justice require,
upon the whole matter appearing on such examination and trial. (6)
Goods and
Sec. 73. When any person is adjudged a trustee, if the goods,
another
effects, and credits in his hands, are not demanded of him by virtue
no? demanded of the execution within thirty days next after final judgment, the
Kxccption.ayS' attachment of them by the original process is dissolved ; and they
8t Me 69** 78 are l'aD'e *° another attachment as though the prior attachment had
86 Me. 807.
not been made ; but when the debt due from the trustee to the prin
cipal defendant is payable at a future day, or specific property is in
i~t '^</' *
his hands which he is bound to deliver at a future day, the attach
ment shall continue until the expiration of thirty days after such debt
is payable in money, or the property aforesaid is demanded of the
trustee.
If there is no
Sec. 74. If there is no second attachment, the principal defendsecond attach...
a
t
•«.
ment, princi- ant m the suit may recover the goods, effects, and credits, if not so
cover them, demanded, as if they had not been attached.
R. s.c. 86,* 74.
gECi 75 When the officer jading tne execution cannot find the
made if trns- trustee in the state, a copy of the execution may be left at his dwellthe 'state' or ing-house, or last and usual place of abode, with notice to the trustee
Ing in°thee11' indorsed thereon, and signed by the officer, signifying that he is reBuTc 86 §75 (lu'reo- 1° pay and deliver, towards satisfying such execution, the
goods, effects, and credits, for which he is liable. When such trustee
has no such dwelling-house or place of abode in this state, such copy
and notice may be left at his dwelling-house or place of abode with
out the state, or be delivered to him personally by the officer, or other
person by his direction ; and such notice in either case shall be deemed
a sufficient demand for all the purposes mentioned in the two preced
ing sections.
Effect of judgSec. 76. The judgment against any person as trustee shall distrustecfamSt" charge him from all demands by the principal defendant or his execu18 Me" is** T6" *ors or administrators, for all goods, effects and credits, paid, deliv48 Me 140

erea\ or accounted for by the trustee thereon; and if he is afterward
sued for the same by the defendant or his executors or administrators,
such judgments, and disposition of the goods, effects, and credits as
above stated, being proved, shall be a bar to the action for the amount
so paid or delivered by him.
(a)7 Me. 129; 36 Me. 298; 40 Me. 256; 48 Me. 81.
(6) 4 Me. 485; 15 Me. 840; 25 Me. 256; 40 Me. 256 ; 41 Mc. 181.

TITLE IX.J

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

Sec. 77. If any person summoned as a trustee, upon his examination willfully and knowingly answers falsely, he shall be deemed
guilty of perjury ; and shall pay to the plaintiff in the suit so much
of the judgment recovered against the principal defendant as remains
unsatisfied, with interest and costs, to be recovered in an action on
the case.
Sec. 78. If any person summoned as a trustee is prevented from
appearing in the original suit by absence from the state, or any other
reason deemed sufficient by the oourt, and a default is entered against
him, he shall not be liable for any costs on the scire facias; but, on
his disclosure, the court may allow him his reasonable costs and
charges, to be retained or recovered as if he had appeared in the
original suit.
Sec. 79. In all cases under the trustee process in the supreme
■ t •
.
1
1
>•
1 -i ■ •
judicial court, where exceptions are taken to the ruling and decision
of a single judge as to the liability of the trustee to be charged, the
whole case may be re-examined and determined by the law court,

687
Chap. 86.
Penalty if
closes foiaeiy.
j'j Me.'^s!7''

Trustee exe™?' oi°scire
cat" s.""
K-S-c.86,§78.

In case of exceptions,
whole case
"mined by law™"l* 8g ^ 79

and remanded
as the 29
.Me. 485.
, . , . for
. further
. disclosures or other proceedings,
r
84 Me.
123.
court thinks lustice requires.
.
85 Me. 145.
42 Me. 132.
TRUSTEE PROCESS IX JUSTICE COURTS.
Sec. 80. When a trustee process is issued by a municipal or
police court or a trial justice, the writ shall be in the form now in use,
and may contain a direction to attach property of the principal in
his own hands, as well as in the hands of the person named as trus'
r
tee, and be served as a trustee process issued by a judicial court,
seven days before the return day ; and shall be brought in the county
where either of the supposed trustees resides ; and if not so brought,
it shall be dismissed and the trustees recover their costs.
Sec. 81. When the person summoned does not appear and
answer to the suit, he shall be defaulted, adjudged trustee, and be

Form and scrprocess forSteC
i'ns"™ut coun*y l!ro"?ht: „
K. S. c 86, § 80.
12 Me. 17.

Default if
notSappcarf

liable to costs on scire facias; if he appears at the return day and B?s?c.86,i8i.
submits himself to an examination on oath and is discharged, he shall
be allowed his legal costs ; but if he is charged, he may retain the
amount of his costs; and when the plaintiff discontinues his suit
against him or the principal, he shall be allowed his costs.
Sec. 82. All subsequent proceedings in such causes shall be had, subsequent
as is prescribed in this chapter in trustee processes in the supreme 17i"char"eSof
iudicial court, varying forms as circumstances require; but when, in trustee ifjudp1
1 *
1
_ ment less than
a trustee process before such court or justice the debt recovered five dollars
against the principal is less than five dollars, the trustee shall be dis- of 1«."off.CaSC
charged, unless the judgment is so reduced by means of a set-off K,s,c-86'^82filed in the case.
Sec. 83. If after a judgment is rendered in such trustee process, How executhe principal defendant or trustee removes out of the county in which if defendant or

688
Chap. 86.
trustee removes.
E,s.c.86,§8S.
Proceedings, if
trustee livin^
in another "
charged.is dlS"
r. s. c. 86, § 84.

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

[TITLE IX.

it was rendered, such court or justice may issue execution against
either, directed to the proper officer of any other county where he is
, .
supposed to reside.
Sec. 84. When an action is brought against a trustee in a county
• •
where he resides, but where neither the plaintiff nor defendant
resides, and the trustee is discharged, or the action discontinued as
jjjjj^ ^e action shall still proceed if there was legal service on the
principal defendant, unless it appears, by plea in abatement, that the
trustee was collusively included in the writ for the purpose of giving
the court in such county jurisdiction.

brougMonlon

WHEN TRUSTEE ACTIONS ON JUDGMENT MAT BE ABATED.
Sec. 85. When action is commenced by trustee process on a

which'cxccu- judgment, on which an execution might legally issue, and it appears to
tion might is- the court or justice that, at the time of bringing it, the defendant
debtor has at- openly had visible property liable to attachment, sufficient to satisfy
erty,aorCto vex such judgment ; or that it was brought for the purpose of vexation ;
abatafwith18' or to accumulate costs, it shall, at any time, on motion, be abated,
ba
with costs to the defendant.
18o9, C. 64.
HOW trustee mat be held when demand against htm is
ASSIGNED.
assilmed'as'se- Sec. 86. When it appears that a person summoned as trustee, is
trusteed ami'6 indebted to the principal defendant on any demand on which he might
lsessTan $ l ^e ne^ 3,8 *rus*ee>
^ nas keen conditionally assigned as se
curity, and the principal defendant has a subsisting right to redeem
it, the court may order, that on the fulfilment of such conditions by
the plaintiff, within the time fixed by the court, and while the right to
redeem exists, the trustee shall be held for the full amount of such
demand ; and when the court is satisfied that its order has been com
plied with, it may charge the trustee accordingly,
rights 'iu case
Sec. 87. The officer making demand on the trustee on the execuby'hfmmpti0n tion, shall first deduct from the amount received by him the sum paid
iS63,c.20l,$ 2. by the plaintiff to redeem, if any, with interest, and apply the balance
towards the execution ; but if the demand has been redeemed otherwise
than by the payment of money, the plaintiff shall be subrogated for
the holder thereof, and have the same rights and remedies against the
principal defendant, and may enforce them, at his own expense, in the
name of such holder or otherwise.

TITLE IX.] ACTIONS BY OR AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

689

Chap. 87.
CHAPTER 87.
ACTIONS BY OR AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
Sec. 1. Executors and administrators, writs and executions against them, how issued.
2. Executors and administrators, executions for costs against them, how issued.
8. Executions against deceased returned unsatisfied, proceedings.
4. Administrators de bonis non may prosecute and defend suits as any other;
may sue judgment recovered by deceased.
5. Executor or administrator ceasing to be such after judgment, scire facias may
issue against administrator de bonis non.
6. Writs of error by or against administrators de bonis non.
7, When an only party to an action dies, proceedings.
8, Actions surviving enumerated, may be prosecuted or defended by executor or
administrator.
9, Actual damages only recoverable in actions of tort ; goods in replevin returned
not as assets.
10. When one of several plaintiffs or defendants dies, "his executor or administrator
may prosecute or defend jointly with survivors; and joint judgment ren
dered; and if there are survivors on both sides, they may be witnesses.
11. Action against executor or administrator not maintainable unless demanded
thirty days prior thereto, and brought within two years.
12. Not compelled to defend within one year after appointment; exceptions,
18, No suit after four years from notice of appointment; exceptions,
14. When action does not accrue within four years, claim to be filed; proceed
ings.
15. Estate liable for such claims, how suits sustained on them.
16. When such claims not filed, only remedy is against heirs and devisees.
17. Limitation of actions against administrators de bonis non.
18. Limitation of actions against administrators de bonis non, when no notice by
first administrator.
19. Limitation of actions not applicable to actions for legacies; liability for un
faithful administration on administration bond.
20. How an execution may issue after creditor's decease.
21. What such execution shall set forth, and to what uses property levied on shall
be held.
Sec. 1.

Writs and executions against executors and administra- cutionsndcxc

tors for costs, for -which they are not personally liable, and for debts
due from the deceased, run against his goods and estate in their
hands. (a)
v '
Sec. 2. Executions for costs shall run against the goods and
estate, and for want thereof against the bodies of executors and
administrators, in actions commenced by or against them, and in
actions commenced by or against the deceased in which they have
, „
appeared, for costs that accrued after they assumed the prosecution
or defence, to be allowed to them in their administration account,
(a) 14 Me. 820; 28 Me. 521 ; 24 Me. 25; 86 Me. 248.
44

torsandad-0""
runagainTes*atejn tueir
hands.
R- s. c. 87, § l.
whenVs'sued
^goods^nd
estate for
costs.
R-^s. c. 87, § 2.
20 Me. 21.
28 Me. 251.
24 Me. 25.

690

ACTIONS BY OR AGAINST

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 87. unless the judge of probate decides that the suit was prosecuted or
defended without reasonable cause.
Execution^
Sec. SL When a proper officer makes his return, on an execution
estate of de- issued under the first section, that he cannot find personal property
ed^atisfled, of the deceased, or other means to satisfy it, a writ of scire facias,
S™!.^''^' 8. suggesting waste, may be issued against the executor or administrator ;
2 Me. 109.
an(j if jje does not show cause to the contrary, execution shall issue
against him for the amount of the judgment and interest, not exceed
ing the amount of waste, if proved.
Administrator
sEC. 4. When an executor or administrator ceases to be such, an
de bonis non,
.
......
...
. .
may prosecute action pending in his favor or agamst him may be prosecuted by or
and defend as
.
, . . ,
• ,
j •!• i_ j
1
any other.
against an administrator de bonis non; and 11 he does not appear,
ment "rcro\"de af*er due notice, judgment may be rendered, as if the suit had been
ceased1' dC"
commenced by or against him for debt and for costs, as herein proK. s. c. 87, $ 4. vided. An administrator, de bonis non, may maintain an action on
1862, c. 84.
*
14 Me. 820.
uncollected judgments recovered by the deceased, or by his executors
82 Me. 181.
82 Me. 174.
Or administrators, before their death, or removal from office.
When an execgEC_ 5. When an executor or administrator ceases to be such
utor or admin
istrator censes after judgment against him, a writ of scire facias may be issued
scire facias
against the administrator de bonis non; and after due notice an
against admin- execution may issue as provided in the preceding section; but the
lu^non
costs, for which the executor or first administrator was personally
8^ MeCi38i7'i74' uaD^e> ma7 De enforced against his executor or administrator.
Writ of error
Sec. 6. A writ of error may be maintained by or against an
bron.-ht
administrator de bonis non, when it could be by or against an execuS£rdembS: tar or first administrator.
™s ™n-g7 j g
Sec. 7. When the only plaintiff or defendant dies while an action
When an only
ttonHiit" "proceedmgs^ ^
19 Mc. 844,

that survives is pending, or after its commencement and before its
entry, his executor or administrator may prosecute or defend as fol]ows .
action, or an appeal, if made, may be entered, the death
0f the party suggested on the record, and the executor or administra
tor may appear voluntarily ; if he does not appear at the second term
after sucli death, or after his appointment, he may be cited to appear,
and after due notice thereof, judgment may be entered against him
by nonsuit or default.
Actions which
Sec. 8. In addition to those surviving by the common law, the
be^rosecuted, following actions survive ; replevin, trover, assault and battery, tresexwutor'or a£ P*83) trespass on the case, and petitions for and actions of review ;
lMini-in.tor. an(j these actions may be commenced by or against an executor or
ministrator.
K. S, c. 87, $ 8.
administrator, or when the deceased was a party to them, may be
in trespass ac- prosecuted or defended by them, (a)
"die oniv^reSec. 9. When an action of trespass, or trespass on the case, is
coverabie and commenced or prosecuted against an executor or administrator, the
goods returned
10
7
in
plaintiff
can recover only
notreplevin,
assets.
r
J the value of the 0goods taken, or damage
7, ,
E. S. c. 87, $9. (q) 8 Me. 174; 17 Me. 409; 80 Me. 194; 45 Me. 209; 46 Mc. 158; 50 Me. 8T.

■

TITLE IS.]

EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

691

actually sustained; and when judgment is rendered against an execu- Chap. 87.
tor or administrator in an action of replevin for a return of goods,
those returned shall not be considered assets, and such return shall When one of
,
• ..
several parties
discharge him.
dies, bis execuSec. 10. When either of several plaintiffs or defendants in an Orator may"'
action that survives, dies, the death may be suggested on the record, Sefend" jointly
and the executor or administrator of the deceased may appear, or be J^*"^'i.™1rs'
cited to appear, as provided in section seven ; and the action may be mem rendered,
further prosecuted or defended by the survivors, and such executor survivors on™
or administrator jointly, or by either of them ; and judgment may be {hescnw be
entered against the survivors, and also against the goods and estate ^'g ec9Sg*- 10
of the deceased in the hands of such executor or administrator, and j870 c. 128.
a joint execution issued ; and the survivors, if any, on both sides of 87 Me. 550.
the action, may testify as witnesses.
^
Sec. 11. No action, commenced since the third day of February, executor or adeighteen hundred and sixty-nine, against an executor or administrator noTmiuntainaresiding at the time in this state, on a claim against the estate, shall mumicd 8odc"
be maintained, unless commenced within two years after notice is
given by him of his appointment, nor unless such claim is first pre.
...
. . ■
, ,
. .
,.
,
sented to him m writing and demanded at least thirty days before the
...
,
action is commenced.
Sec. 12. No executor or administrator can be compelled to defend
.......
.
.
a suit commenced against him within one year after his appointment,
except on a demand not affected by an insolvency of the estate, or on
a demand by an appeal fr*om a decision of commissioners of insolvency ;

fhereto^and
brought within two years.
ihg9 c 9. § 76.
1870c. 118, §28.
1870 c. in-'.
No* compelled
t0 defend suits
within a year
mem^oxcepr°ss'c. 87, $ 11.

but all such suits shall be continued at the expense of the plaintiff till
said year expires ; and a tender of a debt within the year shall bar
any such actions.
Sec. 13. And none after four years from the time of giving notice
of his appointment, except as follows. When assets come to his hands
after that time, he shall be accountable therefor in the probate court,
and an action may be commenced within four years after the receipt
thereof, and within one year after the creditor has notice- of such
receipt, (a)
Sec. 14. And when an action, on a covenant or contract, does
not accrue within said four years, the claimant may file such demand
in the probate office within that time, and the judge of probate shall

^MVaos
jj* Me. 25^

direct that sufficient assets, if such there be, shall be retained by the
executor or administrator, unless the heirs or devisees of the estate
give bond, with one or more sureties, approved by the judge of probate,
to the executor or administrator to respond tbe same.
Sec. 15. When a bond is so given, no assets shall be retained;
but the estate shall be liable in the hands of heirs or devisees, or those
claiming under them, to answer such demand; and an action may
(a) 8Me,17; 5Me,108; 11 Me, 150; 40Me,197; 47 Me. 72.

f9- jj£ ^ 18,

No suit after
from* imc of
oTa'ppo'in"™
m™st; ExccPR- s. c. 87, § 12.
When action
within four™
cc£migs!r°"

Estate remains
claims'-* how
trined™*"1"
R.S.c.87,§14

692

ACTIONS BY OR AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS. [TITLE IX.

Chap. 87. be brought on such bond, or when no bond is given, against the execu
tor or administrator, and if any thing is found due, the claimant shall
have judgment therefor and for his costs,
if such daim
Sec. 16. When such claim has not been filed in the probate office
only remedy within said four years, the claimant may have remedy against the heirs
or devhsees™ or devisees of the estate within one year after it becomes due, and not
6 Me? 127'.* 15 against the executor or administrator.
Time within
Sec. 17. Upon the appointment of an administrator de bonis non,
can be brought the time within which actions may be brought is extended as follows ;
j^ratorede"11" to such a portion of the four years as remained unexpired before a
r! sTc?8T 16. vacancy, shall be added so much time after the new appointment aa
u^Me
W^ make five years ; and every new administrator shall in all cases be
liable to actions of creditors for two years after notice given of his
appointment, although the whole time may be extended beyond five
years.
Limitation of
Sec. 18. When an executor or administrator does not give legal
actions against
tor deTjonu™" n0^ce °^ n's appointment, actions may be commenced against a new
non, when no administrator within four years after notice of his appointment ; and if
administrator, he fails to give legal notice of it, he can have no benefit of the limi' ' " ' ' tations contained in this chapter.
Actions for
Sec. 19. An action, for the recovery of a legacy, shall not be
affected; liabii- affected by the provisions of this chapter. When an executor or
fuiudniinistra- administrator is guilty of unfaithful administration, he shall be liable
k^TstTis on ^S aamims''ration Don(l f°r all damages occasioned thereby.
EXECUTIONS TO ISSUE AFTER CREDITOR'S DECEASE,
How an excSec. 20. When a judgment creditor dies before the first execucution may is- ...
, „
...
.
sue after cred- tion issues, or before an execution issued in his lifetime is fully satis1869* c.Cu?Ti. ne<^> 8UCa execution may be issued or renewed by order of any justice
of the court rendering such judgment, in term time or vacation, or by
like order of a municipal or police judge, or trial justice rendering
such judgment, upon the application, in writing, of the executor, or
general or special administrator of the deceased creditor; and any
execution so issued or renewed may be subsequently renewed ; but
no execution shall issue nor be renewed, after the term time within
which it might have been done if the party had not deceased.
What the exe- Sec. 21. In any execution so issued, originally or by renewal,
forth, and to besides the ordinary recitals it shall be set forth in substance, that
propertyievied 8mce
rendition of judgment the creditor, naming him, has
held mU b°
deceased, and that the person whose name is inserted in his place, is
1869, c, 24, $ 2. the executor or administrator of his estate ; and the command to the
officer shall be the same as if the judgment had been recovered by
the executor or administrator, who shall hold any real estate levied
on, to the same uses, as if he had recovered judgment in his repre
sentative capacity.

TITLE IX.]

PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE.

693
Chap. 88.

CHAPTER 88.
PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE.
Sec. 1.
2.
S.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
28.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.

Partition may be made by writ at common law.
Partition may be made by petition ; what must bo stated in it.
Petition may be filed in vacation, if all co-tenants are named, and how served.
Petition may be presented in any county, if all are not named, and notice
ordered.
When persons not fully notified may appear ; pleadings how made.
Petitioner may reply by counter brief statement showing insufficiency of de
fence.
Guardians for infants and insane persons, and agents for persons out of the
state, to be appointed.
Division of time, for occupation of saw mills, may be made.
Respondent claiming whole of specific part, may have a separate trial, and one
having no interest, pays cost.
Petitioner owning a less share than claimed, pays costs; proceedings. Owners
may join or sever.
Petitioner dying or conveying, his heirs, devisees or grantees may be admitted
to proceed.
Respondent dying, his heirs or devisees may be cited to appear.
Commissioners to be appointed to set off shares together or separately.
Commissioners to be sworn and certificate of oath made on warrant.
Commissioners to give notice of time and place for partition; majority may
decide, but alj must be present.
Commissioners to assign shares so as to include exclusive possessions. Value
of improvements to be considered.
Commissioners may assign to one a parcel greater than his share, on his pay
ment of award to the others; report not to be accepted until award is paid.
Court to determine share of expenses to be paid by each, and may issue exe
cution therefor.
When a share too large, or of too much value, is set off. a new division may
be had on application to court within three years,
How a new division shall be made.
Report of commissioners confirmed, recommitted, or set aside. When con
firmed, to be recorded.
Judgment conclusive of all rights, except as after provided.
When an unequal share is left for one out of the state, new partition may be
made in three years.
Person not a party, claiming in severalty, not affected by judgment.
Person claiming a share assigned or left, not precluded from suit for its pos
session.
Person owning, to whom no share assigned or left, not precluded.
Person evicted of his share, to have a new partition.
Mortgages, attachments and liens, remain in force on a Bhare set out.
Lots reserved for public uses, to be first set off.

PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE.

694

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 88.
Partition by
mon law.
K. s. c. 88, § l.
Pctitionn by
^ta'ted '""'t' be
R. s. c. 88,'$ 2.
i2SMe.i42js20.

Sec. 1. Persons seized or having a right of entry into real estate
in fee simple or for life, as tenants in common, joint tenants, or
co-partners, may be compelled to divide the same by writ of partition
at common ]aw
^EC" ^' Persons 80 entitled, and those in possession or having a
°^ en*ry *°r a *erm °^ years) 38 tenants in common, may present a petition addressed to the supreme judicial court held in the
county where such estate is, clearly describing it, and stating whether

I? Mc! 428!
5* Me' 415'

it is a fee simple, for life, or for years, and the proportion claimed by
them, the other tenants in common, and their places of residence, if
known, and whether any or all of them are unknown,
Sec. 3. The petition may be filed in the clerk's office in vacation,
1
....
if all the co-tenants are named in it. A copy thereof, attested by
the clerk, left with each or at his last and usual place of abode,
twenty days before the session of the court to which it is addressed,
sna]] De sufficient service.
•
Sec. 4. When the co-tenants are not all named in the petition, it
may be presented to the court in that, or in any other county, returnaD^e m the county where the estate is, and such notice shall be given
*° *ne °ther co-tenants, as the court orders ; and in case of non-compliance therewith, or other imperfection of notice, the court may
order further notice to be given.
Sec. 5. A person interested and not named in the petition, or out
*
r
'
of the state, and not so notified as to enable him to appear earlier,
may.^ jn ^ne discretion of the court be permitted to appear and defend

if ail co-tenants named,
petition may
clerk's office
andhowservR. s. c. 88, §8.
when not air
be presented^
andnoSce or-'
rTs'c 88 H
5 Mc. 458..
When persons
not notified
may appear,
Pleadings how

i860, c. 180.* 5' a* any time before final judgment, on such terms as may be imposed.
85 Me 456
^B(^ any Person> defendant in an action at law, or respondent in a
46 Me 88'
petition for partition, may jointly with others, or separately, by brief
statement, without a plea of the general issue, allege any matter
tending to show that partition ought not to be made as prayed for.
Petitioner may
Sec. 6. The plaintiff or petitioner may reply by counter brief
statement, alleging that the defendant or respondent has no interest in
briefstate^sufficiency"6 tbc premises, or other matter to show the insufficiency of the defence.
Rf sCcU188 ' § e
^EC" ^' ^nen an infant or insane person, living in the state, has
22 Me. 321.
no guardian, and appears to be interested, the court shall appoint a
tafant'or in-r guardian ad litem for liim, and an agent for persons interested who
agent foAhose
swte'tobe
appointed.
Division of '
p™ion0ofCsaw
Sademaybe
R. S. c. 88, § 8.

taa keen out of the state one year before the petition was presented,
m^ ^° no* re'um Def°re judgment for the partition is to be made,
Sec. 8. Tenants in common of a saw mill, may have a division of
the time, during which each may occupy according to his interest, as
partition is made of an estate ; and the court may make all necessary
decrees in relation thereto.
(a) 12 Me. 142, 820, 898; 16 Mc. 888; 17 Me. 428; 21 Me. 47; 81 Me. 486 ; 85 Mc. 107;
Me. 24.
ye
i>-3

TITLE IX.]

PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE.

695

Sec. 9. When it appears from the pleadings that one or more Chap. 88.
respondents claim to be seized of the whole of a specific parcel of the Respondent
premises of which partition is prajed, there may first be a separate whole of a
trial of that question only, at the discretion of the presiding judge, may'havc^se'pWhen it appears on trial that any respondent has no interest in the and on" imvestate, he shall no further be heard, and the petitioner shall recover ins "° imer'
'
r
est pays cost.
of him the costs of the trial.
R-gS. c. 88, § 9.
Sec. 10. When a petitioner is found to own a less share than is when pcticlaimed in his petition, he shall have partition of such share, but the
suaretimn
respondent shall recover costs. When found entitled to have parti- claimed, he
r
1
pays costs ;
tion of the. share claimed, he shall recover costs of the respondent, and when he
that ^partition be made shall R.S.C.8M10.
recovers costs.
.In such
. cases,
. ' or on default,' a Jjudgment
6
be entered.
5 Me. 648.
Sec. 11. The owners may job or sever in their petitions. When *g
they join, and one dies or conveys his share, or when a several peti- Owners may
■
ti-i
i
i-i. ii
<•
t
join or sever.
tioner dies or conveys his snare, the petition by leave of court, may when pctibe amended by erasing his name and inserting the names of his heirs, convevs heirs
devisees, or grantees, and they may proceed with the process for their granted may
respective shares.
r^sTss $ n
Sec. 12. The petition is not abated by the death of a party Death of a rerespondent. His heirs or devisees, or if the estate is for a term of hdrs^rdeyears, his executor or administrator may be cited to appear, and upon ritt?<nnnay be
service on them, they shall become parties to the proceedings ; and E- s- c- 88> * 12the court may order such judgment, and with such costs, as the law
and facts require.
^
Sec. 13. After judgment that partition be made, the court shall
„
7
,
. .
.
appoint three or five disinterested persons as commissioners, to make
partition and set off to each his share, which shall be expressed in the
warrant. Their shares may be set off together, or in one tract, or
»
.
.
'
the share of each may be assigned to him, at his election.
Sec. 14. Before proceeding to discharge their duty, the commissioners shall be sworn to the faithful and impartial performance of it ;
and the justice of the peace, before whom they are sworn, shall make
his certificate thereof on the back of their warrant.
Sec. 15. They shall give reasonable notice, of the time and place
for making partition, to all concerned who are known and within the
0x
state. They must all be present at the performance of their duties,
but the report of a majority is valid.
Sec. 16. When one of the tenants in common, by mutual consent,
has had the exclusive possession of a part of the estate, and made
improvements thereon, his share shall be assigned from or including
r
'
00
such part ; and the value of the improvements made by a tenant in
.
011
■
common shall be considered, and the assignment 01 shares be made in
e -i. 1.1.
conformity therewith.

Commissioners to be appointed and
how to set off
shares,
15 lie.' 865? 13'
5? ?c' 2o,S'
To be sworn ;
certificate of
oath on warg»nt.^ gg
Xotice of time
partition present, but a
majority may
r^'^ $15
2° }\c82 Me. 136.
88 Me. 587.
tenant "tobif *
or'to^nchuie"1
p0s^sion;V°
«nd vaiuc of
ni9 improvements to be
considered,
R. s. c. 88, $ 16.
88 Me. 587.
50 Me. 258.

696

PARTITION OF HEAL ESTATE.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 88.
Sec. 17. When any parcel of the estate to be divided ia of
Parcel of
greater value than either party's share, and cannot be divided withUmna'share6 out great inconvenience, it may be assigned to one party by his payS"to onewfio" m& tne 8um °f money awarded to the parties, who have less than
^ent0°ther3; *heir share; hut the report shall not be accepted, until the sums so
r.s.c.88,§it. awarded are paid or secured to the satisfaction of the parties entitled
15 Me. 865.
*
*
so Me, 21T.
thereto.
Court deterSec. 18. An account of the charges, attending the partition,
penscs to be shall, on request of a petitioner, be presented to the court, which shall
cxecmio^may determine, after giving notice to all concerned, the proportion to be
therefor*1
Pa*u hy each '
execution therefor may be issued against any one
R. S.c.88,$l8. neglecting to pay.
When a larger Sec. 19. If a share larger than his real interest, or more than
praiteftrvaI]ue°f equal in value to his proportion, is set off to a part owner, an aggrieved
hsct off to on™
party out the
state may hare
new division in
r.s.c.8M19.
How the new
partition shall
be made.
R. 8. c, 88, § .0.

Part owner, wno at the time of partition was out of the state, and not
notified in season to prevent it, his heirs, or assigns, may, within three
r
'
'
. .
.
years thereafter, apply to the court that made the partition, and it
shall cause a new partition to be made.
Sec. 20 In such new partition, so much and no more shall be
.
...
...
.
..
» ,,
taken irom a share, as it is considered more than its proportion of the
wno]e^ estimated as in the state when divided ; and if any improvements

have been made on the part taken off, reasonable satisfaction therefor,
to be estimated by the commissioners, shall be made to him, who made
them, by him to whose share they are added ; and the court may issue
execution therefor, and for costs of the new partition.
Reportj^may
Sec. 21. Commissioners in all cases shall make and sign a writlecommitted,' ten return of their proceedings, and make return thereof with their
When con-' warrant to the court from which it issued. Their report may be conreconicci.0 be firmed, recommitted, or set aside and new proceedings be had as before.
20ijio 29Y 21 ' When confirmed, judgment shall be entered accordingly, and recorded
so
by
of deeds of the district where the
89 Me.
Me. 217.
216.
J the . clerk,' and by
J the register
0
estate is.
Judgment con- Sec. 22. Such judgment shall be conclusive on all rights of proprights, except crty and possession of all parties and privies to the judgment, including
RCS c 88 §22 all persons, who might have appeared and answered, except as hereinl^' 29'128'
When an unm" for one out
pariSfo^majT
in three6 years
R,S.c.88,§28.

after provided.
Sec. 23. When a person, to whom a share was left, was out of
the state when notice was served on him, and did not return in season
*° become a party to the proceedings, he may, within three years after
^na^ judgment, apply to the same court for a new partition ; and if it
appears to the court that the share left for him was less than he was
entitled to, or that it was not equal in value to his proportion of the
premises, it may order a new partition as provided in section twenty.
Person not a
Sec. 24. When a person, not a party to the proceedings, claims to
m severalty"5 hold the premises described, or any part thereof in severalty, he shall

TITLE IX.]

PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE.

697

not be precluded by the judgment for partition ; but may bring his Chap. 88.
action therefor, as if no such judgment had been rendered.
not affected
Sec. 25. When a person, not a party to the proceedings, claims R,s.c,88,$24.
a share assigned to or left for a part owner, he shall be concluded so
far as it respects the assignment of the shares ; but shall not be pre- claiming a
1
.
... .
.
. i .
v
share assigned
vented from maintaining an action, withm the time in which it might or left, not prehave been brought if no judgment for partition had been rendered, suit for its
for the share claimed, against the tenant in possession, as if the demand- b°s?c?8M 25.
ant had claimed the piece demanded, instead of an undivided part of
the whole.
Sec. 26. When a person, not a party to the proceedings, claims A part owner
to have been a part owner of the estate, to whom no share was assigned share was asor left, ho shall be concluded so far as it respects the partition, but noTpreciuded
not from maintaining an action, against each person holding a share, j^nst'eVch
for his proportion of each share as owned before partition was made. ^Ms part
Sec. 27. When a person, to whom a share has been assigned or R.s.c.88,§26.
left, has been evicted by an elder and better title than that of the eVoTuu share
parties to the judgment, he shall be entitled to a new partition of the partition "eW
residue, as if no partition had been made.
s- c- 88> § 27Sec. 28. A person having a mortgage, attachment, or other lien atSm™for
on the share in common of a part owner, shall be concluded by the i"mon"e
judgment, so far as it respects the partition, but his mortgage or lien
shall remain in___force on the part, assigned or left to such part
owner.
r
Sec. 29. When portions or lots are reserved for public uses in a
tract of land to be divided, they shall first be set out, of an average
quality and situation, and a return made thereof to the land office,
with a description of its quality and location ; and the commissioners'
return of partition, accepted and recorded as before provided, shall be
a valid location of such reserved lands.

g^out'1681"116
?■
gpgs-c_c- 88,'^ I?8,
22.
Lots reserved
(o be'flrst sef3
°ffg c 88 ^ 29
" Me. 428.

PETITIONS AND ACTIONS OF REVIEW.

C98

[TITLE IS.

Chap. 89.
CHAPTER 89.

Sec. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.

Sec. 6.
Sec. 7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

/

18.
14.
15.

PETITIONS AND ACTIONS OF REVIEW.
Petitions for Review. •
Reviews granted on petitions within three years after judgment, also in special
cases.
Attorney may sign the petition. Property may be attached thereon ; notice
how ordered and when returnable.
How evidence discovered pending the petition may be used at the hearing.
Newly discovered evidence and the witnesses to prove it must be stated under
oath in the petition. New cumulative evidence admissible.
A justice of the court may grant a stay of execution or a supersedeas on
filing a bond.
Second Review.
When and how a second review may be granted.
Actions op Review.
Writs of review issued and entered at the first term in the county where judg
ment rendered. Copies to be produced.
What writ is to recite and how to be served.
When original plaintiff is plaintiff in review, property may be attached.
When pleadings have been made, cause tried on that issue; if not, on new
pleadings,
When plaintiff recovers greater sum, how judgment rendered.
When a less sum, howjudgment rendered. When wholly reversed, how ren
dered; costs.
In actions of replevin and set-off, plaintiff regarded as defendant.
If judgment is recovered on petition filed in one year, levy void,
Party prevailing has costs; court may impose terms respecting them.

Revicw.within
Sec. 1. The supreme judicial court held by one justice, may
tcr%dSncnt! grant one review in civil actions, including petitions for partition, and
cases" special wr certiorari, and proceedings for the location of lands reserved for
1862- c 98' * *' Pu^c U3esJ when judgment has been rendered in any judicial tribunal,
24 m'c.168.
if petition therefor is presented -within three years after the rendition
39 Me! 1G9!
of judgment, and in the special cases following: (a)
Review grantFirst.—When a petition for review of an action defaulted without
years after de- appearance, is presented within three years after an officer having the
ccron execu- execution issued on the judgment therein demands its payment of the
default wUh-f defendant °r his legal representative.
out appearSecond.—When the petitioner shows that a witness testified falsely
ance.
*
1858, c. 40, § i. to material facts against him in the trial of the action, whereby he
42 Me.' 569!
was surprised, and was then unable to prove the falsity, but has since
Review if the discovered evidence, which with that before known, is sufficient proof
party is sur- , , ^ ijf
>
'
r
prised bv per- ' 0 m*<
jured testimo- (a) 1 Mc. 822; 8 Me. 92; 4 Me. 58, 584 ; 6 Me. 412, 478; 8 Me. 211; 19 Me. 107, 250;
24 Me. 166; 37 Me. 586; 83 Me. 283, 585.
h

TITLB IX.]

PETITIONS AND ACTIONS OF REVIEW.

699

in the opinion of the court, that the testimony was false ; or if the Chap. 89.
witness has been convicted of perjury therefor.
ward" discovThird.—On the petition of a party in interest who was not a ers proof of
perjury.
party to the record, setting forth the fact of such interest, and upon ism, c. 94,$ l,
filing a bond with sufficient surety or sureties, approved by the pre- 8 Me! 92T
siding judge, to secure the party of record against any judgment ^J^6^.'
recovered by the defendant in review.
esVan^notof'
Fourth.—When a judgment has been rendered on the report of record, on mreferees, in an action referred by rule of court, and other matters in co"t!idispute between the parties were included in the rule of reference. J859. c. 94, § 8.
r
r
Review in case
The depositions used before the referees may be used on the hearing action and au
„
,
..
,.„
.
.
i_
jj.j.L other matters
of such petition, and if review is granted, they may be used at the are referred
trial; and all matters embraced in the rule of reference, although onl-eport"611'
not wholly contained in the writ shall be included and tried in review, ^"be usedCC
Fifth.—When a material amendment of the declaration is made j^i'^"]^
after the entry of the action, without actual notice thereof to the Reviewwhen
defendant, and judgment is rendered on default, a review may be ^n^'a^j.
granted
before execution of final rprocess in the action,' or within tice
«i without
no°
to defendthree years thereafter.
ant.
Sixth.—In cases mentioned in section forty-nine of chapter Ecvi'ew in '
seventy-six.
.
in c- 76>
Seventh.—A review may be granted in any case where it appears 1868, c. soo,
that justice has not been done, through fraud, accident, mistake or ReTicw within
misfortune; and that a further hearing would be just and equitable, if wuc^[ijtlce
. a petition therefor is presented to the court within six years after w&s{™*d°™>
judgment.
cident or misJEighth.—Any defendant in the original judgment may petition in 1868,' c. 164.
the name of all, by furnishing to each of his co-defendants requiring gev;ew ^„ onc
it, such security against all liability therefrom as the court deems defendant in
,
i
•
•
r
name of all,
reasonable ; and the court, on motion of any original co-defendant on Riving seshall require such security in any stage of the proceedings.
others. ° '°
Sec. 2. A petition for review may be signed by the petitioner's ^mcVso.8'*5'
attorney when the facts therein stated are known to him, and the Wtom attor...
.
.
nev mav sign
petitioner is out of the state at the time of filing it ; property may petition". Propbe attached thereon as on a writ , and notice thereon may be ordered attached there,
in any county, returnable in the county where the judgment was how^rdered
rendered, and it must be given accordingly.
turnabie? r°'
Sec. 3. When a petitioner discovers new and important testimony J^s. c.89, 1 2.
uring the pendency of his petition, he may avail himself of it at the 1869| c.^66'.
hearing by serving notice thereof on the adverse party fourteen days 86 Me. 9. '
at least before court, stating the names of the witnesses, and in sub- discovered1100
stance what he expects to prove by them.
potion nuiy
Sec. 4. When the discovery of new evidence is alleged in the jjp!'J.-n<Kat the
petition, the names of the witnesses to prove it, and what each is isei c. 42,
expected to testify, must be stated under oath. Newly discovered ^'evidence"

700
Chap. 89.
and the witFt^mu^t^cT"
m^top"ti°ion,
«\Tevm"nce
admissible,^ ^
1858, c. id, $ 2,
Uiecourt may
grant stay of
execution or
supersedeas
filing a bond,on
47 Me." 485.

PETITIONS AND ACTIONS OF REVIEW

[TITLE IX.

cumulative evidence is admissible, and shall have the same effect as
other newly discovered evidence, (a)
Sec. 5. On presentation of a petition for review, any justice of
court may in term time, or in vacation, stay execution on the judgmen* complained of, or grant a supersedeas, upon a bond filed with
sureties approved by him, or by such person as he appoints, in double
the amount of the damages and costs, conditioned to pay said amount
^ *he petition is denied, or the amount of the final judgment on
review, if it is granted, with interest thereon at the rate of twelve
>
°
'
per
iudgment.
r cent, from the date of the bond to the time of final jo
SECOND REVIEW.

sreomUevievT
Sec. 6. A second review may be granted on a petition filed within
may be grant- ^Tee years after judgment on the first, when the court thinks justice
i86i'cC-56°' * 8 manuCestly requires it, and on such terms as it imposes ; but no second
review shall be granted except by the full court, in a case in which
more than one verdict has been rendered against the petitioner.
ACTIONS OF REVIEW.
Sec. 7. When a review is a matter of right as provided by sec
tion four of chapter eighty-two, or when granted on petition, a writ of
review shall be issued, and the trial take place in the supreme judicial
court in the county in which the judgment was rendered. It shall be
entered at the next term after the review is granted, unless leave is
_
°
....
granted to enter it at the second term ; and the plaintiff in review
shall produce and file an attested copy of the writ, judgment, proceed
ings, and depositions, or their originals, in the former suit.
What writ is
Sec. 8. In the writ of review, it shall be sufficient to describe the
howU) be"
former action and judgment so as to identify it. The writ shall conj£rgedc- 89j $ 6_ tain a summons to appear and answer to the plaintiff in review, and it
Writ of "view
tored at first
co™tyVhere
dereTC"copies
to be produced,
R. S. c, 89, 1) o.
i Mc. 899.

may bo served as other writs, and when the party is not an inhabitant
of or found within the state, it may be served on his attorney in the
original suit.
Waimiffrijpnal Sec 9. When the original plaintiff is plaintiff in review, the proppiaintiff in re- erty of the defendant may be attached, as it might have been in the
may 'bcIa£Crty original suit, and the form of the writ be varied accordingly ; but no
Rfsfc!89, $ 7. attachment made, or bail taken in the original action, shall be holden
to satisfy the judgment on review.
Sec. 10. The proper pleadings shall be made on review, when no
ingsC ha<iC been lsane na<^ been joined before judgment in the original action ; when
tried*™""mt 13Sne nas Deen 80 jome(l> the cause shall be tried thereon ; but amendissuc if not on ments, brief statements, and other issues, may be made by leave of
new pleading!),
'
'
,.
B. S. c 89,$ 8. court, and the cause may be tried and disposed of as if it were an
original suit.
(a) 44 Me. 65; 50 Me. 118; 58 Me. 855; 56 Me, 546.

TITLE IX.]

PETITIONS AND ACTIONS OF REVIEW.

701

Sec. 11. Judgment in the suit reviewed, shall be given without
regard to the former judgment, except as follows. When the original plaintiff recovers a greater sum than he did by the first judgment as debt or damage, he shall have judgment therefor, or for so
much thereof as remains unsatisfied, and for costs on review.
Sec. 1 2. When the sum first recovered is reduced, the original
'
°
defendant shall have judgment for the difference, with costs, on the
• <• t o
.
i
i
.
, ,
review ; and if the former judgment has not been satisfied, one judgment may be set off against the other, and execution be issued for
the balance. When the original judgment is wholly reversed judg-

Chap. 89.
^ik;n plaintiff
^c"[J1tm1'1 j^dg'
rendered,
88 tie.'ui? 9
Yh?n sum
first recovered
is reduced,
howj ndgment
is rendered,
reversed! how'
^)°^red'

ment shall be entered in review for the amount of the former judgment, and costs, with interest thereon, and for such further sum as
...
.
the prevailing party would have been entitled to recover as costs in
the original action, if, in the opinion of the court, justice requires it.
In such case, if the original judgment remains unpaid, it shall be

^ |- ^ 8„9^ 10,
M.?»81 He 255.
2 Me. 397,
47 Me," 485,525.
48 Me' 287"

cancelled by a set-off entered of record, in the judgment on review,
and execution shall issue for the balance only, otherwise for the
amount of the latter judgment.
Sec. 13. When actions of replevin, and actions in which a claim
in set-off was filed, are reviewed, the defendant shall be regarded as
in the position of a plaintiff, so far as it respects the damages
awarded to him.

in actions of
Mt-oiKpMna^defSXnt
E.S.c.SMU.

Sec. 14. If, on a petition for review, commenced within one year
after an execution issued on the original judgment is levied on real
estate, such judgment is finally reversed, the levy is void.
Sec. 15. In all actions of review the party prevailing recovers
costs, and shall also recover the costs to which he would have been
entitled if he had prevailed in the original action, unless the court
otherwise order ; but the court granting a review, may impose terms
respecting costs.

if judgment
petitioTmed
vearTevyvoid.
j80Mec,-|j58'^ 4l
Party prevail
ing lias costs;
court may im
pose terms
respecting
them,
R.S.C.8M12.
1864, c. 268,$ 2,
1 Me. 155,
2 Me, 897.
40 Me. 881.

702

MORTGAGES OP REAL ESTATE.

[TITLE IX'

Chap. 90CHAPTER 90.
MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.
Sec. 1. How mortgages of real estate are made.
2. Mortgagee may enter before breach, unless otherwise agreed.
8. Modes of obtaining possession for foreclosure.
i. Foreclosed in three years.
5. Mode of foreclosing without taking possession.
6. Mortgager may redeem within three years.
7. Form of declaring in a suit to obtain possession on mortgage. Conditional
judgment, and judgment as at common law, in certain cases.
8. Form of conditional judgment ; ahd when to be paid; form ofjudgment when
condition is for some act other than payment of money.
9. Judgment for defendant, if nothing be due.
10. Action for foreclosure by executor or administrator.
11. Mortgages to be assets in the hands of administrators, who arc to be seized to
the use of heirs, and when paid they may give discharges.
12. Against whom action on a mortgage shall be brought.
IS. Proceedings in equity to redeem a mortgage.
14. Proceedings when the amount due on a mortgage has been paid or tendered
and when not.
15. Courts to order notice, if mortgagee is out of the state. Remedy of innocent
assignee, in case of fraudulent mortgage.
16. Provisions for redemption when the mortgagee is out of the state.
17. Limitation of such bill in equity.
18. Court may allow other persons joined as defendants, and notified.
19. Award of execution on decree of court.
20. Deduction of rents and profits from the sum brought into court for redemp
tion.
21. State treasurer may discharge or foreclose mortgages made or assigned to the
state.
22. Bill in equity for redemption may be filed against the state.
23. Where to be filed, and proceedings thereon.
24. On decease of a person entitled to redeem, his administrator or heir may re
deem.
25. Tender may be made to guardian of mortgagee, if under guardianship.
26. How mortgages may be discharged.
27. Redemption of mortgaged estate from purchaser of the equity of redemption.
28. Writ of entry against a mortgagee in possession after mortgage paid, and
before foreclosure perfected.
.
j
,

H mart^E0' ^' M°rtgage9 of real estate, mentioned in this chapter,
gages of real include those made in the usual form, in which the condition is set
made.
appearing
R. S. c. 90,41, forth in the deed, and those made by a conveyance
J
ri
o on its

TITLE IX.]

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

703

face to be absolute, with a separate instrument of defeasance* Chap. 90.
executed at the same time or as part of the same transaction, (a) * l"e
' »
Sec. 2. Any mortgagee, or person claiming under him, may ^°?^frebe.
enter on the premises, or recover possession thereof before a breach fore breach,
of the condition of the mortgage, when there is no agreement to the wise agreed,
contrary; but in such case, if the debt is afterwards paid or the ^J^'^J^-ct^^*
mortgage redeemed, the amount of the clear rents and profits, from
'fn-u^ Lc >^<_
the time of the entry, shall be accounted for, and deducted from the ^
J6 v 7
amount due on the mortgage. (J)
Sec. 3. After breach of the condition, if the mortgagee, or any Modes of obone claiming under him, desires to obtain possession of the premises sessi'on for3"
for the purpose of foreclosure, he may proceed in either of the fol- kT&'c^m 8.
lowing ways, viz : (c)
First.—He may commence an action at law and obtain possession
under a writ of possession issued on the judgment in the action, as
provided in the eighth section, duly executed by an oificer. An
abstract of such writ, stating the time of obtaining possession, certi
fied by the clerk, shall be recorded in the registry of deeds of the
district in which the estate is, within thirty days after possession
obtained. («*)
J6f,
Second.—He may enter possession, and hold the same by consent »
in writing of the mortgager, or the person holding under him. (e)
Third.—He may enter peaceably and openly, if not opposed, in R. s. c. 125, § 3.
the presence of two witnesses and take possession^ the premises '+ioi C$&Ui, 4

'/

and a certificate of the fact and time of such entry shall be made,<fc*^Zy.^-ev/ £mc-^/-^~
signed, and sworn to by such witnesses before a justice of the peace ;
<Vt*i, fJtf
and such written consent and certificate shall be recorded in each
registry of deeds in which the mortgage is or by law ought to be \~V
3
recorded, within thirty days next after the entry is made. (/)
Sec. 4. Possession obtained in either of these three modes, and Foreclosure in
continued for the three following years, shall forever foreclose the r. s. c.
right of redemption. (^)
ff ^2A^(X iCf
(a) What constitutes a mortgage. 2 Me. 182; 5 Me. 87; 8 Me. 246; 10 Me. 197; 12
Me. 846; 18 Me. 104; 21 Me. 195; 23 Me. 234; 24 Me. 185; 27 Me. 581; 32 Me. 143; 36
Me. 115; 88 Me. 447; 40 Mc. 881 ; 43 Me. 371, 565; 44 Me. 286; 49 Me. 862, 479 ; 47 Me.
9, 282; 50 Me. 96, 171, 248; 53 Me. 9, 463; 52 Me. 82; 55 Me. 385, 395.
(6) Rights of parties; 2 Me. 132, 173, 82?,, 887; 5 Me. 89; 14 Mc. 182; 15 Me. 806; 18
Me. 104; 19 Me. 58, 99, 480; 21 Me. 240, 465, 499; 20 Me. Ill; 24 Me. 408; 25 Me. 209,
243,341; 27 Me. 531; 29 Me. 115, 160; 80 Me 867; 81 Me. 247 ; 33 Me. 38 ; 84 Me. 89, 187;
85 Me. 39, 218, 547; 36 Me. 115, 278, 436 ; 40 Me. 247; 41 Me. 109, 248; 42 Me. 182; 44
Me. 118; 45 Me. 90, 886, 412; 47 Mfi. 507; 49 Me. 427; 50 Me. 161, 447, 455; 51 Me. 40;
52 Me. 102, 115, 128, 185, 405 ; 55 Me. 494, 520.
Transfers of mortgages; 2 Mo. 822; 5 Me. 272; 8 Me. 278 ; 25 Me. 845; 24 Mc. 185; 27
Me. 237; 81 Mc. 806; 82 Me. 197; 41 Me. 221; 44 Me. 286; 46 Me. 486, 445; 50 Me.171;
51 Me. 121 ; 52 Me. 185.
(c) 18 Me. 190; 21 Me. 126; 28 Me. 25; 24 Me. 155; 35 Me. 556; 40 Me. 515; 42 Me.
82; 48 Me. 61; 49 Me. 260, 875; 51 Me. 880.
(d) 27 Me. 287; 88 Me. 197; 84 Me. 166; 35 Me. 547; 45 Mc. 447 ; 51 Mc. 898; 52 Me.
466; 55 Mc. 520 ; 56 Me. 9, 142.
^ ^ d J(e) 28 Mc. 836; 29 Me. 56; 33 Me 868; 88 Me. 548; 41 Me. 69.
(/) 4 Me. 495; 87 Mc. 386; 47 Me. 298; 50 Me. 478; 52 Me. 182. / 2. 5 - C
(g) 8 Me. 260; 7 Me. 81; 28 Me. 25; 24 Me, 155; 87 Me. 886; 42 Me. 182.

704

'*

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

[TITLE IS.

/ Chap. 90.
Sec. 5. If after breach of the condition, the mortgagee, or any
Mode of fore- person claiming under him, is not desirous of taking and holding
omtaEiagpos- possession of the premises, he may proceed for the purpose of foreR.SS.°c.'90,§ 5. closure in either of the following modes:
25 Me. 888.
First.—He may give public notice in a newspaper printed in the
45 Me. 90/447'. county where the premises are situated, if any, or if not, in the state
49 Me. 102! 875! paper, three weeks successively, of his claim by mortgage on such
55 Me." 548,
real estate, describing the premises intelligibly, and naming the date
of the mortgage, and that the condition in it is broken, by reason
whereof he claims a foreclosure ; and cause a copy of such printed
notice, and the name and date of the newspaper in which it was last
published, to be recorded in each registry of deeds in which the
mortgage deed is or by law ought to be recorded, within thirty days
after such last publication.
Second.—He may cause an attested copy of such notice to be
served on the mortgager or his assignee, if he lives in this state, by
the sheriff or his deputy of the same county, by delivering it to him
in hand or leaving it at his place of last and usual abode ; and cause
the original notice and the sheriff's return thereon to be recorded within
thirty days after such service as aforesaid ; and in all cases the cer
tificate of the register of deeds shall be prima facie evidence of the
fact of such entry, notice, publication of foreclosure, and of the
sheriff's return.
Mortgager
Sec. 6. The mortgager, or person claiming under him, may
"kinn^threc redeem the mortgaged premises within three years next after the
iTs' c 90 § 6 ^rs* publication, or the service of the notice mentioned in the pre20
269.
ceding section, and
of redemption shall
86 Me.
Me. oO.
iiif not so redeemed his right
or
be forever foreclosed.
cuS^ui
^EC- ^' ^e m°rtg&gee, or person claiming under him, in an
suit to obtain action for possession, may declare on his own seizin, in a writ of
possession on
1
.
,
.
.
mortgage, &c. entry, without naming the mortgage or assignment ; and if it appears
2Me'.m!'
on default, demurrer, verdict or otherwise, that the plaintiff is entiu Me! 298",
tied to the possession of the premises for breach of the condition of
i9Me'2747868 *ne mortgage, the court shall, on the motion of either party, award
28 Me. 127.
the conditional judgment hereinafter mentioned, unless it appears
53 Me. 7i.
that the tenant is not the mortgager, or a person claiming under him,
■ and in that case, judgment may be entered as at common law, unless
the plaintiff consents to the entry of a conditional judgment.
Sec. 8. The conditional judgment shall be that, if the mortdition°judg- gager, his heirs, executor or administrator, pay the sum the court
when tot*
adjudges to be due and payable, with interest, within two months
iT's c 90 $ 8 ^om ^e
°^ judgment, and shall also pay such other sums as the
1862
court adjudges to be thereafter payable, within two months from the
53 Me. 7i! ' time they fall due, no writ of possession shall issue and the mortgage
shall be void ; otherwise it shall issue in due form of law, upon the

TITLE IX.J

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

first failure to pay according to said judgment. When the condition
is for doing some other act than the payment of money, the court
may vary the conditional judgment as the circumstances require;
and the writ of possession shall issue, if the terms of the conditional
judgment are not complied with within the two months.
Sec. 9. If it appears that nothing is due on the mortgage, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant and for his costs, and he
shall hold the land discharged of the mortgage.
Sec. 10. When a mortgagee, or person claiming under him, is
dead, the same proceedings to foreclose the mortgage may be had by
his executor or administrator, declaring on the seizin of the deceased,
as he might have had if living.
Sec. 11. Lands mortgaged to secure the payment of debts, or
ii
iiii
the performance of any collateral engagement, and the debts so secured, on the decease of the mortgagee, or person claiming under him,
shall be assets in the hands of his executors or administrators ; and
they shall have the control of them as of a personal pledge ; and when
they recover seizin and possession thereof, it shall be to the use of the
widow and heirs, or devisees, or creditors of the deceased, as the case
may be ; and when redeemed, they may receive the money, and give
effectual discharges therefor, and releases of the mortgaged premises.
Sec. 12. An action on a mortgage deed may be brought against
a person in possession of the mortgaged premises ; and the mortgager, or person claiming under him, may, in all cases, be joined with
him as a cotenant, whether he then has any interest or not in the
premises ; but he shall not be liable for costs, when he has no such
interest, and makes his disclaimer thereto upon the records of the
court.
Sec. 13. Any mortgager, or other person having a right to redeem lands mortgaged, may demand of the mortgagee or person

705
Chap. 90.

notiung duo.
BM^' gV,o0' * 9'
81 Me 892>
j^edosvlre by
ex'ororadm'r.
§ io. '
Mortgages to
be assets in the
hands of adanTwhenpaid
disrfiargesf"6
Kflu"
si Me. 806.
51 Me. 181.

Against whom
mortgage shall
r6 s™"^ 12.
\^ ^

^^to'S
deem amort- •

claiming under him a true account of the sum due on the mortgage,
90,§i8.
and of the rents and profits, and money expended in repairs and im- i8^e22oi.278'
provementsf if any ; and if he unreasonably refuses or neglects to 20 Me 209!
render such account in writing, or, in any other way by his default || Me. 126. ^
prevents the plaintiff from performing or tendering performance of 24 Me. 297.
the condition of the mortgage, he may bring his bill in equity for the 28 Me! 886-.
redemption of the mortgaged premises within the time limited in sec- jjs Me. 21s!
tion six, and therein offer to pay the sum found to be equitably due, /"3 '*
or to perform any other condition, as the case may require ; and such
,. fi'^
offer shall have the same force as a tender of payment or performance 1 V '« ? ^ }—before the commencement of the suit ; and the bill shall be sustained j'Jt "
v?
\\
ill.

45

706

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 90. without such tender, and thereupon he shall be entitled to judgment
for redemption and costs, (a)
When the
Sec. 14. When the amount due on a mortgage has been paid or
a mortgage has tendered to the mortgagee, or person claiming under him, by the
tendered mortgager or the person claiming under him, within the time so limifcRhsnc90 § 14 e(^' ne mav nave a ^1 m equity for the redemption of the mortgaged
271Me8«87
premises, and compel the mortgagee, or person claiming under him,
80 Me. 854.
by a decree of the supreme judicial court, to release to him all his
°G Ale 50
40 Me! liii.
right and title therein; though such mortgagee or his assignee has
52 Me. 560.
never had -actual possession of the premises for breach of the condiJj-n 6 *f? -4^on ; or, without having made a tender before the commencement of
the suit, he may have his bill in the manner prescribed in section six
teen, and the cause shall be tried in the same manner.
Courts to order Sec. 15. When the bill to redeem is brought before an actual ennotice if mort,
ji-^i
gagce is out of try for breach of the condition, and before payment or tender, it the
edy in caseo?" mortgagee, or the person claiming under him, is out of the state and
mortgage.'
I133 n0* na^ actu&l notice, the court shall order proper notice to be
R. S.,c.90$i5. given to him, and continue the cause as long as necessary. When a
mortgage is alleged and proved to be fraudulent, in whole or in part,
an innocent assignee of the mortgager, for a valuable consideration,
may tile his bill within the time allowed to redeem, and be allowed to
redeem without a tender.
rah7mptiouf0r
^EC'
^hen the mortgagee, or person claiming under him,
when the mort- has commenced proceedings for foreclosure under the fifth section, if
fh^statc°U
he resides out of the state, or if his residence is unknown to the parR.S.c. 90, $16. ^ naYing the right to redeem, he may file his bill, as prescribed in

Limitation of
equity.
?8«,c.9is.*17'
Court may aisons^oineofas
andnotiHed
R. s. c. 90, § is.

section thirteen, and pay at the same time to the clerk of the courts
the sum due, which payment shall have the same effect as a tender
before the suit ; and the court shall order such notice to be given of
the pendency of the suit, as they judge proper.
Sec. 17. No bill in equity shall be brought for redemption of
mortgaged premises, founded on a tender of payment or performance
°f the condition made before the commencement of the suit, unless
within one year next after making such tender.
Sec. 18. In any suit brought for the redemption of mortgaged
premises, when it is necessary to the attainment of justice that any
°*ner person, besides the defendant, claiming an interest in the premises, should be made a party with the original defendant, on motion,
the court may order him to be served with an attested copy of the
bill amended in such manner as they may direct, and on his appear
ance, the cause shall proceed as though he had been originally joined.
(a) 86 Me. 115; 88 Me. 828; 89 Me. 110; 41 Me. 221; 42 Me. 246; 44 Me. 286; 46 Me.
297, 488, 445, 490; 48 Me. 108; 49 Me. 564; 50 Me. 171, 239 ; 51 Me. 848; 52 Me. 182,
405, 544 ; 58 Me. 138, 246, 351, 441; 54 Me. 173, 405; 55 Me. 153; 56 Me. 155.

TITLE IS.]

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

707

Sec. 19. The court, when a decree is made for the redemption of Chap. 90.
mortgaged lands, may award execution jointly or severally, as the Awnrd of execase requires ; and for sums found due for rents and profits over and crceof"court,
above the sums reasonably* expended in repairing and increasing the
or scv"
value of the estate redeemed.
¥'pf'M$}*j y
Sec. 20. When any sum of money is brought into court in a suit Deduction of
for redemption of mortgaged premises, the court may deduct there- jts from the
from such sum as the defendant is chargeable with on account of f„ m ^"ffor
rents and profits by him received, or costs awarded against him ; and j^g ™Pg0OIJ'2o
the person to whom a sum of money is tendered to redeem such
lands, if he receives a larger sum than he is entitled to retain, shall
refund the excess.
Sec. 21. When a mortgage is made or assigned to the state, the
treasurer may demand and receive 'the money due thereon, and dis......
.
charge it by his deed of release. After breach of the condition, he
may, in person or by his agent, make use of the like means for the
purpose of foreclosure, which an individual mortgagee might, as pre
scribed in the third and fifth sections.
Sec. 22. If the treasurer of state, and the person applying to
'
r
rr •> °
redeem any lands mortgaged to the state, disagree as to the sum due
,
, .
.....
.°
.
,
„
thereon, such person may bring a bill m equity against the state tor
the redemption thereof, in the supreme judicial court.

^JJ^ In

n'^dSarge
or foreclose
mortgages
made to state,
'
'

?iU in.
for redempfon may be
filed against
the state,
L
J0'' ""

Sec. 23. The court shall order notice to be served on the treas• i
in
i
-i
urer of state in the usual form, and shall hear the cause, and decide
what sum is due on said mortgage to the state, and award costs as
they may deem equitable ; and it shall be the duty of the treasurer to
accept the sum adjudged by the court to be due, and discharge the
mortgage.
Sec. 24. If a person entitled to redeem a mortgaged estate, or

where to be
filed, and proceedingstherer"'s. c.90.§28.

to redeem an equity of redemption which has been sold on execution,
or the right to redeem such right, or the right to redeem lands set off
on execution, dies without having made a tender for that purpose, a
tender may be made and a bill for redemption commenced and prosecuted by his executor or administrator, heirs or devisees; and if the
plaintiff in any such bill in equity dies pending the suit, it may be
prosecuted to final judgment by his heirs, devisees, or his executor or
administrator. When a mortgager resides out of the state, any person
may, in his behalf, tender to the holder of the mortgage the amount
due thereon ; and it shall be as effectual as if made by the mortgager.
Sec. 25. When the mortgagee, or person holding under him, is
under guardianship, a tender may be made to the guardian, and he
shall receive the sum due on the mortgage ; and upon receiving it, or
on performance of such other condition as the case requires, shall

J^^^ra^
or heir may
rc<lwiii lie*
siding out of
may tender 6
R.^c^go. § 24.
1864> c- m

execute a discharge of the mortgage.

pe"SonCt1rat?cd

Tender to
mortgagee,
a™chargeay
mogt|a^^ 25

708

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 90.
How mortgaIfsciTar^cd.
5 "Me.C2?2'.^ 26'
17 Me. 860.
Redemption of
tatc^oni putequity of re-6
Res.Pc!90 i27.

Sec. 26. In all case3, the mortgage may be discharged by the
deed of release from the person authorized to discharge it, or by causing
satisfaction and payment under his hand to be entered in the margin
°f the record of such mortgage in the register's office, (a)
gE0> 27. If the purchaser of an equity of redemption, sold on execution, has satisfied and paid to the mortgagee, or those claiming
under him, the sum due on the mortgage, the mortgager, or those
claiming under him, having redeemed the equity of redemption within
one year a^er sucn sa^e> snau nave a
*° redeem such mortgaged

6 Me 234
7 Me- 102.^
49 Me! 26o!
52 Me. 405.
55 Me. 252.
Writ of entry
against mortgagee in posmortgage paid
foreclosure
uffiTiiz

estate of such purchaser, or any person claiming under him, within
the time and in the manner he might have redeemed it of the mortgagee if there had been no such sale made, and within such time
,
only.
sEC. 28. When the mortgagee or person claiming under him has
t
"
.
,
taken possession of the mortgaged premises, and the debt secured by
the mortgage is paid or released after condition broken and before
foreclosure perfected, the mortgager or person claiming under him
may maintain a writ of entry to recover possession of said premises,
the same as if paid or released before condition broken.
(a) What constitutes a discharge; 6 Me. 259; 18 Me. 9; 24 Me. 882, 427; 25 Me. 841,
458 ; 27 Me. 212; 81 Me. 892; 88 Me. 446 ; 89 Me. 21; 44 Me. 104; 45 Me. 90; 54 Me. 468.
What does not; 17 Me. 869; 22 Me. 85; 23 Me. 388; 29 Me. 448; 31 Me. 806; 34 Me.
50, 299; 87 Me. 11; 48 Me. 108; 49 Me. 416; 50 Me. 180, 171; 52 Me. 185; 56 Me. 155.

TITLE IX.]

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

CHAPTER 91.
MORTGAGES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY, LIENS AND THEIR
ENFORCEMENT.
Mortgages of Pebsonal Pkopebtt.
Sjsc. 1. Mortgages not valid except between the parties, unless recorded, or posses
sion of the property taken. Where to be recorded.
2. Clerk to record mortgages in a book, noting therein, and on the mortgage,
when received. May appoint a deputy, and how.
3. How mortgages may be redeemed after breach of condition ; property re
plevied if not delivered.
4. Notice of foreclosure, how to be given and served.
5. Sworn copy of notice to be recorded, and a copy of record evidence of the
facts. Mortgagoo out of the state, to appoint agent to receive pay, or
no forfeiture.
6. Right of redemption forfeited in sixty days. Exceptions.
7. Lien on vessel building for labor and materials, and how enforced ; on ma
terials not part of vessel, how enforced; on vessel launched or for repairs,
how enforced.
8. Form of writ for enforcing lien. How signed, sealed and tested, and where
returnable.
9. Specifications to be annexed to writ, what to contain, to be sworn to.
10. Attachment, how made before vessel is launched. Possession, when to be
taken by officer; if before launching, work not to be hindered. Attach
ment how made after it is launched.
11. Service of writ on debtor and on owners. Form of notice to owners; how
served and posted fourteen days before court.
IS. Write made after first attachment to be served by same officer. If he is
disqualified, by any qualified officer.
18. Action how to be entered on docket, and who may defend on giving bond.
14. Defendant may offer to be defaulted and its effect. Owner of vessel may
admit a certain sum due and its effect.
15. Court to decide questions of cost as in equity.
16. What questions shall be submitted to jury and found in verdict: or if jury
trial is waived, decided by court.
IT. Judgment how to be rendered against defendant.
18. Right of exceptions as in other cases.
19. Court may order vessel sold on execution. Proceeds to be paid into court.
Manner of sale. Title of purchaser.
20. Disposition of proceeds and of surplus.
21. When proceeds not enough, to be distributed pro rata, and when. Double
liens to be prevented.
22. How vessel, attached for non-lien claim by sheriffor deputy, may be attached
on lien claim ; how and when attached by constable.
2S. How vessel attached for lien, may be attached for non-lien, claim against
owner, and its effect,
24. When vessel attached on both kinds of claims, is sold, balance, after paying
lien claims applied to non-lien claims.
25. Admiralty powers of court.

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

710
CnAP. 91.

[TITLE IX.

Liens on Lime, Limerock and Slate.
Sec. 26. Liens on lime, limerock, and slate for thirty days, to be enforced by attach
ment.
Liens on Buildings and Lots.
Sec. 27. Liens on buildings and lots for labor and materials, and how enforced. If
levy is made, lot may be set out. If debtor has no title to land, lien on
building. Lien enforced on building of minors and married women.
28. When labor and materials not furnished to owner of building, no lien with
out notice to him. How ho may prevent lien.
29. Lien dissolved unless sworn claim is filed in town clerk's office within thirty
dayB. Clerk's fees.
80. Inaccuracy shall not avoid if claim is reasonably certain in description.
81. Suit must be commenced in ninety days, or lien dissolved.
82. When owner dies before suit, how suit brought and when.
88. Lien on buildings placed on leased land, for rent, how enforced.
Liens on Loos and Lumber.
Sec. 84. Liens on logs and lumber ior personal labor for sixty days after arrival at
destination ; to take precedence.
85. Boomage to be paid by attaching officer. Lien not defeated by taking note.
Notice to owner.
General Provisions for Enforcement or Discharge.
Sec. 86. Lien attachments to have precedence. Suits after death and insolvency. 1
Writ must show it is for lien.
87, Tender of amount due discharges lien.
Liens on Goods and Personal Baggage.
Sec. 88. Innholdcrs and keepers of boarding houses have a lien on goods and per
sonal baggage, and how enforced.
Liens on Goods in Possession, how Enforced.
Sec. 89. Lien on goods in possession enforced by sale.
40. Petition to be filed; contents of it.
41. Service on owners within the state.
42. Sen-ice on owners when unknown or out of the state.
48. When owner appears, proceedings. Jury trial.
44. When owner appears, may be required to give bond.
45. Court may order property to be sold to pay lien.
46. Disposition of the proceeds.
47. Liens less than twenty dollars enforced by trial justice. Either party may
appeal.
-■i if.

I
fie' ^ ^° Ck'/fa. ;*iy*^«*~
frjt/.vm yi^r. AjLC*4A4~ I

MORTGAGES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

va°i"dt!cxccpt0t
^EC>
^° mor^gaoe 0I" personal property, to secure payment of
between the more than thirty dollars, shall be valid against any other person than
parties, unless
*
.
"
. *
recorded or
the parties thereto, unless possession of such property is delivered to
on>9SCWh"reato and retained by the mortgagee, or the mortgage is recorded by the
j£ b!c"m!§i. c^er^ °f tne *own or plantation, organized for any purpose, in

TITLE IX.]

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

which the mortgager resides. Such a mortgage, made to secure the
payment of thirty dollars or less, may be so recorded, and with the
same effect. When all the mortgagers reside without the state, the
mortgage shall be recorded in said town or plantation where the prop-

711
Chap. 91.
1864, c. 243.
186f) c 287
ise^ c. 64. ' ^
^ **v'

erty is when the mortgage is made ; but if a part of the mortgagers
reside in the state, then in the towns or plantations in which such mort
gagers reside. A mortgage made by a corporation shall be recorded
in the town where it has its established place of business. If any
mortgager resides in an unorganized place, the mortgage shall be re
corded in the oldest adjoining town or plantation, organized as afore
said, in the county, (a)
Sec. 2. The clerk, on payment of the same fees allowed to regis- cierk records
ters of deeds for like services, shall record all such mortgages deliver- {J^^f^,,
ed to him in a book kept
noting . therein, and on. the received.
r for that purpose,
.
appoint a May
depmortgage, the time when it was received ; and it shall be consider- my, and how.
ed as recorded when received. Such clerk may appoint a citizen- of lseo c 188.
said town his deputy, who may, in the clerk's absence from his office, 8i Me! Is!'
record mortgages with the same effect as if done by the clerk. The Me 284
appointment may be made in writing, as follows :
iS Me- 8'6I hereby appoint
to perform the duties of town
clerk as set forth in section two, of chapter ninety-one, of the revised
statutes, in the town of
, during my absence from the clerk's
office.
, Clerk of the town of
.
Said deputy shall be sworn to faithfully perform the duties of his
office before he enters thereon.
Sec. 3. When the condition of a mortgage -of personal property How mortgage
to secure the payment of more than thirty dollars is broken, the mort- JJccm'cd after
gager, or any person lawfully claiming under him, may redeem it at Jj!^'1 of con"
any time before it is sold, by virtue of a contract between the parties Replevied if
or on execution against the mortgager, or before the right of redemp- r. s. c. 91 , $ 4.
tion is foreclosed, as hereinafter provided, by paying or tendering to 2861' °' 28'^ *'
the mortgager, or the person holding the mortgage by assignment 54
s£s
thereof, recorded where the mortgage is recorded, the sum due thereon, or by performing or offering to perform the conditions thereof,
when not for the payment of money, with all reasonable charges in
curred ; and the property, if not immediately restored, may be replev
ied, or damages for withholding it recovered in an action of the case.
Sec. 4. The mortgagee or his assignee, after condition broken,
may give to the mortgager or his assignee, when his assignment is recorded where the mortgage is recorded, written notice of his intention

J-J <> ,4tl~ £, dd*. . Ci
»
.

Notice of foreto^'ve^and'0
f^rci^c 28 ^ 2
8.
'
(a) 19 Me. 167 ; 21 Me. 86 ; 22 Me. 560 ; 24 Me. 104, 555 ; 25 Me. 419 ; 27 Me. 400 ; 30 1862, c. 121.
Me. 184 ; 81 Me. 78 ; 82 Me. 28, 288 ; 83 Me. 818 ; 84 Me. 208 ; 37 Me. 181, 543 ; 40 Me.
412, 561 ; 42 Mc. 130, 168 ; 44 Mc. 11 ; 45 Me. 602 ; 46 Me. 293, 414 ; 47 Me. 9, 504 ; 48
Mc. 26, 368, 548, 584 ; 49 Me. 97, 566 ; 50 Me, 127, 895 ; 51 Me. 601 ; 53 Me. 308 ; 55 Me.
76 ; 56 Me. 458.

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

712

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 91. *° foreclose the same, by leaving a copy thereof with the mortgager
or such assignee, or if the mortgager is out of the state, though res
ident therein, by leaving such copy at his last and usual place of
abode, or by publishing it once a week, for three successive weeks in
one of the principal newspapers published in the town where the mort
gage is recorded. When the mortgager or his assignee of record is
not a resident of the state and there is no newspaper published in
such town, such notice may be published in any newspaper printed in
the county where the mortgage is recorded.
Sworn copy of Sec. 5. The notice with an affidavit of service or a copy of the
corded!0 Evu" publication, with the name and date of the paper in which it was last
fa"™ °Mort published, shall be recorded where the mortgage is recorded, and the
gager out the copv 0f sucn record shall be evidence that the notice has been given,
state to apr*
.
•j
«
point agent to If the mortgagee or his assignee is not a resident of the state, ho shall
no^orfeUuVe.0' at the time of recording such notice, record therewith his appointment
1861 c. 23, $ 4. o£ an agCnj. resi(jent in the same town, to receive satisfaction of the
mortgage ; and payment or tender thereof may be made to him. If
he does not appoint such agent, the right to redeem shall not be
forfeited.
Right of reSec. 6. The right to redeem Bhall be forfeited, except as provided
ftited'instxty m the preceding sections, if the money to be paid or other thing to be
Exceptions
^onc 'w n0* Pa*^ or performed, or tender thereof made, within sixty
1861 'c'ia\i 5 ^a^s a^er su°k not'ce k recorae(l; but nothing in the preceding sec6.
' tions shall defeat a contract of bottomry respondentia transfer, assign
ment, or hypothecation of a vessel or goods at sea, or abroad, if pos
session is taken as soon as may be after their arrival in the state, (a)
4/ {^/(?3
\"
-**^%*.ait. j,
t^cA- Hr~%3
*A> /
/ r*-' f f
I
fl JJp

Lien on vessel
J^yJ^n/m,,.
forced h°Onen
material, how
enforced. On
vessel after
for repairs', °r

LIENS ON VESSELS.

Sec. 7. Any person who furnishes labor or materials for building
a vessel, shall have a lien on it therefor, which may be enforced by at^h111611* thereof, within four days after it is launched. He shall algo have a hen on the materials furnished before they become part of
.
the vessel, which may be enforced by attachment; and a person who
furnishes labor or materials for a vessel after it is launched, or for its

1858,^15^1. repair, shall have a hen on it therefor, which may be enforced by at84 Me *05
tachment within four days after the work has been completed.
40 Me mi4 409
^E0, ^'
*orm °^ a
*°r em°orcmg such hen, shall be in sub41 Me. 897. ' stance as follows :
42 Me. 77, 141.
Form of writ
STATE OP MAINE.
for enforcing
gg_
lien. How
signed, sealed
To the sheriff of our county of
, or his deputy :
and attested,
"
rt
and where reGreeting.
tu"""
[L. S.] We command you to attach the ship or vessel (here give
(a) 24 Me. 131; 29 Me. 9, 429; 81 Me. 104, 501; 86 Me. 47; 82 Me. 174; 89 Mc. 448 ; 42
Me. 168; 55 Me. 76.

TITLE IX.]

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

713

such a description of the vessel as -will identify it,) and summon all Chap. 91.
persons interested, in the manner directed by law, to appear before
our justices of our
court, next to be held at
, within, and for
the county of
, on the
Tuesday of
next, then
and there in our said court, to answer to A. B., of
, who claims
a lien on said ship or vessel for (here describe briefly the nature of
the lien,) to the amount of
dollars and
cents, according to
the specification hereto annexed, which amount, C. D., of
,
who owes the same, neglects and refuses to pay, to the damage of said
A. B., as he says, the sum of
dollars, which shall then and there
be made to appear, with other due damages ; and have you there,
this writ with your doings thereon.
Witness,
, at
, the
day of
, in the
year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and
.
E. F., Clerk.
Said writ shall be signed, sealed and tested like other writs in civil
actions, and returned in the county where said vessel is.
Sec. 9. The specification annexed to the writ, shall contain a Specification
just, true and particular account of the demand claimed to be due to thewSt^6*
the plaintiff with all just credits ; the name of the persons personally Sna\o°bc°vcrliable to him, and names of the owners of the ship or vessel if
?y oa*h'
,
r
What must be
known to him, and shall be verified by the oath of one plaintiff, or of
tosome person in his behalf that the amount claimed in said specifica
tion is justly due from the person named in the writ, and specifica
tion as owing it, and that he believes that by the laws of this state,
he has a lien on such ship or vessel for the whole or/a part thereof.
Sec. 10. If the vessel at the time is on the stocks, the attach- vessel on the
ment shall be made by filing in the office of the clerk of the town in m^how4*011"
which such vessel is, within forty-eight hours thereafter, a copy of m0a^p'ssion
so much of his return on the writ, as relates to the attachment with whentobetakthe name of the plaintiff, the name of the person liable for the debt, if before
the description of the vessel as given in the writ, the date of the work nouo be
writ, the amount claimed, and the court to which it is returnable, whenlf'is
and by leaving a copy of such certificate with one of the owners of auach'm^nUs
the vessel, if known to him and residing within his precinct, or with made.
.
1858, c. 15, ^H,
the master workman thereon; if the attachment is so made the 5.
officer need not take possession of the vessel before it is launched,
unless specially directed by the plaintiff or his attorney to do so ;
but he shall as soon as may be afterwards ; but he may take posses
sion at any time before it is launched ; and if he does, he shall not
hinder the work thereon, or prevent or delay the launching. If the
vessel is launched at the time of attachment, it shall be attached like
other personal property.

711

MORTGAGES AND LIEXS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 91.
Sec. 11. The writ shall be served on persons, named as personService of writ ally liable for the plaintiff's claim, as in other personal actions
on mvner8.and against them, or the owners of the vessel, who are known or reside
tui-m of notice m the county where the vessel is, by a notice in substance, as folto owners, how
J
' »
'
served and
lows, and served as summonses are :
posted fourmi
/. i
i•
i
teen days bess. To the owners of the ship or vessel, (describe it as in
fore court.
.. x
.-, ..
1858 c. is, H 6, wnt,)
Greeting.
7.
Take notice that the above-described vessel is attached on a writ
in favor of
who claims a lien thereon for the sum of
(naming the amount of the claim,) due him by C. D., and that said
writ is returnable to the
court to be held at
, in and for
the county of
, on the
Tuesday of
, A. D. 18— ,
when and where you may appear and defend if you see fit.
Dated, &c.
G. H., Sheriff, or Deputy Sheriff;
and by a notice in like form posted in some conspicuous place on the
vessel attached. The attachment, service and notices shall be made
fourteen days at least before the term of the court to which the writ
is returnable.
Writs made af- Sec. 12. On all writs made after the first attachment and while
menrto h"""*" an7 nen attachment is pending, the attachment and services shall be
officer byif dTs- ma(^e M aforesaid by the same officer, or if he is disqualified, by any
quaiifiod'offl *
cer.
1858 c. 15, <> 8.
Action how to
docke'tMKi0'1
fend oifgiving

^aMfied. officer, by his giving notice thereof to the first attaching
officer.

Sec. 13. At the return term, the actions shall be entered on the
docket as follows: The person claiming the lien as plaintiff; the
Person alleged to bo personally liable as defendant, and the name or
other
description
of the vessel attached,
and the owners or mort18o8 c. 15. H 9,
r
........
io.
gagees of the vessel, or any plaintiff in suit wherein it is attached
for a lien, may appear for and defend any action so far as relates to
the validity and amount of the lien claim ; but no such plaintiff shall
so defend until he gives bond, to the satisfaction of the court, to pay
the costs awarded against him.
Defendant
Sec. 14. The defendant may offer to be defaulted as in other
bedc^auitcd, cases ; and the owners of the vessel may admit, in writing filed with
VesscTowner *ne c^er^> *na* a certain sum is due the plaintiff as a lien on the
may admit
vessel; and if the plaintiff does not recover a greater sum as lien,
ceruunsum
.
.
due, and its he shall recover no costs against such owner or the vessel or its proi8"»s, c. 15,
ceeds after the admission is filed; but such owner shall recover costs
*§ 12>
thereafter.
Court to dcSec. 15. The court, except as provided in the preceding section,
ot cost'as in"8 may decide all questions of costs and apportion them as they think
1858/c. 15,* 18. proper, as in cases in equity.

TITLE IX.]

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

715

Sec. 16. At the request of either party, the following questions
of fact shall he submitted to a jury: "What amount claimed in the
w
■writ is due from the defendant to the plaintiff?" and "For
how
much of such amount has the plaintiff a lien on the vessel

Chap. 91.
Whatqncslions
8liu.ll to
be
submitted
inTeiSSct°Uord

attached?" And the verdict shall be in answer to these questions.
If the parties waive a jury trial, these questions shall be decided by
the court, on a hearing or report of an auditor appointed by the
court.
Sec. 17. Upon ascertaining the amount aforesaid, judgment
shall be rendered in his favor against the defendant, as in other personal actions, for the amount found not to be a lien on the vessel,
...
,
with such costs as the court awards; and a separate judgment shall
be rendered in his favor against said defendant and the vessel
attached, for the amount decided to be a lien, with such costs as the
court awards ; and separate executions shall be issued thereon.

Waived '"decid^g5'^0""§i u, is. '
judgment,
^ered6
against defendant.
1858,0.15,516.

Sec. 18. Parties shall have the same right of exceptions, mo- R.
tions for new trials and writs of error, as in other actions.
ceptkms ai in
other cases.
Sec. 19. When judgment is recovered in any suit on which a i858,ci5,U*.
vessel was attached, the court may issue an order to the attaching de^vesscTsoid
officer to sell it at auction, and to pay the proceeds thereof into court p^ecdsuTbe
after deducting the expenses of sale and for taking care of the vessel JGlu<Jt1Iltiiaiiwhile under attachment. Such officer shall sell it as other personal ncrof sale,
title of purproperty
r r .J is .sold
. on execution ; and the rpurchaser shall hold it free from chaser.
1858,C.15,§1T.
any prior claim.
Sec. 20. If such proceeds are more than all the judgments re
covered against such vessel, and the amounts claimed in the undecided Distribution of
o
'
proceeds and
suits, the court may order the judgments as fast as they are recovered J8^8sur{)5U^8
against said vessel, to be paid from said fund until all such suits are 45 Me. 298.
terminated and all judgments satisfied. The balance, if any, the
court may, on petition, order to be paid to the persons legally entitled
thereto.
Sec. 21. If such proceeds are not enough to pay in full the judg
ments recovered and the claims still undecided, the court may order When pro.
the money to remain until all the suits are terminated, and then divide ceeds ;°* .
»
'
enough, to be
pro rata ; or it may direct a sufficient amount to be retained to pay distributed
1 •1 1 1 •
•
•
3 T ■ 1 ll
VI Pr° fata> an<^
on the undecided claims their proportion, and divide the residue when double
ratably among the judgments recovered, and if after all the suits are venfed° b° pre*
terminated and the judgments recovered subsequent to the first divis- 1898> °- 15>*19ion have received the same proportion as prior judgments, there is
any sum remaining, it shall be divided among the judgments, pro
rata, and in such division the court shall make such orders as will
prevent the enforcement of a double lien, and secure the just rights,
of all.

MORTGAGES AND HENS.

716
Chap. 91
How vessel atlien claim bv
uty"may be"
HraCdahn°"
how when attached by constable.
How vessel atmay be^ttached for non-iien
claim against
owner, and its
effect
1858, c. 15, §22.
aTtoche^dcm1
both kinds of
balance after'
paying^applied
lien
claims,
to
non-lien
claims
1858, c. 15, ij 23.

[TITLE IX.

Sec. 22. If the vessel Las been already attached by a sheriff or
his deputy, where a writ is issued for such lien claim, it shall be
served by such officer ; if attached by a constable, he shall give up
to the officer having the lien writ the possession and the receipt upon
"which he attached it with his return of the facts thereon ; and the
attachment shall hold subject to the legal priorities of the lien claim,
.
.
Sec. 23. A vessel attached for a lien claim, may be attached by
the same officer, m the ordinary manner, in a suit against the owners
thereof, and such attachment shall be valid, subject to the legal priorities of the lien attachments.
, ,
,
Sec. 24. When a vessel attached for hens, and also in the ordinary manner, is sold by order of the court, and the proceeds are more
*^ai1 sufficient to satisfy the lien judgments, the surplus shall be paid
to the officer to hold on the writs, not founded on the lien claims,
Sec. 25. The court like a court in admiralty, may make all orders
necessary for carrying out the provisions hereof, according to their
true
^
6 L fC 2> ~
u uc uircub and
auu meanjng.
iinjawiii^.
*^ p
C- ' /' (y
( V-J/
LIEN 0N ltME) LIMEROCK AND SLATE.

powersof
Sec. 26. Any person who digs, hauls, or furnishes rock for the
1858% 15, §24. manufacture of lime, has a lien thereon for his personal services, and
Liens on lime, the rock so furnished, for thirty days after such rock is manufactured
on08iate!'for,d iuto lime, or until such lime is sold, or shipped on board a vessel ; any
to enforced' by person who labors in mining, quarrying, or manufacturing slate in
h's^m is
quarry* has a lien for the wages of his labor on all the slate mined,
i860 c. 181. ' quarried or manufactured in the quarry by him or his co-laborers, for
thirty days after the slate arrive at their port of shipment. Said
liens shall have precedence of all other claims, and may be enforced
by attachment within the times aforesaid.
LIENS ON BUILDINGS AND LOTS.
Lien on buildSec. 27. A person who performs or furnishes labor or materials
for^abor'and *n erecting, altering, or repairing a house, building or appurtenances,
•materials, how bv virtue of a contract with or by consent of the owner? has a lien
enforced.
.
.
1868, c. 207, H- thereon, and on the land on which it stands, or on any interest such
\Tile.'268. * *' owner has in the same, to secure payment thereof with costs, to be
2s Mi', .it.
enforced by attachment ; and if a levy is made thereon, the apprais88 Me. 141,870.
85 Me 78 291 ers may Be* ou* a Stable lot for said building, if they think the
JSt
whole is not needed therefor. If the debtor has no legal interest in
52 Me. 298.
°
54 Me. 845^toJhe land on which the building is erected, the lien attaches to the build^3 " <yri;4?'nS a11^ maybe enforced as before provided ; and if the owner of
jy ., i-'j/ such land or building, so contracting, is a minor or married woman,
such hen shall exist, and such minority or coverture shall not bar a
recovery in any suit brought to enforce it.
r
n /T?J. u^A t.u^^- <£2~*~

TITLE IX.]

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

717

Sec. 28. If the labor or materials were not furbished by a con- Chap. 91.
j q
tract with^the owner of the property to be%flgsted, such lien shall when labor ^fj/ / p.0
not attach unless the person before furnishing the labor or materials, Sot foniSled^
gives notice to such owner of his intention to claim the lien. The *° °,,!'.ner of
°
building no
owner may prevent such lien for labor or materials, not then per- lien without
»
j, . . , ,
. .
.
.
o
notice to him.
formed or furnished, by giving written notice to the person perform- How he may
ing or furnishing the same, that he will not be responsible therefor. im^c. 207"'
Sec. 29. The lien . mentioned in the preceding section shall be Lien dissolved
dissolved unless the claimant within thirty days after he ceases to unless sworn
/>•!
»
.1 m . j
*
claim filed in
labor or furnish materials as aforesaid, files in the office of the clerk town clerk's
of the town in which such building is situated, a true statement of day™, '"clerk's
the amount due him, with all just credits given, together with a Jgjjg c 207 § 4.
description of the property intended to be covered by the lien, suffi- 1869< c- 57 *
ciently accurate to identify it, and the names of the owners, if known;
which shall be subscribed and sworn to by the person claiming the
lien, or by some one in his behalf, and recorded in a book kept for
that purpose, by said clerk, who is entitled to the same fees therefor
as for recording mortgages.
Sec. 30. No inaccuracy in such statement relating to said prop- ^aiiTvoMtfy
erty, if the same can be reasonably recognized, or to the amount due reasonably
e 1 l
/1
,
t
1
-L
certain in de. '
tor labor or materials, shall invalidate the proceedings, unless it ap- scription.
pears that the person making it willfully claims more than his due.
i869,Cc. mVs5.'
Sec. 31. A suit to enforce the Tens in the four preceding sections
1
0
must be commenced within ninety days after the last labor is performed
or materials so furnished, or the lien shall be dissolved.
Sec. 32. When the owner dies within the ninety days and before
commencement of a suit,■ it may
•> be commenced within sixty
. days after
notice given of the appointment of an executor or administrator, and
the lien shall be extended accordingly.
Sec. 33. When a lease of land, with a rent payable, is made for
the 1purpose
of erecting
r
0 a mill or other buildings thereon, such
. buildmgs and all the interest of the lessee shall be subject to a hen and
liable to be attached for the rent due. Such attachment, made within
six months after the rent becomes due, shall be effectual against any
transfer of the property by the lessee.

Suit must J?e.
commenced in
J!ine^Y days or
1868 c. 207 § 6.
54 Me! 345!
Ybe?
owner
dies before
suit, how to be
when.
fsM.^isbVa!
Lien placed
°n bVi,d'
mgs
on 1
land leased,
enforce!
^'c '^'^y^
u

LIENS ON LOGS AND LUMBER.
Sec. 34. A person who labors at cutting, hauling, rafting or driv""j^™,."
ing logs, or lumber, shall haveyi lien thereon for the amount due for for sixty days
his personal services, which shall take precedence of all other claims, destination,
except liens reserved to the states of Maine and Massachusetts; to i8W(cA«6.19
continue for sixty days after the logs or lumber arrive at the place of

»

718

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 91. destination for sale or manufacture; and be enforced by attachBoomajre may
be paid bv offlcer. Lien not
tnkin^a note,
owner. *"
K. s. c. 91, § 20.

Sec. 35. The officer making such attachment may pay the boom0
ii.
age thereon, not exceeding the rate per thousand on the quantity actually attached by him, and return the amount paid on the writ, which
8nau ^e included in the damages recovered. The action or lien shall
noj; De defeated by taking a note, unless it was taken in discharge of
the amount due and of the lien. Notice of the suit, such as the
court orders, shall be given to the owner of the logs or lumber, and
he may be admitted to defend it. (J)
general provisions for enforcement or discharge.

ments'to have
oTutHncum^
brances, and
mav bo maintained,
dies and estate
Writmust'"
Urn* U " f°r

Sec 36. Suits to enforce any of the liens before named in this
chaP*er shall have precedence of all attachments and incumbrances
made after the lien attached, and not made to enforce a lien, and
may be maintained although the employer or debtor is deceased and
his estate represented insolvent ; and his executor or administrator
may be summoned and held to answer to an action brought to enforce
^e ^en' -^e declaration must show that the suit is brought to

i88«" c I81V2
See c. 6, <> 22.
87 Me 850.
Tender disr s^ai'jra
85 Me. 78.

en^orce ^e ^en' ^ut a^ ^ne °';ner forms and proceedings therein,
shall be the same as in ordinary actions of assumpsit. (c~)
•
.
Sec. 87. All liens named herein may be discharged by tender of
a sum 8u®c^en* *° Pa7 a^ that m jus^7 due, ™ade by the debtor or
owner of the property, or their agents.
LIEN ON GOODS AND PERSONAL BAGGAGE.

35 Me, 158.
Sec. 38. Innholders or keepers of boarding houses have a lien on
42 Me so2'
*ne g00as m& personal baggage of their guests and boarders, to
1 r, yr^ secure the payment of any money due from them for board or lodgS-e^_
/% /
mg. an(j may enforce the same by a sale of such goods or baggage
I j, 1/^
^ 'ff m a manner hereinafter provided.
fi-A^ l^kjdj ififfr
LIENS^OW ENFORCED ON GOODS ^ POS^E^SIONy A
Lien on poods
Sec.
Any person, 1mvmg a h'en orf any article in nis possesin possession, 8;on may enforce it by a sale thereof, as hereinafter provided,
enforced bv ,L
...
.
o1!' ^oi tai ' Sec. 40. The person claiming the lien may file, in the supreme
Petition to be judicial court in the county where he resides, or in the office of the
offtl contcnts clerk thereof, a petition briefly setting forth the nature and amount of
R.S.c. 91, §24. jjjg claim, a description of the article possessed, and the name and
residence of its owners, if known to him, and a prayer for process to
enfrf e his lien.
an
~7.dsyiw^
1 t*"*-'
+ ■ ff " ***4>"
.
6?„
2

(0 542;
» Me.
21Me.; 2480,Mc.
214;
88 Me.
288, 480 ; 84 Mc. 278,5,78:
288; 4585 Me.
Me.816,
60, 126; 86 Me.
536,
88 78;
180;150,
89 297.
Me.
448;
865;
49 Me.
56 Mc.
^3 42 Me. 497; 43 Me.4?**V.
t'l'J 566; 46 Me.
^ 85 Me- 126; 41 Me' 469; 48 Me- 455' 578; 45 Me" 85; 47 Me' 148' 152; 50 Mc" 428'
(c.) 28 Mc. 511; 88 Mc. 141, 283 ; 84 Me. 273, '286; 35 Mc. 291; 86 Me. 884; 87
Me. 550; 41 Me. 870; 42 Mc. 77, 130, 141; 88 Me. 180; 45 Mc. 157, 816; 50 Mc. 428; 58
Me. 808.

TITLE IX.]

MORTGAGES AND LIENS.

Sec. 41. If the owners are set forth in a petition filed in the
clerk's office, and are residents of this state, the clerk may issue an
3
i
•
p
•
order of notice to such owners, by serving them with a copy of the petition and order thereon, fourteen days before the next term of the

719"
Chap. 91.
Sen-ice on
owncrs within
the state.
" "c"91' "5"

court in such county.
Sec. 42. If the owners are not known, or not residents in the Service on
state, or the petition is filed in court, the court may order reasonable unknown or"
notice to the owners and others interested ; which may be returnable
the
at the same or a subsequent term, and be by personal service of a K, s.c.9i,§20.
copy of the petition with the order of court thereon, or by publica
tion in a newspaper, or both, as the court directs. But Buch order
shall always allow at least fourteen days from the service or publica
tion, before the time fixed for the appearance of the persons notified.
Sec. 43. At the time fixed in the notice, any party interested in When owner
the article as owner, mortgagee, or otherwise, may appear, and after ce«ihig8.PJury
appearance, the proceedings shall be the same as in an action on the ^'g'f. 91 $o7
case, in which the petitioner is plaintiff and the party appearing is
defendant. Questions of fact, at the instance of either party, shall
be submitted to a jury on an issue framed under the direction of the
court.
Sec. 44. If in the opinion of the court the article on which the Owner may be
lien is claimed is not of sufficient value to pay the petitioner's claim, give bond, for
with the probable costs of the suit, the court may order the persons r° s?'c. 91, § 28.
appearing in defence to give bond to the petitioner, with sufficient
sureties approved by the court, to pay such costs as are awarded
against him, so far as they are not paid out of the proceeds of the
articles on which the lien is claimed.
Sec. 45. After trial and final adjudication in favor of the peti- Court may < rtioner, the court may order any competent officer to sell the article bersoid w'pay0
on which the lien is claimed, as personal property is sold on execu- k?s;c. 9^ $29,
tion, and out of the proceeds, after deducting his fees and the
.\
expenses of sale, to pay to the petitioner the amount and costs award
ed him, and the balance to the person entitled to it, if they are
known to the court, otherwise into court.
Sec. 46. Money paid into court may be paid over to the person Disposition of
legally entitled to it, on petition and order of the court. If it is not b Vc^M*)
called for at the first term after it is paid into court, it shall be paid
into the county treasury ; and if afterwards the person entitled to it
petitions and establishes his claim to it, the court may ore" - the
county treasurer to pay it to him.
Sec. 47. Liens for less amount than twenty dollars, mayc be j2onooeStriaian
enforced before any trial justice for the county where the person justices have
j urisdiction*
having the lien resides, and all the proceedings, rights, and liabilities, Appeal,
shall be the same as hereinbefore provided, as far as the nature of
•C,M»'81,

MILLS AND MILL-DAMS.

720

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 92. the tribunal will admit ; and either party may appeal, and the pro
ceedings shall be the same as in appeals in civil actions before a trial

CHAPTER 92.
THE RIGHT OF ERECTING MILLS AND MILL-DAMS, AND OF FLOWING
LANDS AND DIVERTING WATER TO SUPPLY MILLS, AND THE MODE
OF OBTAINING DAMAGES THEREFOR.
Sec, 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.
6.
T.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
18.
14.
15.

Right to erect and maintain mill-dams, and to divert water by a canal for mills.
Not to injure a mill or canal previously built.
Restriction as to height of dam and quantity of water.
Damages for flowing, &c, recoverable on complaint.
Form of complaint.
How presented and served. May be inserted in writ and how served.
What may be pleaded in bar.
Mode of trial. Costs for respondent if complainant fails.
Proceedings, if complainant recovers.
Trial by jury. Commissioners' report to be evidence.
Acceptance of Commissioners' report.
Verdict or report to bar any future action.
Yearly damages, how fixed.
Security to be given for yearly damages, if required.
Complainant may sue for damages, if unpaid. Lien upon mill and land for
damages.
16. Mill and land may be seized and sold on the execution after thirty days. Ef
fect of such sale.
17. Right of redemption, how enforced.
18. Either party may file a new complaint.
19. Restriction of this right.
20. Owner may offer an increased compensation. Consequence.
21. Injured party may offer to accept a less compensation. Consequence.
22. Tenants may make such offers as well as owners.
28. Restriction of suits for damages.
24. Double damages if dam is raised higher, kept up longer, or more water
diverted than allowed by the judgment.
25. Agreement of parties binding, if recorded.
26. Judgment no bar to a new complaint.
2T. Tender of damages, and effect thereof.
28. Complaint not to abate by death of either party.
29. If complaint abates, rights may be preserved by new complaint within a year.
80. Provisions of this chapter npply to streams forming the boundary of the state.
81. Compensation of commissioners. Costs.
82. Owner or mortgage in possession, liable for acts of tenants in certain cases.

TITLE IX.]

MILLS AND MILL-DAMS.

Sec. 1. Any man may erect and maintain a water mill and dams
to raise water for working it, on his own land upon and across any
_
stream, not navigable; or, for the purpose of propelling mills or
,.
.
,
■.
,
ti
iit
machinery, may cut a canal and erect walls and embankments upon
his own land, not exceeding one mile in length, and thereby divert

721
Chap. 92.
RiRht to erect
and maintain
mill-dams, and
to divert water
by a canal for
jj.Ug|'c92,$i-

from its natural channel the water of any stream not navigable, upon
the terms and conditions, and subject to the regulations hereinafter
expressed, (a)
Sec. 2. No such dam shall be erected or canal constructed to Not to injure
the injury of any mill or canal lawfully existing on the same stream ; p^iouSy*1
nor to the injury of any mill site, on which a mill or mill-dam has g0^, 92 ^ 2
been lawfully erected and used, unless the right to maintain a mill 81 Me. 252.
,
-i *
I
88 Me. 248.
thereon has been lost or defeated.
a Me. 167,195.
54 TtXc 48T
Sec. 3. The height to which the water may be raised, and the Restriction as
length of time during which it may be kept up in each year, and d°meii^tof
quantity of water that may be diverted by such canal, shall be liable ^ jjec'29|T* * 8"
to be restricted and regulated by the verdict of a jury, or report of
commissioners, as hereinafter is provided.
Sec. 4. Any person, whose lands are damaged by being flowed Damages for
by a mill-dam, or by the diversion of the water by such canal, may erdDie^lycomobtain compensation for the injury, by complaint to the supreme Klasnt,; 92 $.4
judicial court in the county where the lands or any part thereof are;
but no compensation shall be awarded for damages sustained more
than three years before the institution of the complaint.
Sec. 5. The complaint shall contain such a description of the
land flowed or injured, and such a statement of the damage, that the
"
° '
record of the case shall show the matter heard and determined in the
SUlt.
Sec. 6. The complaint may be presented to the court in term
time, or be filed in the clerk's office in vacation; and a copy shall be
r»
served by the proper officer, fourteen days before the term day, on
the respondent, by being left at his dwelling housa, if he has any in
the state ; otherwise, it shall be left at the mill in question, or with its
occupant ; or the complaint may be inserted in a writ of attachment

Jo^i^ffi
)
1* Me- *2888 Me! 480,
54Mc.'48T.
9ompl1imt'
form of.
R- s. 0. 92, § 5 .
16 Me. 411.
28 Me. 9.
42 Me! 64?"
How presented
and served.
Maybeinand how
r.I^c. 92 § 6.
1868' c' *

and served by summons and copy.
Sec 7. The owner or occupant of such mill or canal may plead what may be
in bar that the complainant has no right, title, or estate in the lands fusuf9m"!
alleged to be injured ; or that he has a right to maintain such dam,
and flow the lands, or divert the water for an agreed price, or without
any compensation ; or any other matter, which may show that the
complainant cannot maintain the suit ; but he shall not plead in bar

(a) 5 Me. 9; 28 Me. 9; 86 Me. 36; 89 Me. 246; 42 Me. 150.
46

722

MILLS AND MILL-DAMS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 92. of the complaint, that the land described therein is not injured by
such dam or canal, (a)
Mode of trial.
Sec. 8. When any such plea is filed, and an issue in fact or in
prevui"fnK,t're13 joined, it shall be decided as similar issues are decided in cases
IUjrcC»M8 a* common law> an(i ^ judgment is for the respondent, he shall
6 Me. 282.
recover his costs.
Proceedings if
Bec. 9. If the issue is decided in favor of the complainant, or if
reco?cr?ant the respondent is defaulted, or does not plead or show any legal
89 Mo° 458.* 9' objection to proceeding, the court shall appoint three or more disin48 Me. 562.
terested commissioners of the same county, who shall go upon and

Trial byjniy,
els' report to
R. s.c. 92,Vio.
42 Me! 64.

Acceptance of
ers^report11"
E.S.C.9MU.

examine the premises, and make a true and faithful appraisement,
under oath, of the yearly damages, if any, done to the complainant
by the flowing of his lands or the diversion of the water described in
the complaint, and determine how far the same is necessary, and
ascertain and make report what portion of the year such lands ought
not to be flowed, or water diverted, or what quantity of water shall
be diverted.
Sec. 10. If either party requests that a jury may be impan
eled to try the cause at the bar of the court, the report of the commissioners shall, under the direction of the court, be given in
evidence to the jury ; but evidence shall not be admitted to contra
dict it, unless misconduct, partiality, or unfaithfulness on the part of
some commissioner is shown.
Sec. 11. If neither party requests a trial by jury, the report of
the commissioners may be accepted by the court and judgment rendered thereon.

Verdict or reSe£. 1 2. The verdict of the jury or the report of the commisany future
sioners so accepted, shall be a bar to any action brought for such
R?s° c! 92,§ 12. damages; and the owner or occupant shall not flow the lands nor
divert the water during any portion of the period when prohibited,
nor divert the water beyond the quantity allowed by the commission
ers or jury.
Yearly damaSec. 13. Such verdict or accepted report of the commissioners,
r^s^.Ikm
and judgment thereon, shall be the measure of the yearly damages,
50 Me si'
un^
owner or occupant of the lands or the owner or occupant of
the mill or canal, on a new complaint to the court, and by proceed
ings as in the formor case, obtains an increase or decrease of such
damages.
Security to be
Sec. 14. When any person, whose lands are so flowed or from
ycar?yfdama- whose lands the water is so diverted, files his complaint for ascertaineres, if requir- jQg QJ. mcreaamg nis damages, or brings his action of debt as provided
R. S. c. 92,5 14. m the following section, and moves the court to direct the owner or
occupant of such mill or canal to give security for the payment of the
(a) 4 Me. 882; 5 Me. 9; 12 Me. 188; 21 Me. 220; 82 Me. 89, 888 ; 88 Me. 278, 547; 42
Me. 64; 48 Me. 462 ; 56 Me. 895.

TITLE IX.]

MILLS AND MILL-DAMS.

723

annual damages, and the court so orders, the owner or occupant Chap. 92.
refusing or neglecting to give such security shall have no benefit of
this chapter; but shall be liable to be sued for the damages occa
sioned by such flowing, in an action at common law.
Sec. 15. The party entitled to such annual compensation, may Complainant
maintain an action of debt or assumpsit therefor against any person damages, °if
who owns or occupies the said mill, or canal and mills supplied there- L^upon
by, when the action is brought ; and shall therein recover the whole fordamagesd
sum due and unpaid, with costs; and shall have a lien for such com- ?;?;C-^,U5.
.
. . .
- ,
i.
15 Me. 242.
pensation, from the time of the institution of the original complaint, 80 Me. 2«.
on the mill and mill-dam, or on the canal and the mill supplied there
by, with the appurtenances and the land under and adjoining them,
and used therewith, for any sum due not more than three years before
the commencement of the complaint.
Sec. 16. The execution on such judgment, if not paid, may at Mm and land
... , .
,
, , . ,
7,
.
.. . . ,. may be sold on
any time within thirty days be levied on the premises subject to the execution after
lien ; and the officer may sell the same at public auction, or bo much Effect of rale.
thereof in common with the residue, as is necessary to satisfy the 28 lie. 9?' * 16
execution, proceeding in giving notice of such sale as in selling an
equity of redemption on execution. Such sale shall be effectual
against all persons claiming the premises by any title, which accrued
within the time covered by the lien.
Sec. 17. Any person, entitled to the premises, may redeem them RiKht of
within one year after the sale, by paying to the purchaser, or the how™nforced.
person holding under him, the sum paid therefor, with interest at the R< Si c- 92, * 17rate of twelve per cent., deducting therefrom any rents and profits
received by such purchaser, or person holding under him ; and may
have the same process to compel the purchaser to account, as might
be had against a purchaser of an equity of redemption.
Sec. 18. "When either party is dissatisfied with the annual com- Either party
pensation established as aforesaid, a new complaint may be filed, and "mp'uunt.™
proceedings had and conducted substantially as in case of an original f6" fje'®?^18'
complaint.
Sec. 19. No new complaint shall he brought, until the expiration Jj^'^j11 of
of one month after the payment of the then last year is due, and one R.s.c. 92)519.
month after notice to the other party ; and the other party may within
that time make an offer or tender, as hereinafter is provided.
Sec. 20. The owner of the mill, dam, or canal, within said month, Owner may
may offer in writing to the owner of the land injured an increase of compensation,
compensation for the future ; and if the owner of >the land does not Scl™^
agree to accept it, but brings a new complaint for the purpose of
increasing it, he shall not recover any costs, unless he obtains an
increase greater than the offer.
Sec. 21. The owner of the land injured may, within said month, injured patty
offer in writing to the owner of the mill, dam, or canal, to accept a accep°t iess°

724

MILLS AND MILL-DAMS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 92. reduced compensation for the future; and if the owner of the mill,
compensation, dam, or canal, declines to pay it, but brings a new complaint to obtain
r s!c?»M2i. & reduction, he shall not recover costs, unless such compensation is
reduced to a sum less than was offered.
Tenants may
gEC< 22. Such offers may be made by or to the tenants or occumake such
» _
»
,
offers as well pants of the land, and of the mill and dam, or canal, m like manner
r.s.c, 92,^22. and with like effect, as if made by or to the owners; but no agree
ments founded thereon shall bind the owners, unless made by their
consent.
of sulte'for
^Ec. 23. No action shall be sustained at common law for the
damages.
recovery of damages occasioned by the overflowing of lands, or for
so Me. 246.
the diversion of the water as before mentioned, except in the cases
provided in this chapter, to enforce the payment of damages after
■ they have been ascertained by process of complaint as aforesaid.
Double damSec. 24. If after judgment, the restrictions imposed by the
raised higher, report of the commissioners or finding of the jury, respecting the
E?S.c,92,$24. flowing or diverting of the waters are violated, the party injured
thereby may recover of the wrong-doers double damages for his injury
in an action at common law.
Agreement of
Sec. 25. When an annual compensation, upon the acceptance by
in^'u record- one party of an offer made by the other, is established and signed by
r! s. c. 92, § 25. the owners of the mill, dam, or canal, and of the land, and recorded
in the office of the clerk of the court in which the former judgment
was rendered, with a reference on the record of the former judgment,
and to the book where the agreement is recorded, such agreement
shall be as binding as a verdict and judgment on a new complaint.
Judgment no
Sec. 26. A judgment against a complainant as not entitled to
bur to iv new
,
_ „ _
_
_ , ^ _
complaint.
any compensation shall be no bar to a new complaint for damages,
E.S.C. 92, $26. gjjgjjjg gj^er ^e former verdict, and for compensation for damages
subsequently sustained.
Tenderofdnm- sEC, 27. In case of an original complaint, the respondent may,
ages, and effect ...
.
"
,
. . .
thereof.
with the same advantages to himself, tender and bring money into
R.s.c.92,$ 27. C(mr^ ^ jn an actjon at common ]aw; and jf ;t ;s accepted, the judg
ment shall have the same effect as if rendered on a verdict.
Complaint not Sec. 28. No complaint for so flowing lands or diverting water
deMhof either 8^a^ abate by the death of any party thereto ; but it may be proseRfts"Vc 9MM cu*e^ or defended by the surviving complainants or respondents, or
if complaint
abates,
rights
preserved by
new complaint
within a year,
R,8.c.92,$29,

the executors or administrators of the deceased,
sEC- 29.
If such complaint
is abated
.
r
. or .defeated
■ for want of
form, or if after a verdict for the complainant, iudgment is reversed,
,
'
.
, . .
..
.„ .
,
he may bring a new complaint at any time within one year thereafter) an(j thereon recover the damages sustained during three years
next before the institution of the first complaint, or at any time after
wards.

TITLE IX.]

MILLS AND MILL-DAMS.

Sec. 30. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to mills and
dams erected upon streams forming the boundary line of the state,
although a part of the dam is not in the state ; and the rights and
.
*
.
......
remedies of all parties concerned shall be ascertained and determined
as if the whole of such streams were in the state.
Sec. 31. The court shall award a suitable compensation to be
paid to the commissioners, and taxed and recovered by the prevailing
party. The prevailing party shall recover his costs, except where it
is otherwise expressly provided.
Sec. 32. The owner or mortgagee in possession, of any mill used
for manufacturing lumber, shall be liable for the acts of his tenant in
unlawfully obstructing or diverting the water of any river or stream,
by the slabs or other mill waste from his mill, as well as the tenant
himself, but no action shall be maintained therefor without a demand
'
,
of damages, at least thirty days prior to its commencement. Such
unlawful obstruction or diversion by the tenant, shall, at the election
of the owner or mortgagee, and on written notice to the tenant,
terminate his tenancy.

725
Chap. 92.
^^hapTei^
Qpp'y to
streams forming the boundstate? 6
lie. 24«?8°
Compensation
sfonc^Costs.
B.S.c92,$8l.
Owner or
j^sc^m,1"
tenants"&e.
5o5MeC'479.
5? JJC54 Me. 487.

726

INQUESTS AND INFORMATIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 93.
CHAPTER 93.
INQUESTS OF OFFICE, AND INFORMATIONS FOR INTRUSION.
Sec. 1. Proceedings to revest in the state, lands granted on condition.
2. Attorney general to file information.
8. Scire facias to issue. Service.
4. Judgment on default.
5. Consequence of disclaimer by defendant.
6. Proceedings, if defendant claims title.
7. Proceedings if it is adjudged that defendant holds too much land.
8. Such part shall be located by persons appointed by the court.
9. Cases in which information may be filed, without order of the legislature.
Notice, how to be given.
10. Proceedings, judgment and costs,
11. Information to recover escheats. Notice.
12. Tenant to set up no title, unless he claims under it.
18. Costs, if defendant recovers.
11. Defendant may hold by title subsequently acquired. What judgment, if the
state recovers.
15. Effect of judgment, that the Btate be re-seized.
16, Tenant under the state to have betterments, though occupying less than six
years.
IT. Proceedings by attorney general to obtain betterments.
18. Execution therefor, how levied.

Proceedings to
Sec. 1. Where lands have heen granted by the colony or province
state,'lands
°f Massachusetts Bay, the commonwealth of Massachusetts, or by
condition"1
*k's state, or are hereafter granted, on certain conditions alleged to
R. s. c. 93, }i. have been violated; and the state claims to be revested therein, the
following proceedings shall be had.
Attorney genSeo. 2. When the legislature directs, the attorney general shall
information. nle an information in the supreme judicial court in the county where
R. s. c. 98, ♦ 2. ^e ian(j8
stating the grant and conditions, breaches, and claims of
the state.
Scire facias to
Sec. 3. The court shall issue a scire facias against the person
^c^j* stated as holding the lands under such grant, returnable to said court ;
which shall be served thirty days before the return day.
Judgment on
Sec. 4. If the defendant does not appear and answer to such
afi^c^s,* 4. information, judgment shall be rendered that the state be re-seized of
their lands.
Consequence
Sec. 5. If he appears and disclaims holding said lands or any
by defendant, part thereof, the attorney general shall take nothing by his informar. s. c. 98, t o. £on> 80 far ^ reSpectg the lands disclaimed ; and the defendant, and
all subsequently claiming under him, shall be estopped from claiming,
or holding such disclaimed lands.

TITLE IX.]

INQUESTS AND INFORMATIONS.

727

Sec. 6. If the defendant claims all or any part of the lands
under such grant, and traverses the breaches, the ■cause shall be tried
by jury, and if the issue is found in favor of the state, judgment shall
be rendered that the state be reseized of said estate and for costs ;
but if the issue is found for the defendant, he shall have judgment
for his costs, to be paid from the state treasury.
Sec. 7. If the only alleged breach of condition is that the defend*
°
ant holds more land than he has a right to hold under the grant, and
it is so found by the jury or the defendant's confession, the court shall
assign to him by metes and bounds so much of the land held by him,

Chap. 93.
^rjg^ndimt
^ai™s ^tie. 6

Proceedings,
lfit is adjudged
that defendant
iand.
K' s' c" 98' \ 7-

as is equal in^quantity to what he has a right to hold under the grant,
and in such part thereof as is judged reasonable by the court.
Sec. 8. Such part shall be located, by persons appointed by the
court, at the expense of the defendant, and a plan thereof returned
to the court ; and if confirmed by the court, they shall order an
attested copy of the location and plan to be filed in the land office,

Suc^artsh^u
persons
the court, &c.
R' S* °" 98, * 8°

and judgment shall be rendered that the state be reseized of the res
idue, and for costs.
Sec. 9. In all other cases where an inquest is necessary, the attor- Cases in which
71
.
. information
ney general, without order of the legislature, may file an information may be filed,
in said court, describing the estate claimed, and stating the title r. s. c. 98, $ 9.
asserted thereto by the state; and notice shall be given as before
mentioned, if there is any tenant in possession ; if not, the notice shall
be given as the court orders, at least ninety days before the sitting of
the court to which it is returnable.
Sec. 10. If no person appears and answers to the information, or Proceedings,
if a verdict is found, that the state has good title to such estate, judg- iosts?ient a°d
ment shall be rendered, that the state be seized thereof and recover K' s' °' 93' * 10,
costs ; but if the verdict is in favor of the defendant, he shall recover
his costs to be paid from the state treasury.
Sec. 11. The attorney general may file an information as afore- information to
said for recovering seizin by the state for any real estate supposed to "escheats,
have escheated to the state for want of legal heirs ; and the court r°8 ™'98 $ n
shall order such notice thereon as they judge proper.
Sec. 12. In such case, the defendant shall not avail himself of Tenant not to
the title of an alien, or subject of another nation or sovereign, or of alien? ' °* °
any other person, unless he shows that he is his tenant or agent.
k!s?c! BsJ'i 12.
Sec. 13. If on trial he proves that he is such tenant or agent, or Cogts ^
the legal
defendant
a owner of such estate,' he shall recover his costs,' to be paid
*
recovers.
as aforesaid.
R.s.c. 98,$i8.
Sec. 14. If it is found that he was not legal owner of such estate, Defendant
nor had any right as tenant or agent when the process was com- }°uLu<bse-by
menced against him, but afterward acquired a good title, or became ^"quired &c
tenant or agent, the attorney general shall cease further to pros- R- s- c- 93i * 14ecute the suit ; but when the defendant proves no such title to the

728

INQUESTS AND INFORMATIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 93. estate as owner, or interest therein as tenant or agent, judgment shall
he rendered that the state be seized thereof, and recover rents and
profits as in case of a writ of entry between private persons.
Effect of judg- Sec. 15. When judgment on information is rendered that the
state be * ° state be reseized or seized of any lands, the state shall be deemed in
RS.c. 98 $15. ^aw *° ^e 80 seized, and any judgment so rendered shall conclude all
privies and parties, and those claiming under them, so long as it
remains in force, subject to the provisions of the following section.
Tenant under
Sec. 16. If any person appears and by due process of law proves
have'better- himself to have a legal title to such estate, and recovers it against the
RS.'c. 98, $ 16. Btaie or fa grantee or tenant, the estate shall be liable for all expenses
of improvements thereon over and above the rents and profits thereof;
though the tenant and those claiming under the state had not been in
possession six years.
Proceedings
Sec. 17. For the purpose of ascertaining the amount of such
general"?^ improvements, the attorney general, or the tenant or grantee of the
merit" better estate, may file a bill in equity in the supreme judicial court for recovR. s.c.98,$it. ering the same; and proceedings shall be had thereon as in other
cases in equity to ascertain and adjust the amount.
Execution,
Sec. 18. The sheriff, by virtue of such execution, shall sell, at
R?s/c.V9M 18. public auction, so much of said land as will be sufficient to satisfy the
execution and charges, unless otherwise paid.

TITLE IX.

FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

729
Chap. 94.

CHAPTER 94.
Sec. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER. TENANCIES.
Forcible entry and detainer, when may be commenced.
Tenancy at will, or sufferance, how terminated.
What magistrates have jurisdiction.
Complaint how made, summons issued and served. If claimant lives out of
the county or state, proceedings.
When defendant fails to show sufficient cause or is defaulted, proceedings,
When defendant flics a brief statement claiming title in himself or another,
proceedings.
Claimant may allege that brief statement is intended for delay, proceedings.
Either party may appeal, proceedings.
When judgment is for claimant, he may in all cases have possession.
Sums due for rent and claims for damages may be recovered by action of
assumpsit.

maybe main- Forcible
entry A^v
ov^f'f^/
. Sec.
, 1. . A process of forcible entry and
. detaineri.i
and detainer,
y,y'~Ha'
tamed against a disseizor, who has not acquired any claim by posses- when may be
sion and improvement ; and against a tenant holding under a written r. s. c. m, $
f/fyt
lease or contract, or person holding under such tenant, at the expira- mmc/288%87.
tion or forfeiture of the term, without notice, if commenced within jj? ^
seven days from the expiration or forfeiture of the term ; and against <*? *|c. 106.
a tenant at will, whose tenancy has been terminated as provided in ^>fe. 270^
the following section.
" \%S
„
Sec. 2. All tenancies at will may be determined by either party, Tenancy at W • ->
,
...
..
..
,
,
.
,
'•" will, how ter- *V " ■lt<*-/
by thirty days notice m wntmg for that purpose given to the other minuted^ Ag- >,
3 if
party, and not otherwise except by mutual consent, and excepting Fn^Vn^andof^" " J*"?-*
cases where the tenant is liable to pay rent and no rent is due at the R.'s^&^irM-;' ■ pi*
time the notice expires. When terminated, the tenant is liable to the J^g' £• \j9 . ■ <? /•
process aforesaid without further notice, and without proof of any JJc. 209. />
relation of landlord and tenant, unless he has paid, after service of 20 Me. 70^
the notice, rent that accrued after the termination of the tenancy. 24 Me! 242!
These provisions apply to tenancies of buildings erected on land of gc Me." 188.'
a third party.
Sec. 3. Trial justices and judges of municipal and police courts whatmagishave jurisdiction of cases of forcible entry and detainer respecting jurisdiction,
estates within their counties. Such judges have exclusive jurisdiction 4 jie.'ilt! * 8"
of them within their cities or towns, unless interested.
^
Sec. 4. The process of forcible entry and detainer shall be com- Process of
menced by inserting the substance of the complaint, as a declaration, Ind detainer
in a writ of attachment, to be endorsed and served like other writs ; ed^endorscd"°
and when the plaintiff lives out of the state, and a recognizance is ™ten plaintiff

730

FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 94. required of him, any person may recognize in his behalf and shall be
^crmeayan" ' personally liable.
recognize for
gEC- 5< When the defendant is defaulted, or fails to show suffi?87o' c iii* *' °^en^ cause> judgment shall be rendered against him for possession of
When defend- the premises, and a writ of possession issued to remove him, which
sho'w^luse, or may De served by a constable.
writeofUpos^'
Sec. 6. When the defendant pleads not guilty and files a brief
and by whom0
Ims c 94 $ 5
Proceedings
flles a brief
tide!ment °f
?«mc,«{*6'
So Me. 4ol,
58 Me' 158

Claimant may
briefVtoteedCfordeiay"d*
proceedings,

Either party
p^cJcedfngs.'
^ tie 481 ' 8

when jnd(fedXVciiita-6*"
fnaiihcasesy
have possesR. s. c. 94, $9.

statement of title in himself or in another person, under whom he
c^ms the premises, he shall, except as hereafter provided, recognize
in a reasonable sum to the claimant, with sufficient sureties, conditioned to pay all intervening damages and costs, and a reasonable
ren' f°r tne premises ; and the claimant shall in like manner recognize to the defendant, conditioned to enter the suit at the next term
. '
°^ ^e suPreme ju-clicial court, and pay all costs adjudged against him.
If either party neglects so to recognize, judgment shall be rendered
against him as on nonsuit or default.
Sec. 7. But the claimant may make a written allegation, that
the brief statement of the defendant is frivolous and intended for
delay, and the magistrate may then examine the case so far as to
ascertain the truth respecting it, and if satisfied of the truth of such
allegation, he may proceed to try the cause upon the plea of not
guilty, and if determined in favor of the claimant, may issue a writ
of possession for removal of the defendant ; but this shall not pre
vent an appeal as provided in the following section.
Sec. 8. Either party may appeal from a judgment to the
supreme judicial court next to be held in the same county. When
*ne c^aiman* appeals, he shall recognize in manner aforesaid to the
defendant, except as hereafter provided, conditioned to enter the suit
and pay all costs adjudged against him. . When the defendant
appeals, he shall recognize in like manner to the claimant, conditioned
to enter the suit and pay all intervening costs and such reasonable
rent of the premises, as the magistrate shall adjudge, if the judg
ment is not reversed,
Sec. 9. When judgment is rendered for the claimant, a writ of
possession shall issue in all cases, if the claimant recognizes to the
defendant in manner before provided, conditioned to pay all such
damages and costs as may be awarded against him, if final judgment
is rendered for the defendant; and on trial if the jury find for the
defendant, they shall find the damages sustained by him ; and in case
of nonsuit his damages shall be assessed by the court; and the claim
ant may give evidence of any claim for rent of the premises, to be
set off against damages claimed by the defendant. If the defend
ant prevails, the court may or not, as justice requires, issue a writ to
restore to him possession of the premises.

TITLE IX.]

WASTE AND TRESPASS.

Sec. 10. Sums due for rent on leases under seal or otherwise,
and claims for damages to premises rented, may be recovered in an
action of assumpsit, on account annexed to the writ, specifying the
items and amount claimed.

Sec. 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
18.
11.
15.

16.

731
Chap. 95.
fcu„™andedam"ses how reR. s.c 94,§io.

CHAPTER 95.
WASTE AND TRESPASS ON REAL ESTATE.
Remedy if tenant for life or years commits waste; the heir may sne for waste
committed in his ancestor's time, as well as in his own time.
Proceedings in court; jury in all cases to assess damages, with or without a
view of the premises; action of the case may be brought instead of waste.
Reversioner and remainder man may sue for damages.
The action will lie against the executor or administrator.
Part owners not to commit waste without giving thirty days' notice; treble
damages to be awarded in such case; how recovered and appropriated.
Defendant not to pay treble damages in certain cases.
Injunction to prevent waste pending a process for the recovery of lands, and
on lands attached.
Treble damages may be recovered for waste on lands pending a suit therefor.
Trespass on lands of another without his consent.
Trespasses on public buildings or property of county, town, parish or school
district.
Trespasses by taking grass, fruit, or other vegtablcs from improved lands.
Penalty for waste on lands of a person deceased insolvent.
Liability of executor or administrator for committing waste.
One or more tenants in common may join or sever in actions for damages.
Notice to the other co-tenants to be given, who may become plaintiffs.
Judgment to be rendered for the whole damage, and execution to issue for the
proportion which the plaintiffs have sustained. Scire facias on such judg
ment by the other co-tenants for their shares,
II one or more joint tenant takes the whole rent, the co-tenants may recover
their share, after demand.

.
Sec. 1. If any tenant in dower, by courtesy, for life, or for
years, commits or suffers any waste on the premises, the person having the next immediate estate of inheritance, may recover the place
wasted and the damages done to the premises, in an action of waste
against him- ; and an heir may recover in the same action for waste
done in his own time and the time of his ancestor.
Sec. 2. Any issue of fact shall be tried by a iury, with or with»
» J J'
out a view of the premises, as the court orders ; and the jury that
inquires of the waste shall assess the damages. An action on the
case in nature of waste, may be substituted for the action of waste.

Remedy if tcnant for life or
waste.'&c!""
fa Me" 484.^ *
J® jJe! 868.'
51 Me- 484>
tried by jfury
y/ho assess
damages; actions of^the
waste,
52 ti^ui. 2

732

WASTE AND TRESPASS.

[TITLE IX .

Chap. 95.
man or rever^"damage!"0
R. s. c. 95, §'s.
51 Mc! 484'.
Action will lie
against executororadminisR.S. c. 95, §4.
Part owners
not to commit
waste without
Treble dam™'
cases, how reappropriated.
?5MeC'i98 ' 5"
44 Me. 79.

Sec. 3. The remainder man, or reversioner for life, or years only,
or m fee simple, or fee tail, after an intervening estate for life, may
mam*;ain such action, and recover the damages he has suffered by
the waste.
Sec. 4. Such action may be originally commenced against the
executors or administrators of the tenant, or prosecuted against them
„,.,,.„,
.
,
after his death, if brought agamst him before death.
Sec. 5. If any joint tenant, coparcener, or tenant in common of
undivided lands, cuts down, destroys, or carries away any trees, tim'
.
.
, ,
.
ber, wood or underwood, standing or lying on such lands, or dig3 up
or carries away any ore, stone, or other valuable thing found thereon,
or commits any strip or waste, without first giving thirty days' notice
m writing under his hand, to all other persons, or to their agents or
a^rney85 an(i *° mortgagers and mortgagees, if any there are, interested therein, of his intention -to enter upon and improve the land ;
and if any persons interested are unknown, or their residence is
unknown, or out of the state, the notice to them may be published in
the state paper three times, the first publication to be forty days
before such entry ; or if he does any such acts pending a process for
partition of the premises, he shall forfeit three times the amount of
damages ; and any one or more of the co-tenants, without naming the
others, may sue for and recover their proportion of such damages.
Ocfendant to
Sec. 6. If the jury finds, that the defendant in such suit has
gle damages in good reason to believe himself the owner of the land in severalty, or
rJs.'c. tSlTfi. *na* ne
*-nose under whom he claims had been in the exclusive
possession thereof, claiming it as their own for three years next
before the acts complained of were committed, only single damages
shall be recovered.
Injunction to
Sec. 7. If any defendant in an action to recover possession of
pending"a"'8 real estate, or any person whose real estate is attached in a civil acrewTCr/of the ^on' ^oes m7 act °^ waste thereon, or threatens or makes preparations
lands'attached 80 *°
an^ Jus^ce °^ *^e supreme judicial court, in vacation or term
R. s. c. 95, $ 7. time, may issue an injunction to stay such waste ; but notice shall first
be given to the adverse party to appear and answer, unless the appli
cant files a bond, with sufficient sureties, to respond to all damages and
costs; and the court may enforce obedience to such injunctions by
such process as may be employed in an equity case, and dissolve it
when deemed proper.
Treble damSec. 8. If, during the pendency of any action for the recovery
3>le for waste °f Iwdi, the tenant makes any strip or waste by cutting, felling, or deingIansluitPend 8kroymg any wood, timber, trees, or poles standing thereon, he shall
Oicrefor
pay to the aggrieved party treble damages, to be recovered in an action
R. a. c. 95, § 8.
"
8i Me. 184,
of trespass.

TITLE IX.]

WASTE AND TRESPASS.

733

Sec. 9. If any person cuts down, destroys, injures, or carries Chap. 95.
away, any ornamental or fruit trees, timber, wood, underwood, stones, Trespass on
gravel, ore, goods, or property of any kind, from land not his own, er without his
without license of the owner, or injures or throws down any fences, k^&c.'m, § 9,
bars, or gates, or leaves such gates open, or breaks any glass in any
building, he shall be liable in damages to the owner in an action of
trespass, (a)
Sec. 10. Where any trespasses are committed on any buildings, J^P"81^ on
inclosures, monuments, or mile stones, belonging to a county, town, or em- of county,
parish, the treasurer of such corporation may sue for the damages in OTschoowiisits name ; and if the property injured belongs to a school district, the mav sue! h°
treasurer of the town may sue in its name.
K. s.c. 95,§io.
Sec. 11. If any person enters on any grass land, orchard, or Trespasses by
garden, and takes therefrom, without permission of the owner, any fruit" AcTfrom
grass, hay, fruit, vegetable, or shrub, he shall be liable to the party iJmdj0ivcd
injured in a sum equal to three times the value of the articles so taken
away, in an action of trespass.
Sec. 12. If an heir or devisee of a person deceased, whose estate
i3 represented insolvent, afterwards and before sale of the real estate
for payment of debts, or before all the debts are paid, removes or in-

^ Me' sis'11'
49 Me- nPenalty for
oV^person™^
v!jnetased inso1'

jures any building or trees, except what is needed for fuel or repairs, foM^'feV12'
or commits any strip or waste on such estate, he shall forfeit treble 15 Me- 205.
the amount of damages, to be recovered by the executor or adminis
trator in an action of trespass.
Sec. 13. If such executor or administrator is heir or devisee, and Liability 0f
commits such trespass or waste, on proof thereof before the judge of administrator
probate, he shall be liable to the same extent as the heirs or devisees ; waste?™11"1"8
and in both cases, the damages, when recovered by the executor or R S- C-9M18administrator, or adjudged against him by the judge of probate, shall
be accounted for in the administration account.
Sec. 14. All or any of the tenants in common, co-parceners or one or more
joint tenants of any lands may join or sever in personal actions for in- TOmmonmav
juries done thereto, setting forth in the declaration the names of all J'"in in actions.
,
. '
0
Notice to other
other co-tenants, if known, and the court may order notice to be given co-tenants, &c.
in such actions to all other co-tenants known, and all or any of them, 29 Me.' ins! U'
at any time before final judgment, may become plaintiffs in the action, iS e' 242'
and prosecute the suit for the benefit of all concerned.
Sec 15. The court shall enter judgment for the whole amount of Judnrment for
the injury proved; but award execution only for the proportion thereof dnma»e?&c.
sustained by the plaintiffs ; and the remaining co-tenants may after- jnI\rFs" f°r
wards jointly or severally sue out a scire facias on such judgment, ;*>arc. Scire
,,.,„,.,
, , „ , .
J 6
> facias by other
and execution shall be thereupon awarded for their proportion of the co-tenants for
3
, , .
. . ,
their shares.
damages adjudged in the original smt.
k. 8. c. 95, $ 15.
(a) 8 Me. 6; 18 Me. 87; 11 Me. 489; 22 Me. 450; 89 Me. 28; 46 Me. 423; 48 Me. 247;
54 Me. 861.

REPLEVIN.

734
Chap. 96.
if one or more
take' the "whole
mavmo™
R. S. c.95,$i«-

[title is.

Sec. 16. If any one or more of the joint tenants or tenants in
common take the whole rents or income of the joint estate, or more
tnan ^eir share, without the consent of their co-tenants, and refuse,
*n a reasonable time after demand, to pay such co-tenants their share
thereof, any one or more of them may have an action of special
assumpsit against the refusing co-tenants, to recover their proportion
thereof.

CHAPTER 96.
REPLEVIN OF BEASTS AND CHATTELS.
Replevin of Beasts.
Sec. 1.
2.
8,
i.
5.
6.
7.

Sec. 8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
18.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

Owner of beasts distrained, may replevy them.
The writ may be sued out, served, returned and tried like other cases.
Bond to be given before service of writ. When new sureties may be required
If the beasts are lawfully distrained, defendant to have judgment for forfeiture
or damages, fees, costs and expenses, or for a return.
If unlawfully distrained, plaintiff to have judgment for damages and costs.
Either party may appeal,
In what cases and how a cause may be transferred from a justice to the su
preme judicial court.
Replevin op Goods.
Any goods, unlawfully detained, may be replevied.
In what courts replevin may be brought.
Bond to be given before service, and when new sureties may be required.
If plaintiff fails in his suit, defendant to have judgment for return, and for
damages and costs. Judgment when property held as security,
Assessment of damages on judgment for return of property to an attaching
officer.
Disposal of the money recovered by the officer for goods attached or taken on
execution.
Appropriation of the money received by the creditor in such cases,
Judgment for damages and costs, if plaintiff recovers.
Continuance of attachment, if goods arc replevied.
When a writ of reprisal may issue.
Defendant's remedy on the replevin bond,
Limitation of surety's liability on replevin bond,

REPLEVIN OF BEASTS.
Owners of
Sec. 1. Any person, whose heasts are distrained or impounded to
tramed'may recover a penalty or forfeiture supposed to be incurred by their going
rpsY 9*6 Ti at large> or to 0Dtam satisfaction for damages alleged to be done by
17 Me, 187.
them, may maintain a writ of replevin therefor against the impounder

TITLB IX.]

REPLEVIN.

735

or finder, before any trial justice in the county, in the form prescribed
hv
°y low
laW'
.
Sec. 2. The ■writ shall be sued out, served, and returned, and

Chap. 96.
18 Mo.
Me. 481.
247.
28
Writ may be

the cause shall be heard and determined like other civil actions before
a trial justice, except as otherwise prescribed'.
Sec. 3. The writ shall not be served, unless the plaintiff, or some
one in his behalf, executes and delivers to the officer a bond to the
defendant, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the officer, in a
penalty double the actual value of the property to be replevied, con-

cd, returned
othei™ases.ke
jj- s'^^' * 2'
given before
new'sureto?11
Xned? <"r"

ditioned as in the prescribed form of the writ, and to be returned with
the writ for the use of the defendant ; and if it afterwards becomes
insufficient the court may require an additional surety or sureties to
be furnished, who shall be held as if they had been original parties
thereto ; and if not so furnished, may dismiss the action, and order a
return of the property replevied, or make such other order as is
deemed reasonable.
Sec. 4. If it appears that the beasts were lawfully taken or distrained, the defendant shall have judgment for the sum found due
from the plaintiff for the penalty or forfeiture, or for damages for
which the beasts were impounded, with the legal fees, costs, and

f8"4" c'im *"
20 Me. 266.

expenses occasioned by the distress, and the costs of the replevin
suit ; or instead thereof, the justice or court, at discretion, may enter
judgment for a* return of the beasts to the defendant, to be held by
him for the original purpose, irrepleviable by the plaintiff, and for the
defendant's damages and costs in the replevin suit.
Sec. 5. If it appears that the beasts were taken or distrained
without justifiable cause, the plaintiff shall have judgment for his
damages and costs.
Sec. 6. Either party may appeal from the final judgment of the
justice, as m other civil actions.
Sec. 7. When it appears that the sum demanded for the penalty,
forfeitures, or damages, exceeds twenty dollars, or that the property

Thejudgment
are^awfoiiy
b.8^""?^ $ 4.
^ JJe.

if unlawfully
r. s. c. 96,' s 5.
Appeal,
22 Me. 558.
in what cases
transferred7 b°

of the beasts is in question, and their value exceeds twenty dollars, ^th *«up!reme
or that the title to real estate is in question, at the request of either Rjdgcig19g"tf
party, the case shall be transferred to the supreme judicial court, to
be there disposed of as provided by law respecting actions brought
before a trial justice, in which the title to real estate is brought in
question ; but the party requesting such transfer shall recognize in
such reasonable sum, as the justice orders, to enter the action at the
next term of said court, prosecute it with effect, and pay all interven
ing damages and and costs.
REPLEVIN OF GOODS.

Goods unlaw-

Sec. 8. When any goods, unlawfully taken or detained from the may bere'pievowner or person entitled to the possession thereof, or attached on r?s. c. 96, $ 8.

736

*

REPLEVIN.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 96. mesne process, or taken in execution, are claimed by any person other
"ijeiw^'ii
*nan *ne defendant in the suit, in -which they are so attached or taken,
such owner or person may cause them to be replevied, (a)
In what courts gKc. 9 If the value of the goods exceeds twenty dollars, the action
replevin may
. , ■
.....
, ,
be brought, shall be brought in the supreme judicial court for the county where
12 Me. lei. * the goods are detained; if it does not exceed twenty dollars, before
40 Me. 578.
any
jua^;ce 0f ^e county where the goods are detained.
Bond to be
Sec. 10. The officer before serving the writ shall take from the
service. New plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, a bond to the defendant, with sufberre"Cuircdy ficient sureties, in double the value of the goods to be replevied, conE. s.c.96Jlo. droned as in the prescribed form of the writ, to be returned with the
writ to the court from which the writ issued, for the use of the defend
ant, and new sureties may be required thereon as provided in section
three. (J)
if defendant
Sec. 11. If it appears that the defendant is entitled to a return
return, shall of the goods, he shall have judgment and a writ of return accordingly,
return,w"h°f with damages for the taking and costs. If the plaintiff claims the
damage and p^j^y replevied as security for a debt, his claim shall be discharged
whlmproperty
is held as secunty.
R.s.c. 96, ui.
Assessment of
fudgnfeent°for
return of property which was
attached or
cutfon?" exe
R.S.c.96, §12.

^v Payment or tender thereof, with interest and costs ; and judgment
shall be for a return without costs, unless his title has become absolute
by a legal foreclosure, (c)
Sec. l^. If the goods when replevied were taken in execution,
or Cached, and judgment is afterwards rendered for the attaching
creditor, and if, in either case, the service of the execution is delayed
..
„
by the replevin, the damages on a judgment for a return shall not be
less than at the rate of twelve per cent, by the year on the value of
flje g00(jg -^hiie the service of the execution is so delayed.

Disposal of the Sec. 13. All sums recovered by an officer in an action of replevin
crecTby'officer on account °f goods attached or taken in execution by him, or recovfor
goods
bond,' shall
tached
or atta- ere(j m a sujt Up0n
r the replevin
1
, be applied :
ken in execuFirst.—To pay the lawful fees and charges of the officer, and the
R.s!c. 96.U8. reasonable expenses of the replevin suit, and of the action on the
bond, so far as they are not reimbursed by the costs recovered.
Second.—To pay the creditor, at whose suit the goods were
attached or taken in execution, the sum, if any, recovered by him in
that suit, or what remains unpaid, with interest at the rate of twelve
per cent, by the year for the time the money was withheld from the
creditor, or the service of his execution delayed by reason of the
replevin.
Third.—If the attaching creditor in such case does not recover
judgment in his suit, or if any balance remains of the money so recov
ered by the officer, after paying the creditor his due, such balance
'a)SUe. 188; 4 Me. 806; 12 Me. 261; 15 Me. 245, 878; 19 Mo. 255, 281; 20 Mo. 287;
82 Me. 822; 40 Me. 578; 56 Me. 291, 557.
■•
:
(6) 11 Me. 128; 16 Me. 88 ; 20 Me. 98; 27 Me. 448; 28 Me. 241; 84 Me. 84; 87 Me. 25;
89 Me. 516; 54 Me. 115.
(c) 15 Me. 245, 878 ; 81 Me. 296 ; 46 Me. 414 ; 47 Me. 520 ; 58 Me. 808 ; 55 Me. 862 ; 56 Me. 12 8

TITLE IX.]

REPLEVIN.

737

or the whole amount, as the case may be, shall be applied as the sur- Ciiap. 96.
plus of the proceeds of sale should be applied if such goods had been
sold on execution.
Sec. 14. All sums received by such creditor from the sale of Appropriagoods attached or taken in execution,.and afterwards returned, for money receiyany of such goods not returned, and of the officer for the insufficiency jj1'/^!*
of the bond, shall be applied in discharge of the creditor's judgment;
but all sums received as interest or damages for delay of his execu
tion, shall be retained to his own use, and not go in discharge of the
judgment.
Sec. 15. If it appears that the goods were taken, attached, or Judgment, if
detained unlawfully, the plaintiff shall have judgment for his damages ersfDtlff re°°T"
caused thereby, and for his costs, (a)
R- s- c- 96, 5 15Sec. 16. If the goods replevied had been attached, they shall, in Continuance
case of judgment for a return, be held by the attachment until thirty {/ ^o^are"''
days after judgment in the suit in which they were attached ; and if j^g^jje $ 16such final judgment is rendered before the return of the goods, or if
the goods when replevied were seized on execution, they shall be held
by the same attachment or seizure for thirty days after the return, li
able to be taken and disposed of, as if they had not been replevied.
Sec. 17. When the officer, in the service of the writ of return when writ of
and restitution, is not able to find in his precinct the beast or other ^s?u"*al may
property directed to be returned in his precept, he shall certify that R- s- c- 96> * 17fact in his return ; and the court whence it issued, upon notice, may
grant a writ of reprisal, in the form prescribed by law, against the
plaintiff in replevin, to take his goods or beasts, not exempt from
attachment, of the full value, to be delivered to the defendant, to be
held and disposed of by him according to law, until the plaintiff re
stores the beast or other property replevied by him.
Sec. 18. The foregoing provisions shall not preclude the defendant from resorting to his remedy on the replevin bond, or to his
remedy against the officer for the insufficiency of the bond, to recover
the value of the goods together with the damage or loss occasioned by
the replevin thereof, notwithstanding he has endeavored to recover
the same by the writs of return and of reprisal as aforesaid. (J)
Sec. 19. No action shall be maintained against any person as
surety in a replevin bond, unless the writ is served on him within one
year after the final judgment in the action of replevin ; or if the
action is not entered by the plaintiff, and the defendant does not obtain
judgment upon a complaint, such wiit against the surety may be
served on him within one year after the end of the term, at which the
action of replevin ought to have been entered, and not afterwards.

Defendant's
^""vfn^ond
R- s- c- "» ♦ 18>

Limitation of
l^t^on'ref^g1" ^n^9

(a) 6 Me. 261; 12 Me. 51; 15 Me. 20, 245; 20 Me. 88; 21 Me. 508 ; 40 Me. 284; 56 Me.
1T0.*? - 3i'(.
(b) 11 Me. 66; 18 Me. 260; 21 Me. 508 ; 88 Me. 884; 46 Mc. 408; 53 Mc. 422; 54 Me. /£ <y
115; 55 Me 862; 56 Me. 170.
47

738

BASTARD CHILDREN.

TITLE IX.

Chap. 97.
CHAPTER 97.
Sec. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10,

BASTARD CHILDREN AND THEIR MAINTENANCE.
Accusations by a woman pregnant with a bastard child, and her examination.
Justice may issue a warrant.
Person arrested to give bond. On refusal, to be committed.
Cause to be continued, if complainant is not delivered, or unable to attend
court. Surrender of principal by his sureties, and proceedings.
Declaration must be filed before trial; form thereof.
On what conditions complainant may maintain her prosecution.
Proceedings if respondent is adjudged guilty. If not guilty, respondent to be
discharged.
Complainant not to settle with the father, unless by the written consent of the
overseers of the poor.
Town prosecuting, liable for costs, if respondent prevails.
The father may be discharged from imprisonment, on taking the poor debtor's
oath; his liability to the mother and town, after such discharge in action
of debt. .

O
Accusation
Sec. 1. When a woman pregnant with a child, that if born alive,
prognanTwith niay be a bastard, or who has been delivered of a bastard childj
cn^!d,tand her accuses any man of being the father thereof, before any justice of
KC<sncn97io? l *ne Peace» an<^ re(luest8 a prosecution against him, he shall take her
Mb, 2> le (J

v.
HiA^1

accusation and examination on oath, respecting the accused, and the
time and place when and where the child was begotten, as correctly
/ as they can be described, and all such other circumstances as he
cl^(i) b' 'jlS deems useful in the discovery of the truth, (a)
justice may
Sec. 2. He may issue his warrant for the apprehension of such
issue a war- personj directed to the sheriff of any county in which the accused is
B. s. c. 97, s 2. 8Upp0se(i to reside, accompanied by such accusation and examination.
Person arrestbond *or be
committed.
R S c 97 $ 8
2 Me. 165.'
19 Me.4409.
86 Me." 486.'
56 Me 414'
Causc to be
complainant
er^t.heiSurrenpal by nis"0'
•ttreties.

Sec.
When the person is brought before such or any other
justice, he may require him to give bond to the complainant, with
sufficient sureties, in such reasonable sum as he orders, conditioned
for his appearance at the next supreme judicial court for the county
in which she resides, and for his abiding the order of court thereon ;
an(^ n0 ne does n0* S've >'» ne 8na^ commit him to jail until he does.
^EC' ^' ^ a* sucn nex* or any subsequent court, the complainant is not delivered of her child, or is unable to attend court, or for
other good reason, the cause may be continued ; and the bond shall
remam m force until final judgment, unless the sureties of the

accuse<i surrender him in court at any time before final judgment,
which they may do, and thereupon they shall be discharged ; and he
' shall be committed until a new bond is given.
(a) 8 Me. 168; 16 Me. 88; 18 Me. 804, 872; 86 Me. 486; 87 Me. 546 ; 89 Me. 469.

TITLE IX.]

BASTAED CHILDREN.

739

Sec. 5. Before proceeding to trial, the complainant must file a Chap. 97.
declaration, stating that she has been delivered of a bastard child mu*lbe'fiied
begotten by the accused, the time and place when and where it was
begotten, with as much precision as the case will admit ; that being
put on the discovery of the truth during the time of her travail, she
accused the respondent of being the father of the child, and that she
has been constant in such accusation.

j£™™h»reof
R-^s. c^9T, § 5.
e Me. 460.'
55
360.
66 Me- 817'

Sec. 6. When the complainant has made said accusation ; been ^"ionsfeonv"
examined on oath as aforesaid ; been put upon the discovery of the ^inS^n"^
truth of such accusation at the time of her travail, and thereupon has {^"g^g01^ 6
accused the same man with being the father of the child of which she
is about to be delivered ; has continued constant in such accusation
and prosecutes him as the father of such child before such court ; he
shall be held to answer to such complaint ; and she may be a witness
in the trial, (a)
Sec. 7. If, on such issue, the jury finds the respondent not guilty, J^^^8,^
he shall be discharged ; but if they find him guilty, or the facts in the adjudged giuideclaration filed are admitted by default or on demurrer, he shall be guilty, to be
adjudged the father of such child ; stand charged with its maintenance, r^'Ism t.
with the assistance of the mother, as the court orders ; and shall sy'm^mb.
give a bond, with sufficient sureties approved by the court, to the
complainant to perform said order, and a bond, with sufficient sureties
so approved, to the town liable for the maintenance of such child ; and
be committed till he gives them. The latter bond to be deposited
with the clerk of the court for the use of such town.
Sec. 8. No woman, whose accusation and examination on oath, Complainant
,-..„.,
. ,
iiii not ,0 settle
have been taken by a justice of the peace at her request, shall make with.the father ^
a settlement with the father, or give him any discharge to bar or affect in writing!
such complaint, if objected to in writing by the overseers of the poor fgMeTiM. 8"
of the town interested in her support or the child's.
Sec. 9. A town, prosecuting in behalf of the complainant, shall Town
be liable to the respondent, if he prevails, for his costs of court, to be for costs if resrecovered in an action of the case ; or the court may, on his motion, ?aTis.ent Pr*
enter judgment against the town for such costs, and issue execution 1884>C-27M3.
thereon.
Sec. 10. When the father of such bastard child has remained How and when
.
1
• m
1 •
1
• ii n
ji
- the father may
ninety days in jail, without being able to comply with the order of be discharged
court, he may be liberated by taking the poor debtor's oath, as onment!PnAcpersons committed on execution; but he shall give fifteen days' notice r^¥°er sums*0
of his intention to do so, to the mother, if living, and to the clerk of jJhlB!r^Jter di3"
the town where the child has its legal settlement, if in this state. R. s. c.97, $9.
19 Mg. 409.
The mother and said town may, after such liberation, recover of him 82 Me. 21.'
(a) 8 Me. 168; 18 Me. 89, 804, 872 ; 28 Me. 578 ; 88 Me. 481; 84 Me. 287 ; 85 Me. 488;
89 Me. 469; 44 Mc. 842; 56 Me. 817.

740

PERSONAL PROPERTY LIBELLED.

TITLB IX.]

Chap. 98. by action of debt any sum of money, which ought to have been paid
pursuant to the order of court.

CHAPTER 98.
PERSONAL PROPERTY SEIZED, AND LOST GOODS; AND PROCEEDINGS
THEREON.
Sec. 1. Seizure of forfeited personal property, by the person entitled thereto.
2. To be restored to claimant, on his giving bond.
S. The same to be appraised.
4. Inventory and appraisal, if there is no claimant.
5. If the valne exceeds twenty dollars, libel to be in the supreme judicial court.
How notice of libel to be given.
6. Proceedings and decree thereon. Court may order party signing to give bond.
7. If libel is not supported, or is discontinued, court shall decree restoration.
Damages for seizure without probable cause.
8. If the value is less than twenty dollars, libel to be before a trial justice.
9. Appeal; decree to be affirmed, if appeal is not prosecuted; depositions may
be used in the trial.
10, 11. Duty of finder of goods worth three dollars, or more; also, worth ten dollars,
or more.
12. Proceedings, if owner appears in one year.
18. If no owner appears within one year, the finder to have the money or goods,
on paying one-half the value to the town treasurer.
14. Penalty, if finder neglects to give notice.

Who may seize Sec. 1. When any personal property is forfeited for an offence,
sonai'prop-1 and no special mode is prescribed for recovering it, any person entitled
Jt%. c. 98, § i. *° tne whole or part of it, may seize and keep it till final judgment,
unless restored on the bond as herein provided.
To be restored
Sec. 2. If the person claiming it for himself or another, gives
hls'Svfng1'011 bond to the party seizing, with sufficient surety, to pay the appraised
R? s c. 98 $ 2. value when it is decreed forfeited, it shall be restored to him.
TobeapSec. 3. The value shall be ascertained by the appraisment of
howSCd' a"d three disinterested men mutually chosen by the parties ; or if they
R. s. c. 98, $ 8. cannot agree, by a justice of the peace of the county,
inventory and
Sec. 4. If no person claims the property after it has been so
daim'int.'lfn° seized, the party seizing shall cause an inventory and appraisement
R. 8. c. 98, $ 4. thereof to be made by three disinterested persons, under oath,
appointed by a justice of the county; which shall be the rule for
deciding where the libel shall be filed,
if the value
Sec. 5. If the property seized exceeds twenty dollars, the party
libel to be filed seizing, within twenty days thereafter, shall file a libel in the clerk's
How notice of office of the supreme judicial court in the county where the offence

TITLE IX.]

PERSONAL PROPERTY LIBELLED.

741

was committed, stating the cause of seizure, and praying for a decree Chap. 98.
of forfeiture. The clerk shall thereupon make out a notice to all per- libel to be
sons to appear at such court at the time appointed, to show cause why rVs?'c. 98, $ 5.
such decree should not be passed, which shall be published in some
newspaper printed in the county, if any, if not, in the state paper, at
least fourteen days before the time of trial.
Sec. 6. When there is a claimant, the court may order the party Court may
seizing to give bond to him with sufficient surety for the safe keeping seizing to'give
of the property seized, and compliance with the decree of court for cmilnss and
restoration, and the payment of costs and damages, if not forfeited, b^V^M*?'
and may hear and determine the cause by a jury, or without, if the i860, c. 165.
parties agree, and may allow costs against the claimant ; if there is
no claimant, the court shall decree the forfeiture and disposition of
the property according to law, and a sale and distribution of the pro
ceeds, after deducting all proper charges.
Sec. 7. If the libel is not supported, or is discontinued, the court if UbeHs not
shall decree a restoration of the property, with costs. If the jury or property
court finds the seizure without probable cause, reasonable damages costs and damshall be decreed for the claimant.
If0!; c. 98) $ 7.
Sec. 8. When the property seized does not exceed twenty if^thc vaiueis
dollars, the libel shall be filed before a trial justice of the county ubei to befiied
where the offence was committed ; and after notice as aforesaid has j ustice.
been posted at two or more public places in the county, seven days at E' S- c- 98> ' 8'
least before the day of trial, he shall try and decide the cause, and
make such decree therein as law requires.
Sec.
, . 9.
., Either
, eparty
J may
. r appeal
rr . to., the next supreme
,r
. Jjudicial
....
court in the county, recognizing as in other cases of appeal ; 11 the
appeal is not prosecuted, the court, on complaint, may affirm the
decree of the justice, with costs; and depositions, duly taken, may

Appeal;
decree
to be affirmed,
if not prosesTtions iised?0"
B.s. c. 98,§9.

be used in the trial of the action.
Sec. 10. The finder of money or goods of the value of three Jfn^fsflnder
ollars or more, if the owner is unknown, within ten days next fol- worth $3, or
lowing, shall give notice thereof in writing to the clerk of the town r.s.c.98,$io.
where they are found, post up a notification thereof in some public
place in said town, and cause it to be publicly cried therein on three
several days, if there is any public crier in said town. And if the
value of said money or goods is ten dollars or more, the same shall
be cried and notice given by posting as aforesaid in two towns adjoin
ing, in addition.
Sec. 11. Every finder of lost goods of the value of ten dollars Also, if worth
or more, within two months after finding, and before using them to !1°s.0c^jii,
their disadvantage, shall procure a warrant from the town clerk or a
justice of the peace, directed to two persons appointed by said clerk
or juftice not interested, except as inhabitants of the town, returna-

742

PERSONAL PROPERTY LIBELLED.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 98. ble within seven days from the date in said clerk's office, to appraise
said goods under oath.
Proceedings, if Sec. 12. If the owner of such lost money or goods appears
owner appears . .
.
.
, * , .
in one year, within one year after said notice to the clerk, and gives reasonable
E. S. c. 98, 4 12. evj(jence 0f jjjg ownership to the finder, he shall have restitution of
them or their value, paying all necessary charges and reasonable
compensation to the finder, to be adjudged by a justice of the peace
of the county, if the owner and finder cannot agree.
Proceedings, if Sec 13. If no owner appears within one year, such money or
app&irswithin ^os* goods shall belong to the finder, by paying one half their value
Ensyc98 i) 18 *° *ne treasurer of said town, after deducting all necessary charges ;
but if he neglects to pay it on demand, it may be recovered in an
action brought by said treasurer in the name of the town.
Penalty, if
Sec. 14. If the finder of lost money or goods, of the value of
to Bive^'ice* *nree dollars or more, neglects to give notice to the town clerk and
R.8,c.98,$H. cause them to be cried and advertised as herein provided, he shall
forfeit the full value thereof, one half to the use of the town, and
the other half to him who sues therefor, and be liable to the owner
for the lost money or goods.

title ix.]

habeas corpus.

743
Chap. 99.

CHAPTER 99.
habeas corpus.
Sec. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
18.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
28.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
80.
81.
82.
88.
84.
35.

Who may prosecute the writ, as matter of right.
Minors enlisting in the army or navy, entitled to benefits of this chapter.
Parent, master, or guardian of minor restrained, entitled to such writ.
Supreme judicial court may grant such writ, on application of any person, in
behalf of one incapable of making his own application.
Who are not so entitled as of right.
Application ; how made by persons not of right entitled.
To be returnable before the court, or any justices thereof.
Application to be in writing, signed and sworn to, and shall state the case
clearly. When the writ shall not issue.
Proceedings, if excessive bail is demanded.
If the officer refuses a copy of the precept, the writ shall issue forthwith,
Form of writ, in cases mentioned in the fifth section.
Time of service and return. Tender of fees.
Officer, when he makes return, to bring the body of the person restrained.
Proceedings, if the person is sick, and cannot be brought.
Examination of the causes of restraint.
Persons interested to be notified before discharged.
Proceedings and decision upon the application. If no legal cause is Bhown for
imprisonment, prisoner shall be discharged.
Party detained and Imprisoned for any offence which is bailable, shall be ad
mitted to bail, and how.
Form of writ, if the restraint is not by an officer.
By whom issued, and where served.
If the person restraining is unknown, how designated.
If the person restrained is unknown, how designated.
Form of return in the cases mentioned in the eleventh and eighteenth sections.
How such return shall be authenticated.
Manner of keeping the party before judgment.
Penalty for neglect of an officer to give a copy of his precept for detaining a
prisoner.
Punishment if an officer neglects to serve a writ of habeas corpus.
If attachment is issued against a sheriff.
Proceedings in such case for release ef the person for whose benefit the writ
issued, if officer refuse to obey writ.
Persons discharged on habeas corpus, not to be arrested again, except in cer
tain cases.
Conveyance to prison of persons ordered to be committed. Penalty for elud
ing the service of a writ of habeas corpus.
Penalties no bar to action for damages.
A third person may appear for the party detained in certain cases.
Supreme court may allow bail, at discretion, or any justice thereof, except to
persons committed by governor, senate or house.
Admission of a person to bail, when committed for not finding sureties.
Habeas corpus may issue to bring in a prisoner as a witness.

744

HABEAS CORPUS.

[TITLE IX.

CHAP. 99. Sec. 86. Habeas corpus may issue, on application, in behalf of an iDsane person, com
mitted on mesne process, or execution.

Who may have Sec. 1. Every person unlawfully deprived of his personal liberty
writ, as matter
.
«
,t
i
• i
t
of right.
by the act of another, except in the cases hereinafter mentioned,
fs lie. 128.* *' shall of right have a writ of habeas corpus according to the provi
sions herein contained.
Minors enSec. 2. Any minor enlisted within this state into the army or
army or navy navy of the United States, without the written consent of his parent,
R^S?c?9M2. guardian, or master, shall have all the benefits of this chapter on the
application of himself, parent, guardian or master.
OT^uardian'of ^EC' ^"
Paren*' master5 or guardian of any minor, imprisonminor reed or restrained of his liberty, shall be entitled to the writ of habeas
erty, entitled corpu3 for him, if he would be entitled to it on his own application.
to it.
K. s.c.99, ^8.
Sec. 4. The supreme judicial court or any justice thereof, on
grant(suchay application of any person, may issue the writ of habeas corpus to
application of
any person
in
behalf
of one
incapable of
^9, H.
endtiSTof0'
Sfs.'c. 99, $ 5.

bring before them any party alleged to be imprisoned, or restrained
0f his liberty,
■" who would be
. entitled to it on his own application,
rr
when from any cause he is mcapable or making it.
Sec. 5. The following persons shall not of right have such writ :
First.—Persons committed to and confined in prison for treason,
felony, or suspicion thereof, or as accessories before the fact to a
felony, when the same is plainly and specially expressed in the war
rant of commitment.
Second.—Persons convicted or in execution upon legal process,
criminal or civil.
Third.—Persons committed on mesne process in any civil action,
on which they are liable to be arrested and imprisoned.
bVPerson0not
^EC- ^' ^n aPPucati°n for such writ by any person shall be made
of right cnti- to the supreme judicial court in the county where the restraint exists,
made.
if in session ; if not, to a justice thereof ; and when issued by the
E. s. c. 99, $ 6. cour^ JJ. gjjgjj ke retumable thereto ; but if the court is adjourned
without day or for more than seven days, it may be returned before a
justice thereof, and heard and determined by him.
To ho returnaSec. 7. When issued by a justice of the court, it may be made
court, ""any returnable before the court, himself, or any other justice thereof.
B™.8^ 99,Vir.
Sec. 8. The application shall be in writing, signed, and sworn to
bc'fnwriting'0 ^
Person ma^ino
stating the place where, and the person by
signed
and
whom,
the
restraint
is
made
; the applicant
shall produce
to the
sworn to.
'
rf
1
What it must court or justice a copy of the precept by which the person is so rethe writ shall strained, attested by the officer holding it ; and if, on inspection thereof,
R°s!Sc.U99, § 8.
appears to the court or justice that such person is thereby lawfully
imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, a writ shall not be granted.

HABEAS CORPUS.

TITLE IX.]

Sec. 9. If it appears that he is imprisoned on mesne process for
•want of bail, and the court or justice thinks excessive bail is demand'
•>
....
. .
ed, reasonable bail shall be fixed, and on giving it to the plaintiff,
he shall be discharged.
Sec. 10. If the prison keeper or other officer having the custody
<•
iiii
ii.
of such person, refuses or unreasonably delays to deliver to the applicant an attested copy of the precept by which he restrains him,
on demand therefor, the court or justice, on proof of such demand
and refusal, shall forthwith issue the writ of habeas corpus as prayed
for.
Sec. 11. When such writ is issued on application in behalf of any
person described in the fifth section, it shall be substantially as follows :
STATE OF MAINE.

745
Chap. 99.
Proceedings if
excessive bail
g demanded.
\( offlcer r«- „
fuses a copy of
precept, writ
r. s.c.99,$io.

Form of writ
in cuscs mentioned in the
fifth section.
r.s,c.99,ui.

To A. B. of
[l. s.]
Greeting.
We command you, that you have the body of C. D., in our prison,
at
, under your custody, (or by you imprisoned and restrained
of his liberty, as the case may be,) as it is said, together with the day
and cause of his taking and detaining, by whatever name he is called
or charged, before our supreme judicial court, held at
, in and
for the county of
, immediately after the receipt of this writ, to
do and receive what our said court shall then and there consider con
cerning him in this behalf, and have you there this writ.
Witness
, at
, this
day of
, in the
year
.
, Clerk.
The like form shall be used by any justice of said court, changing
what should be changed, when such writ is awarded by him.
Sec. 12. When such writ is offered to the officer to whom it is Time of serdirected, he shall receive it ; and on payment or tender of such sum and'tcn'derof
as the court or justice thereof directs, shall make due return thereof ge| c 99 ^ 12_
within three days, if the place of return is within twenty miles of the
place of imprisonment ; if over twenty, and less than one hundred
miles, within seven days ; and if more than one hundred miles, within
fourteen days ; but if such writ was issued against such officer, on
his refusal or neglect to deliver, on demand, to the applicant a copy
of the precept by which he restrained the person of his liberty, in
whose behalf application was made, then the officer shall be bound to
obey the writ without payment or tender of expenses.
Sec. 13. The person making the return, shall, at the same time,
bring the body of the party, as commanded in the writ, if in his custody or power or under his restraint, unless prevented by sickness or
infirmity of such party ; and in that case that fact shall be stated in
f,
*
.
..
the return ; and if proved to the satisfaction of the court or justice, a

officer, when
J^u^to
j^",^ pct^5,
restrained.
Proceedings if
the person is

HABEAS CORPUS.

746
Chap. 99.
sick, and canbrought
R.S.C.9MM.

[TITLB IX.

justice of the court may proceed to the place where the party is confined and there make his examination, or may adjourn it to another
time, or make such other order in the case as law and justice require>

Examination
Sec. 14. On the return of the writ, the court or justice, without
of restraint8 delay, shall proceed to examine the causes of imprisonment or reR. 8. c. 99, $ 14. sj.rajnj . an(j may a(jjourn guch examination from time to time.
Persons interSec. 15. When it appears that the party is detained on any pronotiflcd before cess, under which any other person has an interest in continuing such
R.'s.'cfroi § 15. imprisonment or restraint, the party shall not be discharged until
notice has been given to such other person or his attorney, if within
the state, or within thirty miles of the place of examination, to ap
pear and object, if he see cause ; and if imprisoned on any criminal
accusation, he shall not be discharged until sufficient notice has been
given to the attorney general, or other attorney for the state, that he
may appear and object, if he thinks fit.
Proceedings in
Sec. 16. The party imprisoned or restrained may deny facts
legal causeTor stated in the return or statement, and may allege other material
c™ur" shall ms- facta I and the court or justice may, in a summary way, examine the
tkm60' cxccp" cause of imprisonment or restraint ; hear evidence produced on either
?M " C*Ss" * *' S^e' an^ ^ n0 k°a" cause is shown for such imprisonment or restraint,
82 Me.
Me. 425.
440.
the court or Jiustice shall discharge
86
° him ; except
r as 1provided in sec47 Me. 85.
tion nine.
Party detained
Sec. 17. If the party is imprisoned and detained for a bailable
which5is°bau-e offence, he shall be admitted to bail, if sufficient bail is offered ; and
admittcd'to6 & not> ne s^a^ De remanded, with an order of the court or justice,
it's' c "99 V" exPressing the sum in which he shall be held to bail, and the court at
which he shall be bound to appear ; and a justice of the peace may,
at any time before the sitting of the court, bail the party pursuant to
such order.
Form of writ,
Sec. 18. In cases of imprisonment or restraint of personal libis not tyan"1' erty by anv person not a sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner, constable,
RfflS6c 99 SIS j^er» or marshal, deputy marshal, or other officer of the courts of
the United States, the writ shall be in the following form, viz :
STATE OF MAINE.
[Seal.]

To the sheriffs of our several counties and their respective
deputies,
Greeting.

We command you, that you take the body of C. D. of
, im
prisoned and restrained of his liberty, as it is said, by A. B. of
,
and have him before our supreme judicial court, holden at
, im
mediately after receipt of this writ, to do and receive what our court
shall then and there consider concerning him in this behalf ; and
summon the said A. B. then and there to appear before our said

TITLE IX.]

HABEAS CORPUS.

court, to show cause for taking and detaining said C. D., and have
you there this writ with your doings thereon.
Witness, our
, at
, this
day of
, in the year
.
, Clerk.
Sec. 19. Such writ may be issued by the supreme judicial court,
sitting in any county in which the person, in whose behalf application
is made, is restrained, or by any justice thereof, the form to be
varied so far as necessary, when issued by a justice of the court ;
and served in any county in the state.
Sec. 20. The person having custody of the prisoner may be designated by the name of his office, if he has any, or by his own name ;
or if both are unknown or uncertain, he may be described by an
assumed name ; and any one served' with the writ, shall be deemed
the person thereby intended.
Sec. 21. The person restrained shall be designated by his name,
if known; if unknown or uncertain, in any other way, so as to make
known who is intended.
Sec. 22. In cases under section eleven, the person who makes
,
*
.
the return, and in cases under section eighteen, the person in whose
custody the prisoner is found, shall state in writing to the court or
justice before whom the process is returned, plainly and unequivo-

747
Chap. 99.

By whom
where serv ed,
K' S c-99'^19,

if the person
unknownrhow
k.s?c,99,$20.

if the person
unknown, how
R\ sfcfsSf§ 21.
Form of return
in the cases
mentioned in
isth sections.
R' S' c- "' ' 22,

cally,—
First.—Whether he has or has not the party in his custody or
power, or under restraint;
Second.—If he has, he shall state, at large, the authority and true
and whole cause of such imprisonment or restraint, upon which the
party is detained ; and,
Third.—If he has had the party in his custody or power or under
his restraint, and has transferred him to another, he shall state par
ticularly to whom, at what time, for what cause, and by what author
ity, such transfer was made.
Sec. 23. Such return or statement shall be signed and sworn to
by the person making it, unless he is a sworn public officer, and
makes and signs his return in his official capacity.
Sec. 24. The party may be bailed to appear from day to day,
until judgment is rendered ; or remanded, or committed to the sheriff,
or placed in custody, as the case requires.

Manner of
party"8 the
.s.c.99,$24.

Sec. 25. If any officer refuses or neglects, for four hours, to
deliver a true and attested copy of the warrant or process, by which
he detains any prisoner, to any person who demands it and tenders
the fees therefor, he shall forfeit to such prisoner two hundred dollars.

Penalty for
?er*torsive °ffl
forTietaining>t
Rng0"eS9 $ 25

How authentir. s. L 99. $ 28.

Sec. 26. If any person or officer, to whom such writ is directed, Punishment,
refuses to receive it, or neglects to obey and execute it, as hereby lects wsc'rvf"
required, and no sufficient cause is shown therefor, he shall forfeit to bTsTc. 99, § 26.
the aggrieved party four hundred dollars; and the court or judge,

748

HABEAS CORPUS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 99. before whom the writ was returnable, shall proceed forthwith by
attachment, as for a contempt, to compel obedience to the writ, and
to punish for the contempt,
b usual"1011'
Seo. 27. If such attachment is issued against a sheriff or his
ur^to b/sSv-1 deputy, ^ may be directed to a coroner, or any other person therein
ES^cTmIt designated,
sua^ thereby have power to execute it; and the
sheriff or his deputy may be committed to jail on such process in any
county but his own.
Proceeding
Sec. 28. If the person to whom the writ is directed refuses to
a person for obey and execute it, the court or judge may issue a precept to any
S^writ^sued officer or other person therein named, commanding him to bring the
ftis^toobcy person for whose benefit the writ was issued before the court or judge ;
li^S c 99 § "8 an<^
Pr*soner sna^ thereupon be discharged, bailed, or remanded,
as if brought in on habeas corpus.
Persons disSec. 29. No person, enlarged by habeas corpus, shall be again
habeas'corpus, imprisoned or restrained for the same cause, unless indicted therearrested0 again f°r> convicted thereof, or committed for want of bail, or after a disfSnPca»esCer cnarge for defect of proof, or some material defect in the commitE. s. c. 99, <j 29. ment in a criminal case, he is arrested on sufficient proof, and com
mitted by legal process for the same offence.
Conveyance to
Sec. 30. A person ordered to be committed to prison on any
sOTTordCTcdro criminal charge, shall be carried to such prison, as soon as may be,
and^enTu"^' ano^ 8na^ not De delivered from one officer to another except for easy
writ luding
an^ speedy conveyance ; nor removed without his consent from one
B. 8. c. 99, $ 80. county to another, unless by habeas corpus ; and if any one, who has
in his custody or under his power any person entitled to a writ of
habeas corpus, whether issued or not, transfers him to the custody of
another, or changes his place of confinement, with intent to elude the
service of such writ, he shall forfeit four hundred dollars to the
party aggrieved.
Penalty no bar Sec. 31. No penalty, established by this chapter, shall bar any
r. s. c. 99, h si. action at common law for damages for false imprisonment,
may appear for ^ec.
When a person is unlawfully carried out of the state or
stipuiaUng'Vfor imP™oneo- m a secret place, any other person may appear for him in
costs.
an action therefor in his name, who shall stipulate for the payment of
costs as the court orders.
Court or jusSec. 33. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to restrain
may'aiiow^
the supreme judicial court in term time, or any justice thereof in
Exceptions, vacation, from bailing a person for any offence, when the circumstanE.S. c.99, 533. cea 0f t]je case require it; except persons committed by the gov
ernor and council, senate, or house of representatives, for the causes
mentioned in the constitution.
Admission to
Sec. 34. When a person is confined in a jail for a bailable offence,
committed for or f°r n°t finding sureties on a recognizance, two justices of the
s^ircties11^
peace and of the quorum, on application, may inquire into the case

TITLE IX.]

HABEAS CORPUS.

and admit any such person to bail, and exercise the same power as
any justice of the supreme judicial court can ; and may issue a writ
of habeas corpus, and cause such person to be brought before them
for this purpose, and may take such recognizance.
Sec. 85. A court may issue a writ of habeas corpus, when necessary, to bring before them a prisoner for trial in a cause pending in
such court, or to testify as a witness, when his personal attendance
may be deemed necessary for the attainment of justice.

749
Chap. 99.
R. s. c. 99, § 84.

Habeas corto bring a88"8
Ma
R- s> c- 89» * 85,

Sec. 36. When an insane person is arrested or imprisoned on Habeas corpus
mesne process or execution in a civil suit, a judge of the supreme aptficauontn
judicial court, or judge of probate within his county, on application, saneperso'ns.
may inquire into the case ; issue a writ of habeas corpus ; cause R- s- c- "> * 86,
such person to be brought before him for examination ; and after
notice to the creditor or his attorney, if either is living in the state,
and a hearing, if proved to the satisfaction of said judge that the
person is insane, he may discharge him from arrest or imprisonment ;
and the creditor shall have the right to make a new arrest, on the
same demand, when the debtor becomes of sound mind. But if he
is arrested on the same demand a second time, before he becomes of
sound mind, and again discharged for that reason, his body forever
after shall be exempted from arrest therefor.

[TITLE IX.

AUDITA QUERELA.

750
,CHAP. 100.

CHAPTER

Sec. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.
0.
7.

100.

WRIT OF AUDITA QUERELA.
Form of the writ.
In what court and county to be sued out.
Proceedings in court if defendant appears, and if not.
Complainant may recover special damages.
Pleadings, and filing exceptions.
Proceedings, if complainant is in prison.
Effect of a surrender to jail.

RsV'iT? 1
^EC'
^"ne WT'fc °^ au<^*a 1uerela may be sue^ 0l*t in the form
24 Me. 804. ' of a writ of attachment or summons ; and shall be sealed, signed,
tested, and endorsed, as other writs,
in what court
Sec. 2. When brought to prevent, set aside, or annul proceedbe suedoiu. ° ings on a judgment or execution, it shall be sued out of the court in
R. s. c. 100, $ 2. wjji0h ju(jgment was rendered, but in all other cases in the county

Proceedings in
fendain ap6-"
pears, and if
R.s.c. ioo,^8.
may recover1
special dama-

and court having jurisdiction of the case according to the provisions
of law as to personal actions.
Sec. 3. If the defendant does not appear, after being duly served with process, he shall be defaulted ; but if he does, a trial shall be
ag jn other actiong<
gEC- 4, The complainant may declare in his writ for any Bpecial
damages he has suffered by the service of such execution ; and on
proof}
shall have judgment and execution for such damages,

24 lie sot' * *' instead of recovering therefor in a subsequent suit.
Pleadings and ^B0' ^' ^ne defendant may plead the general issue of not guilty,
filing excip- with or without a brief statement, or any special matter in bar ; and
R. 8. c. loo, $ 5. exceptions may be alleged to the rulings, instructions and opinion of
the court, as in civil actions.
'
Proceedings if
Sec. 6. When the complainant is in prison on execution, the
fn pnson.ant " court hefore which such action is brought may admit him to bail, to
R. s. c. ioo, § 6. be approved by the court ; the bond shall be conditioned, that if final
judgment is rendered for the respondent, the complainant, within
thirty days thereafter, shall surrender himself to the jail keeper to be
detained on the execution, or within that time satisfy it and such final
judgment as the respondent recovers.
Effect of a sur- Sec. 7. If the complainant surrenders himself to jail, he shall be
STsfc. ioir*7. m l&wful custody on such execution, and there detained until dis
charged according to law.

TITLE IX .

REPLEVYING A PERSON.

751
Chap1. 101.

Sec. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

CHAPTER 101.
WRIT FOR REPLEVYING A PERSON.
Who is entitled to the writ, and from what court.
In what county writ to issue and how served.
Form of the writ.
Bond to be given, before writ issues, and officer responsible for the sureties.
What judgment, if the action is or is not maintained.
What judgment, if defendant is entitled to the custody of the plaintiff.
If defendant has eloigned the plaintiff, he may be arrested. Defendant may
be enlarged by giving bail.
Discharge and costs, if not guilty of eloigning. If guilty, to be imprisoned;
and discharged on proof of plaintiff's death. Form of writ of reprisal.
Proceedings, if the plaintiff is produced.

Sec. 1. If any person is imprisoned, restrained of his liberty, or
held in duress, unless by a lawful writ, warrant, or other process,
civil or criminal, he may have the writ for replevying the person, on
application made by himself or any one, in his behalf, to any judge
of the supreme judicial court, or in the county of Cumberland, to the
judge of the superior court, in term time or vacation, at the discretion
of such judge and not otherwise.
Sec. 2. The writ shall issue from and be returnable to such court
in the county where the plaintiff is confined, and directed to a proper
officer, and served, as soon as may be, fourteen days at least before
the return day.
Sec. 3. The form of the writ shall be as follows :
STATE OF MAINE.
[l. S.]

S

, SS. To the sheriff of our county of S
, or his
deputy,
Greeting.
We command you, that without delay you cause to be replevied,
C. D., who, as it is said, is taken and detained in a place called N.,
in our said county of S
, by the duress of G. H., that he may
appear at our supreme judicial court, next to be held at
, within
and for the county of S
, on the
day of
next, then
and there in our said court to demand right and justice against said
G. H. , for the duress and imprisonment aforesaid, and to prosecute
his replevin, as the law directs; provided that the said CD., (the
plaintiff,) before his deliverance, gives bond to the defendant, in such
sum as you judge reasonable, with two sufficient sureties, with condi
tion to appear at said court to prosecute his replevin against the
defendant, and to have his body there to be re-delivered, if thereto
ordered by the court, and to pay all such damages and costs as are

who is cnti^
what
gougrtg 101
I888,c.-8if.
82 Me. mo!
85 Me. 267*.
^
in what conngue^and'how
r"^"^ $2
Form of writ.
R. S.c. 101,* 8.
1896, c. sod J l.

752

REPLEVYING A PERSON.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 101. awarded against him; and if the plaintiff is delivered by you at a day
before the sitting of said court, you are to summon the defendant to
appear at said court.
Witness J. S., Esquire, at
,the
day of
, in the year
of our Lord
.
L. M., Clerk.
Bond to be
Sec. 4. No person shall be delivered by such writ until a bond is
given before
.
...
. .
.
T
writ issues.
given by the plaintifi or person suing on his behalf, to be returned to
abMor suffl^" the court with the writ, and for the sufficiency of which, the officer
R.eg^!. 101
shall be answerable, as in case of bail in civil actions.
85sie M
^KC"
^ ^e pl^tiff maintains his action, he shall be disWhat judg- charged and recover his costs ; but if not, the defendant shall recover
["or'is^oflon his costs and such damages as the jury assess ; or if the defendant is
r's'^iom 6
What judg- '
ment, if defendantiscntitled to the
p"aintiff.°f 1 6

^efaulted, or the parties consent, the court may assess the damages.
^BC# ®* ^ appears that the defendant is bail for the plaintiff,
or that, as his child, ward, apprentice or otherwise, he is entitled to
'
'
. ,
,
,
... , ,
his custody, he shall have judgment for a re-delivery of his body, to
be held or disposed of according to law.

if defendant7
has eloigned
he may be '
ewe ba?i and
r.s.c.ioi,§8.

^EC' ^'
aPPears that the defendant has eloigned the plaintiffs body, so that the officer cannot deliver him, the court, on motion,
shall issue a writ of reprisal to take the defendant's body and him
safely keep, so that be may be at the then next term of the court, to
traverse the return of said writ for replevying the plaintiff; and he

may be enlarged by giving bail for his appearance at court, with two
sufficient sureties, in such sum as the officer requires.
Discharge and
Sec 8. The defendant may traverse the return on the writ for
gr55yofnot replevying the plaintiff ; and if it appears that he is not guilty of
^uiity'tf'be
fmprisoned^
of reprisal.
b'w.&101'*

eloigning the plaintiff, he shall be discharged and recover costs; but
jf he does not traverse it, or if, on such traverse, it appears that the
defendant did eloign the plaintiff, an alias writ of reprisal shall issue,
substantially in the form heretofore established and used in this state,
on which he shall be committed to jail to remain irrepleviable, till he
produces the body of the plaintiff or proves his death. He may
suggest the plaintiff's death, and the court shall impanel a jury to try
the fact at the defendant's expense ; and if the death is proved, he
shall be discharged.
Proceedings if Sec. 9. If the defendant after the return of eloignment produces
produced!111 19 tb-e body of the plaintiff in court, the court shall deliver him from
6. s. c. ioi, $ imprisonment, on his giving the defendant such bond as before
directed to be taken by the officer, when the plaintiff is delivered by
him ; and for want thereof, he shall be committed to abide the judg
ment on the writ for replevying the plaintiff; and, in either case, the
suit shall be tried as aforesaid.

TITLE IX.]

WRITS OF ERROR AND CERTIORARI.

753
Chap. 102.

Sec. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
Sec. 18.
14.
15.

CHAPTER 102.
WRITS OF ERROR AND CERTIORARI.
Writs of Error.
Writs of error may isBne from the supreme judicial court in vacation or term
time.
Execution not to stay, unless bond is given. Bond to be approved by a justice
of the court, or the clerk.
Filing of the bond deemed a delivery thereof ; clerk to issue certificate to stay
proceedings.
Costs to prevailing party; damages and costs if defendant prevails.
Reversal of judgment does not vitiate sale of real estate, but does levy.
One co-defendant may bring writ of error on giving security to others.
Form of writ of error.
Scire facias to specify the errors of fact and law.
Proceedings on writs of error, according to the common law.
Writs of error in capital cases not to issue without order of court and notice.
Effect of writs of error in other criminal cases. Provisions for keeping plain
tiff in error on stay of proceedings.
Limitation of writs of error; exceptions.
Writs of Certiorari.
How and by whom writs of certiorari to be issued.
Costs on application, or on final decisions.
Limitations of applications for certiorari.

WRITS OF ERROR.
Sec. 1. Writs of error in civil cases may issue out of the Writs of error
supreme judicial court in vacation or term time, returnable to the
Court!*"11
same court, (a)
R. s'. e. 102,H.
Sec. 2. No writ of error shall stay or supersede execution in any Execution not
civil action, unless the plaintiff in error, or some person in his behalf, uniesstond is
gives bond to the defendant, conditioned, that the plaintiff shall pros- proved byap
ecute his suit with effect, and satisfy the judgment rendered therein, r U{pcor1(£|c£|"
in such sum and with such sureties as a justice of the court, or the *T Me. its.'
clerk from whose office the writ issued, approves, according to the
rules of court.
Sec. 3. When the bond is given, the filing of it in the clerk's Filing bond
office for the use of the defendant shall be deemed a delivery thereof; cry^nd^ffects
and no execution shall be issued on the judgment complained of, g^f'102 ^8
while such suit is pending ; and if execution has already issued, the
clerk shall make a certificate of the issue of the writ and filing of
the bond ; and after notice thereof to the officer holding the execu
tion, all further proceedings thereon shall be stayed.
(a) 16 Me. 81; 19 Me. 219; 23 Me. 251; 24 Me. 437 ; 26 Me. 411; 28 Me. 232; 29 Me860; 30 Me. 194, 422 ; 81 Me. 57, 420 ; 82 Me. 185; 33 Me. 250, 265, 850, 868, 509 ; 85 Me.
97; 36 Me. 198.
48

WRITS OF ERROR AND CERTIORARI.

754
Chap. 102.

gEC 4

[TITLE IX.

The prevailing party in such writ in a civil action shall

vailSngpar^" ^e entitled to his costs; and if the judgment is affirmed, the defenddnmapea and ant m err0r shall be entitled to not less than six, nor more than
costs, if de,
'
fendant pre- twelve per cent, a year on the amount of his former judgment, as
R. s.c. io-2,H- damages for his delay, and the court may allow him double costs.
14 Me! 195'.
Sec. 5. When a debtor's property has been sold by virtue of an
Reversal of
execution, and the judgment on which it was issued, is afterwards
judgment docs
t
•< * i
not vitiate sale reversed on writ of error, the title of the purchaser thereof is not
but docs levy, affected thereby; but the defendant in the original suit may maintain
18m'c.268
an action of assumpsit against the original plaintiff for so much of said
5i4jie 149 556 judgment 83 is satisfied. But the levy of an execution upon real
estate shall be void, when the original judgment upon which it issued,
is reversed by writ of error, brought within a year thereafter.
ant°may bring ^ec. 6. When there were several defendants in the original judgwrit of error ment, either may bring a writ of error, in the name of all on furnishon Riving sc»
»
...
.
.
....
curity to oth- ing each co-defendant requiring it, such security against all liabilities 186*4, c. 268,5 5. arising therefrom, as the court deems reasonable ; and at any stage of
the proceedings, the court shall, on motion of any such co-defendant,
require such security.
Form of writ
gEC- 7. The writ of error may be a scire facias issued substanof error.
*
R. 8. c. 102,5 5. tially as follows, without any assignment of errors, or other preliminary

[l. s.]

ss.

STATE OF MAINE.
To the sheriff, &c.

Greeting.
We command you, that you make known unto
, of
, to
appear, if he sees cause, before our supreme judicial court, to be held
at
, within and for our said county of
, on the
to answer
to
, of
, in a plea of error, whereas the said
alleges
that in the process, proceedings, and judgment had before
,
at
, on
, wherein the said
was plaintiff, and the said
defendant, there occurred the errors hereinafter specified, by
which the present plaintiff was injured, and for which he therefore
seeks that said judgment may be reversed, recalled, or corrected, as
law and justice require ; that is to say, the following errors :
.
Hereof fail not, and have you there this writ with your doings
thereon.
Witness,
Esq., at
the
day of
.
, Clerk.
Scire facias to
gEC> g_ The scire facias shall specify the errors of fact and law,
specify the cr.
rcri U wfat't uPon which the plaintiff relies ; and a transcript of the record, process,
R. s.c. 102,16. and proceedings, attested by the clerk of the court or justice of the
48 Me! 8*45.
peace rendering the judgment, without further authentication, or the
42 Me! 569.
introduction of the record, shall be competent evidence in such trial ;

TITLE IX.]

WRITS OF ERROR AND CERTIORARI.

755

and in case of mistake in the transcript, the court may grant leave to
amend.
Sec. 9. The proceedings upon writs of error, not herein provided
. for, shall be according to the common law as modified by the practice
.
.
"
r
and usage in this state, and the general rules of court.
Sec. 10. No writ of error upon a judgment for a capital offence
shall issue, unless allowed by one of the justices of the supreme
iudicial court, after notice to the attorney general or other attorney
'
'
• °
"
for the State.
Sec. 11. Writs of error shall issue of course upon all other judg-

Chap. 102.
44 Me. 88.
55 Me. 870."
Proceedings
on writs of
error.
28 Me. 251.'
^y^ts 0f error
ln capital
cases not to
issue without
andCnotice.urt

ments in criminal cases, but not to stay or delay execution of sentence
or judgment, unless allowed by a justice of the supreme judicial
court, with an express order to stay all proceedings thereon ; and in
that case, the judge may make such order as the case requires for
the custody of the plaintiff in error or letting him to bail ; or, upon a
writ of habeas corpus, if entitled, he may procure his enlargement
by giving bail.
Sec. 12. No writ of error shall be sustained, unless brought within
six years next after the entering up of the judgment sought to be reversed or avoided ; but if the person entitled to such writ is a minor,

Effect of^vrit
q^™^'". ^
cases.
keeping piainstayo/pro-011
^g'"^Q2 59
Limitation of
exceptions.™1'
c' 102'

married woman, insane, imprisoned, or not in the United States, when
becoming so entitled, then he, his heirs, executors, or administrators,
may sue out the writ within five years after the removal of such dis
ability.
WRITS OF CERTIORARI.
Sec. 13. All writs of certiorari, to correct errors in proceedings
that are not according to the course of the common law, shall be issued
from the supreme judicial court according to the practice heretofore
established, and subject to such further regulations, as are made,
from time to time, by such court, (a)
Sec. 14. Upon every application for certiorari, and on the final
adjudication thereof, the court may award costs against any party,
who appears and undertakes to maintain or object to the proceedings.
Sec. 15. No application for a writ of certiorari shall be sustained,
unless made within six years next after the proceedings complained of,
or within five years from the removal of such disabilities as are described in section twelve.
(a) 8 Me. 292; 19 Me. 46, 888; 28 Me. 9, 511; 25 Me. 69; 26 Me. 858; 28 Me. 121; 29
Me. 196; 30 Me. 19, 270, 802, 851; 81 Me. 506, 578 ; 82 Me. 450, 452; 88 Me. 287, 260; 85
Me. 878; 86 Me. 74; 87 Me. 561 ; 88 Me. 492; 89 Me. 52, 355; 42 Me. 895; 48 Me. 257; 49
Me. 148, 417; 51 Me. 108; 56 Me. 184, 542.

How and by
certlorari^to be
g8^' 102
$ uCosts on application and
final decision,
$ 12.
Limitation of
for certiorari,
fif. C" 102,

756

DOWER.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 103.
CHAPTER 103.
ESTATES IN DOWER, AND BY CURTESY, AND ACTIONS OF DOWER.
Estates in Doweb and bt Cubtest.
Sbc. 1. Of what lands a woman is dowable.
2. Of what she is not dowable.
8. Special assignment when it cannot be by metes and bounds.
4. Rights of widow before dower is assigned.
5. Widow of naturalized alien entitled to dower.
6. A married woman may bar her right to dower by deed; how executed. Not
deprived by levy or sale on execution.
7. A woman may bar her right to dower by accepting a jointure before marriage.
8. Also by a pecuniary provision made for the benefit of an Intended wife in lien
of dower.
9. Widow may waive jointure in certain cases.
10. She may waive provision in her husband's will.
11. Remedy if she is evicted of her dower.
12. When dowable of an equity of redemption.
18. Penalty if she commits waste.
14. Rights of widow to remain in her husband's house 90 days without expense.
15. Tenancy by curtesy. Husband has right of dower In deceased wife's estate.
Action of Doweb.
Sec. 16. Right of widow to sue for dower.
17. Previous demand, and time of bringing the action.
18. Demand upon a corporation, and time for bringing the act on.
19. Defendant may plead in abatement, but not in bar, that ho is not tenant of
the freehold.
20. Damages for detaining dower.
21. Suit to be against the tenant of the freehold; liable for damages only while
he held possession. Separate action against prior tenant, of whom demand
wus made.
22. If demandant dies pending an action for dower, executor or administrator
may prosecute for the damages.
28. Writ of seizin, and proceedings in setting off dower.
24. Assignments of rents and profits in certain cases.

ESTATES IN DOWER AND BY CURTESY.
Of what lands Sec. 1. Every woman shall be entitled to her dower at the comdowabie" U
mon 'aw *n ^e lands of her husband, with the exceptions hereafter
R.s.c.i08,$i. mentioned, to be assigned to her after his decease, unless lawfully
barred, (a)
Of what she is Sec. 2. A widow shall not be endowed of wild lands of which
RsSIt's. her husband dies seized, nor of wild lands conveyed by him, though
15Me.'87l!
50 Me. 227.
(a) 5 He. 479; 14 Me. 290; 18 Me. 89; 19 Me. 141 ; 20 Me. 242 ; 24 Me. 882 ; 25 Mc. 94,
101; 31 Me. 91, 248, 408; 82 Me. 412, 424; 87 Me. 11; 89 Me. 25; 48 Me. 489.

TITLE IX.]

DOWER.

757

afterwards cleared; but she shall be in any wood lot or other land Chap. 103.
used with the farm or dwellinghouse, though not cleared.
^i°265'
Sec. 3. When a division by metes and bounds cannot be conven- special assigniently made, dower shall be assigned in a special manner as of a SmioMjcfby
third rpart of the rents and rprofits.
metes and
bounds.
Sec. 4. The widow shall be entitled to receive one undivided net B. 8.c.ioM5.
third part of the rents and profits of the estate, of which her husband Rignt^ of '
died seized, until her dower is assigned either by the heirs, the judge do^r is"^0"3
of probate, or judgment of court.
K^^'ios §6
Sec. 5. The widow of a citizen of the United States, who was 19 Me. 66.'
an alien when she married him, shall be entitled to dower in her hus- widow oj'natband's estate, which was not conveyed by him or taken from him by ",^"^1 t"Uen
execution prior to the twenty-third day of February, eighteen hun- ^°we£ 1Q3 . 6
dred and thirteen.
22 lie.' soo'.
Sec. 6. A married woman of any age may bar her right of dower womaVmay ^
in an estate conveyed by her husband, by ioining in the same deed bar her right
, ,
i i
iii,
,,of (Iower- Not
or a subsequent deed, or by her sole deed, but she shall not be de- deprived by
prived of dower, by a levy or sale of his real estate on execution ; 0n execution
but she may, after the right of redemption has expired, release such K"sthus"

^"

dower by her sole deed, (a)
fefc^V^
Sec. 7. A woman may be barred of her dower in her husband's j®88'^-215,
lands, by a jointure settled on her with her consent before marriage; a woman may
such jointure shall consist of a freehold estate in lands, for the life of by^ecd.Tnd
the wife at least, to take effect immediately on the husband's death ; bv. accepting
'
.
jointure beif of full age, she shall express her consent by becoming a party to fore marriage,
the conveyance ; if under age, by joining with her father or guar- 21 lie. 864.
dian.
4f>t4tln
Sec. 8. A pecuniary provision made for the benefit of an intended
. .
1
* 1
,,i
-ij-i
3
wife in lieu of dower, consented to by her as provided in the preceding section, shall bar her right of dower in her husband's lands.

Also by a provision made in
Men of dower.
4 io. c"

Sec. 9. If such jointure or pecuniary provision is made before Widow may
marriage, without the consent of the intended wife, or if made after Jna«raiiiUure
marriage, it shall bar her dower, unless, within six months after the r"s?"c, 108,
husband's death, she makes her election to waive such provision, and
files the same in writing in the probate court.
•
Sec. 10. When a specific provision is made in her husband's will She may waive
provision in
for the widow, within six months after probate thereof, she shall make ner^usband^i
her election, whether to accept it or claim her dower ; but shall not r's, /.ios,'
be entitled to both, unless it appears by the will that the testator \ ^ fc{
plainly so intended, f*>/
f Me. is-2.
Sec. 11. If a woman is lawfully evicted of lands assigned to her Remedy if
as dower, or settled upon her as a jointure, or is deprived of the pro- |l"cted 01 dow"
vision made for her by will or otherwise, in lieu of dower, she may be Rj|- c- 108'
(a) 8 Me. 6S; 29 Me. 415; 80 Me. 192; 82 Me. 424 ; 88 Me. 896; 84 Me. 185; 51 He,,. ~

, <r

/

^^

DOWER.

758

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 103.
28 Me. S76.
27 Me. 881.
When downtv^rcdemp""
R°s c 108
\ jj1 102 ryj
20 Me. ill.
84 Me! 502
58 Me'.TsV98-

endowed anew, as though no such assignment or provision had been
made.
Sec. 12. If the wife has released her right of dower in a mortgaSe made by her husband, or if her husband is seized of land mort6a8ed D7 another person, or by himself before their marriage, she
BnaM *>e entitled to dower in the mortgaged premises as against every
person except the mortgagee and those claiming under him; and if
the heirs of tho husband, or other person claiming under him,
redeems the mortgage, she shall repay such proportion of the money
paid by him, as her interest in the mortgaged premises bears to the
whole value ; else she shall be entitled to dower only according to
the value of the estate, after deducting the money paid for its redemp
tion.
Penalty if she
Sec. 13. If any woman, endowed of lands, commits or suffers
waste."3
anv waste thereon, she shall forfeit the place wasted, and the amount
R s. c. 108, 0f ^e damages done to the premises, to be recovered in an action of
is Me. 273.
-waste by the person having the next immediate estate of inheritance
therein ; but taking fuel necessary for her own use, and materials for
the repair of buildings, and for fences thereon, from any woodlands
of which she is endowed, shall not be considered waste.
Right of
Sec. 14. A widow may remain in the house of her husband
mSnlnher" ninety days next after his death, without being chargeable with rent
hou9ennincty therefor ; and in the meantime she shall have her reasonable sustedays without nance out of the estate. / <*/
expense.
I '
R s. c. 108,
gBC>
When a man and his wife are seized of lands in fee, in
Tenancy by her right, acquired before March twenty-second, eighteen hundred
er of *hus-?°w* and forty-four, which are under improvement, and issue is born alive
Ra s. c.ri08fe" °f ner D°dy> *nat may inherit the same, the husband shall hold such
1870 c us
\ 21.

^

estate after his wife's decease, during his life, as tenant by the curtesy. The husband of a deceased wife whose estate is solvent, shall
have the use for life, of one-third of her real estate, to be recovered
and assigned in the manner and with the rights of dower, and shall
have the same right to waive any provision made for him in her will,
that a widow has with regard to her husband's will. When a husband
or wife dies intestate, leaving no issue, and the estate is solvent, the
survivor shall have the use for life of one-half of the real estate of
the deceased, to be recovered and assigned in the manner and with
the rights of dower.
ACTIONS OF DOWER.

Rights of
Sec. 16. When a woman is entitled to dower, and it is not lawWillow t-O SHC
5f
for dower.
fully set out to her by the heir or tenant of the freehold^ nor assigned
S is ' c' ' to her by the judge of probate*', she may recover it by a writ of dower
u M'. S 8' ™ ^rein provided. (ty .

_

\ -J

/ \/J.

.mil +l^~it

,

, ^

. r,,_

TITLE IX.]

DOWER.

759

Sec. 17. She must demand her dower of the person who is, at Chap. 103. •
the time, seized of the freehold, if in the state, otherwise, of the ten- Previous
•
•
1
-if
demand, and
ant in possession, and shall not commence her action of dower before time of bringthe expiration of one month, nor after the expiration of one year, R^s.cfios'1?"'
from the time of demand ; but she may make a new demand and asiie. 92.
commence an action thereon, if an action is not brought within one jj® jj®- ^
year after the first demand.
« Me- ^(A^^jA
Sec. 18. When a corporation is the tenant of the freehold, she 5i Me. 867. r
Q
must demand her dower in writing of any officer thereof, on whom Demand upon
by law a writ in a civil action against it may be served ; and the JJo^ade'and
time shall be sixty, instead of thirty days, between the demand and when suit may
i
-ii
.i%
<•
■i
be brought.
the suit ; but a second demand may be made as aforesaid.
R. s. c. ios,
Sec. 19. The defendant may plead in abatement, but not in bar, p^of non.
that he is not tenant of the freehold.
tenure in
abatement,
Sec. 20. If the demandant recovers judgment for her dower, she but not in bar.
may recover damage for its detention, in the same action, to the $ 21.' ' '
time of its commencement, and the subsequent damages, in a sepa- Damages for
rate action.
dower'"8
Sec. 21. The action shall be brought against the person who is at R. s. c. 108,
the time tenant of the freehold ; but if he is not the person of whom 28 Me. 509.
1
41 Me 529
demand was made, he shall be liable for damages only for the time he guit t0 be '
held the possession ; and if the demandant recovers her dower and fjfantof'the
damages, she may afterwards maintain an action on the case against freehold, but
.
prior tenant
the prior tenant of whom her demand was made, for the rents^and liable for damprofits while he held the premises after the demand.
Itfs.'c. 108,
§ 28.
'
Sec. 22. If the demandant dies during the pendency of an action If demandant
of dower, her executor or administrator may prosecute the action to an action'for
final judgment, and recover therein the damages to which she would dower, cxecutt
.
tor or adminisbe entitled to the tune of her decease. He may commence an action, trator maj
or prosecute one commenced by her, under the preceding section, and r. s^c" lbs,
recover the damages to which she would bo entitled, if any.
* 2*"
Sec. 23. When judgment for dower is rendered in her favor, a writ of seizin
writ of seizin shall be issued, requiring the proper officer to cause her fngs ^setting
dower to be assigned and set out to her by three disinterested per- ^sTios
sons, to be appointed by the plaintiff, defendant, and officer, as in the \^le m
levy of an execution on land ; who shall be duly sworn to set it out 27 Me. sst.
equally and impartially, as conveniently as may be, and according to 45 Me! 28.
their best skill and judgment ; and the officer shall make return of
the writ and doings thereon to the court, with the assignment of
dower indorsed thereon, or annexed thereto ; which, being accepted,
shall be conclusive.
Sec. 24. When the estate, out of which the dower is to be Assignments
assigned, consists of a mill or other tenement which cannot be divided profits in
without damage to the whole, the dower may be assigned of the rents iTs"™ i03PS"
4 26.
'

760

REAL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 104. and profits thereof, to be received by the demandant as tenant in
common with the other owners of the estate.

CHAPTER 104.
REAL ACTIONS.
Sec. 1. Recovery of estates by writ of entry; mode of service.
9. Demandant to declare on his own seizin, within twenty years, and disseizin
by tenant.
8. To set forth the estate he claims in the premises.
4. Proof of seizin.
5. Demandant must have right of entry; such right not defeated by descent or
discontinuance.
8. Who may be considered a disseizor. Disclaimer.
7. If defendant has ousted demandant, he may be considered a disseizor, though
he claims less than a freehold.
8. Proof to entitle the demandant to recover on trial,
9. Joinder of demandants.
10. Demandant may recover, on proof of title.
11. Demandant may recover damages in the same action.
12, 18, 14. Estimation of rents and profits. Tenant not liable for more than six
years, unless by set-off.
15. Recovery of damages against other persons.
16. Real actions not to abate by death or intermarriage of a party, but tried after
notice.
17. Appointment of guardians, for minors. Amendments.
18. Writs of possession to conform to the case; judgment conclusive against all
persons interested, who were notified.
19. Allowance of costs, and stay of execution in such cases.
20. Betterments allowed after six years possession.
21. The premises to be clearly defined and described, in such action.
22. Tenant may consent that demandant may recover a specified part; effect
thereof.
28. Tenant may have betterments upon demurrer or default.
24. Request of tenant for appraisal of improvements, and by demandant for
appraisal of the land; the jury to allow for no improvements, except those
made by tenant, or those under whom he claims, and that were judicious
and proper.
25. The difference between the appraised value of the land, when tenant entered,
and the value of it with improvements, at the time of trial, to be taken for
the value of betterments.
26. Demandant may elect to abandon; and if so, must give bond to tenant, to
refund, if ousted by better title.
27. Tenant allowed to pay one-third the value of the land the first year, interest
on the whole, and costs.
28. At the end of two years he may pay another third, with interest.

TITLE IX.]

REAL ACTIONS.

761

Sec. 29. And at the end of three years he may pay the balance, or the demandant CHAP. 1 04.
have his execution, and a lien on the premises. When execution or writ of
provision may issue.
80. Tenant's remedy, if he is evicted.
81. If the demandant does not abandon, he cannot have writ of possession, till he
pays for the improvements.
82. Restriction of the right to betterments.
88. Tenant not to commit waste after judgment against him.
84. Parties may agree as to value of improvements.
85. Tenant may propose a sum at which the value may be estimated. Effect
thereof.
86. Set-off of costs, against the appraised value of improvements, in certain cases.
87. Jurors disqualified, if interested in similar questions.
88. 'What constitutes a possession and improvement.
89. Proceedings, if either party dies before the cause is disposed of.
40. How writ of possession shall issue in such case.
41 . Either party may have a view by the jury.
42. Proceedings if a life estate is demanded.
48. If tenant is ousted alter six years possession, he may recover for his buildings
and improvements. The value of improvements in such case to be esti
mated, under the provisions of this chapter.
44. Cases in which the defendant may impeach the plaintiffs title deeds.
45. If tenant, and those under whom he claims, have been in possession forty
years, demandant to recover no costs.
48. Court may appoint and protect surveyors.
Sec. 1. Any estate of freehold, in fee simple, fee tail, for life, Recovery of
or any term of years, may be recovered by a writ of entry ; and such 0f ratrj^mode
writs, and the writ in action of dower, shall be served by attachment r^I6™1^
and summons, or copy of the writ, on the defendant, but if he is not * *[c. m.
in possession, the officer shall give the tenant in hand, or leave at his i J Me. 219.
place of last and usual abode, an attested copy of the writ ; and if 24 Me! 620!
the defendant is not an inhabitant of this state, the service on the 51 Me. 866.
tenant shall be sufficient notice to the defendant, or the court may
order further notice.
Sec. 2. The demandant shall declare on his own seizin within Demandant to
twenty years then last past, without naming any particular day, or ow^scizm,1"8
averring a taking of the profits, and allege a disseizin by the tenant. £"dte1n4'nJtizin
Sec. 3. He shall set forth the estate he claims in the premises,
r
' R20 S.c.104,
Me. 281. § 2.
whether in fee simple, fee tail, for life, or for years ; and if for life, To set forth
then whether for his own life or that of another; but need not state e'Smsln the
in the writ the ^origin of his title, or the deduction of it to himself ; Krp™j.SCjQ4 $ 8
but, on application of the tenant, the court may direct the demand- so Me. 189^_
ant to file an informal statement of his title, and its origin.
1-7 «
3
, , .,
Sec. 4. He need not prove an actual entry under his title ; but pr0of ofseizin,
proof that he is entitled to such an estate in the premises as he claims, Kg M£' ^ * *■
and that he has a right of entry therein, shall be sufficient proof of jj* Me. 520.
his seizin.
J,'Y'Vr«/&« i-r

762

REAL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 104.
Sec. 5. No such action shall be maintained, unless, at the time
Demandant
of
such right
must have
, commencing
.. it, . the demandant had
.
. , of„ entry;
J .and no
right
of
entry,
descent
or
discontinuance
shall
defeat
any
right
of
entry
E.S.C. 104, $5.
,
, . ,
J °
J for the
recovery of real estate.
^JZw'-i Who may he
Sec 6. Every person alleged to be in possession of the premises
f^^*^~ disseizor.
demanded in such writ, claiming any freehold therein, may be considahatcmcnt but ered a disseizor for the purpose of trying the right; but the defendrVc. 104 § 6. an* may plead in abatement, but not in bar, that he is not tenant of
22 Me 812
*he freehold} or Dy a brief statement under the general issue, filed
24 Me. 808.
-within the time allowed for pleas in abatement, unless by leave of
84 Me. 172.
48 Me! 280.'
court the time therefor is enlarged ; and he may show that he was
49 Me. 102.
not in possession of the premises when the action was commenced,
/-* " xfl^yiS;11^ disci*™ any right} title, or interest therein, and proof of such
/f „ yfrc- fact shall defeat the action; and if he claimed, or was in possession
;-jr «■ ?;»" 0f on]y a part of the premises when the action was commenced, ha
shall describe such part in a statement, signed by him or his attorney
and filed in the case, and may disclaim the residue ; and if the facts
contained in such statement are proved on trial, the demandant shall
recover judgment for no more than such part,
if defendant
Sec 7. If the person in possession has actually ousted the
demandant, he demandant, or withheld the possession, he may, at the demandant's
disseizor™"1"1 election, be considered a disseizor for the purpose of trying the right,
CJ;04, * 7- though he claims an estate therein less than a freehold.
8 Me. 79.
°
.
Proof to entitle
Sec. 8. In the trial upon such writ, on the general issue, if the
to<reoo>-er.tlant demandant proves that he is entitled to such estate in the premises as
r. s. c. 104, $ 8. jje na8 allege,^ an(j had a right of entry therein when he commenced
f / *V.
V yg acj;;on} he shall recover the premises, unless the tenant proves a
better title in himself, (a)
Joinder of
Sec. 9. Persons claiming as tenants in common, joint tenants, or
^8^04)49. coparceners, may all, or any two or more, join in a suit for recovery
so Mc. ^54-^, 0f lands; or one may sue alone.
Demandant
Sec. 10. The demandant may recover a specific part or undividoTproof of' ed Portion of the premises to which he proves a title, though less
2llS- ^$r£»''?<than he demanded.
R. S. c. 104,
Uo.
Sec. 11. when a demandant recovers judgment in a writ of
t far 2-? 2> Demandant entI7) he may therein recover damages for the rents and profits of
*
damagcs'in the *he premises from the time his title accrued, subject to the limitation
« £c^4n" herein contained ; and for any destruction or waste of the buildings
\ il.
' or other property, for which the tenant is by law answerable.
86Mc!44^..
Sec. 12. The rents and profits, for which the tenant is liable, is
Estimation 'of the clear annual value of the premises while he was in possession,
profits.
after deducting all lawful taxes paid by him, and the necessary and
4 12.' C' '
(a) 5 Mc. 224; 12 Me. 846; 19 Me. 888 ; 22 Me. 812; 28 Mc. 234; 27 Me. 857; 81 Me.
143, 806, 583; 83 Me. 855, 541; 88 Mc. 78; 44 Mc. 118; 50 Mc. 62; 52 Me. 666 : 53 Me.
275; 55 Mc. 546. <-</ <l*U , / } jr y%
JJJ-~3*«.

TITLB IX.]

REAL ACTIONS.

763

ordinary expenses of repairs, cultivating the land, or collecting the Chap. 104.
rents and profits.
Sec. 13. In estimating the rents and profits, the value of the Same subject,
use by the tenant of improvements made by himself, or those under 13. ' c' '
whom he claims, shall not be allowed to the demandant.
tft.
Sec. 14. The tenant shall not be liable for the rents and profits Tenant not /'J'**'"
for more time than six years, nor for waste or other damage commit- and profits
ted before that time, unless the rents and profits are allowed in set-off y^arVuniess*
to his claim for improvements.
IT s*c°
S
Sec 15. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the demandant 14^
• » ■
■
RccoYcrv of
from maintaining an action for mesne profits, or for damage to the damages
premises, against any person except the tenant in a writ of entry, Sous.other
who has had possession of the premises, or is otherwise liable to such ^ s- c- 104, '
action.
Sec. 16. No real action shall be abated by the death or inter- Real ac'i01"
'
not to abate by
marriage of either party after its entry in court; but the court shall death, but
proceed to try and determine such action, after such notice as the r. s. c. 104) §
court orders has been duly served upon all interested in his estate, \%ie, 127.
personally, or by publication in some newspaper.
^^
Sec. 17. In such case, if any heir is a minor, the court shall Appointment
order notice to the guardian, and may appoint a guardian ad litem, if for minors.118
necessary, and direct all necessary amendments in the forms of pro- r.^.^'ioT,'9^
ceeding.
17Sec 18. If the demandant recovers judgment in any such case, Writs of pos...
.
session to conthe court may order one or more writs of possession to issue, as are form to the
necessary, against all such as have been so notified, whether they j^rnent conappeared and defended or not ; and such judgment shall be conclu- Rlug ™' 104 $
sive on them.
Sec 19. The prevailing party shall recover full costs in all such
.
3
••
. r •
j
cases, and the court may order one or more executions to be issued
therefor against the goods and estate of a deceased party in the hands
of his executor or administrator, or otherwise, according to the legal
rights and liabilities of the parties, and may stay any such execution,
if the situation of the estate requires it.
Sec 20. When the demanded premises have been in the actual
possession of the tenant, or those under whom he claims, for six suecessive years or more, before commencement of the action, such tenant shall be allowed a compensation for the value of any buildings and
improvements on the premises, made by him, or those under whom he
claims, to be ascertained and adjusted as hereinafter provided.
Sec 21. In such action, the demanded premises shall be clearly
described in the declaration, otherwise the court may direct a nonsuit. If the tenant, or person under whom he claims, has been in
possession of a tract of land lying in one body, for six years or more
before the commencement of the action, and only part of it is

18Allowance of
costs and stay
,t- execution.
s^iom'
JJ'k 898

^wed'after
^.{J^*™ ^°j'e J 2.
r^s. c.
<f/V
^^e. 878. |-» Viv, 3 7 7
22 Mu.'no.'
2* Me 'lu'
iMt^J *-'
The premises
aeflncdand'described in such
J"5V
R.S.c. 104421. f'O fau, / J

764

REAL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 104. demanded, and the tenant alleges that the demandant has as good a
title to the whole as to such part, he may request the jury to inquire
and decide that fact ; and if they so find, they shall proceed no
farther; but the court shall enter judgment that the writ abate,
unless the declaration is amended so as to include the whole tract,
which the court may allow without costs.
Tenant may
gBC> 22. If the tenant enters notice on record in open court,
consent that
*"
'
demandant
that the demandant may recover a specified part of the demanded
™)ecified pan; premises, by consent of the demandant judgment may be rendered
iL^^mf' 1U his f"avor f°r SUCQ Part> an^ f°r th*3 tenant for the residue ; but if
* 221
he does not consent, and recovers only such part, he shall recover no
costs, but the tenant shall recover his costs from the time of such
notice.
havebeue?
Sec. 23. The tenant shall have the benefit of the provisions in
npon'demnr- ^e following sections as to the increased value of premises, when the
R1S Tc'i0i1U cause w determined in favor of the demandant upon demurrer, default,
$ 28.
'or by verdict, including all real actions brought by a reversioner or
remainder man, or his assigns, after the termination of a tenancy in
dower, or any other life estate, against the assignee or grantee of the
tenant of the life estate, or against his heirs or legal representatives.
Request of
Sec. 24. The tenant may file a written claim to compensation
appraisafo/01 for buildings and improvements on the premises, and a request for an
and Us effect.8 estimation by the jury of the increased value of the premises, by
R^ s. c. 104, reason thereof; and the demandant may file a request, in writing,
that the jury would also estimate what would have been the value of
the premises, at the time of trial, if no buildings had been erected,
improvements made, or waste committed ; both these estimates they
shall make, and state in their verdict ; and the jury shall allow for
no buildings or improvements, except those that they find were made
by the tenant, his grantor, or assignor, and were judicious and proper
under the circumstances of the case.
The difference
Sec. 25. If the tenant, so claiming, alleges and proves that he,
appTaT^vai- and those under whom he claims, have had the premises in actual
when tenant' possession for more than twenty years prior to the commencement of
the'Yriai to be
ac^on) ^e jury may find that fact ; and in estimating the value
value of bet- 0f the premises, if no buildings had been erected, or improvements
R. s. c. 104, made thereon, they shall find, and state in their verdict, what was
^ "''
the value of the premises when the tenant, or those under whom he
claims, first entered thereon. The sum so found shall be deemed the
estimated value of the premises; and in estimating the increased
value by reason of the buildings and improvements, the jury shall
find, and state in their verdict, the value of the premises at the time
of the trial, above their value when the tenant or those under whom
he claims, first entered thereon ; and the sum, so found and stated,
shall be taken for the buildings and improvements.

TITLE IX.]

BEAL ACTIONS.

765

Sec. 26. If the demandant after such verdict, at the same, or a
subsequent term of the court, if the cause is continued, makes his
election on record to abandon the premises to the tenant at the value
estimated by the jury, and files with the clerk for the use of the

Chap. 104.
When and
ant may elect
k s! c?diMi

tenant a bond in the penal sum, of three times the estimated value
of the premises, with sureties approved by the court, conditioned to
refund such estimated value, with interest, to the tenant, his heirs or
assigns, if they are evicted from the land within twenty years by a
title better than that of the demandant, then judgment shall be ren
dered against the tenant for the sum so estimated by the jury, and
costs.
Sec. 27. At the end of one year, execution may issue for such
.
sum, with one year s interest thereon and costs, unless the tenant
has then deposited with the clerk of the court, or in his office for
the demandant's use, one year's interest of said sum, and one-third
of the principal sum, and all the costs, if taxed and filed, and in that

\ ^e 809
J Me. m.
16 Me. 124.

case no execution shall issue at the time.
Sec. 28. If within two years after the rendition of judgment,
the tenant pays one year's interest on the balance of the judgment
due, and one-third of the original judgment, execution shall be further stayed ; otherwise it may issue for two thirds of the original
amount of the judgment and interest thereon.
Sec. 29. If the tenant, within three years after the rendition of
judgment, pays into the clerk's office the remaining third and interest

Tenant ailowed to pay
one-third the
Jan^nrstyear
"73^*04
* 27■
At the end of
must pay'
wWHntereat?'
fyi' °' 10*'
And at the end
he may pyay

thereon, having made the other payments as aforesaid, execution shall and"effect*'
never issue ; otherwise, it may for the third aforesaid and one year's RejsJocf"'i04
interest thereon; and the premises shall be held as security for the * 29amount of the judgment, liable to be taken in execution for the
amount and interest, until sixty days after an execution might have
issued as aforesaid, notwithstanding any intermediate conveyance,
attachment, or seizure upon execution ; and such execution may be
extended on said land or any part of it ; or it may be sold on execu
tion like an equity of redemption ; and in either case, subject to the
right of redemption as in those cases. An execution or writ of pos
session may issue at any time within three months after default of
payment by the tenant, in cases mentioned in this and the two pre
ceding sections, though it is more than a year after the rendition of
judgment.
Sec. 30. If the tenant or his heirs are evicted by a better title Tenant's remfrom the land so abandoned to him, and they notified the demandant evicted!"3 "
or his heirs to aid him in his defence against such title, they, their ^"Jf- c> 104'
executors, or administrators, may recover back the money so paid,
with lawful interest, of said demandant or his representatives ; but if
no notice was given, the tenant, in an action against the original

766

REAL ACTIONS .

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 104. demandant to recover the price paid for the premises, may show that
he was evicted by a title better than that of the demandant.
Sec. 31. When the demandant does not elect so to abandon the
If demandant
does not aban premises, no writ of possession shall issue on his judgment, nor a new
don he cannot
have writ of
possession till action be sustained for the land, unless, within one year from the ren
he pays im
dition thereof, he pays into the clerk's office of the court, or to such
provements,
ft. S. c. 104, person as the court appoints, for the use of the tenant, the sum
♦ 81.
assessed for the buildings and improvements, with interest thereon.
Sec. 32. Nothing contained in this chapter concerning rents and
Restriction of
the right to
betterments. profits, or the estimate and allowance of the value of the buildings
R. S.c. 104,
and improvements, shall extend to any action between a mortgager
,83.
1 Me. 858.
and mortgagee, their heirs and assigns ; or to any case where the ten
ant, or the person under whom he claims, entered into possession of
the premises and occupied under a contract with the owner, which
was known to the tenant when he entered.
Sec. 33. No tenant, after judgment is entered against him for
Tenant not to
commit waste
aftcrjudgnicnt the appraised value of the premises, shall unnecessarily cut wood,
against him. take away any timber, or make any strip or waste on the land, till
R. S.c. 104,
S 88.
the amount of such judgment is satisfied.
Sec. 34. When the parties agree that the value of the buildings
Parties may
agree as to
value of im and improvements on the land demanded, and the value of the land,
provements. shall be ascertained by persons named on the record for that purpose,
R. S. c. 104,
4 84.
their estimate, as reported by them and recorded, shall be equal in
its effect to the verdict of a jury.
Tenant may
Sec 35. When the tenant, in any stage of such action, files a
propose a
statement in open court, consenting to a sum at which the buildings
value for
premises and
betterments. and improvements, and the value of the demanded premises, may be
Effect thereof.
R. S. c. 104, estimated, if the demandant consents thereto, judgment shall be ren
485.
dered accordingly, as if such sums had been found by verdict ; but if
2 Me. 852.
the demandant does not consent, and the jury does not reduce the
value of the buildings and improvements below the sum offered, nor
increase the value of the premises above the sum offered, he shall
recover no costs after such offer ; but the tenant shall recover his
costs after such offer, and have judgment and execution therefor,
subject to the provisions of the following section.
Set-off of costs
Sec. 36. In all cases where the demandant does not abandon the
against im
provements. premises to the tenant, the court may, on the written application of
R. S.c. 104.
either party during the term when judgment is entered, order the
S 36.
costs recovered by the demandant to be set off against the appraised
value of the buildings and improvements on the land ; a record of
this order shall be made, and the court shall thereupon enter judg
ment according as the balance is in favor of one party or the other.
Jurors disqual
Sec. 37. No person shall sit as a juror in the trial of a cause,
ified, if inter
ested in similar when the value of buildings and improvements made on the demand
questions.
ed premises, and the value of the premises, are to be estimated as
K. S. c. 104,
t 87.

TITLE IX.]

KEAL ACTIONS.

767

aforesaid, who, as proprietor or occupant, is interested in a similar Chap. 104.
question.
,
Sec. 38. A possession and improvement of land by a tenant are Wliat eonsti- C#i
.
.
» i• i
.
„..
, tutus a posseswithin the provisions of this chapter, though a portion of it is wood- ?ion and
land and uncultivated, and though not wholly surrounded by a fence, i^I.'c.^w'ms.
or rendered inaccessible by other obstructions, if they have been open, 8i5Me.2343./notorious, exclusive, and comporting with the usual management and
't't
improvement of a farm by its owner.
Sec. 39. After judgment has been rendered for the demandant Proceedings,
in a writ of entry, if either party dies before a writ of possession is dies before the
executed, or the cause otherwise disposed of according to the forego- posed of.
ing provisions, any money payable by the tenant may be paid by him, ^ jjg.'0-104'
his executor, or administrator, or by any person entitled to the estate
under him, to the demandant, his executor or administrator, with the
like effect as if both parties were living.
Sec. 40. The writ of possession shall be issued in the name of How writ of
the original demandant against the original tenant, though either, or shan issue in
both are dead; and when executed, it shall inure to the use and bene^"164,
fit of the demandant, or whoever is then entitled to the premises * *°under him, as if executed in the lifetime of the parties.
Sec. 41. ......
Either party may
a view
Either party
J. have
,
. . by the Jiury
J of the. place
, mavhavea
in question, if in the opinion 01 the court it is necessary to a just de- view by the
cision ; the party moving for it shall advance to the jury such sum as 'r.1! c. 104,
the court orders, to be taxed against the adverse party if the cause is ' 41'
decided against him on the merits, or through his default.
Sec. 42. If the demandant olaims an estate for life only in the Proceedings if
premises, and pays a sum allowed. to the tenant for improvements, he, demanded? 'S
or his executor, or administrator, at the termination of his estate, shall f'Jfc c" 104,
be entitled to receive of the remainder man or reversioner, the value
of such improvements, as they then exist ; and have a lien therefor on
the premises, as if they had been mortgaged for its payment, and may
keep possession till it is paid ; and if the parties cannot agree on the
existing value, it may be settled as in case of the redemption of mort
gaged real estate.
Sec. 43. When any person makes entry into lands, or tenements, If tenant is
of which the tenant in possession, or those under whom he claims, sjx yeursposhave been in actual possession for six years or more before such entry,
f"rafm.
and withholds their possession from such tenant, he shall have a right ^"g'™^8,
to recover of him so entering, or of his executor, or administrator, in $ 48.
an action of assumpsit for money laid out and expended, the increased
value of the premises by reason of the buildings and improvements
made by the tenant, or those under whom he claims, to be ascertained
by the principles hereinbefore provided ; and these provisions shall ex
tend to the grantee or assignee of the tenant in dower and of any

. .

768

REAL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IS.

Chap. 104. other life estate ; and a lien is hereby created on the premises in favor
of such claim, to be enforced by an action commenced within one year
after such entry ; and it shall be no bar to such action, if the tenant,
to avoid cost, yields to the superior title.
Cases in which Seo. 44. In all actions respecting lands or any interest therein, a
impeach"tin* title deed, offered in evidence, may be impeached by the defendant as
Seeds' 8 tltl<Sl obtained by fraud, where the grantor, if a party, could impeach it, if
B^S. c. 104, vqjq defendant has been in the open, peaceable, and adverse possession
If tenant and
his grantors
have been in
possesskm forty years, no
costs for
plaintiff.
4 if." C' 10i'

of the premises for twenty years.
gEC 45 jn an reai an(j mixe(j actions, in which the tenant proves
'
_
r ~~
that he and those under whom he claims, have been in the open, noto.
.
.
» a
.
nous, adverse, and exclusive possession of the demanded premises,
claiming in fee simple,.for forty years next before the commencement
of the action, and the jury so find, the demandant shall recover no

costs.
Court may apSec. 46. The court may appoint a surveyor to run lines and make
tect^nn^vors P'ans °f lands demanded in a real or mixed action, on motion of either
K^S. c. 104, party; and if he is prevented by force, menaces, or fear, from per
forming the duties assigned him, the court may issue a warrant to the
sheriff, commanding him, with suitable aid, to cause such opposition
to be prevented ; and in the execution of such warrant, he may exer
cise all the power pertaining to his office as sheriff ; and all persons
refusing their aid when called for by him shall be liable to the same
penalties as in other like cases.

TITLE IX.]

LIMITATION OF REAL ACTIONS.

769
Chap. 105.

CHAPTER

105.

LIMITATION OF REAL ACTIONS, AND RIGHTS OF ENTRY.
Sec, 1.
2.
8,
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
18.
14.
15.

Rights of entry and of action barred in twenty years.
From what time right begins to run.
4, 5. When such right shall be deemed to accrue.
When an action may be brought by a minister, or other sole corporation.
Saving in favor of infants, and certain other disabled persons.
Further saving, if the person first entitled dies during such disability.
Consequence, if tenant in tail or remainder man dies before the expiration of
the limitation.
What shall constitute such a disseizin as to bar the right ofrecovery.
Limitation of actions by the state.
Limitation not to take effect in certain cases, where the first suit fails.
Right of way, or other easement, acquired by adverse user; the owner, by
notice, may prevent such acquisition.
How such notice is to be given.
No real or mixed action, for the recovery of land, to be maintained, when the
tenant, and those under whom he claims, have been in possession over forty
years.

Sec. 1. No person shall commence any real or mixed action for Rights of enthe recovery of lands, or make an entry thereon, unless within twenty ^arre^in^011
years after the right to do so first accrued ; or unless within twenty bjj^T
years after he, or those under whom he claims, were seized or pos- ^j^o!"
sessed of the premises; except as hereinafter provided.
21 Me." 201.
Sec. 2. If such right or title first accrued to an ancestor, prede- 85 Me! 45e! 3/ Wb*
cessor, or other person under whom the demandant claims, said.J™™^*'^
twenty years shall be computed from the time when the right or title g>" to Jjj"first accrued to such ancestor, predecessor or other person.
14 Me. 163.'
Sec. 3. The right of entry, or of action to recover land, as used When'8UCh
in this chapter, first accrues at the times hereinafter mentioned.
£snt s£*u be
r '
deemed to acFirtt.—When a person is disseized, at the time of such disseizin.
1Q5 ^ s
Second.—When he claims as heir or devisee of one who died
seized, at the time of such death, unless there is a tenancy by the
curtesy or other estate intervening after the death of the ancestor or
devisor ; in that case, his right accrues when such intermediate estate
•
expires, or would expire by its own limitation.
TJiird.—When there is such an intermediate estate, and in all
.
cases, when the party claims by force of any remainder or reversion,
I ^
'
/
his right accrues when the intermediate estate would expire by its
own limitation, notwithstanding any forfeiture thereof for which he
might enter at an earlier time.
49

770

LIMITATION OF REAL ACTIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 105.
Sec. 4. • The preceding clause shall not prevent any person from
clause shall
entering, when so entitled hy reason of any forfeiture or breach of
not prevent
condition ; but if he claims under such a title, his right accrues
fromPentcring when the forfeiture was incurred, or the condition broken.
broken*'1011
Sec. 5. In all cases not otherwise provided for, the right of
r. s^cios.H. entry accrues when the claimant, or the person under whom he
specially proR. 8. c°l05, § 5.
When an action may be
brought by a
other sole corR0™.^"^, § 6.
Saving in favor of minors
and other disr^c.'ios0??'.
is Me. 897.

Further sayson' first enti"
ing suchdisaR sTc 105 $8

Consequence,
tlirorremaiDbefore'the'ex
pi ration of the
limitation.
R. S. e. 105, § 9.

What shall
disseizin to bar
right of recovr. s. c.105,
29 Me i«8
ifO « i (.(
j-2 ■<
. /fa 7

claims, first became entitled to the possession of the premises, under
the title on which the entry or action is founded.
Sec. 6. If a' minister, or other sole corporation is disseized, any
.
*
*
,
.
,
of his successors may enter upon the premises or bring an action for
their recovery, at any time within five years after the death, resignation, or removal of the person disseized, notwithstanding twenty
years after disseizin have expired.
Sec. 7. When such right of entry or action first accrues, if the
,,
,
.... ...
. .
.
•
•
j
person thereto entitled is a minor, married woman, insane, imprisoned,
or absent from the United States, he, or any one claiming under him,
may mate tne entry or bring the action at any time within ten years
after such disability is removed, notwithstanding twenty years have
expired.
Sec. 8. If the person first entitled to make the entry or bring
the action dies during the continuance of the disability, and no determination or judgment has been had on his4itle or right of action, the
entry may De made or action brought by his heirs, or other person
claiming under him, at any time within ten years after his death, not
withstanding the twenty years have elapsed ; but no such further time
for bringing the action or making the entry, beyopd what is herein
before prescribed, shall be allowed by reason of the disability of
any other person.
Sec. 9. When a tenant in tail, or a remainder man in tail, dies
before the expiration of the period herein before limited for making
any en^I7 or bringing an action for lands, no person, claiming any
estate which such tenant in tail or remainder man might have barred,
•
.
°
shall make an entry or bring an action to recover such land, except
within the period during which the tenant in tail or remainder man,
if he had so long lived, might have done it.
Sec 10. To constitute a disseizin, or such exclusive and adverse
possession of lands as to bar or limit the right of the true owner
thereof to recover them, it shall not be necessary for such lands to be
surrounded. with fences or rendered inaccessible by water; but it shall
^e sum^ent> if tfle possession, occupation, and improvement are open,
notorious, and comporting with the ordinary management of a farm ;
although that part of the same, which composes the woodland belonging to such farm and used therewith as a woodlot, is not so enclosed.

TITLE IX.]

LIMITATION OF REAL ACTIONS.

771

Sec. 11. No real or mixed action for the recovery of any lands Chap. 105.
shall be commenced in behalf of the state, unless within twenty years Limitation of
,, .
., ....
"
real or mixed
after the time its title accrues.
actions by the
Sec. 12. When a writ in real or mixed action fails of sufficient r. s. c.i05,
service or return by unavoidable cause, or by the default or negli- \
.
*
,
,
Limitation not
gence of any officer to whom it was delivered or directed for service, to take effect
the writ is abated ; the action defeated for any matter of form, or by cases, when
the death or other disability of either party; or the demandant's r^s.T'ios,18'
judgment is reversed on writ of error, the demandant may commence * 12,
a new action at any time within six months after the abatement or
determination of the first suit, or the reversal of the judgment.
Sec. 13. No person shall acquire a right of way, or other ease- Right of way,
ment from, in, upon, or over, the land of another by the adverse use ment^acquSd
and enjoyment thereof, unless it is continued uninterrupted for twenty amUiow'prfr6'
years; and the owner of such land, to prevent such right, may give ™^ 10 '
notice, in writing, to the person claiming it, of his intention to contest $ is.
such right or easement, which, being served and recorded as herein
after stated, shall be deemed an interruption of such use, and pre
vent the acquisition of a right thereto.
Sec. 14. Such notice may be given by the agent or guardian of How such
the owner of the land, or by an officer, by giving to the claimant, his Riven,
agent, or guardian, if in the state, an attested copy thereof, or by f c' 105,
leaving it at his dwelling house, or, if not in the state, a copy may be
left with the tenant or occupant of the estate, if any; if not, such
copy shall be affixed to the house or a conspicuous part of the prem
ises. The officer shall make his return on the original notice ; and
the whole shall be recorded in the registry of deeds in the registry
district where the land lies, within three months from the time of such
\
service.
Sec. 15. No real or mixed action, for the recovery of any lands, No real or
shall be commenced or maintained against any person in possession forXthc recovthereof, when such person or those under whom he claims have been 2jcj! 4o^rears
in actual possession for more than forty years, claiming to hold them possession,
by adverse, open, peaceable, notorious, and exclusive possession, in H5. /-j, //^, j t~*
their own right.

772

JURORS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 106.

Sec. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.

\

.

y^&sfr-^J) 7/
- '
I) 0

CHAPTER 106.
THE SELECTION AND SERVICE OF JURORS.
Lists of Jurors, how and when Prepared.
Board for preparing list ofjurors ; towns may make alterations.
How and when the lists are to be prepared. Endorsements on old tickets trans
ferred to new.
Persons exempted from serving.
Tickets of names to be kept in jury box ; liable to be drawn once in three years.
Number required to be kept in jury box ; names may be withdrawn in certain

6. Commissioners to divide the county into jury districts, and furnish copy of
division to clerk; how divided and numbered.
7. Rule by which the clerk shall issuo venires,
Issue and Service of Venires.
Sec, 8. When venires for grand jurors to issue. Grand jurors to serve a year. When
venires for trial j urors to issue.
9. Distribution of venires and notice of meetings to draw j urors.
10. Grand jurors irregularly drawn or incompetent, discharged, and when number
is reduced, how new one drawn to serve the year out.
Draft of Jcrors, and when they are to Attend.
Sec. 11. Mode of drawing j urors.
12. Same subject.
18. Date of draft to be endorsed on the ticket.
14. Constable to notify jurors and to return venires.
15. Jurors to attend the first day of term, or when ordered,
Penalties.
Sec. 16. Penalty for neglect of municipal officers and clerk,
tenuity *°r neg'cct of constable or town.
18. Penalty for neglect of clerk of court or sheriff.
19. Penalty for neglect of juror to attend.
20. Penalty for fraud by town officers.
21. Recovery and appropriation of fines.
LIST OF JURORS, HOW AND WHEN PREPARED.

Board for pre- Sec. 1. The municipal officers, treasurer and clerk of each town,
furora. ''Alter- constitute a board for preparing lists of jurors to be laid before the
R.Tc/ioMi!
*°r tne*r aPProval > ana< the town, in legal town meeting, by a
majority of the legal voters assembled, may strike out such names as
they think proper from such lists, but shall not insert any other
_names.
finuf how and when gEC 2. Such board, at least once in every three years, shall
1 </ 14"~ Li t,,B Iists aro
•
/&
" be prepared, prepare a list of such persons, of good moral character, and qualified
on old tickets as the constitution directs, to vote for representatives, under the age
transferred to ^ seventv year8j jn guch town, as they judge best qualified to serve
f\ 2,'i5. 106'

a3 jur01"8-

When a new list is made the municipal officers shall trans

TITLE IX.]

JURORS.

fer from the old tickets to the new of the same persons the minutes
of the draft made within the three preceding years.
Sec. 3. The following persons shall be exempted from serving as
3 ii •
11 „
lii
i t.
n
jurors, ana their names shall not be placed on the lists : the governor,
councilors, judges and clerks of the common law courts, secretary and
treasurer of the state, all officers of the United States, judges and
registers of probate, registers of deeds, settled ministers of the gospel,
officers of colleges, preceptors of incorporated academies, physicians
and surgeons, cashiers of incorporated banks, sheriffs and their depu
ties, coroners, counselors and attorneys at law, county commissioners,
constables, and constant ferrymen.
Sbc. 4. After the list of jurors is approved by the town, the board
shall write their names upon tickets, and place them in the jury box,
to be kept by the town clerk ; and the persons whose names are in the
box shall be liable to be drawn and to serve on any jury, at any court
for which they are drawn, once in every three years and not oftener,
except as herein provided.
Sec. 5. Each town shall provide, and constantly keep in the box,
a number of names ready to be drawn when required, not less than
one nor more than two for every hundred persons in the town, according to the census taken next before preparing the box ; and the board
shall withdraw from it the name of any person convicted of any scan
dalous crime, or guilty of any gross immorality.
Sec. 6. Within one year after every new census, and oftener if a
*
»
considerable change of population renders it proper, the county commissioners shall divide their county into not less than four, nor more

773
Chap. 106.
Persons cxempted from
serving.
Me. 860.' * S'

Tickets of
kept injury
be dVawuVncc
ij"

Number
kept'iiijury'"5
namesUmay be
J1* gr
5

Commissioners to divide
the county
tricts,Uand give

than twelve districts numerically designated ; and they shall place as ton w°cicrk of
many adjoining towns in each district, as will make the number of in- ^gh. io6 $ 6
habitants in each, according to the last census, as nearly equal as may
be, without dividing a town ; and shall deliver a copy of such division
immediately to the clerk of the courts in their county.
Sec. 7. The grand and traverse jurors shall be drawn from each Rule by which
.
the clerk shall
jury district in such manner as to cause jurors, at each term of the issue venires.
court, to come from every part of the county as equally as may be; ^'iie.'2oo!^7'
and as far as practicable, from every town in rotation, having regard
to the number of its inhabitants, taking not more than two grand
jurors and two traverse jurors from the same town at the same time,
unless from necessity, or some extraordinary cause, or to equalize the
service ; and the clerk of the courts shall issue venires to the con
stables accordingly.
ISSUE AND SERVICE OF VENIRES,
Sec. 8. Venires for grand jurors to serve at the Supreme Judi- fy^JndlKa
cial Court, shall be issued forty days at least, before the second Mon- j?roriito issne'
'
i
Grand jurors
day of September annually; and they shall serve at each term, for to serve a year.
the transaction of criminal business during the year. Venires for for traverse

JURORS.

774

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 106.
jurors to issue,
R S c 81
H 23, 24. '
^'.S/CK
81
Distribution of
venires ami
notice of meetingstodraw
r'^sTc. 106,
1861 c. 7.

traverse jurors, shall be seasonably issued before each term of the
court, and at such other times, as the court orders.
Sec. 9. The sheriff on receiving such venires, shall immediately
send them to the constables of the towns where directed; and each
,
#
'
constable, on receipt thereof, shall notify the inhabitants of the town,
.
.
,
. . .
qualified to vote for representatives, and especially the municipal
officers and town clerk, by posting notices in two public and conspicuous places therein, at least four days before such meeting, to assemble
and be present at the draft of jurors called for, which shall be six
days at least, before the time when the jurors are ordered to attend
court.
irregularly0™.
Sec. 10- When any judge of the court in term time or vacation,
fncompetent *s sa^sned that any persons returned or acting on grand jury, are
and'when1'
irregularly drawn, or are otherwise incompetent to act thereon, he
number is
shall discharge them, send a certificate stating their names, to the
new one's
clerk of court for such county, which shall be recorded by him, and
year out° SerTe ordering him to issue venires for the number of new jurors, the judge
im' c 679H l, 2, 8.

deems necessary. The clerk shall issue venires as directed, which
shall be served four days at least before the time such jurors are
ordered to attend court, and the jurors thus drawn shall serve, with
those not discharged, the remainder of the year. When the number
of grand jurors is reduced by death or otherwise, such judge shall
direct venires to be issued and served as aforesaid, for the additional
number he deems necessary to serve for the remainder of the year.

DRAFT OF JURORS AND WHEN THEY ARE TO ATTEND.
Mode of drawSec. 11. The town clerk, or, in his absence, one of the municipal
ing jurors, &c.
B. s. c. 106, officers, shall carry the jury box into the meeting, which shall there
be unlocked, and the tickets mixed by a majority of said officers
present; and one of them shall draw out as many tickets as there
are jurors required ; and the persons whose names are drawn shall be
returned as jurors, unless they have served on the jury within three
years, or from sickness, absence beyond sea, without the limits, or in
distant parts of the state, they are considered by the town unable to
attend.
RSBeamct'
^EC- ^* *n e't^er °f
cases, or if a person is drawn who has
4 12-

been appointed to an office exempting him from serving, others shall
be drawn in their stead ; but any person thus excused, or returned
and attending court, and there excused, shall not be excused on
another draft, though within three years ; and when all the persons,
whose names are in the box, have served within three years, or are
not liable to serve, the selectmen shall draw out the required number
of those who have not served for eighteen months; and the clerk
shall certify on the venire, that all persons whose names are in the
box have served within three years, or are not liable to serve.

TITLE IX.]

JURORS.

775

Sec. 13. When a juror is drawn and not excused by the town, Chap. 106.
the municipal
Date
draft
r officers who drew his ticket shall indorse thereon the to
be of
indorsed
date of the draft and return it into the box.
on the
Sec. 14. The constables shall notify the persons thus drawn four § 13.'
days at least before the sitting of the court, by reading the venire {^Sf^Jrors'
and indorsement thereon to them, or leaving at their usual place of and return
.
venires,
abode a written notice that they have been drawn, and of the time RS.ci06,4Hand place of the sitting of the court where they are to attend ; and °
make a seasonable return of the venire with his doings thereon.
jurors to
Seo. 15. The grand and traverse jurors shall attend on the first
™'day
day
of
the
term
for
which
they
are
drawn
and
summoned,
unless
the
S'hSn
onlci?i'
J
J
'
R. S. c. 106, § 9.
court designates a different day ; and if so, the venire shall specify
such day.
PENALTIES.
Sec. 16. If the municipal officers or town clerk neglect to per- penalty for
form their duties herein required, so that the jurors called for from nfu,1,^^
their town are not returned, they shall be fined not less than ten, nor
and
more than fifty dollars each.
R s. c. 106.
.
.
4 16.
Sec. 17. Any constable, neglecting to perform his duties herein penaitv for
required, shall be fined not exceeding twenty dollars ; and any town
G° to™""
for a like neglect of its duties shall be fined not exceeding one hun- R^s. c. 106,
dred dollars.
Sec. 18. If the clerk of the court, or sheriff, neglects to perform Penalty for
his duties so as to prevent a compliance with any of the provisions of clerk or sherifr.
this chapter, he shall be fined not exceeding fifty dollars.
?• 106>
Sec. 19. Any juror, who, after being notified and returned, Penalty for
unnecessarily fails in his attendance, shall be fined as for contempt, juror to intend,
not exceeding twenty dollars, unless he resides in Portland, and then f\fj °' 106'
not exceeding forty dollars.
Sec. 20. Any town clerk or municipal officer, who commits a penaity for
fraud on the box previous to the draft, in drawing a juror or in 0r^"dr°f town
returning a name into the box, which had been fairly drawn and ^.8. c. 106,
drawing another in its stead, or in any other mode, shall be fined not
exceeding two hundred dollars, half to the use of the state and half
to the prosecutor.
Sec. 21. All fines imposed by sections sixteen, seventeen, eight- Recovery and
een and nineteen, shall be recovered by indictment, information, or of^e""10"
action by the county treasurer to the use of the county where the
c. loe,
offence is committed.

[TITLE IX.

DEPOSITIONS.

776
Chap. 107.

CHAPTER

107.

DEPOSITIONS.
Sec. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

9.
10.
11.
12.
18.
14.
15.
16.
IT.
18.
19.
20.
21.
Sec. 22.
28.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.

Sec. 29.

Depositions in General.
In what cases depositions may be used.
Before whom they may be taken.
Winn a cause is deemed pending, for the purpose of taking depositions.
Reasons for which they may be taken and used.
On application of the party, a justice or notary may issue summons to depo
nent, and notice to adverse party.
Service of such notice, how made.
Who is to be considered attorney of the adverse party.
Notice to one of the adverse party sufficient ; time of notice; verbal notice by
the justice or notary ; due notice to be given when deposition is taken out
of the state.
Form of notice to adverse party.
Form of summons to deponent.
Witness may be compelled to give his deposition.
Deponent to be sworn before examination.
Who mav write the deposition.
If deception is used in giving notice, deposition may be rejected. No deposi
tion to be closed until one hour after time appointed for the taking.
Form of caption.
Depositions to be delivered in court, or scaled np and directed.
Not to be used if the reason for taking no longer exists.
Objections to competency of witness or questions must be seasonably made.
When depositions may be used in a second suit.
The court may admit or reject depositions taken out of the state.
The court may issue commissions to take depositions out of the state.
Depositions in Pebpetcam.
Application for taking a deposition in perpetuam, and notice to persons inter
ested.
How such depositions arc to be taken and certified.
To be recorded, and where.
When it may be used in evidence.
Such depositions may be taken out of the state, upon a commission issued
from the supreme judicial court.
The court to order notice, and on hearing may issue a commission to take such
depositions.
Such deposition to be taken upon interrogations ; application may be filed in
vacation, and notice given.
Penaltt fob refusing to Appeab, ob to oive Depositions.
Proceedings to compel a deponent to appear and depose. Adjournment if
deponent refuses to appear. Capias may then issue. Who may serve it and
where. Punishment if he refuses to depose.

TITLE IX.]

DEPOSITIONS.

J^f

DEPOSITIONS IN GENERAL.

777
CHAP. 107.

Sec. 1. Depositions taken for the causes, arpm the manner here- in what cases
inafter mentioned, may he used in all civil suits or causes, petitions for may boused,
partition of land, libels for divorce, prosecutions for the maintenance w84, c/aw, 1
of bastard children, petitions for review, and in trials before arbitra- ^ *' 2tors, referees, and county commissioners ; and in cases of contested
senatorial or representative election. Depositions or affidavits may
also be taken in application for pensions, bounties, or arrears of pay,
under any law of the United States.
Sec. 2. A justice of the peace or notary public may take depo- ^f0™ whom
sitions to be used in a pending cause, in which he is not interested, ^ s. c. 107, S 2.
nor then nor previously counsel.
Sec. 3. No suit, petition, libel or prosecution, for the purposes of ^ceraed"186
this chapter, shall be considered pending, till the process therein has pundo"f'0f0r
been duly served on the respondent, or such notice as is required by taking depolaw, or ordered by the court, has been duly given ; and no such depo- r. s. c. 107, S 8sition shall be used in the trial of any cause except by consent of \l mc." It]'.
parties, unless the notice hereinafter mentioned is duly given to the 87 Mc' 411,
adverse party.
Sec. 4. Depositions
may
r
j be taken for any
j of the following
o
Causes.
First.—When the deponent is so aged, infirm, or sick, as not to be
able to attend at the place of trial.
Second.—When the deponent resides out of, or is absent from the
state.
Third.—When the deponent, before the session of the court where
the deposition is to be used, is bound to sea on a voyage, is about to
go out of the state, or more than sixty miles from the place of trial,
and not expected to return in season to attend it.
Fourth.—When the deponent is judge of the supreme judicial
court, or court of probate, and is prevented by his official duty from
attending the trial.
Fifth.—When the deponent resides in a town other than that in
which the trial is to be had ; and also when he resides in the same
town ; but in the latter case, the deposition shall not be used, unless,
at the trial, the party offering it shows the deponent's death or per
manent removal from that town.
Sixth.—When the deponent is confined in prison, and such impris
onment is continued until after the trial.
Sec. 5. On application of either party to a iustice of the
peace or notary public, he may issue a summons to the deponent to
appear at a designated time and place, to give his deposition, and a
notice to the adverse party to be then and there present ; and the
deposition may then and there be taken by him or any other justice
or notary.

Reasons
for
wni(;n tliev.
may be taken
r. s. c. ioV, $ 4.
mm£sm.
53 Me- 179-

On appifcanotary may
^deponent0118
party0"06 10
g §j£ ™7> '

778

DEPOSITIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 107.
Sec. 6. The notice to the adverse party shall be served on him
Sen-ice of
or his attorney by reading it in his presence and hearing, or by givmade.
ing to him, or leaving at his place of last and usual abode, an attested
IV Me. 111.' * 6" C0Py thereof; and the service may be made by a sworn officer, or by
any other person and proved by his affidavit.
wiiotobcconSec. 7. No person,
shall be
sidered attorr
' for the purposes
r. r
.of . this chapter,
r
ncy of the
considered such attorney, unless his name is indorsed upon the writ,
K. cl'm"?t! or the summons left with the defendant, or he has appeared for his
principal in the cause, or given notice in writing that he is attorney
of such adverse party, (a)
of0advc^e°ne
Sec- 8- where there are several plaintiffs or defendants, the
party sumnotice shall be sufficient if given by the justice or notary to one or
cient; tune of
o
j
j
j
notice; when more of them; the adverse party shall be allowed not less than at
may be given, the rate of one day, Sundays excepted, for every twenty miles travel
deposition "out ^rom ms usual place of abode to the place of caption, between the
R. s!c!eioT $ 8 8erv'ce of notice and time appointed for taking the deposition. Ver
se Me' *78

^ notice to the adverse party by a justice or notary shall be suffi
cient; and when a deposition is taken out of the state, and not under
a commission, the adverse party or his attorney shall have due notice
thereof.
Form of notice
Sec. 9. The notice to the adverse party, if in the state, shall be
to Adverse
party.
in substance as follows :—
22 Me.' 857.' * 9'
> SB. To
, of
, in the county of
.
Greeting.
Whereas A. B., of
, has requested, that the deposition of
C. D., of
, may be taken to be used in an action of
, pend
ing between you and the said A. B., and the
of
, in
, and the
day of
, at
of the clock in
noon, are the place and time appointed therefor ; you are
hereby notified to be present and put such questions as you think fit.
Dated this
day of
, 18—.
, Justice of the Peace.
mons to depo
^EC'
^e ju8*'ce or notary, when requested, shall issue a
nent,
in substance as follows,' viz. :—
K. S. c. 107, summons to the deponent
r
* 10-

, ss.

To C. D., of

, in the county of
.
Greeting.
Whereas A. B., of
, in the county of
, has re
quested that your deposition be taken, to be used in an action now
pending between him and E. F., of
, in the county of
,
and the
of
, in the town of
, and the
day of
, at
of the clock in the
noon, are the
place and time appointed therefor ; you are therefore required, in the
name of the State of Maine, there and then to appear and testify
(a) 29 Mc. 69; 88 Mc. 420; 86 Me. 350; 52 Me. 479.

TITLE IX.]

DEPOSITIONS.

what you know relating to said action.
, in the year
.

Dated this

779
of Chap. 107.

, 'Justice of the Peace.
The summons may.be served and the service thereof proved as in
section six.
Sec. 11. A witness may be compelled to attend and give his Je^mpJuS
deposition
in like manner and under the same penalties
as a witness sition.
to give depor
1
is compelled to attend and testify in court ; but not to travel more R. s. c. iot,
than thirty miles to give his deposition ; and such deposition shall not so Me. 278,
be used in any trial, except for the causes mentioned in the fourth
section, unless the adverse party uses the witness at such trial.
Sec. 12. The deponent
shall bo first sworn to
r
, testify
• the truth, How
to be deponent
sworn
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, relating to the cause or andexamincd.
matter for which the deposition is to be taken ; and he shall then be § 12.
examined, first by the party producing him, on verbal or written
interrogatories, and then by the adverse party, and by the justice or
the parties afterwards, if they see cause, (a)
Sec. 13. The deposition shall be written by the justice or notary, Who may
or by the deponent or some disinterested person, in the presence and si"on? edepo
under the direction of such justice or notary; and after it has been
c' 10T'
carefully read to or by the deponent, it shall be subscribed by him.
Sec. 14. If the adverse rparty
in
J is notified , to take depositions
r
the same cause at two places at the same time, or any deceptive
means are used to prevent his attendance at the taking of any depositions, the court for such reason may reject them ; and no deposition
shall be closed till the expiration of one hour after the time appointed
for the taking.
Sec. 15. The justice or notary shall make out a certificate and
annex it to the deposition, therein stating the following facts : (5)
First.—That the deponent was first sworn according to law, and
when.
Second.—By whom the deposition was written ; if by the deponent
or some disinterested person, he must name him, and that it was
written in his presence and under his direction.
Third.—Whether the adverse party was notified to attend, and
did or did not attend.
Fourth.—The cause in which the deposition is to be used and the
names of the parties thereto.
Fifth.—The court or tribunal in which it is to be tried, and the
time and place of trial.
Sixth.—The cause of taking the deposition.
Sec. Id. The deposition shall be delivered by the justice to the
court or referees before whom the cause is to be tried, or inclosed and

If
deception
used
in taking,is
maybe
When it may
j£ s.°c? 107,
' u'
req^dsftesof
bPS °c'i07
4 is.

Deposition to
court or scaled
up and
(a) 24 Me. 171 ; 84 Me. 69 ; 85 Me. 182, 868, 511 ; 88 Me. 187 ; 44 Me. 72.
directed.
(6) -6 Me. 9; 28 Me. 22; 81 Me. 588; 33 Me. 876; 84 Me. 69, 208; 86 Me. 71, 278, 466; R. S. c, 107,
88 Me. 22, 137 ; 41 Me. 832 ; 44 Me. 72 ; 45 Me. 461.
$ 16.

780

DEPOSITIONS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 107. sealed up by him, and directed to such court or referees, and kept
sealed till opened by their order.
Not to be used
Sec. 17. When a deposition is so taken, it shall not be used on
if cause no
longer exists. trial, if the adverse party shows that the cause for taking it no longer
R. 9. c. 107,
HT.
exists, (a)
Objections to
Sec. 18. Objections to the competency of a deponent, or to the
competency,
when made. questions or answers, may be made when the deposition is produced,
R, S. c. 107,
as if the witness testified on the trial ; but if a deposition is taken on
<) 18.
14 Me. 141.
written interrogatories, all objection to an interrogatory shall be made
87 Me. 208.
45 Me. 461.
before it is answered; and if it is not withdrawn, it shall be noted
47 Me. '248.
thereon, otherwise it shall not afterwards be allowed.
When deposi
Sec. 19. When a plaintiff becomes nonsuit, or discontinues his
tions may be
used in second suit and commences another for the same cause, between the same
suit.
R. S. c. 107, parties or their representatives, all depositions lawfully taken for the
U9.
55 Me. 165.
first may be used in the second suit, if they were duly filed in the
court where the first suit was pending, and remained on file till the
commencement of the second.
Court may
admit or reject Sec. 20. The court may admit or reject depositions taken out of
depositions
the state by a justice, notary, or other person lawfully empowered to
takes out of
the state.
take them. (£>)
R. S. c. 107,
$20.
Sec. 21. The justices of the supreme judicial court may issue
The court may commissions to take depositions without the state, to be used in pend
issue commis
sions to take ing suits in the state, on such terms and conditions as they think
depositions
out of the
proper.
state.
R. S. c. 107,
DEPOSITIONS IN PERPETUAM.
$21.
82 Me. 179.
Application
Sec. 22. When any person wishes to perpetuate the testimony of
for taking a
deposition in a witness, he shall make a statement in writing under oath, briefly
pcrpetuam,
and notice to setting forth in substance his title, interest, or claim in the subject to
persons inter which the desired testimony relates, and the names of all persons sup
ested.
R. S. c. 107, posed to be interested therein, and the name of each witness proposed
4. 22.
4 Me. 88, 488. to be examined ; and shall deliver the statement to a judge or register
17 Me. 858.
of probate, notary public, clerk of the supreme judicial court, or jus
tice of the peace and quorum, requesting him to take the deposition of
such witness ; and he shall thereupon cause notice to be given, of the
time and place for taking such deposition, to all persons so named in
the statement, which may be given and proved as in case of other dep
ositions.
How such
Sec. 23. The deponent shall be sworn and examined, and the
depositions are
to UMxi
deposition
written, read, and subscribed, as other depositions ; and the
an^^BSed.
R.^PR7, person taking it shall annex to it a like certificate, as near as the case
4 2.5!^
16 Me. 255.
will admit, and also state therein that it was taken in perpetual rela) 20 Me. 257 ; 28 Me. 88.
(6) 29 Me. 164; 81 Me. 508; 82 Me. 179; 41 Me. 105; 50 Me. 409 ; 52 Me. 479.

TITLE IX.]

DEPOSITIONS.

781

membrance of the thing, and the name of the person at whose request Chap. 107.
it was taken, and of all who were notified, and all who attended.
Sec. 24. The statement, deposition, and certificate, within ninety To be recorded
days after the taking, shall be recorded in the registry of deeds in the r. s. c. 107,
county where the land or any part of it lies, if the deposition relates |92^e 151_
to real estate ; if not, in the county where the parties or some of them
reside.
Sec. 25. All such depositions, recorded as aforesaid, or a copy When it may
thereof attested by the register of deeds, may be used in the trial of dcnceT&c.
any cause pending when the deposition was taken, or commenced after- f c 107,
wards, between the person at whose request it was taken, and either
£•
of the persons named in the statement and duly notified, or those
claiming under either, concerning the title, claim, or interest set forth
in the statement, subject to the same objections as if originally taken
for the suit.
Sec. 26. Depositions, to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses iiowsnch
living out of the state, may be taken in any other state, or foreign nav betaken
country, upon a commission issued by the supreme judicial court ; and °"* °f the
the persons desirous to procure such depositions may apply to said j^S- c- 10Ti
court and file a statement as aforesaid ; and if it relates to real estate
in this state, the statement shall be filed in the county where it lies ;
if not, in the county where some of the parties reside.
Sec 27. The court shall order notice to be served on each of the The conn to
persons named in the statement living in the state, fourteen days be- a^after'a.6'
fore the time appointed for hearing the parties, and on hearing the hearinir, issue
rr
,
.
commission.
parties, or the applicant, if no adverse party appears, may issue a R- s. c. iot,
commision for taking such deposition as in a cause pending.
Sec. 28. The deposition shall be taken on interrogatories filed by Sndi depothe applicant, and cross interrogatories by any party adversely inter- "iken on inter
ested, substantially as when taken to be used in pending causes. Or AppYicauon
the person wishing to take the deposition may file his statement in the m^acatfoi?1
clerk's office in vacation, and cause notice to be given to the persons
notice
named therein as interested, fourteen days at least before the next R. 8. c 107,
•
-4 28
term of the court, at which time the parties may be heard.
PENALTY FOR REFUSING TO APPEAR OR TO GIVE DEPOSITIONS.
Sec. 29. When a magistrate, duly authorized, has summoned a
person before him to give his deposition or affidavit in any case
authorized by this chapter, pending in this or any other state ; the
summons has been served and returned by a proper officer or other
person, and proof thereof is entered on the summons ; legal fees have
been tendered him a reasonable time before the day appomted for
taking the deposition ; and he refuses to attend, the magistrate may
adjourn the time of taking his deposition, and issue a capias, directed
to a proper officer, to apprehend and bring such person before him ;

Proceedings to
nent to appear
Adjournment
(f„pi^HS^ot*
then niWucd.
serve it and
ivhment if"he
T^oto°
°- 10T'

REFERENCES.

782
Chap. 108.
1864, c. 286.
1868,
1 UUO, ^,c. 193.
1PJ
2"! Me. 857,

and if, at the time of the adjournment, he is not apprehended, the
magistrate may adjourn from time to time, until he is brought before
him; and if he then refuses to depose and answer such questions as
are propounded to him by either of the parties or persons interested,
under his direction, he may commit him to the prison of the county
for contempt, as the supreme judicial court may commit a witness for
refusing to testify. The capias may be served by the sheriff, deputy
sheriff, or any constable of the county, in which such person resides ;
and if he escapes into another county, either of said officers may
arrest him there, and bring him before said magistrate.

Sec. 1.
2.
8.
4.
5,

Whatcontroversies may be
referred; powcrs of referees;
voked.
^Me CS8°8^ *'

[TITLE IX.

CHAPTER 108.
REFERENCE OF DISPUTES BY CONSENT OF PARTIES.
What controversies may be referred ; powers of referees ; form of submission ;
not to be revoked but by consent.
Submission of all demands, and of a specific demand.
All referees must bear ; a majority may decide ; may allow costs or not ;
may swear witnesses.
How and when report to be returned to court.
Report accepted, rejected or recommitted ; exceptions ; notice of new hearing ;
judgment on report ; writ of error to review it.

^EC> ^' ^ controversies which may be the subject of a personal
action, may be submitted to one or more referees, who shall have the
,
•
•
same powers as those appointed by the court; and the parties personally, or by attorney, may sign and acknowledge an agreement before
a justice of the peace, though he is one of the referees in substance

as follows:
P mc 240
Know all men by these presents, that
of
, in the
23 Me. 125.
county of
,and
of
, in the county of
,
84 Me'. i6i.
have agreed to submit the demand made by said
, against said
4i Mc! 855.j98'
j which is hereunto annexed, (and all other demands between
47
55 Me!
Me! 423'
241
*ne parties, as the case may be,) to the determination of
;
and judgment rendered on their report, or that of a majority of them,
made to the supreme judicial court for the county of
, within
one year from this day, shall be final. And if either party neglects
to appear before the referees, after proper notice given to him of the
time and place appointed for hearing the parties, they may proceed
in his absence.
Dated this
day of ^
, in the year
.
Such agreement shall not be revoked without mutual consent ; but
the parties may agree when the report shall be made, and vary the
form accordingly.

TITLE IX.]

REFERENCES.

783

Sec. 2. If all demands between the parties are so submitted, no
specific demand need be annexed to the agreement ; but if a specific
demand only is submitted, it shall be annexed to the agreement and
, , ,
i
,
-i
signed by the party making it, and so stated as to be readily understood, (a)
.
Sec. 3. All the referees must meet and hear the parties ; but a
majority may make the report, which shall be as valid as if signed by

Chap. 108.
j^ro^^n of
and of a specific demand.
r.s c,i08,§2.

all, if it appears by the report, or certificate of the dissenting referee
that all attended and heard the parties.
They
r
•/ may
j allow costs
_ or
not to either party unless special provision is made therefor in the
submission,
but the court
may reduce their compensation
: and any
,
.,
r
"
referee may swear witnesses.
Sec. 4. The report shall be made to the court and within the time
.....
...
specified in the submission ; one of the referees shall deliver it into
court, or it shall be sealed up and sent sealed to the court, and opened
by the clerk.
Sec. 5. The court may accept, reject or recommit the report, and

^"^ay8 01
av,ear
nesses.WltR. s. c. 108,
7 8 10
i80Me.
Me.64.
652.'
85 Me. 281.
?? Me.
How and when
report to be
court.
Th/s.'108'
®> Me-

either party may file exceptions thereto ; if recommitted, the referees
shall notify the parties of the time and place of a new hearing; and
when the report is accepted, judgment shall be entered thereon as in
case of submissions by rule of court ; and either party may bring a
writ of error to reverse such Jjudgment,
(b)
°
v J

Report
re^tedTor
£xc"p™nsf
^^ng^judgment
on re-of
port; writ

All referees
must hear;
decid"^mayy

(a) 9 Me. 15; 22 Me. 240; 80 Me. 113; 85 Me. 857; 45 Me. 874; 47 Me. 545; 55 Me. rerar6e°it
241 •
R. S. c. 108,
(6) 6 Me. 21 ; 8 Me. 288; 28 Me. 485; 27 Me. 125; 29 Me. 70; 81 Me. 89, 112; 82 Me. 78; kk 6, 9.
86 Me. 108; 37 Me. 125; 40 Me. 194; 41 Me. 405, 507; 51 Me. 81; 55 Me. 534 ; 56 Me. 142.

.«

784

TIMBER AND CORD WOOD.

[TITLE IS.

Chap. 109.
CHAPTER 109.
TIMBER AND CORD WOOD; HOW IT MAY BE DISPOSED OF IN
CERTAIN CASES.
Sec. 1. On application of the owners of certain interests in wood lands, the supreme
judicial court, after notice and hearing may grant leave to sell the wood.
2. Commissioners to be appointed therefor, and to give bond.
3. Proceeds; how invested; appropriation of income.
4. Court to appoint trustees of such proceeds, who shall give bond.

On application
of certain inwoodlands,
grant leave to
R%^!?109 |i

Commissionappointed
give
^ve^nd*""1
bond.
S.S.C.10M2.
Proceeds, how
illvested income how apS^c.'iot, § s.

Court to apof Xc^funds.
R.°s!c.i09 M.

Sec. 1. Any person seized of a freehold estate, or of a remainder
or reversion in fee simple, or fee tail, in a tract of woodland, or timber
land, on which the trees are of a growth and age fit to be cut, may
aPPty *° the supreme judicial court in any county for leave to cut
&ri^ dispose of such trees, and invest the proceeds for the use of the
persons interested therein; and the court, after due notice to all
persons interested, and a hearing of the parties, if any appear, may
appoint one or more persons to examine the land and report to the
court, and the court may thereupon order the whole or a part of such
trees to be cut and sold, and the proceeds brought into court, subject
to further orders.
Sec. 2. The court shall appoint one or more commissioners to
superintend the cutting and sale of such trees, who shall account for
the
wic proceeds
uiuudcuo to
w the
tuc wuibj
court, aim
and be
m under bond to the clerk for the
faithful performance of their trust.
Sec. 3. The court may cause the net proceeds of sale to be
invested in other real estate in this state, or in public stocks, to the
same uses and under the same limitations as the land ; and the
income thereof to be paid to the persons entitled to the income of the
land, or apportioned among the persons interested in the estate,
according to their interest.
Sec. 4. The court may appoint one or more trustees, removable
at their pleasure, to hold such estates or stocks for said uses, who
8^a^ ^ve k°n<*> with sufficient sureties, to said clerk, for the faithful
discharge of their duty.

TITLE IX.]

COMMISSIONERS IN OTHER STATES.

785
Chap. 110.

CHAPTER

HO.

COMMISSIONERS TO TAKE ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF DEEDS AND OTHER
CONTRACTS, AND DEPOSITIONS IN OTHER STATES.
Sec. 1. Appointment of commissioners; their power to authenticate deeds.
2. Legal effect of their official acts and certificates.
8. May administer oaths, and take depositions.
4. Qualification and seal.

Sec. 1. The governor may appoint one or more commissioners in Appointment
any other of the United States, and in any foreign country, who shall sioners™1Stheir
continue in office during his pleasure ; and have authority to take the
acknowledgment and proof of the execution of any deed, other conveyance, or lease of any lands lying in this state ; and of any con
tract, letter of attorney, or any other writing, under seal or not, to
be used or recorded in this state.
Sec 2. Such acknowledgment or proof, taken according to the
laws of this state, and certified by any such commissioner under his
seal of office, annexed to or indorsed on such instrument, shall have

Authenticate
fKe g'8^ 110 ^ x

Legai,
of their official
acts.
R- s- c- 110' * 2-

the same force and effect, as if done by an officer authorized to per
form such acts in this state.
Sec. 3. Every commissioner thus appointed may administer any May adminisoath, lawfully required in this state, to any person willing to take it ; take deposu*1
and take and duly certify all depositions, to be used in any of the r°ss'c 110 $ 3courts in this state, in conformity to the laws thereof, on interroga
tories proposed under commission from a court of this state, by con
sent of parties, or on legal notice given to the opposite party ; and all
such acts shall be as valid as if done and certified, according to law,
by a magistrate in this state.
Sec. 4. Every
before
performing
duty
J such
. commissioner,
.
»,.
.
, ,, any
i
, or
.
exercising any power in virtue of his appointment, shall take and subscribe an oath or affirmation, before a judge or clerk of one of the
superior courts of the state or country in which he resides, well and
faithfully to execute and perform all his official duties under the laws
of Maine ; which oath, and a description of his seal of office, shall be
filed in the office of the secretary of this state.

50

Qualification
and seal.
r. s.ciio.Mchapes.
'

786

FRAUDS AND PERJURIES.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 111.
CHAPTER

111.

PREVENTION OF FRAUDS AND PERJURIES IN CONTRACTS, AND ACTIONS
FOUNDED THEREON.
Sec. 1. Cases in which promises must be in writing, but the consideration need not be
expressed therein.
2. No action to be maintained on a contract made by a minor, unless ratified'
after becoming of age.
8. Representation of another's ability or character, to be in writing.
4. What contracts for sale of goods must be in writing.
5. Agreement that goods sold and delivered and note taken therefor, shall
remain the payee's, void unless in the note and recorded; clerk's fees for
recording.
6. When specific performance of a contract may be enforced by a bill in equity.
7. What decree to be made ; the conveyance to be good.
8. Enforcement of the decree by writ of seizin.
9. Provision in case of the death of the obligee before conveyance.
10. Administrator of the contractor may petition for authority to make con
veyance.

Sec. 1. No action shall be maintained in any of the following
Cases in which
promises must cases:
be in writing ;
but the consid
First.—To charge an executor or administrator upon any special
eration need
not l>e ex
promise to answer damages out of his own estate.
pressed
therein.
Second.—To charge any person upon any special promise to
R. S. c. Ill,
answer
for the debt, default, or misdoings of another, (a)
HI, 2.
Third.—To charge any person upon an agreement made in consid
eration of marriage.
Fourth.—Upon any contract for the sale of lands, tenements, or
hereditaments, or of any interest in or concerning them. (6)
Fifth.—Upon any agreement that is not to be performed within
one year from the making thereof, (c)
Sixth.—Upon any contract to pay a debt after a discharge there
from under the bankrupt laws of the United States, or assignment
laws of this state.
Unless the promise, contract, or agreement, on which such action
is brought, or some memorandum or note thereof, is in writing and
signed by the party to be charged therewith, or by some person
thereunto lawfully authorized ; but the consideration thereof need not
be expressed therein, but may be proved otherwise. (<f)
(o) 7 Me. 856 ; 21 Me. 410, 545 ; 22 Me. 895; 26 Me. 841; 86 Me. 118; 41 Me. 559; 46
Me. 141.
(*>) 12 Me. 24, 506; 15 Me. 14, 61,201; 16 Me. 212; 18 Me. 16; 22 Me. 860; 28 Me. 181;
85 Me. 218; 88 Me. 287; 41 Me. 298; 48 Me. 344 ; 58 Me. 147, 894; 54 Me. 196, 405; 55
Me. 105.
(c) 10 Me. 81; 15 Me. 201; 20 Me. 119; 81 Me, 555; 46 Me. 154; 56 Me, 187, 871. m
0
(r/) 8 Me. 409 ; 4 Me. 1, 258 ; 58 Me. 20. / 4-<iujl~*/. Z*. %i~*T 4trl~/tf* '
•Ml

TITLE IX.]

FRAUDS AND PERJURIES.

787

Sec. 2. No action shall be maintained on any contract made by
a minor, unless he, or some person lawfully authorized, ratified it in
■writing after he arrived at the age of twenty-one years, except for
necessaries, or real estate of which he has received the title and
retains the benefit.
Sec. 3. No action shall be maintained to charge any person by
.
,
,
reason of any representation or assurance, concerning the character,
conduct, credit, ability, trade or dealings of another, unless made in
writing, and signed by the party to be charged thereby or by some

Chap. 111.
No action on a
by a minor,
afterag™tifl8d
K- s- c- ul» * «•
Rcprcsentationof
another's
writing!0 m
K-S c lll.H-

person by him legally authorized.
Sec. 4. No contract for the sale of any goods, wares, or merchandize, for thirty dollars or more, shall be valid, unless the purchaser accepts and receives part of the goods, or gives something in
earnest to bind the bargain, or in part payment thereof, or some note
or memorandum thereof is made and signed^by the party to be
charged thereby, or by his agent, (a)

What contnicts for snlc
of goods must
B°s"cTni"?5.
f~3 /2>4t(( 4^7
4? '' Ji^J'^pt^
■>

and
, rSec. ,5.. No agreement
° ,
,.,that personal
\ ■ ■ property
V K J bargained
P.,
dehvered to another, for which a note is given, shall remain the prop/ir^Z- erty of the payee till the note is paid, is valid, unless it is made and
signed as a part of the note; fcorwhen it isjo made and .sigued hva
^77f/ty note for more than thirty dollars,) unless it is recorded like mortgages

Agreement
that goods sold
and delivered,
therefor^ siuoT^j
j^ee's, void// £ %c)//the C/£~ /-

°f personal property, and on receipt of twenty-five cents each, town
clerks shall record such notes in a book kept for that purpose.
Sec. 6. If a person, who has contracted in writing to convey real
estate, dies before making the conveyance, the other party may have
a bill in equity in the supreme judicial court to enforce specific per„
,
,
...
fonnance thereof, against his heirs, devisees, executors or administrators, if commenced within three years from the grant of administration,

p^j^- for
recording.
-\yhen specific
J?on^ractatoe°f
convey real
estate mav be
enforced after
factor* C°n

or the time when he is entitled to such conveyance, but not exceeding fges, c'.YeV6
four years after the grant of administration, if written notice of the
the existence of the contract, is given to the executor or administrator
within one year after the grant of administration.
Sec. 7. If it appears that the plaintiff is entitled to a conveyance, what decree to
the court may authorize and require the executor or administrator to co™eyance to
convey the estate as the deceased ought to have done; and if any of 5f ™cdili \i
the heirs or devisees are in the state, and competent to act, the court
may direct them, instead of the executor or administrator, to convey
the estate or join with either in such conveyance ; which shall pass the
estate as fully as if made by the contractor.
Sec. 8. If the defendant neglects or refuses to convey according Decree may be
to the decree, the court may render judgment for the plaintiff for pos- wri°^Seizin
session of the land, to hold according to the terms of the intended K.S.c.m,48.
conveyance, and issue a writ of seizin as in a real action, under which
(o) 9 Me. 79; 12 Me. 874; IS Me. 424; 19 Me. 187; 26 Me, 897; 89 Me. 98; 41 Me. 65,
528 ; 48 Me. 211, 879; 58 Me. 508; 54 Me. 105.
.
,
V /

S. ,

I

RECOGNIZANCES FOR DEBTS.

788

[TITUS IX.

Chap. 112. the plaintiff, having obtained possession, shall hold the premises as ef
fectually as if conveyed in pursuance of the decree ; or the court may
enforce their decree by any other process according to chancery proProvision in
Sec. 9. If the person, entitled to such conveyance, dies before
case of the
.....
.
f „ '
.
,
,
, • •
death of the bringing his suit, or before the conveyance is completed, or such seizin
conveyance™ and possession are obtained, his heir, devisee, or other person entitled
B.S. c.ni,§9.
^e ggf^tg under him, may bring and prosecute such suit, and shall
be entitled to the conveyance, or seizin and possession, in like manner
as the obligee.
Administrator
Sec. 10. If the party, to whom any such conveyance was to be
for authority made, or those claiming under him, do not commence a suit as before
veyance.0011' provided, and the heirs of the deceased party are under age, or otherIt s, c. in, w;ge incompetent to convey the lands contracted for, the executor or
**

administrator of the deceased may file a bill in equity in the supreme
judicial court, setting forth the contract, and circumstances of the case ;
whereupon the court, by their decree, may authorize such executor or
administrator to convey the estate as the deceased should have done ;
and such conveyance shall be deemed a performance of the contract,
on the part of the deceased so as to entitle his heirs, executors, or ad
ministrators, to demand a performance thereof on his part.

Sec. 1.
2.

8.
i.
5.
6.

CHAPTER 112.
RECOGNIZANCES FOR DEBTS.
Who may enter into recognizance, and the form thereof.
The justice to certify, record and deliver to creditor, and it may be filed and
recorded -with the clerk of the courts ; who may issne and renew execution
thereon, to be executed by all proper officers.
When not to run against the lands or body of the debtor.
Administrator of creditor may take out execution; if debtor dies, or after
three years, action of debt may be brought as on a judgment.
Consequence, if one of several debtors or creditors dies,
Remedy, if execution is wrongfully issued.

Sec. 1. Any person legally capable, may recognize to pay a debt
Who may
enter into
recognizance, by signing, sealing and acknowledging a recognizance before a justice
and the form of the peace, in substance as follows :
thereof.
R. S. c. 112,
I, A. B., of
, in the county of
, do owe unto C. D., of
Hi, 3.
, in the county of
, the sum of
, to be paid to the said
C. D., on the
day of
; and if I fail to pay said debt at the
time aforesaid, I will and grant that the said debt be levied of my

TITLE IX.]

RECOGNIZANCES FOR DEBTS.

goods and chattels, lands, and tenements, and in want thereof upon
my body.
In testimony whereof, I have hereto set my hand and seal, this
day of
, in the year
.
Sec. 2. The justice shall annex his certificate to it, record it and
iv
•
v
.11
•
deliver it to the creditor ; and if the debt is not paid at the time appointed, the creditor may deliver the recognizance to the clerk of the
court of the county where taken, who shall record it in a book kept
for that purpose, and place it on the files of the court; and at any
time within three years after the debt becomes due, without any order
of court, he may issue an execution thereon, including all interest due
by the terms of the recognizance, varying the form of the execution
accordingly, to be renewed by the clerk, served, and executed by all
proper officers, as any other execution.
Sec. 3. If the sum originally
^3
v due on such recognizance does not
exceed twenty dollars, execution shall not be issued against the lands
of the debtor ; and if the sum is less than ten dollars, it shall not be
issued against his body.

789
Chap. 1 12.

May be filed
and recorded
with clerk of
executions
renewed"*
{J"'^"'^
M s>

n.ot t0
1*1111 ll*r!t111St
the lands or
debtor^ the
K" s' °" 112, * 5"

Sec. 4. If the creditor dies before the debt is fully paid, his ex- Administrator
ecutor or administrator may renew such execution in his own name; ™rcUtfi0^°&tc
and if the debtor dies, no execution shall issue of course, but the ?-,?-c;H2'^6,
. .
.
1 Me. 158.
creditor in that case, and also after the expiration of three years from
the time of payment in the recognizance, may have an action of debt
as in case of judgment.
Sec. 5. Where there are several debtors or creditors, and one or Consequence,
'
if one of scvmore of them dies before the debt is paid, the rights of the surviving erai debtors or
creditors dies.
creditors, and the obligations of the surviving debtors, shall be the R. s. c. us, h l\
same as in case of a judgment.
Sec. 6. Any person, injured by the suing out or service of such J^^^j,
execution, shall have his remedy by writ of audita querela or other- wrongfully
wise, as in case the execution had been sued out upon a judgment.
r. s.c!n2,§8.
5MC.874.

790

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 113.
CHAPTER 113.
RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.
Arrests on Mesne Process.
Sec. 1. No arrest on mesne process on contract, except where specially provided.
Arrests allowed in actions not founded on contract
Arrests and Disclosures on leaving the State.
Sec, 2. Debtor about to leave the state, may be arrested in certain cases.
8. Disclosure on such arrest, how made.
4. Notice thereof to be given to the plaintiff.
5. Justices may adjourn.
6. Mode of making disclosure; adjudication of justices; effect of discharge.
7. Lien on property disclosed, how preserved. Provisions of section fourteen
applicable.
Disclosures on Mesne Process refore Judgment.
Sec. 8. Defendant may in all cases disclose on return of writ. Notice, how to be
given.
9. Effect thereof ; lien on property disclosed.
10. Certificate of real estate disclosed to be filed in registry of deeds.
11. How to preserve lien on personal estate.
12. Disclosure on mesne process by consent of parties, how to be made.
18. Execution to issue against the body, unless there is a disclosure and discharge.
14. Certain property, which cannot be come at to be attached, to be delivered up
on disclosure, or assigned.
Bonds in Mesne Process and Disclosures after Judgment.
Sec. 15. Persons arrested may give bond to disclose in a certain time after judgment.
16. Proceedings if debtor has given bond on mesne process.
IT. Debtor in such case may go at large thirty days during the lien on the prop
erty disclosed.
18. Effect of creditor's election to arrest on execution or otherwise.
Arrests and Bonds on Execution, and Disclosures thereon.
Sec. 19. No arrest on execution if debt is less than ten dollars.
20. Arrests in other cases, and mode of release. Proceedings if not discharged.
21. Debtor may disclose without giving bond, when and how. Officer's fees to be
first paid.
22. Debtor in jail may also disclose, and how. Notice how served. What fees to
be first paid.
23. If not discharged, remanded ; otherwise oath administered and certificate
given, and effect of it.
24. Bond may be given on such arrest ; condition and effect thereof.
25. Valid statute bond if not double the amount.
26. Application by a debtor under bond or imprisoned, to a justice, for privilege
of poor debtor's oath. Justice to appoint the time and place, and cite the
creditor.
27. Citation, how served on any one creditor, his attorney or agent.
28. Examination before two justiees of the quorum, and the mode thereof.

TITLE IX.]

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

791

Sec. 29. Creditor may put qnestions, have them answered in writing, sworn to and CHAP. 113.
have a copy.
■,,
50. When the j ustices may administer the oath. Form of the poor debtors' oath.
81. Certain property disclosed, which cannot be come at to be attached, may be
appraised off to the creditor, and how.
82. Creditor may accept it within thirty days, if not, returned to debtor.
88. Form of justice's certificate of discharge.
84. Effect of such certificate.
85. Effect of voluntary release by creditor, from arrest on execution.
86. Officer may indorse such release on the execution, and then levy the execu
tion on property.
8T. Preservation of creditor's lien on real estate disclosed.
88. Lien on personal estate disclosed; consequences if debtor or any person
transfers or conceals it.
89. Bond taken on execution to be returned therewith, for benefit of creditor.
40. Amount recoverable thereon, if forfeited.
Arrests for Taxes.
Sec. 41. Persons arrested for taxes entitled to the privileges of this chapter. Varia
tion in form of oath and certificate.
Sec. 42.

48.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.

General Provisions.
Manner of selecting the justices to take the disclosure; if two do not agree,
they may select a third ; if they cannot agree on a third, the officer may
choose him; majority may decide.
Judges of municipal or police courts may act as justices of .the peace and
quorum.
Persons incompetent as witnesses not to be precluded from taking poor
debtor's oath.
Costs for creditor if debtor is not discharged.
Debtor twice refused a discharge may apply to court for a commissioner to
disclose again ; who shall give notice, proceedings.
After debtor is examined, other evidence or depositions may be introduced
and same used in subsequent disclosures.
Bond valid though not taken for exact amount; officer not responsible be
yond actual damage.
Suits on bond to be brought within one year after forfeiture; except as pro
vided in sections 87 and 88 of chapter 81.

False Disclosures and Aiding in Fraudulent Conveyances.
Sec. 50. Liability of debtor if he discloses falsely. Proceedings of creditor in such
case. Effect if creditor prevails.
51. Liability of persons aiding in fraudulent concealment and transfer of prop
erty; double damages.
Damages on Bonds.
Sec. 52. In all actions upon a debtor's bond, if debtor has taken poor debtor's oath,
only actual damages recovered.
53. The new judgment, on any such bond to operate as a discharge of the old
j udgment, as far as it goes.
Willful Trespass.
Sec. 54. Disability of persons committed for willful trespass.

792

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

| [TITLE IX.

ClIAP. 113.

Support of Debtors ik Jail.
Sec. 55. Prison keeper may require the creditor to support the debtor. Special pro,
vision.
56. Adjustment of price of articles furnished to prisoner.
Provisions relating to Debtors to the State.
Sec. 57. Such debtor may apply toa justice of thesupreme court. Notice to be given
to county attorney, or attorney general.
58. Proceedings and power to release the debtor,
59. Justice may discharge him or the debt, on payment or security for a part.
60. Jailer to comply with decision of judge,
61. Adjudication to be entered on the record.
62. Same power vested in the county commissioners.
63. Application by such debtor to take the poor debtor's oath, and citation to
the county attorney. County attorney to attend. Oaths and certificates
a U q yfcrL x *l £su2 ^il/^^ ^/^^^ ^

ARRESTS ON MESNE PROCESS.
No arrest on
oTconwactt88
outCoi the"g
state, except
in action of
tort. c 1W
'

Sec. 1. No person shall be arrested on mesne process in a suit
011 contract, express or implied, or on a judgment on such contract,
except as provided in the following section ; and the writ or process
De varied accordingly ; but in all other actions, the original writ
oj>
)
a
or process may run against the body of the defendant, and he may
be arrested and imprisoned thereon, or give bail as provided in chap
ter eighty-five.
ARRESTS AND DISCLOSURES ON LEAVING THE STATE.

Debtor about
Sec. 2. Any person, a resident within this state or not, may be
state may bo arrested and held to bail, or committed to prison on mesne process on
certaincases. contract express or implied, if the sum demanded amounts to ten dol5 Me.C29i?' * 2- lars> or on a judgment on contract, if the debt originally recovered
"0 Me n8 465
28 Me. 45.
38 Mc. 128,
52 Me. 590. '
QZ a
^ \JLJ^

an(^ remammg due is ten dollars or more, exclusive of interest, when
fog is about to depart and reside beyond the limits of this state, with
_ .,
_
, _ . _.
property or means of his own exceeding the amount required for his
immediate support, if the creditor, his agent, or attorney makes oath
before a justice of the peace, to be certified by such justice on said
process, that he has reason to believe and does believe that such
debtor is about so to depart, reside, and take with him property or
means as aforesaid, and that the demand, or principal part thereof,
amounting to at least ten dollars, is due to him.
Disclosure on
Sec. 3. A debtor arrested or imprisoned, on request to the officer
such arrest,
.
.....
,
,
, »
.
how made.
or lailer who has him in custody, may be taken before two disinterR S c 118 48
•
5 Me. 484.' ' ested justices of the peace and quorum, to be selected as provided in
15 Me. 55.
section forty-two, to disclose the actual state of his aflairs.

given to plainSec. 4. Previous to the disclosure, he shall give to the creditor
Rlfs.c.ii8,$4. or one of them, if more than one, his agent, or attorney, due. notice

TITLB IX.]

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

of his intention, and of the time and place for said disclosure, that he
may be present and select one of the justices and be heard thereon ;
such notice shall not be less than one day for every twenty miles
travel, exclusive of Sundays.
Sec. 5. The justices may adjourn from time to time, if they see
cause ; and if either of them is not present at the adjournment, the
other may adjourn to another time ; but no such adjournments shall
exceed three days in the -whole, exclusive of Sundays, (a)
Sec. 6. If the debtor at the appointed time and place makes a
full disclosure of the actual state of his affairs and of all his property,
rights, and credits, and answers all proper interrogatories in regard
to the same, to the satisfaction of said justices, and they are satisfied
that the disclosure is true, and do not discover anything therein
inconsistent with his taking the oath \prescribed in the thirtieth section, they may administer it to him and certify the fact on the writ;
and the debtor shall thereupon be discharged from arrest; and no
execution issuing on the judgment in the suit, shall run against his
body, but against his property only.
Sec. 7. All attachable property disclosed by the examination, or
so much as the creditor designates to satisfy his demand, shall be held
as attached from the time of the disclosure until thirty days after final

793
Chap. 113.

Justices may
b. i^cAU, $ 6.

Mode of
dosunf; "adjustices Effect
Rf g'^jif6H 5, 7.
44 2, 8.
14 Me. 475

Lien on propcrtv ciisclosocl
how preserved',
K- s' c' 118'* 8-

judgment, like other attachments ; the officer shall make return there
of on the writ or process, certifying the fact that the property was so
disclosed ; if it is real estate, he shall certify it to the register of deeds,
like other attachments ; and if the creditor requires it, at any time be
fore final judgment, he shall take into his custody any part of the
personal property so disclosed, sufficient to secure the demand, and
hold it as in other cases ; and the provisions of section fourteen are
also applicable to this class of disclosures.
DISCLOSURES ON MESNE PROCESS BEFORE JUDGMENT.
Sec. 8. When a person is served with an original writ, or other Defendant
mesne process, founded on such contract or judgment, in any other cases'disdose
manner than by arrest of the body, he may, at any time before final wri™WNotice
judgment, appear before the court or justice, before whom such writ
or process is pending, or a disinterested commissioner or commissioners, appointed by said court or justice, and submit himself to exami
nation ; and such court, justice, or commissioner shall give notice, and
proceed to take his disclosure as provided in sections four, five, and
six, and with like effect.
Sec. 9. On such examination, the court, justice, or commissioner,
'
' •>
'
'
except as provided in section fourteen, may determine that the exe-

R°g ^Yis $ 9
J* Me. ^

JFect tnereof;
lien on prop^ tys gi9j}gsed"

cution, on the judgment recovered in the suit, shall run against the * 10(a) 18 Me. 142; 28 Me. 458.

794

RELIEF OP POOR DEBTORS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 113. property only of the defendant, or otherwise, as justice requires, on
the facts so disclosed or proved ; and all attachable property so dis
closed, from the time of the disclosure, shall be held attached as pro
vided in section seven, and subject to the provisions of the two follow
ing sections.
Certificate of
Sec. 10. If the disclosed property is real estate, the court, jusdisciosed'to be tice, or commissioner, shall deliver to the plaintiff a certificate thereof,
ofCdeedse!'riStry s^ng *ne names of the parties, and the amount of the claim in the
R^S. c. us,

writ, which the plaintiff shall file with the register of deeds for the
county or district where the estate lies, within five days after its date;
and the register shall enter and file it as returns of officers making at
tachments on real estate, and be entitled to the same fees from the

How to pre
serve lion on
personal
estate.
R. S. C. 118,
\ 12.
20 Me. 465.
88 Me. 122.

Sec. 11. If personal estate liable to attachment is disclosed, and
the plaintiff states that he is apprehensive that it may be removed or
concealed, so that it cannot be taken on execution, the court in term
time, or any justice thereof in vacation, or the trial justice before
whom the suit is pending, may issue an order duly signed and sealed,
directing any officer, authorized to serve processes in the suit, to take
such property into his custody, and hold it as if originally attached ;
and he shall execute it accordingly.
Sec. 12. At any time before or after the return day of any such
writ or process, the parties to the suit, by a written agreement, may
appear before a justice of the peace and quorum in the county where
the suit is pending ; and the defendant shall make the disclosures, and
submit to the examinations and proceedings required in section eight,
and the record thereof shall be returned to the court or justice before
which the suit is pending, before final judgment, where the proceed
ings shall be the same as if the disclosure had been before a commis
sioner appointed for the purpose.
Sec. 13. If no such disclosure and examination are made before
final judgment, or if the result thereof is adverse to the defendant's
right to exemption from arrest, the execution shall run against his
body.
Sec. 14. If, on any disclosure and examination before judgment,
it appears that the debtor possesses, has in his power, or, with intent
to protect the same from his creditors, has assigned, secreted, or
otherwise disposed of any bank bills, notes, accounts, bonds, other
contracts, or property not exempted from attachment, but which can
not be reached to be attached from its nature or otherwise, the debtor,
if under arrest, shall not be released ; nor shall he be exempted from
arrest on execution on judgment in such suit, unless he assigns and
delivers to such person as the examining magistrate, court, or com
missioner appoints, all such property, or so much of it as they adjudge
sufficient security for the creditor, to be held by him, under the

Disclosure on
mesne process
by consent of
parties.
R. S. c. 118,
4 18.

Execution to
issue against
the body,
unless dis
charged.
R. S. c. 118,
Certain prop
erty which
cannot be
come at to be
attached, to be
delivered up or
assigned.
R. S. c. 118,
M5-

TITLE IX.]

BELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

795

direction of the court or justice before which the suit is pending, in Chap. 113.
trust for the parties, that it may be applied and appropriated as pro
vided in sections thirty-one and thirty-two.
BONDS ON MESNE PROCESS AND DISCLOSURES AFTER JUDGMENT.
Sec. 15. When a person is arrested or imprisoned on mesne Persons arrest
...
,
.
.
ed mav give
process in a civil action, he may be released, by giving bond to the bondtodisplaintiff in double the sum for which he is arrested or imprisoned, tain time after
with surety or sureties, approved* by him, or by two or three justices ii'.lf.'cfiis,
of the peace and quorum of the county where the arrest or impris- ^ ^e ^
onment is made, selected and proceeding as prescribed in section *j *je. 483.
forty-two, conditioned that within fifteen days after rendition of judg- 86 Me. 240.
ment, or after the adjournment of the court in which it is rendered, 52 Me! 590!
he will notify the creditor, his agent, or attorney, to attend at a cer- jle! 178,
tain place in the county, at a time not more than thirty, nor less 5i± ^ifo
than fifteen days after such notice, for the purpose of disclosure and
examination ; that he will then and there submit himself to examina
tion; make true disclosure of his business affairs and property on
oath ; and abide the order of the justices thereon ; and if the officer
serving the writ takes such bond, he shall return it to the court or
justice where the suit is pending.
Sec. 16. After judgment, he may apply in writing to a justice
of the peace of the county where he was arrested, who shall 1SSU6 a
citation to the creditor, his agent or attorney ; and an examination
and disclosure may be had before two justices of the peace and
quorum, within the time specified in the bond; and the same Pr0"
ceedings shall be had, and the same results follow, as in disclosures
on bonds given on execution, except as provided in the following
section.
Sec. 17. If the debtor, on such examination, does not entitle
himself, in the opinion of the justices, to the benefit of the oath hereinafter provided, and it appears that at that time he has any real or
personal estate, liable to attachment, or any property such as is
described in section thirty-one, they shall permit him to go at large
on his bond, during the thirty days the creditor's lien exists on the
property disclosed ; and during that time, the creditor may elect to
arrest him on execution, or enforce his lien on the property.
Sec. 18. If the creditor elects to so arrest him, and the officer
having the execution, returns that he is not found, his bond shall be
forfeited, and on judgment thereon, execution shall issue for the
amount of judgment in the original suit, and interest. If the debtor
is not arrested within that time, and does not avoid arrest, no execu
tion, issued or founded on such judgment, shall run against his body,
but against his property only.

^jL

i(

9

$y y~ 2_

Proceedings if
given bond on
K^c^nsT9
j^Jj 884
J' ^Jr ^J"
22 Me! 400.
51 Me! ios!
DteJ)tor0™^r^>
days, during
en" XKed.
^f*0-118'
20 Me- 465,

street of credto arrest on
otherwise.01
Ci 118>

796

relief of poor debtors.

[title ix.

Chap. 113.
abrests on execution, and disclosures thereon.
No arrest on
gEC- 19 jj0 person shall be arrested on an execution issued on
execution if
r
debt is^iess
a judgment founded on a contract, express or implied, where the debt
r. s. c. lis, is less than ten dollars, exclusive of costs ; or on a prior judgment on
^ ~u'
contract, where the amount of the original debt remaining due is less

other c-isis
and mode of
R. s. c! us,

Debtor may
ouTgWim;lth
4'-

than ten dollars, exclusive of costs ; and the form of the process shall
be varied accordingly.
^EC^n a^ °*;nor cases> except where express provision is by
law made to the contrary, an execution shall run against the body of
the judgment debtor ; and he may be arrested and imprisoned thereon
for the purpose of obtaining a discovery of his property wherewith
to satisfy it, as hereinafter stated.
Sec. 21. When so arrested, he may, without giving bond, discl°se as provided in section twenty-four, by giving notice of the time

and how!'6" an(^ pbice appointed therefor, to the creditor or his attorney, at least
Officer's fees twenty-four hours for every twenty miles travel from his residence
to be first paid.
»
*
*
1860, c. 170, thereto. The debtor shall pay the officer for serving the notice and
keeping him from the arrest to the disclosure, before he can be dis
charged.
Debtor in jail
Sec. 22. A debtor committed on execution, may disclose thereon,
close, and how. at the jail, in the manner and on the notice aforesaid, which may be
ren-ai, what served by the jailer or other officer ; and besides the other fees, shall
paid!0 b° °rSt Pay tne jauer's f"ees before he can be discharged.
'
^EC*
^ ^e debtor, in either case, is not permitted to take
chargci1""
^e oa^' ^e
^e remanded > but if permitted, the justices shall
remanded ;
administer the oath prescribed in section thirty, and give him the ceraiiowi^and tificate provided in section thirty-three; and the officer shall make
given™™!
return thereof on the execution ; and no subsequent execution shall
fSS?1
Pi
In
i
,
lobO, c. 170, 5 4. authorize his arrest.
,
Bond mny be
Sec. 24. When a debtor is arrested or imprisoned on execution,
arrest ^"coiidi- he may be released by giving bond to the creditor, in double the sum
{'here*"11 tftCCt ^ue thereon, with surety or sureties approved*in writing by the crediRS. c. 118, tor, or by two or three justices of the peace and quorum, of the
* ("^ tfoi Pff~ ^county where he is arrested or imprisoned, selected and proceeding
as provided in section forty-two, conditioned that he will, within six
(0
•*/£.! months thereafter, cite the creditor before two justices of the peace

,
and of the quorum ; submit himself to examination, and take the oath
V
tyifa £2 3 prescribed in section thirty ; pay the debt, interest, costs, and fees,
V X- S rMf *f
arising in said execution ; or deliver himself into the custody of the
keeper of the jail to which he is liable to be committed under said
execution, (a)
(a) 5 Me. 858 ; 6 Me. 229; 10 Me. 121 ; 20 Me. 465; 21 Me. 885, 480; 24 Me. 128, 166,
451, 546, 551; 29 Me. 480; 86 Me. 419; 44 Me, 21, 97; 48 Me, 87, 297; 49 Me. 16, 99.

TITLE IX.]

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

797

Seo. 25. Such bond is a valid statute bond though the penalty Chap. 113.
varies not exceeding five per cent, from the sum aforesaid ; and judg- J™1'" v'j^1,
ment in a suit thereon shall be rendered according to section forty.
See i 48.
Sec. 26. A debtor, who has given such bond, may apply in ^J^^'","}^ txjrt
writing, within the time limited in his bond, to a justice of the peace bondorimpris- /li/**-*1^
in the county where he was arrested, claiming the benefit of the oath close! Justice
«■—> (*J,
authorized in section thirty ; or if he is committed or has delivered Cre<ntor.
himself into the custody of the jailer, he may apply to a justice of R:,|' & 11s'Am*ft
the same county, or at his request, the jailer shall apply in his behalf; 1861> \ 29- ^*tl/u*i/^ '
and in either case, the justice shall appoint a time and place for his
// 0" r*/r
examination, and issue a citation to the creditor, under his hand and
seal, (a)
Sec. 27. The citation shall be served on the creditor, or one of Citation how
±i
i
,
'
served on any
them if more than one, or on the attorney of record m the suit, or one cnditor.
any known authorized agent of the creditor, by any officer qualified n£en"°meJ °f
to serve civil process between the same parties, by reading it to him, f2f' c- 118>'
or leaving an attested copy of it at his place of last and usual abode, J.?6^0'^2or by giving it to him in hand fifteen days at least before the time « Me. 101.
appointed for the examination, if the creditor is alive; otherwise it
shall be so served on his executor or administrator, if to be found in the
state, and if not, such copy shall be left in like time with the clerk of
the court or magistrate who issued the execution.
Sec. 28. The examination shall be before two disinterested jus- Examination
i
/•
t
j•
to be before
tices of the peace and quorum for the county, who may adjourn as two justices,
provided in section five, and shall examine the citation and return, thereof. Mode
and if found correct, examine the debtor on oath, concerning his ^onr"inma
estate and effects, their disposal, and his ability to pay the debt for R- |j c^s>
which he is committed. (5)
Sec. 29. The creditor may
to the debtor
any
J propose
r r
_
•/ interrogao
tories pertinent to the inquiry, and if he requires it, they shall be
..
i i
.j
j
xt.il.
answered in writing, and the answers signed and sworn to by the
debtor; and the creditor may have a copy thereof certified by the
justices, on paying therefor twelve cents a page.

Creditor
may
pUt questions
and have
them answered in writing,
a"d have'ropy.
?j£'• c" 118'

Sec. 30. If, on such examination and hearing, the justices are
satisfied that the debtor's disclosure is true, and they do not discover
any thing therein inconsistent with his taking the oath, they may
administer it to him as follows :
I,
, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I have not any
real or personal estate, or interest in any, except what is exempted by
statute from attachment and execution, and what I have now disclosed ; and that since any part of this debt or cause of action

when t*e jusminister the
thereof1""11
^of.' ° 118'
|?,
^ 10824 Me. 509.
26 Me! 200!
39 Me! 355!

(a) 10 Me. 884; 15 Me. 33, 88T; IT Me. 96, 89S; 18 Me. 120; 82 Me. 27, 450; 35 Me.
158; 48 Me. 79; 51 Me. 108.
(6) 12 Me. 415; 16 Me. 386; 18 Me 142; 23 Me. 144; 24 Me. 166, 196; 25 Me. 423; 39
Me. 267; 50 Me. 334; 54 Me, 886; 56 Me. 542. fj<( f,-f 24t*.
'

KELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

798

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 113. accrued, I have not directly or indirectly sold, conveyed, or disposed
• of, or entrusted to any person, any of my real or personal property,
to secure it, or receive any benefit from it to myself or others, with
an intent to defraud any of my creditors. So help me God ; (or, this
I do under the pains and penalties of perjury.)
Certain propSec. 31. When, from such disclosure, it appears that the debtor
whlchoumot' possesses or has under his control any bank bills, notes, accounts,
be axtaciiedj0 bonds, or other contracts, or property, not exempted by statute from
praised ulrto attacnmen*) which cannot be come at to be attached, and the creditor
andCh<wtor' m^ ^e^tor cann°t agree to apply the same towards the debt, the jusR, s. c. us. tices hearing the disclosure shall appraise and set off enough of such
282Me. sio.
property to satisfy the debt, cost, and charges ; and the creditor or
82 Me! m'.
his attorney, if present, may select the property to be appraised. If
5»9Me'494,
*ne creditor accepts it, it may be assigned and delivered by the
88^Me. 122,
debtor to him, and applied towards the satisfaction of his demand.
47 Me. 182, _ If any particular article of such property, necessary or convenient to
' be applied in satisfaction of the execution, exceeds the amount due
thereon, and is not divisible in its nature, the creditor may take it, by
paying the overplus to the debtor, or securing it to the satisfaction of
the justices.
al^ptTt withSec- 32, If tne creditor is absent, or does not so accept it, the
thirty
days; debtor shall deposit
with the Jjustices a written assignment
to the
itinnot,
returned
r
°
to debtor.^
creditor of all the property thus appraised and set off; and they shall
§ so. ' ' make a record of such proceedings, and cause such property to be
safely kept and secured for the term of thirty days thereafter, to be
delivered to the creditor with the assignment, on demand, within that
time. If not so demanded, they shall be returned to the debtor.
Form of jusSec. 33. After the oath is administered and the property discatc of disclosed is duly secured, the justices shall make out and deliver to the
K."sfc. ii3, debtor a certificate under their hands and seals in the form following:
n8Me. 288.
18 Me. 840.
19 M>. 452,
"8 Me ill'
24
Me! 441.
196!
26 Me.
27 Me. 153 174.
30 Me. 84 1.
83 Me. 500.
39 Me! 504."
01 Me- 194-

( ss>

STATE OF MAINE.
rp0 the gheriff of the countv of

? or Jjjg dep.

u*7' an<^ *° *kfl keeper of the jail at
, (or to any coroner or
constable.)y
["l. s.] We, the subscribers, two disinterested iustices of the
r
i
'
m
[l. s.J peace and quorum m and for said county of
,
hereby certify, that
, a poor debtor arrested on a certain
execution issued by (here insert the name and style of the court, or
of the justice of the peace, and the amount of the judgment, and
date of the judgment and execution,) and committed to the jail at
aforesaid, (or enlarged on giving bond to the creditor, as the
case may be,) has caused
, the creditor, to be notified, according
to law, of his desire to take the benefit of the one hundred thirteenth
chapter of the revised statutes; that in our opinion he is clearly

TITLE IX.J

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

799

entitled to the benefit of the oath prescribed in the thirtieth section Chap. 113.
thereof; and that we have, after due caution, administered it to him. •
Witness our hands and seals, this
day of
, in the year
, chosen by
.
, chosen by
.
Sec. 34. The debtor, on delivering the certificate to the prison
keeper, or filing it in his office if imprisoned, shall be set at liberty,
so far as relates to this execution ; and his body forever after shall be
free from arrest thereon, and on every subsequent execution issued

Effect of such
r. s. c. lis,
^lie. 75.
24 Me- 451-

on the judgment, or on any other judgment founded thereon, except
as provided in sections thirty-eight and fifty.
Sec. 35. A creditor may discharge his debtor from arrest, or
imprisonment on execution, by giving to the officer or jailer having
him in custody a written permission to go at large ; and it shall have
the same effect as a discharge or disclosure.

Effect of voiby creditor
r°s! V^us,
' S8-

Sec. 36. A certificate of a discharge on execution in any of the P*0:erma|y
modes hereby authorized, and of the cause of it, shall, at any time, on the execuat the creditor's request, be indorsed on the execution by the officer ce°ed"o1eTyon
who had such debtor in custody ; and if it is before the return day of r^c/iis
the execution, it may still be levied on his property; if after, it may * S4, i"/ 0b< '''
be renewed like other executions, against his property only ; and the
judgment may be revived or kept in force, with said execution, as
judgments in other cases.
Sec. 37. If an execution debtor discloses any real estate liable Preservation
to be seized on execution, the justices shall give the creditor a certifi- nen on reaJS
cate thereof, stating the names of the parties, and the amount of the closed d'S
execution ; and the creditor shall have a lien thereon for thirty days P^- c- 118>
thereafter, if he files the certificate with the register of deeds of the 81 Me, so.
county or district where the real estate lies within five days from the
date of the disclosure; and the register shall enter and file it like
officers' returns of attachments.
Sec. 38. If he discloses personal estate liable to be seized on uen on perexecution, the creditor shall have a lien on it for thirty days, or so dj^0e,yate
much of it as the justices, in their record, judge necessary; and if Effect if debtor
J
»
■
or anv Person
the debtor transfers, conceals, or otherwise disposes of it within said conceals it.
time, or suffers it to be done, or refuses to surrender it, on demand, ^ S6.' ' '
to any proper officer having an execution on the same judgment, the 21 Me'2i9i 465'
debtor shall have no benefit from the certificate described in section
thirty-three ; and the creditor may recover, in an action on the case
against him, or any person fraudulently aiding in such transfer, con
cealment, or disposal, double the amount due on said execution; and
any execution on a judgment in such action shall run against the
body of the debtor and other persons so aiding; but the payment
thereof shall be a satisfaction of the original debt.

800

RELIEF OP POOR DEBTORS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 113.
Sec. 39. Every officer, taking a bond on an execution, shall
Bond taken on return it with the execution for the benefit of the creditor, who may
be returned
receive it on filing a copy with the clerk of court, judge, or justice
creditorto'111'1 to whom it is returned. He may also receive from the jailer any
IT 8° c TiY' such °ond hi his hands on the like terms.
4 87Sec. 40. If the debtor fails to fulfill the condition of such bond,
coverabie
judgment in a suit thereon shall be rendered for the amount of the
feited™ lf for" execution, costs, and fees of service, with interest thereon, against all
f38 C" 118' the obligors ; and a special judgment against the principal, for a sum
equal to the interest on said amount, at the rate of twenty per cent.
by the year, after the breach of the bond, (a)
ARRESTS FOR TAXES.
Persons arrestcntittaHo^he
this chapter!
tormftoi°oftth
and^certificatc.
§ '39.
'
1868 c 188
19 Me. 322,'
89 Me. 845.

Sec. 41. Any person arrested or imprisoned by virtue of a warrant for the collection of a public tax ; or any constable, collector,
or deputy sheriff, arrested or imprisoned for default in collecting
taxes committed to him, shall have the privileges, and be subject to
the obligations of this chapter, as if arrested or imprisoned on execution for debt ; and for all purposes relating thereto, the assessors who
assessed the taxes shall be deemed the creditors ; and corresponding
verrjai alterations shall be made in the oath and certificate of dis
charge ; but nothing herein shall exempt any property from distress
for taxes, except those implements, tools, and articles of furniture
which are exempt by law from attachment for debt.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Manner of Be
Sec. 42. One of the justices to hear a disclosure, may be chosen
leering thcjt* by the debtor, and the other by the creditor, his agent, or attorney ;
the disclosure, and if at the time appointed, he refuses, or unreasonably neglects to
fio. ° 113' appoint, or to procure his attendance, the other may be chosen by an
officer who has the debtor in charge, or if not in charge, who might
serve the precept on which he was arrested ; and in that case, the
justice chosen by the debtor, if he deems it necessary, may adjourn
once, not exceeding twenty-four hours, Sundays excluded, to enable
the debtor to procure the attendance of another justice. If the jus
tices do not agree, they may choose a third ; if they cannot agree on a
third, such officer may choose him ; and a majority may decide. (J)
Municipal and
Sec. 43. The judge of a municipal or police court shall have the
may actudges same powers, duties and obligations under this chapter, as a justice
R^s. c. lis, 0f the peace and quorum of his county.
Persons inSec. 44. No criminal conviction, or other disqualification to be a
witnesses,' not witness, shall preclude a debtor from relief under this chapter.
precluded
from taking
(„) 15 Me. 340; 16 Me. 858; 18 Me. 120; 20 Me. 206; 22 Me. 160; 28 Me. 76. 101, 244;
the oath.
24 Me. 128, 166; 27 Me. 97; 89 Me. 484 : 44 Me. 77.
R. S. c. 113,
(6) 16 Me. 101 ; 21 Me. 206; 28 Me. 26, 489; 24 Me. 196; 26 Me. 101 ; 27 Me. 551, 458;
* 42.
28 Me. 458; 29 Me. 107; 80 Me. 101. 155; 82 Me. 885 ; 88 Me, 882; 39 Me, 504 ; 47 Me, 28,
145; 49 Me. 434; 50 Me. 834; 54 Me, 208, 386; 56 Me. 178.

TITLE IX.]

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

801

Sec. 45. If a debtor fails in any application for a discharge from Chap. 113.
arrest or imprisonment, the creditor shall recover his costs as in Costs for crcdiactions before a trial justice, and the justices shall issue execution not distherefor ; but no such failure shall prevent his obtaining a discharge iJl'sfcfiis.
at any future examination, except as provided in sections thirty-eight * 48and fifty.
Sec. 46. A debtor who has been twice refused a discharge, shall Debtor twice
•
-if refused disirffe, mav
not again disclose before such justice ; but may apply to a judge of char?
the supreme judicial court, who in term time or vacation, after notice foiPa commit
to the creditor or his attorney, and a hearing of the parties, may close a^ainf"
appoint a commissioner to take his examination and disclosure ; and nlticehovr1™
shall then fix his compensation, which shall be paid by the debtor, ?nd proceedbefore commencing his disclosure. The commissioner shall give to i860, c. 185, Hthe creditor or his attorney, seven days' notice of the time and place
*
appointed by him for such hearing ; and all the proceedings relating
to such disclosure, oath, discharge and disposition of the property
disclosed shall be the same as in disclosures before such justices, and
have the like effect.
Sec. 47. In any disclosures on mesne process or execution, after After debtor is
the examination of the debtor, other competent evidence may be cr evidence or
introduced, and the debtor be then further examined by either party. frod°nced and"'
Depositions may be used in such disclosure ; and in any subsequent fnTiibsequent
disclosure or proceeding on that or another arrest or imprisonment j^T'isT ^
for the same cause of action, the same depositions may be used.
1862, c. 126,
Sec. 48. If by mistake or accident, the penalty of a bond taken 48 Me. 78.
by an officer under this chapter, varies from the sum required by law,
when
it is still valid ; and the officer is not responsible to either party be- K^S. c- 118i
yond the actual damage, (a)
See 4 25.
Sec. 49. No suit, on any bond herein authorized to be given, shall Limitation of
•11
1 •1•
A
1 » J> •
8UltS 0,1 b0n(1be sustained unless commenced within one year after the forfeiture; R. s. c. ns,
except that the provisions of sections eighty-seven and eighty-eight of ltfiie. 899.
chapter eighty-one are applicable to such suits.
FALSE DISCLOSURES AND AIDING IN FRAUDULENT CONVEYANCES.
Sec. 50. When a debtor, herein authorized or required to disclose
on oath, willfully discloses falsely, withholds, or suppresses the truth,
the creditor of record or in interest may bring a special action on the
case against him, whether he is criminally prosecuted or not, particularly alleging the false oath and fraudulent concealment of his estate
or property ; and, on oath, before a justice of the peace, may declare
his belief of the truth of the allegations in the writ ; such justice
shall certify the oath on the writ ; and thereupon the debtor shall be
held to bail, or in default thereof, committed to jail to abide the judg(a) 28 Me. 101; 24 Me- 546; 81 Me. 850 ; 85 Me. 459; k> Me, 99, 484, 452.
51

Liability of a
Jjfjj.^jf fa^se.
^ g 1Jg
M«.
'
48 Me. 298.

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

802

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 113. ment in the suit ; and if the creditor prevails in the suit, judgment
shall be rendered against the debtor, for double the amount of the
debt and charges on the former judgment; and the debtor may be
arrested and committed to prison on any execution issued on the judg
ment last recovered, without the privilege of release or discharge,
except by payment or consent of the creditor.
nenonsa?d^EC*
Whoever knowingly aids or assists a debtor or prisoner
in? in fnmdu- in a fraudulent transfer or concealment of his property to secure it
lent conceal.
.
.mcnt or trans- from creditors, and prevent its attachment or seizure on execution,
er prop
De liable to any creditor suing therefor in an action on the case,
ges.b'e dama* in double the amount of property so fraudulently transferred or conit s. c. lis, cealed, not exceeding double the amount of such creditor's demand.
^,5 Me. 249tf
DAMAGES ON BONDS.
In actions on
Sec. 52. In all actions on any bond given by a debtor to obtain
hastokra b'°r hi3 release from arrest on mesne process, execution, or warrant of distuai'dam'a^s
JUS^'ns
is&i 88
27 Me! 419.
so Me. 847, 457.'
as Me 's57J'8S8

*re8S *°r ^GBi & ifc appears that, prior to the breach of any of its
conditions, the principal had legally notified the creditor, or the assess0r3
*ssue<4, sucn warran';) ftnd had been allowed by two justices of
the peace and of the quorum of the county where the arrest was
made, having jurisdiction and legally competent to act in the matter,
*° ^ke, an^ na(^ taken the oath prescribed in the thirtieth section, the

ssVc^ioe
damages shall be assessed by the jury, at the request of either party ;
86 Me. 240.
otherwise, by the court. The amount assessed shall be the real and
44 Me. 55, '97. actual damage, and any legal evidence on that point may be introdui82Mr/W.4^<-ced by either party. In any such action, evidence may be received to
49 Me. 99 loo snow tna* 110
8ervrice of the citation was made on the creditor
5i4Me52io8 J'^^,asse8S0rs' *aouSn '* may contradict the record and certificate of
52 Me.^257.
the magistrates who administered the oath.
The new judg- Sec. 53. If the whole amount due on the execution or warrant
bond loo™1 °f distress is recovered in any such action, the new judgment shall
rateasdisbe a discharge of said execution or warrant of distress; if only a
charge of old
.
°
.
'
judgment as part is recovered, it shall be a discharge of such part. If the amount
k. s. c. liaT' of damage is not more than twenty dollars, the plaintiffs costs shall
254Me. 249.
n°t exceed a quarter part of the damage, though the penalty of the
84 Me. 20.
^ond is more than twenty dollars. If the verdict or judgment is
that the creditor has sustained no damage, neither party shall recover
. costs.
WILLFUL TRESPASS.
Disability of
Sec. 54. When, in the trial of an action of trespass on property,
mitted forwiii- the court, jury, or magistrate, determines that such trespass was coml?s!cPm
mitted willfully, and the fact is recorded, and noted on the margin of
* 50'

the execution on such judgment, and the debtor is thereon arrested
and committed to prison, he shall not be entitled to give any bond for
his liberation; and if he applies to take the oath described in section

TITLE IX.]

BELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

803

thirty, no notice shall be issued to the creditor till at least thirty days Chap. 113.
after his commitment.
SUPPORT OF DEBTORS IN JAIL.
Sec. 55. When a person is committed to prison on mesne process Prison keeper
or execution, or delivers himself into the custody of the jailer to save "editor to™
the condition of a bond given on execution, and makes a written com- "fan?how^
plaint, by him signed and sworn to, stating that he is unable to support Jj" s^'us
himself in jail, and has not sufficient property to furnish security for |951- 5_5
his support, the jailer may require of any one of the creditors, their 86 Mc. 899y v
agent or attorney, security for his support ; and unless it is satisfactorily furnished within eight days after the request, or money is paid in
'
advance therefor from time to time, he may release him ; but when a
debtor is committed on more than one execution at the same time, the
jailer shall be entitled to pay for board only on the first execution, to
be paid for equally by all the creditors, on whose executions he is
committed ; and the first creditor may have an action against the other
committing creditors for their proportion thereof; and if such debtor
is discharged on the first, the jailer shall notify the next committing
creditor of his liability to pay for his support, as on the first execu
tion.
Sec. 56. In case of dispute about the price of such support, the Adjustment of
county commissioners may determine it, not exceeding two dollars and porL ° S"P
twenty-five cents a week.
$ jf" c" 118,
PROVISIONS RELATING TO DEBTORS TO THE STATE.
Sec. 57. Any person committed to jail in any county on execu- Such debtor
tion, warrant of distress, or other final civil process for debt, penalty aj'ustirc of the
or costs, due to the state, may make application in writing to a justice NoticTto'at-"'
of the supreme judicial court for relief, whether the court is in ses- ^I^^roer'1'
sion or not ; who shall appoint a convenient time and place to inquire gttgrnce^18
into the circumstances of the petitioner ; give such notice thereof as § 58.
he thinks proper to the attorney general, or county attorney for the
county where the commitment is made, to attend the hearing in be
half of the state.
Sec. 58. The justice shall consider all proper evidence offered on Proceedings
either side, and may require the oath of the petioner to all or any of reiease"tue *°
the facts by him stated ; and if satisfied that the prisoner is unable to
ns,
pay any part of the amount due on such process, may order his dis- * 5icharge from imprisonment, having first administered to him, if he.
thinks proper, an oath substantially in the form prescribed by section
thirty.
Sec. 59. If, on examination, it appears to the justice that the JudRcmay
prisoner is able to pay only a part of the amount due, he shall order or the debt, on
his release from imprisonment, and, if he thinks it more for the inter- security ofr
e3t of the state, may order the whole debt to be discharged, upon his &arg c llg
paying or securing such sum of money, or assigning to the state such * S5,

804

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

[TITLE IX.

Chap. 113. securities or other property, at such time and in such manner, to be
deposited with such public officer, as he directs.
Jailer to comSEC. 60. The jailer having charge of the debtor shall thereupon
ply with such
*
.
.
.
decision.
release him from confinement, or give him a full discharge from the
$56.
' demand on the terms prescribed.
^ he'rworded
^E0,
^ sucft Proceedings are na(l when the supreme judicial
R^S. c. lis, court is not in session for the county, the justice shall cause his adju
dication and discharge to be entered of record as of the last preced
ing term of the court therein.
Same powers
Sec. 62. The county commissioners, at a regular session, or a
vest«d in the
.....
.
,.
.
.
county com- majority of them in vacation, on application, may exercise the powers,
KTiiii, and their proceedings shall have the like effect, provided in the five
* 581
preceding sections.
Application by Sec. 63. A person committed on execution as mentioned in secsuch debtor to .
i . .
I.
. •■ , .
take the poor tion fifty-seven, desiring to take the oath provided m section thirty,
Notke to°ath' may apply to the jailer, who shall apply in writing to a justice of the
county attor- peace m jjjg behalf, and he shall issue a citation as herein before pretiflcHte1"1 CCr scribed, to be served on the oounty attorney for the samo county, who
fha" U8'
8^a^ at*en<^ a* ^e ^me an<^ P^8,06)
himself or a competent substi
tute as attorney to the state, and a disclosure may thus be had, and
all the proceedings and the effect shall be the same as in the disclos
ures of execution debtors to individual creditors ; and the justices of
the peace and quorum hearing it may, if they see cause, administer
an oath, and grant a certificate to the debtor as hereinbefore provided,
with verbal alterations to conform to the case.

