supreme judicial court.

415
Chap. 77.

CHAPTER 77.
SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT AND SUPERIOR COURTS.
SeC. 6.

As amended : 1889, c. 208, p. 185.
1891, c. 53, p. 41.
It has jurisdiction as a court of equity, in the following cases :—
I. For redemption of estates mortgaged.
II. For relief from forfeiture of penalties to the state, from for
feitures in civil contracts and obligations, and in recognizances in
criminal cases.
III. To compel the specific performance of written contracts, and
to cancel and compel the discharge of written contracts, whether

Equity
s^jfcourt.

s4 Me., 195.
° e''

under seal or otherwise, when full performance or payment has been
made to the contracting party.
IV. For relief in cases of fraud, trust, accident, or mistake.
V. In cases of nuisance and waste.
VI. In cases of partnership, and between part owners of vessels 76 Me., 269.
and of other real and personal property, for adjustment of their
interests in the property and accounts respecting it, and in cases
arising out of the law providing for the application of receipts and
expenditures of railroads by trustees in possession under mortgage.
VII. To determine the construction of wills and whether an 82 Me., so.
executor, not expressly appointed a trustee, becomes such from the s.-■ Me.', 129.
provisions of a will ; and in cases of doubt, the mode of executing
* e"'
a trust, and the expediency of making changes and investments of
property held in trust.
VIII. In cases where the power is specially given by statute,
and for discovery in the cases before named, according to the course
of chancery proceedings.
IX. When counties, cities, towns, school districts, village, or
other public corporations, for a purpose not authorized by law, vote
to pledge their credit or to raise money by taxation or to exempt
property therefrom, or to pay money from their treasury, or if any
of their officers or agents attempt to pay out such money for such
purpose, the court shall have equity jurisdiction on petition or
application of not less than ten taxable inhabitants thereof, briefly
setting forth the cause of complaint.
X. In suits for re-delivery of goods or chattels taken or detained
from the owner, and secreted or withheld, so that the same cannot
be replevied, and in bills in equity, by creditors, to reach and apply
in payment of a debt, any property, right, title or interest, legal or
equitable, of a debtor or debtors, which cannot be come at to be

so Me., iw.

iS«^ c. 208.
H4Me. 325.
w Me-* 492-

416

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

Chap. 77. attached on writ, or taken on execution, in a suit at law, and any
property or interest conveyed in fraud of creditors. But no pro
vision of this paragraph shall be so construed as to reach and apply in
payment of a debt, any property exempted by sections thirty-eight
and thirty-nine of chapter five, sections six, seven and eight of
chapter fifteen, section eleven of chapter fifty-five and by chapter
eighty-one, revised statutes.
75 Me., 264
XI. And has full equity jurisdiction, according to the usage and
77 Me., OH.
practice of courts of equity, in all other cases where there is not a
77 Me., 91.
86 Me., 55.
plain, adequate and complete remedy at law.
Additional : 1891, c. 38, p. 28.

Interest of a
co-partner
may be ap
plied in pay
ment of
plaintiff's
debt.

A bill in equity may be maintained to reach and apply in payment
of a debt any property of a debtor, as provided by clause ten of
section six of chapter seventy-seven of the revised statutes, notwith
standing the fact that the property sought to be reached and applied
is in the hands, possession or control of the debtor independently of
any other person, or that it is not within the state, or that it is of
uncertain value, provided, the value can be ascertained by a sale or
appraisal, or by any means within the ordinary procedure of the
court, or that it cannot be reached and applied until a future time.
In such suit the interest of a co-partner in the partnership property
may be reached and applied to payment of the plaintiff's debt; pro
vided, however, that unless the plaintiff's debt is in judgment, the
business of the partnership shall not be interfered with by injunction
or otherwise, farther than to restrain the withdrawal of any portion
of the debtor's share or interest therein, unless and until the plain
tiffs debt is established ; and provided further, that if either
co-partner shall give to the plaintiff a sufficient bond with sureties
approved by the clerk, conditioned to pay to the plaintiff the amount
of his debt and costs within thirty days after the same is established, the court shall proceed no further therein save to establish the
debt: and any injunction previously issued therein shall be dissolved
upon the filing of such bond.
SeC. 17.

Time for
hearing on
bill and
demurrer.
82 Me., 248.

As amended : 1893, c. 156, p. 179.

When a demurrer is filed, the court upon motion of either party,
may set the cause for hearing upon bill and demurrer at any time.
When a plea or answer is filed, the court, upon the motion of the
complainant, may set the cause for hearing upon bill and plea, or
answer at any time. When a replication is filed, the court, upon
the motion of either party, may set the cause for hearing bill, answer
or plea and evidence, but such hearing shall not be till after sixty
days from the filing the replication. When a jury trial is ordered
it shall be had at the next jury term next after such sixty days.
Any time fixed for hearing or trial may be extended for good cause
shown.

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

SeC. 18.

As amended: 1893, c. 156, p. 178.

417

Chap. 77.

At any hearing or trial in equity, the evidence may be presented How testiwholly or partly by oral testimony, or by depositions. When oral taken,
testimony is used, it shall be reduced to writing by the stenographer, 82 Me'' 248certified by him, and filed with the depositions, for use in case of
appeal.
SeC. 19.

As amended: 1893, c. 156, p. 179.

The justice before whom such hearings are had, has full power to Justice shall
decide any motion or cause so heard, and shall make and enter such subject to
order and decree as seems just and proper to him, and in accordance ~ jta
with the established principles of equity jurisprudence, subject to 82 Me., 248.
appeal and exceptions as hereinafter provided.
SeC. 4T.

As amended: the amendments are given in full,
under the titles of the respective counties.

For the trial of civil actions and of persons accused of offences,
and for the transaction of all other business, except cases named in
section forty-two, the court shall be held annually by one justice,
at the following places and times; and the justices shall so hold
said terms, under direction of the chief justice that their services
shall be divided to each county as equally as may be.
In the county of Androscoggin, at Auburn, on the third Tuesdays
of January, April and September;

Trial terms
by one justice
{."unty.

Andros-

Aroostook : 1893, c. 178, p. 197.
Aroostook at Houlton, on the fourth Tuesday of April and the —Aroostook,
third Tuesday of September for civil and criminal business, and at
Caribou on the first Tuesday in December for civil business ;
Cumberland, at Portland, on the second Tuesdays of January, —CumberApril and October, for civil business: —
Franklin : 1893, c. 222, p. 240.
The supreme judical court shall hereafter be held at Farmington
within and for the county of Franklin, on the first Tuesdays of
February and June, and on the fourth Tuesday of September,
annually, instead of the times now provided by law.
Said June term shall be for the transaction of civil business only,
except for the trial of indictments found by a grand jury in attendance, and shall be held without a grand jury and with but one
traverse jury, unless a justice of said court shall otherwise specially
order, in which case the clerk shall send venires for the requisite
1
number of traverse jurors, and shall summon the grand jury of the
preceding term, as the terms of said order may require.
All civil actions pending in said court at the passage of this act,
shall stand continued to and have day in the term thereof to be
27

Franklin,

June term
transaction
ness? except"
fjJdictments
f°und by
grand iury In
attendance.

418

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

Chap. 77. held on the first Tuesday of June next, and all civil actions brought
at the passage of this act, and all appeals in civil cases then taken
and returnable to the next September term of said court, shall have
day therein as if this act had not been passed.

—Hancock.

Additional
term of
supreme
judicial court
for Hancock
county.

Civil busi
ness only to
be trans
acted.

Kennebec.

Knox.

Lincoln.

Oxford.

—additional
term pro
vided for.

Penobscot.

Hancock : 1889, c. 199, p. 180.
Hancock, at Ellsworth, on the second Tuesdays of April and
October: —
In addition to the terms now provided for by statute, a term of
the supreme judicial court shall be held at Ellsworth, within and
for the county of Hancock, on the third Tuesday of January of
each year, commencing with the third Tuesday of January, in the
year of our Lord eighteen hundred and ninety.
Said term shall be for the transaction of civil business only, and
no grand jury shall be in attendance. Unless otherwise ordered
by some justice of the court, either in term time or vacation, one
traverse jury only shall be in attendance for the trial of causes, and
venires for jurors shall be issued by the clerk, in accordance with
this section.
Kennebec, at Augusta, on the first Tuesday of March, and the
third Tuesday of October, for civil business : —
Knox, at Rockland, on the second Tuesdays of March and
December, and the third Tuesday of September: —
Lincoln, at Wiscasset, on the fourth Tuesdays of April and
October:—
Oxford : 1885, c. 259, p. 214.
1889, c. 223, p. 194.
After the first day of April in the present year, [1885,] the supreme
judicial court, within and for the county of Oxford, shall be holden
at Taris in said county, on the second Tuesday of October and on
the second Tuesday of February, annually, instead of at the times as
now provided by law. And in addition to the above named terms,
the same court shall be held annually hereafter, by one of the justices
thereof, at said Paris, on the first Tuesday of May, which last named
term shall be held without grand jury, and with only one traverse
jury in attendance, unless otherwise specially ordered by any judge
of said court. All recognizances and other criminal processes, made
returnable to, and to have day in said May term, when no criminal
business is transacted, shall be continued to, and have day in the
next term of said court, held in said county.
Penobscot, at Bangor, on the first Tuesdays of January, April
and October, for civil business, and on the first Tuesday of February
and the second Tuesday of August, for criminal business: —
Piscataquis : 1889, c. 277, p. 244.

Piscataquis.

Piscataquis, at Dover, on the last Tuesday of February, and the
fourth Tuesday of September:—

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.
Sagadahoc, at Bath, on the first Tuesday of April, and the third
Tuesdays of August and December: —
Somerset, at Skowhegan, on the third Tuesdays of March,
September and December : —
Waldo, at Belfast, on the first Tuesday of January, and the third
Tuesdays of April and October : —
Washington, at Machias, on the first Tuesdays of January and
October, and at Calais, on the fourth Tuesday of April : —
York, at Saco, on the first Tuesday of January, and at Alfred, on
the third Tuesdays of May and September.
SeC. 51.

Chap. 77.
Sagadahoc.
Somerset.
Waldo.
Washington.
York.

As amended : 1893, c. 174, p. 194.

When the court is held by one justice, a party aggrieved by any
r , .
. .
,.
..
. j
.
...
...
ot his opinions, dlrections or judgments, ln any civil or crlminal
proceeding, may, during the term, present written exceptions in a
summary manner, signed by himself or counsel, and when found
true they shall be allowed and signed by such justice ; but if he
deems them frivolous and intended for delay, he may so certifv on
r ,
,.
,
.
,
motion of the party not excepting ; and such exceptions may then
be transmitted at once by such justice to the chief justice, and shall
be argued in writing on both sides within thirty days thereafter,
unless the presiding justice, for good cause enlarges the time, and
they shall be considered and decided by the justices of said court as
soon as may be, and the decision certified to the clerk of the county
where the case is pending. This section applies to exceptions filed
in any criminal proceeding in either of the superior courts. If the
justice disallows or fails to sign and return the exceptions, or alters
any statement therein, and either party is aggrieved, the truth of
the exceptions presented may be established before the supreme
....
judicial court sitting as a court of law, upon petition setting forth
the grievance, and thereupon, the truth thereof being established,
the exceptions shall be heard, and the same proceedings had as if
they had been duly signed and brought up to said court with the
petition. The supreme judicial court shall make and promulgate
rules for settling the truth of exceptions alleged and not allowed.
SeC. 67.

419

Exceptions
in civil and
criminal
75 M^ 45G
^ ^e- jrfj!—proceedings, if they
are deemed
^ Me <xjl.

—this section
superior
courts
—now excepheardTnus^
M06 failj* to
sign and
return same.

As amended: 1891, c. 104, p. 113.

Within said county, said superior court has exclusive jurisdiction
of civil appeals from municipal and police courts, and trial justices,
exclusive original jurisdiction of actions of scire facias on judgments
and recognizances not exceeding five hundred dollars ; of bastardy
trials, and of all other civil actions at law not exclusively cognizable
by municipal and police courts, and trial justices, where the damages
demanded do not exceed five hundred dollars, except complaints
for rlowage, real actions, and actions of trespass quare clausum ; and

Superior
bee county. "
—Juris«3 Me., 359.

420

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

Chap. 77. concurrent original jurisdiction of proceedings in habeas corpus,
and libels for divorce.

When court
83 Me. 121.

SeC. 68. As amended: 1891, c. 104, p. 113.
Said court shall be held at Augusta on the first Tuesdays of
April, September and December, and at Waterville on the second
Tuesdays of June and November ; but the criminal business
of said county shall be transacted at the terms held on the first
Tuesdays of April, September and December, together with civil
business.
Additional: 1891, c. 104, p. 113.

Justice of
cial court to
trials upon11
for 'murder?

In all trials upon indictments for murder in the superior court
for Kennebec county, one of the justices of the supreme judicial
court, to be designated by the chief justice thereof, shall preside
1UU^ perform the duties heretofore exercised by the justice of the
superior court in such cases.
All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act are hereby
repealed, and the jurisdiction of the supreme judicial court in said
county is hereby restored, except so far as is inconsistent with this
act.
This act shall not apply to pending actions, [March 26, 1891].
See (2) acts additional to this chapter.
SeC. TO.

As amended: 1887, c. 2, p. 4.

Seal: form of
Each justice of a superior court shall establish a seal for his said
processes,
court; all writs and processes issuing from any superior court shall
fssiedT
De m tne name of tne state,, of the usual forms, bearing the teste of
the justice thereof under the seal of said court; they shall be signed
by its clerk and obeyed and executed throughout the state, and
may be made returnable in the superior court of any other county
in which the action might be legally brought.
SeC. 80.
In case of
of judge of"
court.'irther
notd^courtf
—teste of
of vacancy.
—cases
t^s>fpreme
iusUce^s16"
disqualified.

As amended : 1893, c. 277, p. 333.

Whenever a judge of a superior court, by reason of illness, death,
or other cause, is prevented from holding his court, any other judge
of a superior court or any justice of the supreme judicial court by
order of the chief justice, shall hold the same. And during a
vacancy in the office of justice of either of the superior courts, all
writs issued from the office of the clerk thereof, shall bear teste of
any one of ^he justices of the supreme judicial court. Whenever the
justice of either of the superior courts is disqualified by interest,
relationship, or other lawful cause from trying any cause pending
in his said court, said case shall thereupon be transferred to the
docket of the supreme judicial court for the county, and be disposed
of in said court according to law.

supreme judicial court.

42l
Chap. 77.

ACTS ADDITIONAL TO CHAPTER 77.

(1) To abolish the superior court of Aroostook county, (repealing
c. 324, laws of 1885 ; c. 154, laws of 1889, and c. 184, laws of
1893) : Laws of 1893, c. 183, p. 200.
Section 1. Chapter three hundred and twenty-four of the public laws of the state of Maine, for the year eighteen hundred and
eighty-five, establishing a superior court in and for Aroostook county,
Maine, and all acts additional thereto and amendatory thereof are
hereby repealed, and the entire jurisdiction, civil, criminal and
appellate, of said superior court, and all powers incident thereto,
are hereby transferred to and conferred upon the supreme judicial
court, which court shall henceforth exercise the same in the same
manner as they were exercised by the supreme judicial court pre
vious to the establishment of said superior court, or as said supreme
judicial court is authorized to exercise the same in similar cases;
and shall grant any executions or other process necessary to carry
into effect any judgment, order or decree of said superior court, as
fully as said superior court might have done had not this act been
passed.
Sec. 2. The records of said superior court and the custody of
the same is transferred to the clerk of the supreme judicial court
fer said county, to whose attestation of the same, or of their contents, full faith shall be given.

Actestabsupermr
Aroostook
abolished,
—jurisdiction
And Jill
powers transs>ipremejudi-

Sec. 3. All indictments and informations, all civil suits and all
.,
...
...
...
. ,
.
other processes, civil or crlminal, pending in said superior court,
shall be and hereby are transferred to the supreme judicial court of
said county, and shall be entered on the docket of the same at the
first term next after this act takes effect, and shall have day therein

Alllndictments, suits
and procescriminal,11"
to's'upreme
0"*5SLal

and be heard and disposed of as if originally entered in said supreme
judicial court; and all writs, petitions, warrants and recognizances,
appeals in civil and criminal cases, and all processes whatsoever,
returnable to said superior court, or which by law should have been
entered at the term of said superior court next after this act takes
effect, shall l>e returnable to and be entered on the docket of said
supreme judicial court, at the term of the same holden next after
this act takes effect, and shall have day in said supreme judicial
court and be heard and disposed of as if originally entered therein;
and all parties, grand jurors, witnesses and others who would have
been held to appear at the term of said superior court which but
for the passage of this act would have been held in November,
eighteen hundred and ninety-three, shall be holden to appear at
the term of said supreme judicial court to be held at Houlton in
said 'county next after this act takes effect.

Records and
same trans
supreme judiciaI court.

422
Chap. 77.
Judgments,
decisions,
orders.

Purpose of
this act.

County of
Aroostook
required to
furnish
rooms in
Caribou for
use of
supreme judi
cial court.

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

Sec. 4. The judgments, decisions, orders and decrees of the
supreme judicial court at any law term made in cases originating
in said superior court, shall be certified to the clerk of the supreme
judicial court lor said county of Aroostook, and such further pro
ceedings had as would have been had if the same had originated in
said supreme judicial court within and for said county of Aroostook.
Sec 5. The purpose of this act being to repeal the act establish
ing said superior court, and all acts additional thereto, and to
transfer to and confer upon the supreme judicial court all the
powers and jurisdiction of said superior court, this act shall in all
respects, be so construed as may best effectuate that purpose.
Sec. 6. The county of Aroostook shall furnish proper and con
venient rooms and accommodations in the town of Caribou in said
county, for the use of said supreme judicial court, at an expense
not to exceed two hundred dollars a year.
Sec. 7. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act, are
hereby repealed ; and this act shall take effect July first, eighteen
hundred and ninety-three.
(2) To provide for terms of the superior court of Kennebec county
in the city of Waterville: Laws of 1889, c. 271, p. 240,
(repealing laws of 1889, c. 172, p. 159.)

June and
November
terms of
superior
court shall be
holden at
Waterville.

Previous
section void
unless city of
Waterville
furnishes
accommo
dations.

Notice shall
be given
when rooms
have been
provided.

Cases may be
continued in
discretion of

Section 1. The June term of the superior court which is now
required to be holden at Augusta, in and for the county of Kennebec,
shall hereafter be holden in the city of Waterville, in said county ;
and a term of said court shall also be holden at said Waterville, in
and for said county, for the transaction of civil business, on the
second Tuesday of November in each year.
Sec. 2. The previous section of this act shall be void and of no
effect, unless the city of Waterville aforesaid, shall, on or before the
first day of May, in the present year, without expense to said county
of Kennebec, provide a suitable court room and other accommodations
for said court and officers, to the acceptance of a majority of the
county commissioners, of the county of Kennebec, and shall execute
and deliver to said commissioners a sufficient lease or other instru
ment to setuire the use thereof to said county, for the purposes
aforesaid, during the time in which said court is held in said city of
Waterville.
Sec. 3. The county commissioners of said county shall forthwith,
after rooms for the accommodation of the court and officers as specified
in this act have been provided, cause notice of the fact that suitable
rooms have been provided as herein specified, by publication in the
daily issue of the Kennebec Journal, for at least thirty days prior
to the second Tuesday of June, next after this act is approved.
Sec. 4. The judge of said court may continue any case pending
in said court without cost, when in his judgment justice may require

SUPREME .JUDICIAL COURT.
it, in order to give the parties in interest opportunity to try any
such case in either said Waterville or Augusta in said county.
Sec. 5. The said city of Waterville is hereby authorized and
empowered to provide a building and furnish suitable accommodation,
for holding the superior court in said city of Waterville, and is
hereby
authorized to raise by
assessment or loan, and appropriate
J
J
. j.
. ,
a sufficient sum of money for the purpose of providing said
accommodation for the said court.
Sec. 6. There shall be allowed to the presiding justice of said
.
.
...
.
superior court, and in addition to the salary of such justice, other
wise provided, and for the purpose of meeting the extra expenses of
said justice, entailed by holding said court at said city of Waterville,
the sum of one hundred dollars, for each and every term of said
court so held at city of Waterville.
(3) Relating to superior court, Kennebec county : Laws of 1889,
c. 310, p. 274.
Section 1. All writs, processes and proceedings commenced
,
, „
,
1. x
•
,
r
ri-,
prior to the second 1 uesday 01 June, 111 the year of our Lord eighteen
hundred and eighty-nine, and which would otherwise be returnable
at the June term of the superior court at Augusta, within and for
the county of Kennebec, shall be entered and have day in said
court, at said June term, at Waterville in said county.
Sec. 2. This act is subject to the provisions of section two of
an act entitled "An Act to hold the June term and a November
term of the Superior Court, Kennebec County, in the city of
Waterville," approved March eight, eighteen hundred and eightynine.

423
Chap. 77.
judge, and
either city.
waterville
^s^nitmey°
for purpose
°f accommodations.
Compensation of judge.

Writs and
how re-

processes,

Act subject
of former act.

(4) Relating to suits at law and in equity in the supreme judicial
and superior courts: Laws of 1893, c. 217, p. 236.
1895, c. 24, p. 23.
1895, c. 140, p. 157.
Section 1. When, in an action at law in the supreme judicial
■
<• i
•
i
court, it appears that the rights of the parties can be better determined and enforced by a judgment and decree in equity, the court
may, upon reasonable terms, strike out the pleadings at law, and

86 Me., 55.
In actions at
'aw l'(>urt
may strike
at law ami reto'p'tead^n''s

require the parties to plead in equity in the same cause and may
hear and determine the cause in equity..
Sec. 2. When in any equity proceeding in the supreme judicial
court, it appears that the remedy at law is plain, adequate and
complete and that the rights of the parties can be fully determined
and enforced by a judgment and execution at law, the court may
upon reasonable terms strike out the pleadings in equity, and require
the parties to plead at law in the same cause and may hear and

right/ can "be
determined
In equity procourt may. reto plead at
rights can be
termined and
ellforcea'

determine the cause at law.

424
Chap. 77.
In actions at
law in supe
rior courts,
and pending
in law court,
pleadings
may be
changed
when rights
can be better
determined,
—action shall
be trans
ferred to
supreme judi
cial court.
Defendant
may plead
in defence
any matter
which would
be ground
for relief in
equity,
—plaintiff
may plead
against
defence.

In actions at
law in supe
rior courts,
equitable de
fences and
replies may
be pleaded
and actions
transferred
to supreme
judicial
court.
Court may
make neces
sary decrees
to preserve
equitable
rights.

No attach
ments shall
be affected by
proceedings.
—either
party may
obtain order
for attach
ment of
property.
Rules and
principles of
equity shall
prevail in all
proceedings.

Party to any
action may
tile any docu
ment mate
rial to issue,

SITPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

Sec. 3. When in an action at law commenced in either of the
superior courts and pending in the supreme judicial court, sitting as
a law court, it appears that the rights of the parties can be letter
determined and enforced by a judgment and decree in equity, the
supreme judicial court may, upon reasonable terms, strike out the
pleadings at law, and require the parties to plead in equity in the
same cause ; and thereupon the action shall be transferred to the
docket of the supreme judicial court for the same county, and be
heard and determined in equity in that court.
Sec. 4. Any defendant may plead in defence to any action at
law in the supreme judicial court, any matter which would be
ground for relief in equity, and shall receive such relief as he would
be entitled to receive in equity, against the claims of the plaintiff ;
such matter of defence shall be pleaded in the form of a brief state
ment under the general issue. And, by counter brief statement, any
plaintiff may plead any matter which would be ground for relief in
equity against any defence set up by any defendant in an action at
law in said court, and shall receive such relief as he would be
entitled to receive in equity against such claim of the defendant.
Sec. 5. In actions at law in the superior courts, equitable
defences and equitable replies to matters of defence, may he pleaded
by filing a brief statement thereof supported by affidavit that the
matters so pleaded are true in fact. Thereupon the action shall be
transferred to the docket of the supreme judicial court for the same
county, and be heard and determined in that court.
Sec. 6. Whenever in such action any matter which would be
ground for relief in equity is so pleaded by any party, the supreme
judicial court may make such decrees and restraining orders as
may be necessary to protect and preserve such equitable rights, and
may issue injunctions, according to the usual practice of courts of
equity.
Sec. 7. No attachments shall be affected by proceedings under
this act. Either party to a cause may, upon petition, obtain from
the court an order for the attachment of property of a party to the
suit to secure any judgment which may be obtained, to be made on
such precept as the court may order and to be recorded as in case
of other attachments.
Sec. 8. In all proceedings in the supreme judicial court, under
the preceding sections, when there appears to be any conflict or
variance between the principles of law and those of equity, as to
the same subject matter, the rules and principles of equity shall
prevail. At the hearing of all equity causes, oral testimony shall
be received as in trials at common law.
Sec. 9. A party to any action in the supreme judicial court or
superior courts, may file in the clerk's office of the court in the
county where such action is pending, any document which he may

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.

425

deem material to the issue, and give to the adverse party notice of
such filing and that he desires the execution of said document to be
admitted. Unless the adverse party shall within seven days after such
notice, unless the time is enlarged by the court or a justice thereof,
file in said clerk's office, a denial of the genuineness of the execution of said document, he shall be held to have admitted the same.

Chap. 77.
and give
otner party,
—genuinen?i Med unless
deilied,

Sec. 10. Where books, papers, or written instruments material Court may
to the issue in any action at law pending in the supreme judicial Suction of
court or in the superior courts, are in the possession of the opposite °° s' c"
party, and access thereto refused, the court upon motion, notice and
hearing, may require their production for inspection. In case of —parties reunreasonable delay or refusal in complying with such requirement benon-sufted
the court may order a nonsuit or default as the case may require.
iH<«eca'24ed.
Sec. 11. No justice of the supreme judicial court shall sit in
the law court upon the hearing of any cause tried before him, in
which any of his rulings and findings are the subject of review, nor
take any part in the decision thereof.

No justice
faw court
"{'ajVcase'8
tried before
lsii8., c. 140.

(5) Limiting the jurisdiction of naturalization of foreigners : Laws
of 1893, c. 310, p. 375.
Section 1. The supreme judicial and superior courts shall Jurisdictions
.

of applica-

rcspectively have jurisdiction of applications for naturalization.

tions for natu> iilization.

Sec. 2. No other court established by this state shall entertain inferior
any primary or final declaration or application made by or in behalf ^"risaicUui>?
of an alien to become a citizen of the United States, or entertain
jurisdiction of the naturalization of aliens.
As to jurisdiction of actions against foreign accident and casualty
companies : See (8) acts additional to c. 49, this vol.
As to collateral agreements in equity :
c. 90, this vol.
Sec. 3, see 77 Me., 238.
II

"
"
"

83
76
4,
7")
5,
II
u 77
k
II
81
10, « 75
II
" 82
11, .. 77

ii
ii

"
II
II
II
II
II

282.
423.
39.
239.
538.
416.
248.
139.
494.
201.
248.

II

"
"

82

II

II

II

•i

II

12,
13,
14,
15,

ii

II

II

II

II

ii

II

II

II

"

78
82

ii

II

II
16,

ii

n
U

«•

II

..

ii

77 ■I

n 82
20, II 78
I,
II
81
ii
i>
b2
II

II
ii
i.

88.
248.

!>(>.
248.
337.
137.
201.

See (1) acts additional to

Sec. 20, sec 82 Me , 248.
"
21,
22,

32,
34,
42,
48,

"
''
''
I
'
''
I
'
I
'
"
''
"
"
''
i
'
''
''
''
''

83
82
80
82
75
78
82
83
78
80
82
7fl
80
81
83
77
78

II

II

Ii

II

23,
II
II

"
25,
"
26,
29,
II

52, " 80
82, " "

Il

..
ii
II
II

..
II
U
i.

"
II
II
i i

II
II
.i

ii
ii

193.
248.
99.
248.
41(!.
337.
248.
189.
337.
09.
201.
41(!.
1(!9.
303.
405.
243.
495.
582.

II

!>!i.

II

62.

426

COUNTY COMMISSIONEIiS.

Chap. 78.

CHAPTER 78.
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
SeC- 6.
Regular ses
sions, times
and places.
Andro
scoggin.
Aroostook.
Cumberland.
Franklin.
Hancock.

Kennebec.

Knox.

Lincoln.

Oxford.

Penobscot.

Piscataquis.

Sagadahoc.
Somerset.

Waldo.

Washington.

York.
78 Me., 100.
83 Me., 111.
IMS9, c. 198.

They shall hold annual sessions in the shire town of each county
at the times following:
In the county of Androscoggin, on the first Tuesdays of April
and October : —
Aroostook, on the first Tuesdays of January and July:—
Cumberland, terms of record on the first Tuesdays of January
and June, and regular sessions on the first Tuesday of each month.
Franklin, on the last Tuesdays of April and December:—
Hancock, on the fourth Tuesday of January, and the second
Tuesdays of April and October :—Kennebec, on the third Tuesdays of April, August and Decem
ber:—
Knox, on the first Tuesdays of April and December, and the third
Tuesday of August: —
Lincoln, on the second Tuesday of May, the first Monday of
September, and the last Monday of December : —
Oxford, on the second Tuesday of May, the first Tuesday of
September, and the last Tuesday of December, at Paris :—
Penobscot, on the first Tuesdays of January, April, July, and
October :—
Piscataquis, on the first Tuesdays of April, August and Decem
ber: —
Sagadahoc, on the first Tuesdays of March, July and November: —
Somerset, on the first Tuesdays of March and August, and the
second Tuesday of December:—
Waldo, on the second Tuesday of April, and the third Tuesdays
of August and December: —
Washington, at Machias, on the first Tuesdays of January and
October, and at Calais, on the fourth Tuesday of April: —
York, terms of record on the first Tuesdays of April and October,
at Alfred, and regular sessions on the first Tuesday of each month,
where the probate court for the county of York, for the same month
shall be held.
SeC. 13.

May estab
lish rules.

As amended: 1889, c. 198, p. 180.

As amended: 1889, c. 288, p. 256.

They shall, at the expense of their several counties, unless county
workshops are therein established, provide some suitable place,
materials and implements for the breaking of stone into suitable

COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.

427

condition for the building and repair of highways, and shall cause Chap. 78.
all persons sentenced under the provisions of section seventeen of
chapter one hundred and twenty-eight, to labor at breaking stone.
And they may, at the expense of their several counties, provide —make
COTltriil'tH
suitable materials and implements sufficient to keep at work all
persons committed to either of such jails, and may from time to
time establish needful rules for employing, reforming and governing
the persons so committed, for preserving such materials and imple
ments, and for keeping and settling all accounts of the cost of pro
curing the same, and of all labor performed by each of the persons
so committed, and may make all necessary contracts in behalf of
their several counties.
SeC. 1 T.

(This section is revived by c. 302, p. 267, laws of
1889, which act repeals c. 276, p. 244, laws of
1889.)
See (1) acts additional to this chapter as to powers of commissioners
of Cumberland county.
SeC. 2 1 .

The following enactments, under the titles of the
respective counties, are amendatory of sec. 21.

Androscoggin county : 1889, c. 201, p. 181.
The pay of each county commissioner of Androscoggin county Pay of county
shall be two dollars and fifty cents for each day employed in the ers °f Xndroservice of the county, and travel as now fixed by law.
coutrty! fixed.
Aroostook county : 1887, c. 38, p. 27.
The pay of the county commissioners of Aroostook county shall Pay of county
be three dollars for each day employed, and travel as now fixed by ers of Aroostook county,
law.
increased.
Cumberland county : 1891, c. 90, p. 75.
1895, c. 19, p. 19.
From and after the first day of April in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-one, the compensation of each
of the county commissioners of the county of Cumberland shall be
a salary, the chairman shall receive the sum of nine hundred and
fifty dollars, and each of the other commissioners shall receive the
sum of eight hundred and fifty dollars annually, payable from the
county treasury, in quarterly payments, on the first days of January,
April, July and October, in full for all services, expenses and travel,
including the management of the jail workshop and the sale of its
products, excepting actual necessary cash expenses incurred outside
of the county for the transaction of official business, all bills for
such expenses to be approved by the clerk of courts and county
attorney of said county ; at least a majority of said board shall be
in attendance at their office in Portland on all secular days except
when official business calls them elsewhere.

Salary of
missioners of
county, fixed,

—pavai,ie
Q-uarterl-v-

428
Chap. 78.
County com
missioners
of Hancock
county, com
pensation of.

COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.

Hancock county : 1887, c. 57, p. 38.
On and after January one, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and eighty-seven, each county commissioner of
Hancock county shall receive two dollars and fifty cents a day while
actually employed in the service of the county, including the time
spent in traveling, for which every commissioner shall have ten
cents a mile for the distance actually traveled ; but no commissioner
shall have more than one travel during the same hearing or session,
or for more than two adjournments of any regular term ; nor for
service or travel on more than one petition or case at the same time,
nor anything for travel or attendance at the legislature connected
with the annua1 county estimates ; nor for any additional trouble
or expense.
Kennebec county : 1889, c. 294, sec. 2, p. 261.

Salary of
county com
missioners of
Kennebec
county, fixed.

From and after the first day of January, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine, the salary of each of
the county commissioners for the county of Kennebec, shall be two
dollars and twenty-five cents per day, instead of the sum now fixed
by law, while actually employed in the service of the county, includ
ing the time spent in traveling, for which he shall have ten cents a
mile for the distance actually traveled.
Knox county : 1889, c. 203, p. 182.

Compensa
tion of county
commission
ers of Knox
county, fixed.

On and after January one, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and eighty-nine, each county commissioner of Knox
county shall receive two dollars and fifty cents a day while actually
employed in the service of the county, including the time spent in
traveling, for which every commissioner shall have ten cents a mile
for the distance actually traveled ; but no commissioner shall have
more than one travel during the same hearing or session or for more
than two adjournments of any regular term, or for service or travel
on more than one petition or case at the same time, or anything for
travel or attendance at the legislature, connected with the annual
county estimates, or for any additional trouble or expense.
Oxford county : 1885, c. 372, p. 315.

Compensa
tion of com
missioners
of Oxford
county, fixed.

Each county commissioner for Oxford county shall receive two
dollars and fifty cents per day while actually employed in the ser
vice of the county, including the time spent in traveling, for which
he shall have eight cents a mile for the distance actually traveled ;
but he shall not have more than one travel in the same hearing; or
session, nor for more than two adjournments of any regular term,
nor for service or travel on more than one petition or case at the
same time, nor anything for travel or attendance at the legislature
connected with the annual county estimates, nor for any additional
trouble or expense of any kind.

COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
Penobscot county : 1885, c. 375, p. 316.

429
ChAP. 78.

Each county commissioner for Penobscot county shall receive Compensatwo dollars and fifty cents per day while actually employed in the missioners
service of the county, including the time spent in traveling, for county, fixed,
which he shall have ten cents a mile for the distance actually
traveled ; but he shall not have more than one travel in the same
hearing or session, nor for more than two adjournments of any regu
lar term, nor for service or travel on more than one petition or case
at the same time, nor anything for travel or attendance at the legis
lature connected with the annual county estimates, nor for any
additional trouble or expense of any kind.
Piscataquis county : 1885, c. 330, p. 277.
Each county commissioner for Piscataquis county shall receive
two dollars and fifty cents per day while actually employed in the
service of the county, including the time spent in traveling, for
which he shall have ten cents a mile for the distance actually

Compensamigsioners of
county;411 S
established.

traveled ; but he shall not have more than one travel in the same
hearing or session, nor for more than two adjournments of any regu
lar term, nor for service or travel on more than one petition or case
at the same time, nor anything for travel or attendance at the legis
lature connected with the annual county estimates, nor for any
additional trouble or expense of any kind.
Sagadahoc county : 1887, c. 141, p. 131.
Each county commissioner for Sagadahoc county shall receive
two dollars and fifty cents per day while actually employed in the
service of the county, including the time spent in traveling, for
which he shall have eight cents a mile for the distance actually

CompensacommissionJiakoc aga
count>.- nxed'

traveled, but he shall not have more than one travel in the same
hearing or session, nor for more than two adjournments of any
regular term, nor for services or travel on more than one petition
or case at the same time, nor anything for travel or attendance at
the legislature connected with the annual county estimates, nor for
any additional trouble or expense of any kind.
Somerset : 1889, c. 193, p. 178.
Each county commissioner of the county of Somerset, from and
after the first day of January, eighteen hundred and eighty-nine, shall
receive two dollars and fifty cents a day while actually employed
in the service of the county, including the time spent in traveling,
for which he shall have ten cents a mile, for the distance actually
traveled ; but he shall not have more than one travel during the
same hearing or session, or for more than two adjournments of any
regular term ; or for service or travel on more than one petition or
case at the same time ; or anything for travel or attendance at the
legislature connected with the annual county estimates ; or for any
additional trouble or expense.

Compensacommissionset county,
fixed'

430
CHAp. 78.

COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
Waldo county :

1889, c. 202, sec. 3, p. 182.

CompensaFrom and after the first day of January, eighteen hundred and
com mission- eighty-nine, the pay of county commissioners of Waldo county shall
county, fixed, be two dollars and twenty-five cents for each day employed and
travel as now fixed by law.
Washington county:

1885, c. 371, p. 314.

Compensa
Each county commissioner for Washington county shall receive
tion of com
missioners of two dollars and fifty cents per day while actually employed in the
Washington
county, fixed. service of the county, including the time spent in traveling, for
which he shall have ten cents a mile for the distance actuall}'
traveled ; but he shall not have more than one travel in same hear
ing or session, nor for more than two adjournments of any regular
term, nor for service or travel on more than one petition or case at
the same time, nor anything for travel or attendance at the legisla
ture connected with the annual county estimates, nor for any addi
tional trouble or expense of any kind.
York county :

1891, c. 16, p. 11.

From and after the first day of January in the year of our Lord
Compensa
tion of county
one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-one. the salary of the
commission
ers of York county commissioners of the county of York shall be the sum of
county, in
creased.
two dollars and fifty cents per day instead of the sum now fixed by
law, while actually employed in the service of the county, includ
ing the time actually spent in traveling, for which each shall have
ten cents a mile for the distance actually traveled.
SeC. 24.
Annual
financial report shall be
'"'
'

As amended:

1885, c. 381, p. 327.

At the end of each year, the commissioners of each county shall
.
.
.
.
,,
make a statement of its financial condition, showing in detail all
moneys received into and paid out of its treasury, and such other
facts and statistics, as may be necessary to exhibit the true state of
its finances ; and publish in pamphlet form, a reasonable number of
copies for distribution among the citizens thereof.

ADDITIONAL TO CHAPTER 78.
(1) Cumberland county commissioners may negotiate temporary
loan: Laws of 1893, c. 265, p. 281, amending laws of 1889,
c. 302, p. 267.
County comThe county commissioners of Cumberland county may raise by
Cumi""riand temporary loan, to be paid within one year from the time when the
authorized to same is contracted, a sum not exceeding fifty thousand dollars in any

COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.

431

year for use of said county and cause notes or obligations of said Chap. 78.
county, with coupons for lawful interest, to be issued for payment procure a
■i
loan,
thereof, as aforesaid.
Sec. 8, see 83 Me., 111.
8ec. 18, see a3 Me., 111.
" 10, " 82 " 227.

CHAPTER 79.
CLERKS OF COURTS, COUNTY ATTORNEYS,
ATTORNEYS AT LAW.
SeC. 24.

As amended: 1887, c. 50, p. 34.

All examinations shall be public, and in the presence of some
justice of the supreme judicial court during term time. The time
for holding the same in each county shall be fixed by the chief
justice. The examination shall be partly oral and partly written,

Examinapublic, before
the supreme
cl°„r"a

and be conducted by an examining committee of the bar, in each
county, to be appointed by the chief justice. No candidate shall
be admitted whose examination or character is not satisfactory to
the presiding justice, nor unless notice of the intended application
is given in some newspaper by the clerk of the court to which
application is made, for thirty days at least before such admission.
Every candidate must present to the examining committee a written
recommendation from the member of the bar with whom he has
studied, and must pay all fees prescribed by law.

ACT ADDITIONAL TO CHAPTER 70.
(1) Compensation of clerks of courts : Laws of 1885, c. 365, p. 306.
Section 1. Clerks of courts shall receive two dollars and fifty
cents in the supreme judicial courts and the superior courts and
two dollars in the county commissioners' courts, for each day's
attendance, provided that the amount of all fees including fees for
attendance, received by each clerk shall not exceed the amount of
his salary as fixed by law. In counties where the clerks have not
a definite salary, they shall not receive fees for attendance upon
any court except when necessary to make the amount of his com
pensation equal to one thousand dollars.

Compensaof°courtefor8
Sp^n'court.
—proviso,

432
Chap. 79.
Not to be
paid for
attendance
upon more
than one
court at the
same time.

CLERKS OF COURTS

Sec. 2. No clerk shall be paid for attendance in person or by
deputy, upon more than one court at the same time.
Sec. 11, see 78 Me., 107.
82

See sec. 5, c. 115 this vol.
Sec. 11, see 83 Me., 368.

3(!8.

CHAPTER 80.
SHERIFFS AND THEIR DEPUTIES.
SeC. 23,

The following enactments, under the titles of the
respective counties, are amendatory of sec. 23.
Aroostook county : 1889, c 304, p. 268.

Salary of
sheriff of
Aroostook
county, fixed.

The sheriff of the county of Aroostook, from and after the first
day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and eighty-nine, shall receive from the treasury of said county an
annual salary of three hundred dollars in quarterly payments, on
the first days of January, April, July and October, instead of the
compensation provided in section twenty-three of chapter eighty of
the revised statutes; and it is hereby further provided, that the
sheriff of said county shall not receive from any of his deputies any
of the fees earned by said deputies, or any percentage thereon after
said date.
Lincoln county : 1891, c. 15, p. 10.

Salary of
sheriff of
Lincoln
county, fixed.

The sheriff of the county of Lincoln, from and after the first day
of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
ninety-one, shall receive an annual salary of two hundred and fifty
dollars in quarterly payments, on the first day of January, April,
July and October, instead of the compensation provided in section
twenty-three of chapter eighty of the revised statutes, and it is
further provided, that the sheriff of said county shall not receive from
any of his deputies, any of the fees earned by said deputies or any
percentage thereon after said date.

Salary of
sheriff of
Sagadahoc
county, fixed.

The sheriff of the county of Sagadahoc, from and after the first
day of January, one thousand eight hundred and ninety-one, shall
receive an annual salary of three hundred dollars in quarterly pay
ments on the first day of January, April, July and October, instead
of the compensation provided in section twenty-three of chapter
eighty of the revised statutes, and it is further provided that the
sheriff of said county shall not receive from any of his deputies, any

Sagadahoc county : 1891, c. 63, p. 50.

SHERIFFS AND THEIR DEPUTIES.

433

of the fees earned by said deputies or any percentage thereon after Chap. 80.
this date.
Washington county : 1891, c. 7, p. 7.
The sheriff of the county of Washington, from and after the first Sa""T°f
day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred Washington
and ninety-one, shall receive from the treasury of said county an
annual salary of five hundred dollars in quarterly payments, on the
first days of January, April, July and October, instead of the com
pensation provided in section twenty-three of chapter eighty of the
revised statutes ; and it is hereby further provided, that the sheriff
of said county shall not receive from any of his deputies any of the
fees earned by said deputies, or any percentage thereon after said
date.
SeC. 37. As amended: 1887, c. 54, p. 37.
Whenever complaint on oath is made to a judge of a supreme
. ,. .
. ., .
n ,
...„,.,
judicial court that any jail is unfit tor occupatlon, or is insufficient
for the secure keeping of any person charged with crime and committed to await trial or under sentence, he shall cause not less than
three days notice of such complaint to be given to the jailor or
sheriff of the county to appear at the time and place fixed in such

Any judge of
the supreme
court may
ferof a
whence
faifunfit or
Insecure-

notice, and if on examination the matter complained of is found
true, he may issue his warrant for the transfer of such prisoner at
the expense of said county, to any jail where he may be more
securely kept. And if by fire or other casualty any jail is destroyed
or rendered unfit for use, any judge of the supreme judicial court
may, upon being notified by the county attorney of the county
where such jail was or is located, issue his order to the sheriff and
his deputies and constables of said county to imprison all prisoners
who might be liable to imprisonment in said county, to be impris
oned in the jail of some adjoining county, said order to be printed
in the newspapers of said county.

ACT ADDITIONAL TO CHAPTER 80.
(1) Prisoners in Piscataquis county may be committed to jail in
Penobscot county : Laws of 1889, c. 253, p. 224.
All officers within and for the county of Piscataquis, having
authority to commit any prisoner or debtor to jail, shall be authorized
and required for the term of ten years from and after March five,
in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and ninety, if the county

28

Prisoners in
couirty3 may
^ latHn'**6(1
Penobscot

434

SHERIFFS AND TIIEII! DEPUTIES.

Chap. 80. of Piscataquis shall so long remain without a jail within its own
limits, to commit prisoners or dehtors to the jail in the county of
Penobsoot, in the same manner and with as ample authorization as
like officers in said county of Penobscot are by law authorized and
required to do ; and the keeper of the jail in said county of Penob
scot, is hereby authorized and required to receive and detain in his
custody all such prisoners and debtors. Provided, however, that
the county of Piscataquis shall be liable to the county of Penobscot
for all expenses and damages which shall accrue from any and all
such commitments ; and provided also, that in case of disagreement
between the boards of county commissioners of said counties, as to
compensation to be received by said county of Penobscot for the
use of its jail as aforesaid, any judge of the supreme judicial court
shall, upon written application of either board, after notice and
hearing fix said compensation, and his determination shall be final
and conclusive in the premises.

CHAPTER 81
CIVIL ACTIONS.
SeC. 62.
Personal
property.
Apparel, fur
niture, beds.

Portraits,
Bibles,
school books,
statutes and
library.
One pew.

Stoves for
cooking and
warming,
wood, coal,
bark and
lumber.

As amended: 1887, c. 64, p. 48.

The following personal property is exempt from attachment and
execution :
I. The debtor's apparel ; household furniture necessary for him
self, wife and children, not exceeding one hundred dollars in value,
and one bed, bedstead, and necessary bedding for every two such
persons.
II. All family portraits, bibles, and school books in actual use
in the family ; one copy of the statutes of the state, and a library
not exceeding one hundred and fifty dollars in value.
III. All his interest in one pew in a meeting-house where he
and his family statedly worship.
IV. One cooking stove ; all iron stoves used exclusively for
warming buildings ; charcoal, and not exceeding twelve cords of
wood conveyed to his house for the use of himself and family ; all
anthracite coal, not exceeding five tons ; all bituminous coal, not
exceeding fifty bushels ; and ten dollars' worth of lumber, wood or
bark.

CIVIL ACTIONS.

435

V. All produce of farms until harvested; one barrel of flour;
corn and grain necessary for himself and family, not exceeding
thirty bushels ; all potatoes raised or bought for himself and family ;
and all flax raised on a half acre of land, and all articles manufac-

Chap. 81.
Produce
fou'r''corn,
toesnhaxta"

tared therefrom for the use of himself and family.
VI. The tools necessary for his trade or occupation, materials
and stock designed and procured by him and necessary for carrying
on his trade or business and intended to be used or wrought therein,
not exceeding fifty dollars in value, and one sewing machine not

75 Me., 396.
75 Me 397
82 Me.! 164j^e mategew'ingd °ne
?12Shine^

exceeding one hundred dollars, for actual use by himself or family.
VII. One pair of working cattle, or instead thereof one pair of
mules or one or two horses not exceeding in value three hundred
dollars, and a sufficient quantity of hay to keep them through the
winter season. If he has more than one pair of working cattle, or
mules, or if the two horses exceed in value three hundred dollars,
he may elect which pair of cattle or mules or which horse shall be
exempt. If he has a pair of mules or one or two horses so exempt,
he may also have exempt for each of said horses or mules, one
harness not exceeding twenty dollars in value ; and one horse sled
not exceeding the same value ; but if he has at the same time an
ox sled, he may elect which sled shall be exempt.
VIII. Domestic fowl, not exceeding fifty dollars in value, two
swine, one cow, and one heifer under three years old, or if he has
no oxen, horse or mule, two cows, and he may elect the cow or cows
and heifer, if he has more than are exempt, ten sheep and the wool
from them, and the lambs raised from them until they are one year
old, and a sufficient quantity of hay to keep said cattle, sheep and
lambs through the winter season.
IX. One 1plough,
cart or truck
express
° . one ...
. wagon
, or one
.
l , . wagon,
b
one harrow, one yoke with bows, ring and staple, two chains, one
ox sled and one mowing machine.
X. One boat not exceeding two tons burden, usually employed
in fishing business, belonging wholly to an inhabitant of the state.
SeC. 67.

Oxen, mules,
ness, horseslf*(l '11If1 llilV

Fowl, swine,
iamb's, wool'
t&Me* 84.

Farming
implements,
1887, c. 64.
Boat,

As amended: 1895, c. 107, p. 122.

An attachment of real or personal estates continues for thirty
days, and no longer, after final judgment in the original suit, and
not in review or error; except attachments of equities of redeeming
real estate mortgaged or taken on execution; or equities of redemp-

Attachment
thirty days
ment except
on executton-

tion sold on execution ; or an obligee's conditional right to a
conveyance of real estate on execution ; or property attached and
replevied ; or property attached belonging to a person dying there
after, or specially provided for in any other case ; but an attachment —attachment
of real estate shall expire at the end of five years from the date of in five years,
filing the same in the office of the register of deeds in the county exceptions
IIS.
or district where the said real estate or some part of it is situated,

430

CIVIL ACTIONS.

Chap. 81. subject to the exceptions named in this section, unless the said regis

When act
shall take
effect.

ter shall, within said period, at the request of the plaintiff or his
attorney bring forward the same upon the book of attachments, in
which case the time shall be extended for a further period of five
years. The register shall be entitled to the same fee for bringing
forward such attachment upon the said book of attachments, as for
the original entry thereof.
Section 2. This act shall take effect January one, eighteen
hundred and ninety-six.
SeC. 82.

What actions
must be
commenced
within six
years.
80 Me., 213.
82 Me., ir>2.

75 Me., 252.
81 Me., 313434-519.
s3 Me., 129.
s."■ Me., 121.
1893, c. 230.

As amended : 1893, c. 230, p. 246.

The following actions shall be commenced within six years after
the cause of action accrues and not afterwards : —
I. Actions of debt founded upon a contract or liability not under
seal, except such as are brought upon a judgment or decree of some
court of record of the United States or of a state, or of some muni
cipal or police court, trial justice, or justice of the peace in this
state.
II. Actions upon judgments of any court not a court of record,
except municipal and police courts, trial justices, and justices of
the peace in this state.
III. Actions for arrears of rent.
IV. Actions of account, of assumpsit or upon the case, founded
on any contract or liability, express or implied.
V. Actions for waste, of trespass on land, and of trespass,
except those for assault and battery and false imprisonment.
VI. Actions of replevin, and other actions for taking, detaining,
or injuring goods or chattels.
VII. All other actions on the case, except for slanderous words
and for libel.
SeC. 103.

As amended: 1885, c. 376, p. 317.
1887, c. 118, p. 87.

If defendant
is out of the
state, when
action may
be com
menced.
75 Me., 404.
83 Me., 87.
80 Me., 503.

If a person is out of the state, when a cause of action accrues
against him, the action may be commenced within the time limited
therefor, after he comes into the state ; and if a person is absent
from and resides out of the state after a cause of action has accrued
against him, the time of his absence from the state shall not be
taken as a part of the time limited for the commencement of the
action ; or if a person is adjudged an insolvent debtor after a cause
of action has accrued against him, and such cause of action is one
provable in insolvency, the time of the pendency of his insolvency
proceedings shall not be taken as a part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action. But no action shall be brought by
any person whose cause of action has been barred by the laws of any
state, territory, or country while all the parties have resided therein.

ClVlL ACTIONS.

437

Chap. 81.

ACTS ADDITIONAL TO CHAPTER 81.
(1) Limitation of actions to recover damages for land taken for
public purposes : Laws of 1887, c. 48, p. 33.
All corporations chartered for the purpose of supplying towns and
cities with pure water, shall have the same right to make application
to the tribunal authorized by their respective charters for assessment
of damages for land, rights or other property taken, as the parties
owning or claiming said property now have, and no action or pro-

When actions
tO rficOvGF
damages for
tor public
shafi'be'eommenced,

eeeding shall be brought or maintained to recover damages caused
by the taking of any land, rights or other property, to be used for a
public purpose, when such taking has been authorized by the legis
lature, unless the same is commenced within three years after the
cause first accrued for which the same, or like proceedings might
have been commenced. Nor shall any compensation be awarded for
damages sustained for more than three years before the institution
of proceedings to recover the same.
(2) Foreign corporations to have resident agents : Laws of 1889,
c. 166, p. 154.
Any foreign corporation doing business continuously in this state,
and having constantly an officer or agent resident herein, on whom
service of any process may be made, shall be entitled to the benefit
of all provisions of law relating to limitation of actions the same as

Foreign
entFtJed to"8
re7aUng toW
actions°"s °f

domestic corporations.
(3) Attachment of personal property vacated by delivery to officer
of approved bond : Laws of 1889, c. 311, p. 274.
When personal property is attached and actual possession thereof
is taken, on any mesne process, the attachment shall he vacated,
upon the defendant or some one in his behalf, delivering to the
officer who made such attachment, a bond to the plaintiff in double
the ad damnum named in the process, with sufficient sureties,
approved by the plaintiff or Ins attorney, or by any judge of the
supreme judicial, superior or probate courts; conditioned that
within thirty days after the rendition of judgment, or after the
adjournment of the court in which it is rendered, he will pay to the
plaintiff or his attorney of record, the amount of said judgment,
including costs ; which said bond shall be returned by the officer
with the process, for the benefit of the plaintiff. Upon the return
of such process and bond, the officer making the attachment shall
be relieved of all liability to the plaintiff by reason of such
attachment.

Attachment
property
vacated on
offlcer'of1!?
uond'proner'y approved,

438

CIVIL ACTIONS.

Chap. 81. (4) Right of action for injuries causing death: Laws of 1891,
c. 124, p. 135.
Actions for
injuries caus
ing death
may be main
tained.

How such
action shall
be brought;
and amount
recovered
disposed of.

Section 1. Whenever the death of a person shall be caused by
wrongful act, neglect or default, and the act, neglect or default, is
such as would, if death had not ensued, have entitled the party
injured to maintain an action and recover damages in respect thereof,
then, and in every such case, the person who, or the corporation
which would have been liable if death had not ensued, shall be
liable to an action for damages, notwithstanding the death of the
person injured, and although the death sball have been caused under
such circumstances as shall amount to a felony.
Sec. 2. Every such action shall be brought by and in the names
of the personal representatives of such deceased person, and the
amount recovered in every such action shall be for the exclusive
benefit of his widow, if no children, and of the children, if no widow,
and if both, then of her and them equally, and if neither, of his
heirs. The jury may give such damages as they shall deem a fair
and just compensation, not exceeding five thousand dollars, with
reference to the pecuniary injuries resulting from such death to the
persons for whose benefit such action is brought, provided, that
such action shall be commenced within two years after the death of
such person.
(5) Recording of attachments, judgments and decrees in certain
cases : Laws of 1893, c. 301, p. 355.

Action is not
effectual
against per
son not party
thereto until
attachment
is made and
recorded.

Nor until
certificate
setting forth
names, date
of bill, de
scription of
the real
estate duly
certified and
recorded in
registry of
deeds.

Judgment
divesting per
son of real
estate not
effectual
against such
person until
certified and

Section 1. No action commenced in the supreme judicial court,
either by original writ or bill in equity inserted in a writ of attach
ment, in which the title to real estate is involved, is effectual against
any person not a party thereto or having actual notice thereof, until
an attachment of such real estate is duly made and recorded in the
office of the registry of deeds in and for the county in which such
real estate is situated, in the same manner as attachments of real
estate in other cases are now recorded.
Sec. 2. No action commenced in the supreme judicial court by
bill in equity not inserted in a writ of attachment, in which the title
to real estate is involved, is effectual against any person not a party
thereto or having actual notice thereof, until a certificate, setting
forth the names of the parties, the date of the bill and of the filing
thereof, and a description of the real estate in litigation as described
in said bill, duly certified by the clerk of said court in and for the
county where said bill is pending, is recorded in the registry of
deeds in and for the county in which such real estate is situated.
Sec. 3. No judgment or decree of the supreme judicial court
divesting any person of title to real estate shall be effectual against
any person not a party to the action in which such judgment or
decree is rendered and persons having actual notice thereof, unless
a copy of such judgment or decree or so much thereof as relates to

ClVll ACTIONS.

the title to such real estate, duly certified by the clerk of said court
in and for the county where said judgment or decree is rendered, is
within thirty days after the rendering of such judgment or decree,
duly recorded in the registry of deeds in and for the county in
which such real estate is situated.
Sec. 4. The register of deeds in each county of the state shall
provide a suitable book wherein he shall record all certificates and
copies of judgments and decrees returned to him in accordance with
sections two and three of this act, and he shall also provide a
suitable index to said book. For each certificate or copy of judg
ment or decree the clerk of courts shall receive the sum of twentyfive cents, and for recording the same the register of deeds shall
receive the sum of twenty-five cents, and these sums may be taxed
in the costs of suits.
Sec.
ii

2, see 81 Me., 288.
a

a

lI

78
81
77
80
81
75
II
ii
76
26, " 77
<i
II
81
7,
9,
14,
17,
21,
24,

"
"
"
"
"
"

II

iI

II

II

I1

84
43, " II
44, " 78
11
II
82
II
II
83
Ii•

II

I«

'I

ii

U

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

164.
56.
459.
408.
467.
446.
434.
418.
298.
593.
276.
226.
80.
419.
348.
380.
226.
348.
226.

II

"
II

"
"
"

" "

84 "
45, " 83 "
Ii
II
84 "
46, " II II

Sec.

439
Chap. 81.
recorded in
deeds.0 °

Register of
provide
for oertifidextosame."
deeds shall

56, see 81 Me. , 22.
59, II 78 iI 518.
II
II
83 II 499.
ii 8-1 II
II
535.
II
85 II 397.
22.
60, I1 81 iI
« U 84 II 284.
a
61, ii II Ii
ii
ii
387.
75
81,
83, II 78 II 336.
II
84, iI " II
86, <' 79 Ii 596.
87, II 77 ii 393.
82.
88, ii 84 II
71.
96, II 76 iI
97, il 77 II 393.
iI
II
Il 84
380.
00, II 78 " 492.
II
II
80 Ii 313.
II
" 82 II 278.
II
" 84 " 380.
1 1

II

CHAPTER 82.
PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS IN COURT.
SeC. 25.

As amended: 1893, c. 181, p. 199.

In any personal action the defendant may in writing entered of Offer to be
defaulted
record with its date, offer to be defaulted for a specified sum. If and its effect.
accepted, interest may be added from that date to date of judgment.

440

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

Chap. 82. If not accepted within such time as the court orders, it shall not be
offered in evidence nor have any effect upon the rights of the parties,
nor the judgment to be rendered, except the costs; but no costs
shall be allowed the defendant, if the offer is accepted within the
time fixed by the court, nor if accepted when no time has been so
fixed. If the offer is not so accepted and the plaintiff fails to
recover a sum as due at the time of the offer, greater than the sum
offered, he recovers such costs only as accrued before the offer, and
the defendant recovers <osts accrued after that time, and his judg
ment for costs may be set off against the plaintiff's judgment for
debt and costs.
SeC. 52.
A bankrupt
or insolvent
may sue in
his own
name unless
objected to
by plea in
abatement.
85 Me., 197.

A person who has been declared a bankrupt, or an insolvent,
may maintain an action respecting his former property in his own
name, unless objection is made by plea in abatement, if before final
judgment, the assent of his assignee is filed in the office of the clerk
of the court in which the action is pending.
SeC. 53.

Attachment
made four
months be
fore bank
ruptcy or
insolvency of
defendant is
valid.

As amended: 1887, c. I11, p. 83.

All other actions for recover of a debt provable in bankruptcy,
or insolvency, when it appears that any defendant therein has filed
his petition in bankruptcy or insolvency, or has been adjudged a
bankrupt or an insolvent, on petition of his creditors before or
after the commencement of the suit, shall be continued until the
bankrupt or insolvent proceedings are closed, unless the plaintiff
strikes such defendant's name from the suit, which he may do with
out costs ; but when such defendant does not use diligence in the
prosecution of his bankrupt or insolvent proceedings, after one
term's notice to him, in writing, from the plaintiff, the court may
refuse further delay.
SeC. 136.

Costs may
be heard by
court, with
right of
exceptions;
else clerk's
decision is
final.
—either
party may
appeal to the
court.

As amended: 1887, c. I11, p. 82.

Actions in which an actual attachment of property was made
four months prior to the filing of a petition in bankruptcy or insol
vency by any defendant therein, shall be disposed of under the
ordinary rules of proceedings in court.
SeC. 54.

Other actions
against bank
rupts shall be
continued
until bank
rupt proceed
ings are
closed unless
their names
are struck
out without
costs.

As amended: 1887, c. I11, p. 82.

As amended : 1885, c. 362, p. 304.

When a nonsuit or default is entered, or verdict rendered, or a
report of referees is accepted in an action, either party on applica
tion to the court, may have the costs recoverable taxed by the clerk,
and passed upon by the court during the term; and any party
aggrieved by the decision, may file exceptions thereto ; but if no
such application is made, the clerk, after adjournment, shall deter
mine the costs, and either party dissatisfied with his taxation may

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

441

appeal to the court, or to a judge in vacation from whose decision Chap. 82.
no appeal shall be taken, and all attachments shall continue in force
for thirty days after such appeal is decided; provided, however, —when costs
shall be taxed
that the costs shall be taxed and the appeal taken within thirty and appeal
days from the rendition of final judgment or within thirty days
from the term following the receipt of a rescript from the law court.
SeC. 145. As amended: 1893, c. 174, p. 194.
At any term of the supreme judicial or superior courts, the pre- Stenograsiding justice may appoint a stenographer to report the proceedings appointment,
thereof, who shall be an officer of the court, and be sworn to a faith- compensation.
ful discharge of his duty. He shall take full notes of all oral testi
mony, and other proceedings in the trial of causes, including the
charge of the justice and all comments and rulings of said justice
in the presence of the jury during the progress of the trial, as well
as all statements and arguments of counsel addressed to the court,
and furnish for the use of the court or any party interested, a fair,
legible, long-hand copy of so much of his notes as may be required.
He shall receive for his services, from the treasury of the county
in which the court is held, the sum allowed by the court, not exceed
ing six dollars a day for attendance, six cents a mile for actual
travel, and ten cents for every one hundred words of the long-hand
copy furnished for the use of the court. He shall also furnish a
copy of so much of the evidence and other proceedings, taken by
him, as either party to the trial requests, on payment therefor by
such party at the rate aforesaid.

ACTS ADDITIONAL TO CHAPTER 82.
(1) Salary of stenographer of superior court, Cumberland county :
Laws of 1889, c. 205, p. 183.
Section 1. The salary of the stenographer of the superior
court for the county of Cumberland, shall be fifteen hundred dollars
a year, payable quarterly on the first days of January, April, July
and October, which shall be in full for all services now legally

Salary of
f,f "upermr61
Derian,ium"
count>'- fixed,

chargeable by him to said county.
Sec. 2. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act, so
far as the superior court for Cumberland county is concerned, are
hereby repealed.
(2) Stenographer to the chief justice, supreme judicial court:
Laws of 1891, c. 1, p. 3.
The chief justice of the supreme judicial court may appoint a stenngrastenographer whose salary shall be fifteen hundred dollars a year, chief justice,

U2

PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.

Chap. 82. payable quarterly from the state treasury on the first days of
appointment January, April, July and October; which shall be in full pay—salary
ment for reporting all the terms of said court held by the chief
justice, and for performing such other official and clerical services
as may be required of him by the chief justice in term time and in
vacation.
Sec.
II
(I
11
LI
11
11
11
11
t<
It
II
II
II
II
II
11
II
II
II
11
11
II
It
II
II
■1
11
II
II
II
11
■I
II
11
II
11
11
11
ti
II
II
II
11
ll
II

7,
9,
10,
(«
II
11,
18,
II
14,
C«
15,
II
17,
19,
20,
22,
23,
u
II
M
24,
82,
14
86,
It
38,
89,
If
(1
II
II
40,
II
48,
46,
II
II
69,
14
II
70,
71,
74,
II
80,
k

see 80 Me.
ti 75 "
i< 75 "
ii 77 "
ii 80 "
it 77 "
ii 75 "
ii 82 "
ii 75 "
ii 80 "
ti 77 "
it 80 "
ii 84 "
ii 76 "
ii 77 "
ii 78 "
ii 75 "
ii 77 "
i< 80 "
it 82 "
ii 76 "
ii 77 "
ii 83 "
1 t 76 "
" 77 "
ii 78 "
i< 80 "
ii 81 "
it 82 "
ii 83 "
ii 83 "
u 80 "
ii 81 "
ii 82 "
ii 77 "
ii 84 "
ii 86 "
ii 75 "
ii 77 "
ii 80 "
it 75 "
ii 78 "
ii 75 "
ii 80 "
ii 75 "
1 1 84 "

342.
47.
594.
342.
409.
576.
84.
222.
364.
1.
342.
31.
431.
417.
109.
292.
551.
459.
408.
222.
356.
109.
32.
90.
139.
435.
136.
251.
131.
298.
449.
310.
563.
215.
527.
291.
181.
277.
398.
362.
277.
457.
105.
413.
205.
304.

Sec. 83, see 78 Me. 306.
ti
i« it 78 It 499.
u
ii ii so 11 207.
u
ii ii so 11 392.
*i
ii ii 82 11 430.
u
ii ii 82 ■« 432.
ii it 82 II 472.
ti
ii ii 82 It 535.
"
ii ii 86 11 252.
ii 86, ii 77 11 380.
ii 88, ii 81 II 158.
ii
(C ii 84 11 304.
ii 98, ti 77 11 68.
ii
II ii 77 11 91.
ii 98, ii 71 II 326.
ii
14 ii 77 It 68.
ii
II ti 77 ' t 122.
ii
II ii 78 II 520.
ii
14 ii 70 II 320.
ii
II ii 79 II 484.
ii
14 ii 80 II 111.
ii
II ii 83 11 172.
ii 100, ii 83 1 1 71.
it 102, ii 83 " 364.
ii 104, ii 78 11 486.
ii 113, ii 77 11 333.
ii 115, ii 84 ■1 111.
ii 116, it 77 11 482.
ii
ii it 84 it 111.
ii ii 84 11 114.
it
ii 117, ii 76
548.
ii
ii ii 78 II 323.
ii
ii i« 81 II 377.
ii ii 86 II 508.
ii
ii 120, ii 78 11 424.
ii
ii ii 82 11 92.
ii
ii ii 82 14 184.
ii 123, ii 86 II 400.
ii 124, ii 76 II 37.
ii
k ii 79 11 536.
ii 128, ii 77 " 566.
ii 129,
T7 t 1 566.
ii 130, ii 81 tl
1.
II ii 86 II 166.
ii
ii 137, ii 76 II 37.
ii
14 ii 78 II 212.

443

TRIAL JUSTICES.

Chap. 83.

CHAPTER 83.

TRIAL JUSTICES; THEIR JURISDICTION, &c.
SeC. 33.

As amended: 1805, c. 106, p. 121.

Trial justices and judges of municipal and police courts are,
_ . . .
, .
, r ,
„.
es-officto, justices oi the peace and or the quorum, and all their omcial acts, attested by them in either capacity, except those pertaining
to the exclusive jurisdiction of trial justices and judges of municipal
and police courts, are of equal effect.
Sec.
"
"
"

3, see
" "
7, "
15, "

78 Me.,
82 "
84 "
78 "

539.
82.
238.
75.

Sec.
"
"
"

19,
20,
24,
34,

see 70
" 78
" 75
" 77

Me.,
"
"
"

545.
75.
108.
588.

CHAPTER 84.

LEVY OF EXECUTIONS ON PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Sec. 3, see 75 Me., 387.
" 22, " 76 " 295.
" 25, " 76 " 295.

Sec. 25, see 70 Me , 327.
" 30, " 77 " 212.
" 31, " 83 " 290.

CHAPTER 85.

BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Sec. 1, see 76 Me., 262.
" 4, " 76 " 262.
" 5, " 76 " 262.

Sec. 7, see 76 Me., 262.
" 8, " 70 " 262.
" 15, " 77 "
1.

Ex-offido,
justices of
the peace and
tlU0r"n'-

444

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

Chap. 86.

CHAPTER 86.
TRUSTEE PROCESS.
SeC. 4.
Effect of
service on
trustee.
81 Me., 4fi7.

When a
partnership
is made a
trustee in
trustee suit,
service on
one member
sufficient,
—proviso.

A like service on the trustee binds all goods, effects, or credits of
the principal defendant intrusted to and deposited in his possession,
to respond to the final judgment in the action, as when attached by
ordinary process.
When a partnership is made a trustee in a trustee suit, service
upon one member of the firm shall be a sufficient attachment of the
property of the principal defendant in the possession of the firm,
provided legal service shall be afterward made upon the other mem
bers of the firm.
SeC. 6.

Insertion of
names
additional
of trustees.

—when suit
is discontin
ued, trustee
shall not be
entitled to
cost.
—proviso.

75 Me., 397.

Effect of
judgment
against
trustee.

As amended: 1893, c. 157, p. 180.

Asamended: 1893, c. 157, p. 180.

The plaintiff may insert the names of as many persons as trustees
as he deems necessary, at any time before the process is served on
the principal, but not after; and he may have further service made
on any trustee, if found expedient, if the service is afterwards
made or renewed on the principal ; but no costs for services shall
be taxed for the plaintiff in such case, except for the last made.
When a trustee suit is discontinued or settled by the principal
parties thereto before the return day of the writ, the trustee shall
be entitled to no costs, provided the plaintiff or his attorney shall
notify the trustee in writing before the return day of the writ, that
the action has been discontinued.
beC. 0(J.

As to street railway equipment see sec. 3, (12)
acts additional to c. 51, this vol.

SeC. 76.

Asamended: 1893, c. 160, p. 181.

The judgment against any person as trustee discharges him from
all demands by the principal defendant or his executors or adminis
trators, for all goods, effects and credits, paid, delivered or accounted
for by the trustee thereon ; and if he is afterwards sued for the same
by the defendant or his executors or administrators, such judgments
and disposal of the goods, effects and credits as above stated, being
proved, shall be a bar to the action for the amount so paid or
delivered by him. Such payment, delivery or accounting for may
be made either to the officer holding the execution or to the plain
tiff or his attorney of record, and may be proved by the officer's

445

TRUSTEE PROCESS.

return upon the execution, by indorsement made thereon by the Chap. 86.
plaintiff or his attorney of record, or by any other competent
evidence.
Sec
iI

..
i.

"
i I
II
II

"
"
"

2, sec 81 Me.
7, u 81 "
8, ii 81 "
13, ii 81 ..
14, " 70 "
II
ii 78
II
II
ii
78 <..
Ii
II
75 II
ii
M
75 II
29, ii 75 II
30, ii 79 ii

467.
467.
467-473.
467.
468.
41.
33.
100.
385.
385.
561.

Sec
"
II

"
ii
ii

"
ii
II

•<

30, sec 86 Me.
32, n 80 II
iI
" 85 ii
36,
78 "
u
75 U
50,
55, " 75 II
II
II
80 II
II
II SO u
64, II 78 II
79, u 75 "
<.i

137.
125.
437
158
397
385.
100
125
33.
52

CHAPTER 87.
ACTIONS BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
SeC. 12.

As amended: 1895, c. 133, p. 146.

Actions against executors or administrators, on claims against the
estate, except as provided in sections thirteen and fifteen shall, if
brought after the time limited in the preceding section, be continued
at the cost of the plaintiff until the next term of court, and for such

Action
ecutor or adj"™? mainJes" demand

further time and on such other terms as the court may order, unless,
at least thirty days before commencement of suit, and within two
J
J
years after notice given by him of his appointment, such claim
was presented in writing and payment demanded, or was filed in the
probate office, supported by affidavit of the claimant, or of some
other person cognizant thereof, as provided in section sixty-two of
chapter sixty-four and such notice given as the court orders thereon ;
a tender of payment or offer thereof filed in the case during the
time of such continuance, shall bar the same, and the defendant
shall recover his costs ; and no action shall be maintained on such
claim, unless commenced during said two years, except as provided
in the following sections. Executors or administrators residing out
of the state at the time of giving notice of their appointment, shall
appoint an agent or attorney in the state, and insert therein his
name and address. Executors or administrators removing from the
state, after giving notice of their appointment, shall appoint an
agent or attorney in the state, and give public notice thereof ;
demand or service made on such agents
or attorneys
has the same
°
J
effect as if made on such executor or administrator. When an

thi'rtv^lays
prior thereto
and suit
br.°nBn'
years.

Executors
tratorsresidthe state, are
appoint an
torney't^the
s^te °J} .
mand or service may be
made.

446

ACTIONS BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

CiIAp. 87. executor or administrator, residing out of the state, has no agent or
attorney in the state, demand or service may be made on one of
76 Me , 17.
H4 Me., 143.
his sureties, with the same effect as if made on him.
85 Me., 440.
This act shall not apply to any pending action nor to any cause
of action against estates in which administration has already been
granted.
SeC. 13.
When action
may he
brought by
creditor
when assets
come into
hands of ad
ministrator
after two
years.
71! Me., 17-43.
77 Me., 197.
85 Me., 440.

As amended: 1893, c. 218, p. 238.

When assets come into the hands of an executor or administrator
after said term of two years, presentment and demand may be made
by a creditor, and after thirty days an action may be commenced
within two years from the receipt of such assets and within six
months after the creditor has notice thereof. Judgment rendered
in any action authorized by this section, shall not disturb payments
made in good faith by the executor or administrator prior to present
ment of the claim sued in such action.
As to right of action for injuries causing death: See (4) acts
additional to c. 81, this vol.
Sec. 4, see 78 Me., 141.
Sec. 16, see 76 Me., 17.
5,
6,
11,
"
14,
15,

"
"
"
"
"
"

78
78
76
76
76
76

"
"
"
"
"
"

141.
141.
17.
196.
17.
17.

" " " 76 "
" " " 77 "
" 17, " 76 "
" 18, •' 76 "
" " " 84 "

43.
197.
17.
17.
143.

CHAPTER 88.
PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE.
Sec. 1, see 76 Me., 347.
"
7, " 82 " 326.
" 10, '■ 76 " 548.
"

19,

" 82

"

Sec. 20, see 82 Me., 326.
" 23, " 82 " 326.
" 24, " 82 " 326.

326.

CHAPTER 89.
PETITIONS AND ACTIONS OF REVIEW.
Sec. 1,
I«

II

" " cl. III,

91.
214.
" 202.

see 78 Me.
II

U

" 81

II

Sec. 1, cl. IV, see 80 Me., 143.

mortgages of real estate.

447
Chap. 90.

CHAPTER 90.
MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.
SeC. 3.

As amended: 1891, c. 91, p. 76.

After breach of the condition, if the mortgagee, or any one claim- Modes of obing under him, desires to obtain possession of the premises for the session For"
purpose of foreclosure, he may proceed in either of the following foreclosureways, viz. :
I. He may obtain possession under a writ of possession issued
on a conditional judgment, as provided in section nine, duly executed by an officer. An abstract of such writ, stating the time of
obtaining possession, certified by the clerk, shall be recorded in the
registry of deeds of the district in which the estate is, within thirty
days after possession has been obtained.
II. He may enter into possession, and hold the same by consent
in writing of the mortgagor, or the person holding under him.
III. He may enter peaceably and openly, if not opposed, in the
presence of two witnesses, and take possession of the premises ; and
a certificate of the fact and time of such entry shall be made, signed
and sworn to by such witnesses before a justice of the peace ; and
such certificate, or consent, with the affidavit of the mortgagee or
his assignee to the fact and time of entry indorsed thereon, shall be
recorded in each registry of deeds in which the mortgage is or by
law ought to be recorded, within thirty days after the entry is made.
In addition to the modes now provided by law, mortgages of real
and personal property may be foreclosed by suit in equity.
SeC. 5.

By writ of
^"jfe81^"

By entry
with consent

By peaceable
H2 Me. ^

imi, c. 91.

As amended : 1893, c. 168, p. 190.

If after breach of the condition, the mortgagee, or any person 77 Me., 550.
claiming under him, is not desirous of taking and holding possession
e"
of the premises, he may proceed for the purpose of foreclosure in
either of the following modes :
I. He may give public notice in a newspaper published and Mode of
printed in whole or in part in the county where the premises are without
situated, if any, or if not, in the state paper, three weeks succes- P.?.!s6s81,™sively, of his claim by mortgage on such real estate, describing the —by publishing notice.
premises intelligibly, and miming the date of the mortgage, and
that the condition in it is broken, by reason whereof he claims a
foreclosure ; and cause a copy of such printed notice, and the name
and date of the newspaper in which it was last published to be
recorded in each registry in which the mortgage deed is, or by law
ought to be recorded, within thirty days after such last publication.

448
Chap. 90.
By serving
notice.
77 Me., 4M.

MORTGAGES OF HEAL ESTATE.

II. lie may cause an attested copy of such notice to be served
on the mortgagor or his assignee, if he lives in the state, by the
sheriff of the same county or his deputy, by delivering it to him in
hand or leaving it at his place of last and usual abode ; and cause
the original notice and the sheriffs return thereon to be recorded
within thirty days after such service as aforesaid; and in all cases
the certificate of the register of deeds is prima facie evidence of the
fact of such entry, notice, publication of foreclosure, and of the
sheriff's return.
SeC. 22.

Deduction of
rents and
profits from
the sum
brought into
court for
redemption.

—mortgagee
when re
quested by
assignee
shall render
statement of
amount due
on mortgage.

When money is brought into court in a suit for redemption of
mortgaged premises, the court may deduct therefrom such sum as
the defendant is chargeable with on account of rents and profits by
him received, or costs awarded against him; and the person to
whom money is tendered to redeem such lands, if he receives a
larger sum than he is entitled to retain, shall refund the excess.
Any mortgagee or person holding under him when requested by an
assignee in insolvency to render a statement of the amount due on
a mortgage given by the insolvent, where there is an equity of
redemption, shall render a true statement to the assignee of the
amount due on such mortgage, and for any loss resulting to the
insolvent estate from any misrepresentation of the amount due, the
assignee shall have a right of action on the case against such per
son to recover such loss.
SeC. 23.

How mort
gages may be
discharged.
75 Me., 389.

As amended: 1893, e. 228, p. 245.

As amended: 1895, c. 69, p. 60.

A mortgage may be discharged by an entry acknowledging the
satisfaction thereof, made on the margin of the record of the mort
gage in the registry of deeds and signed by the mortgagee, or by
his executor, administrator or assignee, and such entry shall have
the same effect as a deed of release duly acknowledged and recorded.
If a mortgagee, or his executor, administrator, or assignee, after
full performance of the condition of his mortgage whether before
or after breach of such condition, refuses or neglects for seven
days after being thereto requested, and after a tender of his reason
able charges to make such discharge or to execute and acknowledge
a deed of release of the mortgage, he shall be liable for all damages
occasioned by such neglect or refusal, to be recovered in an action
of the case.

mortgages of real estate.

449
Chap. 90.

ACTS ADDITIONAL TO CHAPTER 90.

(1) Attachment of mortgagor's interest in property mortgaged to
secure collateral agreements : Laws of 1887, c. 129, p. 101.
In all eases where a debtor has mortgaged real and personal
estate to secure the performance of a collateral agreement or undertaking, other than the payment of money, and proceedings have
been commenced to foreclose said mortgage for alleged breach of
the conditions thereof, but the time of redemption has not expired,
any person having any claim against the mortgagor, and having

Claimant of
interest may
equity to
determined
f^anyfas-86s'
^sretd by the

attached said mortgagor's interest in said estate on said claim, may 81 Me., 458.
file a bill in equity in the supreme judicial court in the county
where such agreement has to be performed, where the owner of such
mortgage resides, or where the property mortgaged is situated,
alleging such facts and praying for relief; and said court may
examine into the facts and ascertain whether there has been a
breach of the conditions of said mortgage, and if such is found to
be the fact, may assess the damages arising therefrom, and may
make such orders and decrees in the premises as will secure the
rights of said mortgagee or his assignee, so far as the same can be
reasonably accomplished, and enable the creditor, by fulfilling such
requirements as the court may impose, to hold said property, or
such right or interest as may remain therein by virtue of such
attachment, for the satisfaction of his claim. Such claim may
include possession of the property by the mortgagee, for such time
as the court deems just and equitable. Pending such proceedings,
the right of redemption shall not expire by any attempted fore
closure of such mortgage.
(2) Relating to undischarged mortgages of real estate: Laws of
1895, c. 80, p. 78.
Section 1. When the record title of real estate is encumbered
by an undischarged mortgage, and the mortgagor and those having
his estate in the premises have been in uninterrupted possession of
such real estate for twenty years after the expiration of the time
limited in the mortgage for the full performance of the conditions
thereof ; he or they,
person having
J or any
J r
° a freehold estate, vested
or contingent in possession, reversion or remainder, in the land
originally subject to the mortgage or in any undivided or any ali
quot part thereof, or any interest therein which may eventually
become a freehold estate, or any person who has conveyed such land
or any such interest therein with covenants of title or warranty,
may apply to the supreme judicial court by petition, setting forth
29

whenamortundischarged
gagoHn1^
—Restate °f
for twenty
be discharged
by
decree of
court.

450

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

Chap. 90. the facts, and asking for a decree as hereinafter provided ; and if

Two or more
f>ersons ownng in
severalty
may poin in
petition.

Mortgage
given to se
cure against
some contin
gent liability,
may, after
twenty years,
and when
liability has
ceased, be
discharged
by order of
court.

When mort
gagees are
unknown,
they may be
described
generally as
claiming
under some
persons
named in the
petition.
—how service
shall be
made.

after notice to all persons interested as provided in section four, no
evidence is offered of any payment within said twenty years or of
any other act within said time, in recognition of its existence as a
valid mortgage, the court upon hearing may enter a decree setting
forth such facts and its findings in relation thereto, which decree
shall within thirty days be recorded in the proper registry of deeds
and thereafter no action at law or proceeding in equity shall be
brought by any person to enforce a title under said mortgage.
Skc. 2. Any two or more persons owning in severalty different
portions or different interests of the character above described, in
the whole or in different portions thereof, may join in one petition.
Two or more defects arising under different mortgages affe(ting
one parcel of land may be set forth in the same petition ; and in
case of a contest the court shall make such order for separate issues
as may be proper.
Skc. 3. When the mortgagor of such an undischarged mortgage
and those having his estate in the premises have been in uninter
rupted possession of such real estate for twenty years from the date
thereof, and it shall appear that such mortgage was not given to
secure the payment of a sum of money or a debt, but to secure the
mortgagee against some contingent liability assumed or undertaken
by him, and that such conditional liability has ceased to exist and
that the interests of no person will be prejudiced by the discharge
of such mortgage, the mortgagor or those having his estate in the
premises, or any of the persons to whom a similar remedy is granted
in section one of this act may apply to the supreme judicial court
by petition setting forth the facts and asking for a decree as here
inafter provided ; and if after notice to all persons interested as
provided in section four, and upon hearing it shall appear that the
liability on account of which such mortgage was given has ceased
to exist and that such mortgage ought to be discharged, the court
may enter a decree setting forth the facte proved and its findings in
relation thereto, which decree shall within thirty days be recorded
in the proper registry of deeds and thereafter no action or pro
ceeding in equity shall be brought to enforce a title under said
mortgage.
Sec. 4. When it is alleged under oath in the petition that the
mortgagees or persons claiming under them are unknown or that
their names are unknown, they may be described generally as
claiming by, through or under some person or persons named in
the petition. Personal service by copy of the petition and order of
notice shall be made upon all such respondents residing in the state
fourteen days before the return day; and upon all such respond
ents residing out of the state, service may be made by personal
service of copy of the petition and order of notice ; by publication

451

MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.

for such length of time, in such newspapers or by posting in such
public places as the court may direct ; or in any or all of these ways
at the disoretion of the court.
Sec. 5. Upon the service of such notice in accordance with the
i
pi
.....
.
order of the court, the court shall have jurisdiction of all persons
made respondents in the manner above provided, and shall upon
due hearing make such decree upon the petition and as to costs as
it shall deem proper.
Sec. 6. The decree of the court, determining the validity, nature
or extent of any such incumbrance shall be effectual to bar all the
respondents from any claim thereunder contrary to such determina
tion, and such decree so barring said respondents shall have the
same force and effect as a release of such claims, executed by the
respondents in due form of law. The court may, in its discretion,
appoint agents or guardians, ad litem, to represent minors or other
respondents.
Sec.

1. B6€ 75 : Me. ,264.
a ii
77 ii 550.
II
II
Ii 82
552.
2, ii 80 II 459.
Ic
82 u 422.
II
ii
II
II
456.
- f 308.
II
II 84
6, II 76 II 279.
II
ii
77 II 554.
8, II 7!> II 568.
Ii

Chap. 90.

Court has
jurisdiction
over all

Decree shall
to bar claims,

Sec. 8, see 80 Me., 459.
II

II

9,

II

Ii

II

II

II

81

II

T9

ii

80 II
81 II
"
78
11,
II
"
12,
'■
80 II
cI II 84 i I
26, " 67 II
4I

284.
568.
459.
284.
341.

II

ii

ii

137.
308.
471.

CHAPTER 91.
LIENS AND THEIR ENFORCEMENT.
SeC. 1. Asamended: 1895, c. 39, p. 37.
No mortgage of personal property is valid against any other person
than the parties thereto, unless possession of such property is
delivered to, and retained by the mortgagee, or the mortgage is
recorded by the clerk of the city, town or plantation organized for
any purpose, in which the mortgagor resides, when the mortgage is
given. When all the mortgagors reside without the state, the
mortgage shall be recorded in said city, town or plantation, where
the property is when the mortgage is made ; but if a part of the
mortgagors reside in the state, then in the cities, towns or plantation
in which such mortgagors reside, when the mortgage is given. A
mortgage made by a corporation, shall be recorded in the town

Mortgages of
property not
Kl^een'tne
parties unless
t°wn clerk,
is taken,

—when to be
recorJe(1'

452

MENS.

Chap. 91. where it has its established place of business. If any mortgagor
83 Me.. 524.
resides in an unorganized place, the mortgage shall be recorded in
the oldest adjoining town or plantation, organized as aforesaid, in
the county.

Redemption
property held
for debt.
sl M6'' *w
S2 Me., «9.

bee. 3.

Mortgages of personal property may be foreclosed
by bill in equity : See sec. 3, c. 80, this vol.

SeC. 7.

As amended: 1889, c. 273, p. 242.

All personal property held as security for debt by the agreements
and notes mentioned in section five, of chapter one hundred and
eleven, is subject to redemption as provided in the four preceding
sections, for personal property mortgaged, and to trustee process,
as provided in section fifty of chapter eighty-six.
As to street railway equipment see sec. 3, (12) acts additional to
c. 51, this vol.
SeC. 8.

As amended: 1887, c. 70, p. 53.

Lien on
nfateria"!
—in case of
contracts,
force for four
compfetufn.
-lien on
materials
before they
are used, how
enforced.
by°dryedocks
raUwavsln°

Whoever furnishes labor or materials for building a vessel has a
lien on it therefor, which may be enforced by attachment thereof,
within four days after it is launched ; but if the labor and materials
have been so furnished by virtue of a contract not fully completed
at the time of the launching of the vessel, the lien may be enforced
within four days after such contract has been completed. He also
has a lien on the materials furnished, before they become part of
,
, ■ ,
r,i
i
the vessel, which may be enforced by attachment ; and the owners
.
,
, ,
.
.,
, ,
, ,
,.
oi any dry dock or marine railway, used for any vessel, have a lien
on 8a^ vessel for the use of said dock or railway, to be enforced by
attachment within four days after the last day in which the same is

80 Me., 512.

used or occupied by said vessel.
See (4) acts additional to this chapter.
SeC. 29.

As amended : 1885, c. 280, p. 230.
1887, o. 21, p. 15.
1895, c. 60, p. 53.
Lien on hemWhoever labors at cutting and peeling or yarding hemlock bark,
lock bark or
...
j.
>
j
> •
*
j
cord wood.
or cutting or yarding cord wood, or at cooking tor persons engaged
in such labor, has a lien thereon for the amount due for his personal
services and the services performed by his team, which takes prece
dence of all other claims, continues for thirty days after the contract
is completed, and may be enforced by attachment ; provided, how
ever, that such lien shall not continue after the bark or wood has
arrived at a market.
SeC. 30.

Lien on
buildings and

As amended: 1891, c. 21,
p. 14.
1895, c. 30, sec. 1, p. 27.
Whoever performs labor or furnishes labor or materials in erect

LIENS.
ing, altering, moving or repairing a house, building or appurtenances,
by virtue of a contract with or by consent of the owner, has a lien
thereon, and on the land on which it stands and on any interest
such owner has in the same, to secure payment thereof, with costs,
to be enforced by bill in equity. If the owner of the building has
no legal interest in the land on which the building is erected or to
which it is moved, the lien attaches to the building, and may be
enforced as above provided, and if the owner of such land or building
so contracting, is a minor or married woman, such lien shall exist,
and such minority or coverture shall not bar a recovery in any bill
in equity brought to enforce it.
SeC. 32.

Lien dissworn claim
town clerk's
forty days."1
?|LMe'' 154"
8r■ Me., 336.

As amended: 1889, c. 183, p. 172.

Whoever labors at cutting, hauling, rafting or driving logs or
lumber, ot at cooking for persons engaged in such labor, or in
shoeing horses or oxen or repairing property while thus employed,
has a lien on the logs or luml>ef for the amount due for his personal
services, and the services performed by his team, which takes pre
cedence of all other claims, except liens reserved to the state ;
continues for sixty days after the logs or lumber arrive at the place
of destination for sale or manufacture, and may be enforced by
attachment. In such actions the court has the same power to allow
1
and apportion
costs as in equity.
rr
l
J
SeC. 41 .

Chap. 91.
lots for labor
rials, how to
83Me°is*-'
j^'jj .^^
3W-

As amended: 1895, c. 34, p. 33.

The lien mentioned in the preceding section shall be dissolved
unless the claimant within forty days after he ceases to labor or
furnish materials as aforesaid, files in the oflice of the clerk of the
town in which such building is situated, a true statement of the
amount due him, with all just credits given, together with a description of the property intended to be covered by the lien, sufficiently
accurate to identify it, and the names of the owners, if known,
which shall be suleeribed and sworn to by the person claiming the
lien, or by some one in his behalf, and recorded in a book kept for
that purpose by said clerk, who is entitled to the same fees therefor
as for recording mortgages.
SeC. 38.

453

Lien on logs,

—continues
days. .
r"°°s{s al:
lowed as in
equity
cases.
77 Me., 135.

As amended: 1887, c. 1, p. 3.

Whoever pastures, feeds or shelters animals by virtue of a contract
with or by consent of the owner, has a lien thereon for the amount
due for such pasturing, feeding or sheltering, to secure payment
thereof with costs, to be enforced in the same manner as liens on
goods in possession and choses in action.

Lien on
pasturage,
shelter,
76 Me-■ 443,

454
Chap. 91.

Penalty for
defrauding
inn- keepers
and board
ing-house
keepers.

Printed copy
of act shall
be posted in
rooms of
inns.

LIENS.

SeC. 46.

Whoever puts up at an inn, hotel or boarding house, and without
having an express agreement for credit, procures food, entertainment
or accommodation without paying therefor, and with intent to
defraud the owner or keeper of the inn, hotel or boarding house out of
the pay for the same ; or with intent to cheat or defraud such owner
or keeper out of the pay therefor, obtains credit at an inn, hotel or
boarding house for such food, entertainment or accommodation by
means of any false show of baggage or effects brought thereto ; or
with such intent, removes or causes to be removed any baggage or
effects from an inn, hotel or boarding house, while there is a lien
existing thereon for the proper charges due from him for fare and
board furnished therein, shall be punished by imprisonment not
exceeding six months, or by fine not exceeding one hundred dollars.
Innholders and keepers of hotels and boarding houses shall post
up a printed copy of sections one and two of this act, in a conspic
uous place in each room of their inns, hotels and boarding houses.
SeC. 47.

Lien on or
pledge of
choses in
action, may
be enforced
by sale.
76 Me., 440.

Additional thereto: Laws of 1889, c. 200, p. 181,
as amended by laws of 1891, c. 22, p. 14, and
laws of 1895, c. 119, p. 130.

As amended: 1889, c. 168, p. 155.

Whoever has a lien on or pledge of any stock or certificate thereof,
bond, note, account or other chose in action, or on any personal
property in his possession, may enforce it by sale thereof, as herein
after provided.

ACTS ADDITIONAL TO CHAPTER 91.

Lien on colts.
—how
enforced.

(1) Lien on colts : Laws of 1887, c. 52, p. 35.
1895, c. 25, p. 23.
Section 1. A lien is hereby created on all colts hereafter foaled
in this state, to secure the payment of the service fee, for the use
of the stallion begetting the same. Such lien is to continue in force
until the foal is six months old, and may be enforced during that
time by attachment of such foal.
Sec. 2. Section forty-two of chapter ninety-one of the revised
statutes, is hereby made applicable to suits brought to enforce the
above lien.
(2) Lien on last-blocks : Laws of 1887, c. 60, p. 41.

Lien on

Whoever labors in the manufacturing of last-blocks, or cuts or
furnishes wood for the manufacture of the same, or is engaged in
cooking for persons engaged in such labor, or furnishes a team for the

LIENS.

455

hauling of said last-blocks or the lumber from which they are manu- Chap. 91.
factum! has a lien on said last-blocks for the amount due him for
his personal labor thereon, or that of his team, and for the amount
due for wood so cut or furnished, which takes precedence of all
other claims, except liens reserved to the state ; said lien shall con- —how
tinue for thirty days after the said last-blocks are stored or housed
for drying purposes, and shall be enforced by attachment.
Sec. 2. Section forty-two of chapter ninety-one of the revised
statutes, is hereby made applicable to suits brought to enforce the
foregoing liens.
(3) Lien on railroad ties, and ship knees : Laws of 1889, c. 267,
p. 237.
Suction 1. Whoever labors in the manufacturing of railroad
,..,
.
,.
...
,
ties and shlp knees, or is engaged in cooking for persons engaged
in such labor, or furnishes a team for the hauling of said railroad
ties and ship knees, has a lien on said railroad ties and ship knees
for the amount due him for his personal labor thereon, or that of
his team, which takes precedence of all other claims, except liens
reserved to the state. Said lien shall continue for thirty days after
said railroad ties are on the line of a railroad, or after said ship
knees are delivered in a ship yard.
Sec. 2. Section forty-two of chapter ninety-one of the revised
statutes is hereby made applicable to suit brought to enforce the
foregoing lien.

Lien on railship knees
favor of nersame. *"

road ties and

—shall continue thirty
days.

(4) Lien on domestic vessels : Laws of 1889, c. 287, p. 255.
All domestic vessels shall be subject to a lien to any part owner Lien on
,
,
, . . ,
, ,
, domestic vesor other person to secure the payment ot debts contracted and sels created.
advances made for labor and materials necessary for their repair,
provisions, stores and other supplies necessary for their employment,
and for the use of a wharf, dry dock, or marine railway, provided,
that such lien shall in no event continue for a longer period than two
years from the time when the debt was contracted or advances made.
Lien on land and buildings for amount of sewer assessment : See
sec. 4, (1) acts additional to c. 16 this vol.
(5) Enforcement of liens on buildings by bill in equity : Laws of
1895, c. 30, p. 27.
Sec. 1 of this act amends sec. 30 of this chapter.
Sec. 2. The liens mentioned in sections thirty, thirty-one, thirty- Lien may be
two and thirty-three of chapter ninety-one of the revised statutes, bill in equity.
may be preserved and enforced by bill in equity against the debtor
and owner of the property affected, and all other parties interested
therein, filed with the clerk of court, in the county where the house,
building or appurtenances, on which a lien is claimed, is situated,
within ninety days after the last of the labor is performed or labor

456

LIENS.

Chap. 91. or materials are so furnished, and not otherwise, except as herein
after provided.
What the bill
Sec. 3. The bill shall state that the plaintiff claims a lien on
c }i nl 1 v t *i 1 I *
the house, building or appurtenances described therein, and the
land on which it stands, for labor performed, or for labor or mate
rials furnished, in erecting, altering, moving or repairing said house,
building or appurtenances, as the case may be; whether it was by
virtue of a contract with, or by consent of the owner, and if not,
that the claimant has complied with the provisions of section thirtytwo of said chapter. And the bill shall pray that the property be
sold and the proceeds applied to the discharge of such lien. Two
or more lienors may join in filing and prosecuting such a bill,
—other
Other lienors may be made parties; other lienors may become parjoin°and be ties, and preserve and enforce their liens on said property, provided
made par es. their petitions therefor, setting forth their claims in substance, as
required in a bill as aforesaid, be filed with the clerk within ninety
days after the last labor is performed, or the last labor or materials
are furnished by them, as aforesaid. The court may consolidate
two or more bills claiming liens on the same property, into one pro—any mort- ceeding, if justice shall so require. Any mortgagee or other person
made party.6 having a claim upon, or interested legally or equitably in said
property, may be made a party. The court shall have power to
determine all questions of priority of lien or interest, if any, between
parties to the proceeding.
Court may
Sec. 4. The court shall determine the amount for which each
amountTy
lienor has a lien upon the property, by jury trial, if either party so
otnerw\se°r requests in bill, petition or answer; otherwise in such manner as the
court shall direct. And such determination shall be conclusive as
to the fact and amount of the lien subject to appeal and exceptions
according to the practice in equity. Any lienor may contest another
lienor's claim upon issues framed under direction of the court.
Court may
^ec. ^" ^ *' *3 determined that the parties or any of them,
property1*'
claiming a lien, have a lien upon said building and land, the court
shall be sold. mav decree that said property, or such interest in it as is subject to
the liens, or any of them, shall be sold, and shall prescribe the place,
time, terms, manner and conditions of such sale. And any justice,
in term time or vacation, may order an adjournment of such sale
—how land from time to time. And a deed of the officer of the court, appointed
deeded6
to ma^e such sale, recorded in the registry of deeds where the land
lies, within three months after the sale, shall convey all the title of
. „ the debtor and the owner in the property
—owner shall
L
. ordered to be sold. And
have right to if justice requires, the court may provide in the order of sale, that
the owner shall have a right to redeem the property from such sale
within a time fixed in the order of sale. If the court shall deter
mine that the whole of the land, on which the lien exists is not
necessary therefor, it shall describe in the order of sale a suitable

LIENS.
lot therefor, and only so much shall be sold. The lienors shall
share, pro rata; provided, their bills or petitions therefor are filed
with the clerk of court prior to the order of sale, and within the
ninety days mentioned in sections two and three. The court may
make such decree in regard to costs as is equitable.
Sec. 6. If the proceeds of the sale after payment of costs and
expenses of sale, are insufficient to pay the lien claims and costs in
full, the court may render judgment against the debtor in favor of
each individual lienor, for the balance of his claim and costs remaining unpaid, and may issue executions therefor. If the proceeds of
sale after the payment of costs and expenses of sale, are more than
sufficient to pay the lien claims and all costs in full, the balance
remaining shall be paid to the person or persons legally or equit
ably entitled thereto.
Sec. 7. Any owner of a building or real estate, upon which
a lien is claimed as aforesaid, may petition in writing a justice of
the supreme judicial court in term time or vacation, setting forth
the name of the lienor, the court and county in which if is return
able or pending, the fact that a lien is claimed thereon under sections
thirty, thirty-one, thirty-two and thirty-three of said chapter, the
particular building or real estate, and his interests therein, its value
and his desire to have it released from said lien. Such justice shall
issue a written notice, which shall be served on the lienor, or his
attorney, ten days at least, prior to the time fixed therein for a
hearing. At the hearing, such justice may order such owner to
give bonds to the lienor, in such amount and with such sureties as
he may approve, conditioned to pay the amount, for which such
lienor may be entitled to a lien, as determined by the court, with
his costs on the petition, within thirty days after final decree or
judgment. The clerk shall give the petitioner an attested copy of
the petition and proceedings, with a certificate under seal of the
court attached thereto, that such bond has been duly filed in his
office ; and the record of such copy and certificate in the registry of
deeds, in the county where such real estate or interest therein lies,
vacates the lien.
Sec. 8. When any bill or petition provided for in this act in
which a lien is claimed on real estate is filed with the clerk, he shall
forthwith file a certificate setting forth the names of the parties, the
date of the bill or petition, and of the filing thereof, and a description of the said real estate as described in said bill or petition in the
registry of deeds for the county in which the land is situated. The
register shall record the same in a suitable book and shall receive
therefor the sum of twenty-five cents. For each such certificate the
clerk shall be entitled to receive the sum of twenty-five cents.
Sec. 9. All acta and parts of acts inconsistent herewith are
hereby repealed, but the passage of this act shall not affect suits
pending when it takes effect.

457
Chap. 91.
—lienors
pro rata""

if proceeds
eicnt to pay
may'rende'r
^'{fnae"* f°r

Owner may
release.

— proceed°D hearing,

Clerk shall
ister of deeds
settingforth
JJf 'u'j'jf 'an*i e
reaTe^tate1°f

458

LIENS.

Chap. 91. (6) Lien for towing logs : Laws of 1895, c. 35, p. 34.
Lien created
on logs for
towing.

Section 1. Owners of steamboats employed in towing logs or
lumber on any of the inland waters of this state, shall have a hen
on such logs or lumber for the amount due for such towing. Said
lien shall take precedence of all other claims except liens reserved
to the state, labor liens and liens for stumpage.
Sec. 2. Section forty-two of chapter ninety-one of the revised
statutes, is hereby made applicable to suits brought to enforce the
above lien.
(7) Relating to safe deposit companies : Laws of 1895, c. 48, p. 44.

When rent
has not been
paid for three
years, com
pany may
open box.

—proceed
ings.

—lien on
package for
payment.

Whenever the amount due for the use of any safe, or box, in the
vaults of any safe deposit company, shall not have been paid for
three years, such corporation may, at the expiration of such period,
cause to be sent to the person in whose name such safe or box
stands on its books, a notice in writing in a securely closed, post>
paid, registered letter, directed to such person at his post office
address as recorded upon the books of the corporation, notifying
such person that if the amount then due for the use of such safe or
box is not paid within sixty days from the date of such notice, the
corporation will then cause such safe or box to be opened in the
manner hereinafter provided ; at the expiration of sixty days after
the mailing of said notice, the corporation may then cause such safe
or box to be opened in the presence of its president, secretary or
treasurer, and of a notary public not an officer, or in the employ of
the corporation, and the contents of said safe or box shall then be
sealed up by such notary public in a package and a certificate of
such sealing shall be indorsed thereon, signed by such notary and
attested by his seal, and said package shall be distinctly marked
with'the name and address of the person in whose name such safe
or box stands upon the books of the corporation, and the estimated
value thereof; said package shall then be placed in one of the
general safes or boxes of the corporation, and shall be held subject
to redemption by the owner thereof, who shall be required to pay
the rent due for said safe or box, and all costs and damages attend
ing the opening thereof together with reasonable charges for the
custody of said package by the corporation, and the corporation
shall have a lien upon said package to secure the payment of such
rent, damages and charges.
Sec.

2, see 81 Me., 122.

II

ii

"

"
19,
20,
27,
28,

u

.I

u

" " "
" 76
"
"
"
78

3Q.6

298.
443.

227.

Sec. 31, see 79 Me., 554.
ii .. 8g u 499.
134.
33, " " "
K
ii
ii
II
499.
42, " 77 " 421.
44, " 78 "
78.
53, " 76 " 445.

MILLS AND MILL-DAMS.

459
Chap. 92.

CHAPTER 92.

MILLS AND MILL DAMS.

ACT ADDITIONAL TO CHAPTER 92.

(1) Bams for use in cranberry culture : Laws of 1887, c. 95, p. 71.
When dams are erected iind maintained on streams not navigable, Damages by
for the purposes of cranberry culture, and lands are flowed thereby cranberry
and injured by such flowage, the owners thereof shall proceed in the ^"certainecL
same manner to recover damages for such flowage, as in case of
flowage by dams erected anil maintained for mill purposes, as pro
vided by chapter ninety-two of the revised statutes of the state of
Maine.
Sec.
"
"
"

1,
"
"
"

8ee76Me.,
" 76 "
" 82 "
" 80 "

04.
197.
48.
102.

Sec. 4, see 70 Me., 94.
" 9, " 80 " 30.
" 17, " 80 " 487.

CHAPTER 94.

FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.
Sec. 2.

As amended : 1895, c. 74, p. 72.

Tenancies at will may be determined by either party by thirty
days notice in writing for that purpose, given to the other party,
and not otherwise save by mutual consent, excepting cases where
the tenant, if liable to pay rent, shall not be in arrears at the expiration of the notice, in which case the thirty days notice aforesaid
shall be made to expire upon a rent day. Either party may waive
in writing said thirty days notice, or any part thereof. When the
tenancy is terminated, the tenant is liable to the process of forcible
entry and detainer without further notice and without proof of any
relation of landlord and tenant, unless he has paid, after service of
the notice, rent that accrued after the termination of the tenancy.

Tenancy at
maybe" '*
^m""'^
84 Me-> 528-

460

FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

Chap. 94. These provisions apply to tenancies of buildings erected on land of
-applies to another party,
buildings on
land of
Sec. 1, seo 75 Me., 117.
Sec. 10, see 70 Me., 490.
party M
" " " 76 " 114" " " 84 " 535" " " 84 " 528.

CHAPTER 95.

WASTE AND TRESPASS ON REAL ESTATE.
Sec. 5, see 86 Me., 118.
" 16, " 77 " 246.

Sec. 18, see 83 Me., 364.
" 19, " " " 100.

CHAPTER 96.

REPLEVIN.
SeC. 9.
In what
ji'levin may
e brought.

As amended: 1891, c. 110, p. 120.

If the value of the goods exceeds twenty dollars, the .action shall
he brought in the supreme judicial or superior court for the county
wnere t}iev are detained ; if it does not exceed twenty dollars, before
any trial jtistiee of said county. Tlie action may be brought before
any municipal or police court in said county, if the value of the
goods does not exceed the amount to which the civil jurisdiction of
such court is limited.
Sec. 8, see 81 Me., 580.
" 10, " 80 " 218.

Sec. 11, see 80 Mo., 218.
" 18, " 79 " 452.

bastard children.

461
Chap. 97.

CHAPTER 97.
BASTARD CHILDREN AND THEIR MAINTENANCE.
Sec. 1,
3,
"
"
4,
"

see 81 Me., 63.
" 76 " 247.
" 80 " 358.
" 85 " 285.
" 76 " 247.
" 80 " 354.

Sec.
"
"
"
"
"

5,
6,
7,
"
"
11,

see
"
"
"
"
"

81 Me.,
83 "
80 "
" "
81 "
85 "

63.
146.
454.
353.
348.
224.

CHAPTER 99.
HABEAS CORPUS.
SeC. 7.

As amended: 1887, c. 16, p. 12.

When awarded by a justice of the supreme judicial court, it may writs of
issue, under his hand and seal, or upon his order from any clerk's pusef,ow°r
office in vacation, as if issued by the court, and run throughout the returnaulestate, and may be returnable before the court, or before himself, or
any other justice thereof, and shall be entered upon the docket of
the court in the county where returnable, and the judgment shall
there be recorded by the clerk. When awarded by a judge of a
superior court, it may issue, and shall be entered and the judgment
recorded in like manner.
SeC. 8. As amended: 1887, c. 16, p. 12.
The application
and
... shall be , in writing,
,
, signed
°
, sworn to by
J the
person making it, stating the place where, and the person by whom
the restraint is made ; the applicant shall produce to the court or

Application,
how
made.
r. s.,c.99,§8.
M Me-' 13L

justice a copy of the precept by which the person is so restrained,
attested by the officer holding it ; and if, on inspection, it appears to writ shall
the court or justice that such person is thereby lawfully imprisoned not issueor restrained of his liberty, a writ shall not be granted ; unless
from examination of whole case, the court or justice is of opinion
that it ought to issue.
SeC. 36.

As amended: 1887, c. 73, p. 58.

Any person under arrest on criminal process for a bailable offence, May admit to
may, before commitment to jail, if he so requests, be taken by the wmmUment.

462

HABEAS CORPUS.

Chap. 99. officer having him in charge, before such commissioner, who may
—and °"
inquire into the case and admit him to bail. And any person
Lord is day.

.

.

arrested on the Lord s day, or on the afternoon or evening preced
ing, for a bailable offence, may be admitted to bail on that day by
such commissioner.

CHAPTER 100.
WRIT OF AUDITA QUERELA.
Sec. 1, sec 7(> Me., 4!K>.
" " " 77 " 106.

Sec. 7, see 83 Me., 172.

CHAPTER 102.
WRITS OF MANDAMUS.
SeC. 16.
Petition for
writ of man
damus to
whom and
when pre
sented,
—questions
of law re
served for
full court.

— first writ,
when issued
and where
returnable.
HI Me., &!8.

SeC. 17.
Return to
writ, how
answered.

As amended: 1803, c. 261, p. 278.

A petition for a writ of mandamus may be presented to a justice
of the supreme judicial court in any county in term time or vaca
tion, who may, upon notice to all parties, hear and determine the
same, or may reserve questions of law arising thereon, upon excep
tions or otherwise, for the determination of the full court, which
may hear and determine the same as hereinafter provided; but in
alFcases where exceptions are alleged to any rulings, findings or
decrees made upon such petition, the case shall be proceeded with
as if no exceptions had been taken, until a decision shall be had and
the peremptory writ shall have been ordered, so that the overruling
of such exceptions would finally dispose of the case, which shall
then be certified to the chief justice of said court as provided in the
following section. If on such hearing such writ is ordered, it may
be issued from the clerk's office in any county and be made return
able as the court directs.
As amended: 1893, c. 261, p. 278.

When a writ of mandamus issues, the person required to make
return thereto shall make his return to the first writ, and the person

WRITS OF MANDAMUS.
suing the writ may by an answer traverse any material facts contained
in such return, or may demur. If the party suing the writ main
tains the issue on his part, his damages shall be assessed, and a
judgment rendered that he recover the same with costs, and that a
peremptory writ of mandamus be granted; otherwise the party
making the return shall recover costs. No action shall be maintained for a false return to a writ of mandamus. After judgment
and decree that the peremptory writ be granted, the justice of said
court before whom the proceedings are pending, shall forthwith
certify to the chief justice for decision, all exceptions which may be
filed and allowed to any rulings, findings or decrees made at any
stage of the proceedings. The excepting party shall, within fifteen
days thereafter, forward to the chief justice his written argument
upon such exceptions and shall within said fifteen days, furnish the
adverse party, or his attorney, with a copy of such argument; the
adverse party shall within fifteen days after receipt of such copy
forward his written argument in reply to the chief justice ; and
thereupon the justices of said court shall consider said cause imme
diately, and decide thereon and transmit their decision to the clerk
of the county where the petition is pending, and final judgment
shall be entered accordingly. If the judgment is in favor of the
petitioner, the peremptory writ of mandamus shall thereupon be

463
CHaP.102.
—judgment
tory writ,
—no action
for ftvlse
return.

—exceptions
tified to chief
iustioe

^n^forVwrit
shall issue.

issued.
Sec. 7, see 85 Me., 368.
" 8, " 78 " 107.

Sec. 8, see a5 Me., 368.
" 14, " " " 308.

CHAPTER 103.
DOWER AND COURTESY.
SeC. 14.
Sec. 6,
7,
8,
9,
"
10,

Repealed: 1895, c. 157, sec. 2, p. 176.

See sec. 13, (1) acts addltlonal to c. 75 this vol.
see 75 Me., 426.
Sec. 10, see 82 Me., 234.
" 77 " 434.
" " " " " 227.
" " " "
" " " 83 " 551.
" " " "
" 16, " 78 " 82.
" 82 " 234.
" " " 82 " 234.
" 75 " 426.

81 Me., 373.
83 Me., 172.

464

REAL, ACTIONS.

Chap.104.

CHAPTER 104.
REAL ACTIONS.

ACT ADDITIONAL TO CHAPTER 104.
(1) Settlement of titles to real estate: Laws of 1895, c. 85, p. 84.

Sec. 49.
A supposed
claimant to
real estate
can be com
pelled to
bring action
to settle title.

—notice to
the supposed
claimant.

—proceed
ings if any
claimants
appear.

A person in possession of real property, having either by him
self or those under whom he claims been in uninterrupted possession
thereof, for ten years or more, claiming an estate of freehold therein,
may file a petition in the supreme judicial court setting forth his
estate, stating the source of his title, describing the premises and
averring that an apprehension exists that persons named in the
petition, or persons unknown claiming as heirs, devisees or assigns
or in any other way, by, through or under a person or persons
named in the petition, claim some right, title or interest in the
premises adverse to his said estate ; and that such apprehension
creates a cloud upon the title and depreciates the market value
of his property ; and praying that such persons be summoned to
show cause why they should not bring an action to try their title
to the described premises. If any such supposed claimants are
unknown, the petitioner or his attorney shall so allege under oath,
but the truth of the allegation shall not after decree filed be
denied, for the purpose of defeating the title established thereby.
Upon such petition the court shall order notice returnable at a
term of the supreme judicial court to be held in the county where
the real estate described lies. Personal service by copy of the
petition and order of notice, shall be made upon all such supposed
claimants residing in the state, fourteen days before the return day ;
and upon all such supposed claimants residing out of the state,
service may be made by personal service of copy of the petition and
order of notice ; by publication for such length of time, in such
newspapers or by posting in such public places as the court may
direct ; or in any or all of these ways at the discretion of the court.
If any claimants appear to answer to said petition the procedure
shall 1>e the same as is provided by section forty-eight; and if the
court upon hearing, finds that the allegations of the petition are

105

HEAL ACTIONS.

true and that notice by publication has been given as ordered, it Chap. 104.
shall make and enter a decree that all persons named in the petition
and all persons alleged to be unknown, claiming by, through or
under persons so named, and who have not so appeared, shall be
forever debarred and estopped from having or claiming any right or
title adverse to the petitioner in the premises described in the
petition; which decree shall within thirty days after it is finally —decree shall
granted be recorded in the registry of deeds for the county where
the land lies, and shall he effectual to bar all right, title and interest
of all persons whether adults or minors, upon whom notice has been
served, personally or by publication, as herein provided. The court
may in its discretion appoint agents or guardians, ad litem, to repre
sent minors or other supposed claimants.
Sec.

2, see 84 >t€ .,
4, II II I
5, " 83 '
6, " 75 «
a
" 78 '
II
" 82 '
8, II U I
9, " 75 '
10, " 76 '
II
" 80 '
U
" 85 '
11, " 76 '
12, " 85 '
H
" 86 '
II
" 76 '

434.

Sec 14,
k

II

46.
426.
574.
383.
577.
426

"

soI 84 Me. 362.
u 76 'i 577.

II

II

ii

II

20,
25,
47,

Ii

h
i .

ii

ii

u

II

II

II

II

iI

II

111.
314.
201.
440.

II

II

201.

16,

U

78
75

• I

II

II

77
78
83

iI

" II
II
" 84
"
48,
77
II

.I

II

ii

U

II

Ii

II

K

"

78
S3
il

103.

II 426.
•I

5*5.
II
153.
II
172.
271
II
98.
585.
II
153.
" 172.
" 271.
il

ii

84

CHAPTER 105.
LIMITATIONS

SeC. 1 1.

OF

RIGHTS

Repealed: 1885, c. 368, p. 313.

Sec. 1, see 82 Me., 234.
" 3, " 83 " 172.

30

REAL ACTIONS, AND
ENTRY.

Sec. 7, see 82 Me., 326.
" 10, " S3 " 100.

OF

406

.iurors.

Chap. 106.

CHAPTER KM!.
THE SELECTION AND SERVICE OF JURORS.

Personsyxserving as
iurors.

empted from

SeC. 3. As amended : 1891, c. 97, p. 87.
The following
persons are exempt
from serving
as Jjurors, and their
6 l
r
6
names shall not be placed on the lists; the governor, councillors,
judges and clerks of common law courts, secretary and treasurer of
the state, all officers of the United States, judges and registers of
probate, registers of deeds, settled ministers of the gospel, officers
of colleges, preceptors of incorporated academies, physicians and
surgeons, cashiers of incorporated banks, sheriffs and their deputies,
coroners, counselors and attorneys-at-law, county commissioners,
constables, all persons engaged in the unlawful traffic in intoxicat
ing liquors, or who are known to be habitually addicted to the use
of intoxicating liquors as a beverage, and constant ferrymen.

CHAPTER 107.
DEPOSITIONS.
SeC. 1 . As amended: 1885, c. 306, p. 254.
In what cases
Depositions taken for the causes and in the manner hereinafter
depositions
.
..,,..,.
. .
r
may be used, mentioned, may be used in all civil suits or causes, petitions for
partition of land, libels for divorce, prosecutions for the maintenance
of bastard children, petitions for review, and in trials before probate
courts, arbitrators, referees and county commissioners ; and in cases
of contested senatorial or representative elections. Depositions or
affidavits may also be taken in applications for pensions, bounties,
or arrears of pay under any law of the United States.

ACT ADDITIONAL TO CHAPTER 107(1) Appointment of stenographers as commissioners to take depo
sitions and disclosures : Laws of 1885, c. 327, p. 274.
Appointment
Sfxtion 1. The governor, with the advice and consent of the
phers as com- council, may, upon the written recommendation of any judge of the

DEPOSITIONS.
supreme judicial court, appoint competent stenographers of either
sex, as commissioners to take depositions in all cases and disclosures
c .
i
of trustees.
Sec. 2. Such commissioners shall qualify by taking the usual
oath of office. They may act throughout the state, and shall hold
office for four years, and shall pay the same fees for their com
mission as are now paid by justices of the peace.
Sec. 3. They shall have and exercise the same powers in taking
depositions and disclosures of trustees as are now exercised and
possessed by justices of the peace.
Sec. 4. Depositions and disclosures of trustees may I>e taken
,.,,,,
„
...
by them stenographically by the consent ot the parties to the suit
or proceeding, and their notes shall be transcribed in full by
questions and answers and read to the deponent or trustee and
signed by him. If the deponent or trustee, in writing, waives such
reading, the transcript shall be admissible as his deposition or
disclosure, without his signature. No change of or addition to
the transcript shall be made by the deponent or trustee, except
in the presence of the counsel who attested the taking of the depo
sition. The commissioner shall state the facts in his certificate, as
to reading, signature or waiver, and what, if any, changes or addi
tions were made.
Sec. 5. They shall receive the same fees for travel, swearing
... .
.-ij
• , i
witnesses, notifying parties and deponents, as are now received by
justices of the peace, and in addition thereto, twenty cents a page
for their transcripts.
Sec. 2, see 81 Me., 101.

467
Chap. 107.
missioners to
take depositions.
Tenure.

Powers.

Depositions
and disclosures, how

Shall receive
same fees as
justices of

Sec. 18, see 82 Me., 26.

CHAPTER 111.
FRAUDS AND PERJURIES.
SeC. 5.

As amended: 1891, c. 11, p. 9.
1895, c. 32, p. 31.
No agreement that personal property bargained and delivered to
another, shall remain the property of the seller till paid for, is valid
unless the same is in writing and signed by the person to be bound
thereby. And when so made and signed, whether said agreement
is or is called a note, lease, conditional sale, purchase on instalments, or by any other name, and in whatever form it may be,
it shall not be valid, except as between the original parties thereto,

Agreement
gow £nd <ic^^in the
fhe'seHer'not
valid unless
and signed,

4G8
Chap. 111.
—shall be
recorded.
70 Me , 26.
80 Me., 270.
81 Me., 29S.
82 Me., 145.
82 Me., 199.
H2 Me., 419.
8:j Me., 380.
86 Me., 450.
80 Me., 541.

FRAUDS AND PERJURIES.
unless it is recorded in the office of the clerk of the town in which
the purchaser resides at the time of the purchase. The fee for
recording the same shall he the same as that for recording mort
gages of personal property. All said agreements, whether recorded
or not, shall be subject to redemption ; but the title may be fore
closed in the same manner as is provided for mortgages of personal
property.
As to exemption of railroad equipment, see sec. 3, (12) acts addi
tional to c. 51 this vol.
SeC. 6.

Assignment
of wages is
not valid un
less recorded,
etc.
70 Me., 413.
80 Me., :*i7.
82 Me., 412.
83 Me., 28(i.
85 Me., 105.
85 Me., 124.

As amended: 1891, c. 73, p. 59.

No assignment of wages is valid against any other person than
the parties thereto, unless such assignment is recorded by the clerk
of the city, town or plantation organized for any purpose, in which
the assignor is commorant while earning such wages, and the clerk's
fee shall be twenty-five cents ; and no such assignment of wages
shall be valid against the employer unless he has actual notice
thereof.
Sec.
"
(C
"
11
II

1,
«' cl. II,
CI it («
" " IV,
II II It
II II II

see
ii
"
"
"
II

75 Me.,
70 «
82 "
70 "
77 "
II a

493.
20.
05.
503.
48.
91.

Sec. 1, cl. V,
ii « .< VI>
" 2, "
ii ii ii
" 3, "
" 8, "

see
"
"
"
"
"

70 Me., 227.
80 " 243.
79 " 529.
80 " 193.
84 " 280.
77 " 139.

CHAPTER 112.

RECOGNIZANCES FOR DEBT.
This chapter repealed: 1895, c. 83, p. 81.

CHAPTER 113.

REL1EE OF POOR DEBTORS.
77 Me. 105.
m Me.,' 212!

SeC. 2.
SeC. 15.

See sec. 1, (1) act additional to this chapter.
As amended: 1885, c. 318, p. 262.

Debtor
When a person is arrested or imprisoned on mesne process in a
ulseTos^wuK civil action, lie may disclose as provided in section twenty-one of

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.
this chapter, or he may be released by giving lxmd to the plaintiff
in double the sum for which he is arrested or imprisoned, with surety
or sureties, approved by him or by two or three justices of the peace
and quorum of the county where the arrest or imprisonment is
made, selected and 1proceeding
in section forty-two,
b as prescribed
r
»
conditioned that within fifteen days after rendition of judgment, or
after the adjournment of the court in which it is rendered, he will
notify the creditor, his agent or attorney, to attend at a certain
place in the county, at a time not more than thirty nor less than
fifteen days after such notice, for the purpose of disclosure and
examination ; that he will then and there submit himself to exami
nation ; make true disclosure of his business affairs and property
on oath, and abide the order of the justices thereon ; and if the
officer serving the writ takes such bond, he shall return it to the
court or justice where the suit is pending.
SeC. 30.

See sec. 8, (1) act additional to this chapter.

SeC. 46.

See sects. 22 and 25, (1) act additional to this
chapter.

SeC. O 1 .

See sec. 26, (1) act additional to this chapter.

SeC. oT.

See sec. 18, (1) act additional to this chapter.

469
Chap.113.
out bond;
how.
j^l^^g.
close
certainwithin
t>me
after judg78 Me., «8.

81 Me.. 101.

ACT ADDITIONAL TO CHAPTER 113.
(1) To abolish imprisonment for debt except in cases of fraud :
Laws of 1887, c. 137, p. 110, as amended by laws of 1893,
c. 313, p. 380.
Section 1. No execution issued on a judgment founded on a
contract, express or implied, or on a prior judgment on contract,
shall run against the body of the judgment debtor, except as hereinafter provided, or unless the debtor was arrested on the original
., , .
.
. ,
iiiii.
writ as provided in section two of chapter one hundred and thirteen
of the revised statutes.
Sec. 2. The owner of such a judgment remaining unsatisfied in
t
<■
■
7
any part, may have a disclosure of a judgment debtor s business
affairs at any time, by proceeding as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 3. Such owner, or his attorney, may make application in
writing to a disclosure commissioner, judge of probate, register of
probate, judge of a municipal or police court in the county in which
the judgment debtor resides, or, if the judgment debtor is a nonresident of this state, in the county in which he is commorant,
stating the amount of the debt and of the costs for which said judg-

No execution
ment shall
theVodyof
tnedeutor—exceptions,

Debtor may
be made to
disclose at
18g3 c 3j3
owner may
cation to
for?ubp<p<iia
debtor'to ap{Jfake*^.1°
closures.

470

RELIEF OF POOK DEBTORS.

ClIAP.113. ment was rendered, the court and term at which it was rendered,
the names of the original parties, the title of the petitioner, and
praying for subpoena to issue to the debtor to appear and make
disclosure.
Subprmia
Sec. 4. Such magistrate shall thereupon issue under his hand
shall be
and seal a subpuma to the debtor, commanding him to appear before
issued to
debtor to
such magistrate within said county, at a time and place therein
appear.
named, to make full and true disclosure, on oath, of all his business
and property affairs. The application shall be annexed to the
subpoena.
Sec. 5. The subpoena may be served by any officer qualified to
How subp<ena may be
serve civil process in said county by giving him in hand or leaving
served.
at his last and usual place of abode a certified copy of the subpoena.
—notice to
The debtor shall have twenty-four hours notice for every twenty
debtor.
miles
travel from his home or place of abode at the time of service
1893, c. 313.
to the place of disclosure.
Sec. 6. At such time and place, the debtor shall appear and
Examination
of debtor.
submit himself to examination on oath concerning his estate and
effects, their disposal and his ability to pay the judgment.
Petitioner
Sec. 7. The petitioner may propose to the debtor any interroga
may have
sworn
tories
pertinent to the inquiry, and if he requires it, they shall be
answers in
writing.
answered in writing and signed and sworn to by the debtor.
When magis
Sec. 8. If, on such examination and hearing, the magistrate is
trate may
administer
satisfied that the debtor's disclosure is true, and does not discover
oath.
anything therein inconsistent with his taking the oath, the magis
trate may administer to him the oath prescribed by section thirty of
chapter one hundred and thirteen of the revised statutes.
Sec. 9. When, from such disclosure, it appears that the debtor
Attachable
property dis
closed which possesses, or has under his control, any bank bills, notes, accounts,
cannot be
come at, how bonds, or other contracts or property, not exempted by statute from
appraised
attachment, which cannot be come at to be attached, and the
and set off.
petitioner and debtor cannot agree to apply the same towards the
debt, the magistrate hearing the disclosure shall appraise and set
off enough of such property to satisfy the debt, cost and charges ;
and the petitioner or his attorney, if present, may select the property
to be appraised. If the petitioner accepts it, it may lie assigned
and delivered by the debtor to him, and applied towards the satis
faction of his demand. If any particular article of such property,
necessary or convenient to be applied in satisfaction of the execution,
exceeds the amount due thereon, and is not divisible in its nature,
the petitioner may take it, by paying the overplus to the debtor, or
securing it to the satisfaction of the magistrate.
Sec. 10. If the petitioner is absent, or does not so accept it, the
Petitioner
may demand debtor shall deposit with the magistrate a written assignment to the
it within
thirty days. petitioner, of all the property thus appraised and setoff; and the
magistrate shall make a record of such proceedings, and cause such

RELIEF OF POOH DEBTORS.
property to be safely kept and secured for the term of thirty days
thereafter, to be delivered to the petitioner with the assignment, on
demand, within that time. If not so demanded, they shall be
returned to the debtor.
Sec. 11. If an execution debtor discloses real estate liable to be
seized on execution, the magistrate shall give the petitioner a
certificate thereof, stating the names of the parties and the amount
of the execution ; and the petitioner shall have a lien thereon for
thirty days thereafter, if he files the certificate with the register of
deeds of the county or district where the real estate lies, within five
days from the date of the disclosure ; and the register shall enter
and file it like officers' returns of attachments.
Sec. 12. If he discloses personal estate liable to be seized on
execution, the petitioner shall have a lien on it, or so much of it as
the magistrate in his record judges necessary, for thirty days, and if
the debtor transfers, conceals, or otherwise disposes of it within
said time or suffers it to be done, or refuses to surrender it, on
demand, to any proper officer having an execution on the same
judgment, the debtor shall have no benefit from the certificate
described in section nineteen ; and the petitioner may recover, in
...
,
an a(tion on the case against him, or any person fraudulently aiding
in such transfer, concealment or disposal, double the amount due
on said execution ; and any execution on a judgment in such action
shall run against the bodies of the debtor and other persons so aid
ing, but the payment thereof is a satisfaction of the original debt.
Sec. 13. If said magistrate finds reasonable cause to believe
that any other person holds any property or credits of the debtor
in trust for him, or in fraud of his creditors, or if the petitioner
shall make oath that he believes that such other person so holds
property of the debtor, the magistrate shall issue a similar subpoena

471
Chap.113.
-if not deshall be'redebtor.1°
Preservation
er's lien on
disclosed,

Lienonperdisclosed.

—effect if
debtor or
other person
o(>>icpfil s it

Persons holdin trust or in
creditors,
p1e*fed"to apK?Jfynd

to such person to appear and testify in relation thereto, the same
to be served as subpu-nas in civil suits. The testimony of such —if property
witness may be reduced to writing, and signed by him, and if it magistrate
shall satisfactorily appear to the magistrate, from all the evidence l^\^ cer ' y
in the case, that such person so holds property or credits of the
debtor, he shall so certify upon the execution; and the petitioner —petitioner
shall have a lien upon said property or credits for thirty days hen; how
succeeding such disclosure, to be enforced by bill in equity or trus enforced.
tee process, and if upon such bill in equity or trustee process, the
court finds such property or credits to be so held as aforesaid, it
may order the same, or so much of them as may be necessary to
satisfy the judgment and all costs, to be conveyed, transferred or
assigned to the petitioner ; and if the parties cannot agree upon the
value of such property or credits, they shall be assigned to the
petitioner, if he shall give such trustee a bond with sufficient surety,
accepted by the court, to account for and pay over to said trustee,

472

RELIEF OF POOH DEBTOUS.

Chap.113. the surplus of the proceeds of such property or credits, after satisfy
ing said judgment and costs.
If debtor
refuses to ap
Sec. 14. If the debtor or any other person duly served with
pear he may
subpoena as above provided, refuses or neglects to appear, the
be brought
before the
court, and if magistrate shall issue a capias to bring said debtor or other person
he fails to
before him, and if upon hearing, said debtor or other person does
show cause
for failure,
not
show good cause for his failure to appear, he may I>e ordered
shall pay
costs of is
to
pay
the costs of issuing and executing said capias, and execution
suing capias.
18!«. c. 31.!.
may issue for the same upon which he may be arrested.
Sec. 15. If the debtor, or other person duly served with subIf debtor
refuses to
pu'iia,
refuses to testify in obedience thereto, or refuses to answer
testify, he
shall De com any proper question, or if the debtor refuses to make full disclosure
mitted for
contempt.
upon all matters named in section six, or if said debtor refuses to
comply with any proper order of the magistrate, or perform the
duty imposed upon him by section ten, he shall be adjudged to be
in contempt, and be committed to jail until he purges himself of
such contempt by compliance, is or otherwise discharged by due
process of law. The warrant of commitment shall state specifically
the contempt of which the prisoner is guilty.
Magistrate
Sec. 16. The magistrate, for cause shown by either party, may
may adjourn.
adjourn from time to time.
Sec. 17. After the examination of the debtor, other competent
Competent
testimony
evidence
may be introduced by either party, and the debtor may
may be intro
duced by
Depositions may be used in such dis
either party. then be further examined.
closures, and the magistrate may, at the request of either party,
issue subpoenas to witnesses, who are entitled to the same fees as
witnesses before a trial justice.
Sec. 18. Section sixty-seven of chapter one hundred and
thirteen of the revised statutes, shall apply to disclosures under this
act.
When prop
Sec. 19. After the oath mentioned in section eight of this act
erty disclosed
is administered, and the property disclosed is secured, and the
is secured
and debtor
has complied debtor has complied with all proper orders of such magistrate, a
with all
certificate of the fact of such disclosure shall be indorsed by the
orders, fact
shall be
magistrate under his hand and seal, on the execution issued upon
indorsed on
execution
the judgment upon which the disclosure is had, and a copy of said
and body of
dobtor shall
certificate shall be indorsed on every subsequent execution issued
be free from
arrest.
on said judgment or on any judgment founded thereon, and the
body of the debtor shall thereafter be forever free from arrest on
any execution so issued except as provided in sections twelve and
eighteen of this act.
If debtor
Sec. 20. If upon such disclosure, the debtor fails to obtain the
fails to obtain
benefit
of the oath provided for in section eight, the magistrate shall,
benefit of
oath, fact
under his hand and seal, indorse a certificate of that fact upon the
shall be in
dorsed on ex
execution in force at the time of such disclosure, and a copy of said
ecution and
he may be
certificate
shall be indorsed on every subsequent execution issued
imprisoned.

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.
on said judgment, or on any judgment founded thereon, and such
subsequent execution shall run against the body of said debtor.
The magistrate shall also issue a capias under his hand and seal,
and annex the same to said execution in force at the time of such
disclosure, and the debtor may be arrested and imprisoned on said
capias and execution, the same as upon executions issued in actions
of tort.
Sec. 21. If the debtor fails to appear and submit himself to
examination, at the time and place named m the subp<ena, his
default may be recorded and like proceedings had as in section
twenty.
Sec. 22. When a debtor is arrested upon said capias and execu.
. ,
...
tion, or upon any subsequent execution upon which copy ol either
of the certificates required by sections twenty and twenty-one has
been indorsed, all subsequent proceedings for his release shall be
the same as in case of arrest or imprisonment on executions in
actions of tort; but if said debtor fails to obtain his discharge at
'
6
anyJ subsequent
examination before Jjustices of the peace
and quorum,
*
*.
,
1
he shall not a second time disclose before such justices, but may
.
. ,. .
it"
thereafter apply to a justice ot the supreme judicial court and disclose as provided in section forty-six of chapter one hundred and
thirteen of the revised statutes.
Sec. 23. The magistrate shall be entitled to twenty-five cents
for each subp<ena, twenty-five cents for capias, twenty-five cents for
certificate, and three dollars for each day in hearing the disclosure
and other testimony, and for entering default, one dollar. The fees
of officers shall be the same as for service of other process of similar
nature. The petitioner may, if the magistrate authorizes it, procure
an officer to be in attendance during the proceedings, and the fees
for such attendance shall be seventy-five cents a day. The above
fees shall he paid by the petitioner, and in case the oath named in
section eight is administered, shall be added to the costs on the
judgment and execution and taxed in detail thereon by the
magistrate. In case said oath is not administered to the debtor,
the petitioner shall recover his costs and said fees, as in actions
before a trial justice, and the magistrate shall issue a separate exe
cution therefor.
Sec. 24. At any time after the expiration of three years from
the termination of any such proceedings, and while the judgment
remains in force, the judgment creditor may again avail himself of
all the provisions of this chapter, where the original debt exclusive
of costs exceeds ten dollars, and may cause like proceedings to be
had as if there had been no previous proceedings under the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 25. Any magistrate who has once refused to administer to
ill
.i
.i
i ■
•
-i
i ,, ,
the debtor the oath named ln section eight, shall be lncompetent to

473
Chap. 113.

If debtor
pear, he shall

Proceedings
for release of
debtor when
fajfstoobtaln
{JJay'aJ^ljJto
a justice of
supreme judicial
court, for
appointment
of a commissioner, before
whom to dis
second time.
Fees.

—by whom

Debtor may
todisclose
three years
?"Qg^nt
f£rme.ins in
is93, c. 313.
Magistrate
who has once
refused to

474

RELIEF OF POOR DEBTORS.

ChAp.113. sit as a justice of the peace and quorum or commissioner, under
section forty-six of chapter one hundred and thirteen of the revised
statutes, to hear the disclosure of the debtor, in any subsequent
proceedings upon the same judgment or any judgment founded
thereon.
Sec. 26. Any disclosure commissioner heretofore or hereafter
appointed under the provisions of section fifty-one of chapter one
hundred and thirteen of the revised statutes, shall have power to
perform the duties required by this act.
Sec. 27. This act shall not apply to any existing contract,
pending action or existing judgment. [March 17, 1887.]
Sec. 28. No application or subpoma shall be deemed incorrect
for want of form only, or for circumstantial errors or mistakes when
the person and case can be rightly understood. Such errors and
mistakes may be amended on motion of either party.

administer
oath, is in
competent to
again hear
disclosure on
same judg
ment.
Disclosure
commis
sioners may
perform
duties re
quired by
this act.
Act shiill not
apply to
pending
actions.
Errors in
application
or subpoena
may be
amended.

Sec. 19, see 80 Mo.,
Me., 535.
24, " 76

«
26,
28,
31,
37,

., 77
"
"
"
"

81
81
78
78

"
"
"
"
"
"

432.
1.
427.
101.
310.
307.

Sec. 39, see 80 Me., 267.
41,
II
42,
«
49,
69,

"
"
"
"
"
"

77
78
81
81
73
78

"
"
"
"
"
"

588.
580.
101.
427.
498.
307.

CHAPTER 115.
SALARIES OF PUBLIC OFFICERS, &c.

Salaries of
state officers.

Governor.
S. J.C. judges.
1887, c. 62.
Judge of
superior
court Cum
berland Co.
Judge of
superior
court, Kenne
bec county.
1s87, c. 105.
Attorney
general.
Reporter of
decisions.

SeC. 1 . As amended:
The following officers are entitled to receive annual salaries from
the treasurer of state in quarterly payments on the first days of
January, April, July and O(tober as follows :
Governor, two thousand dollars.
Justices of the supreme judicial court, each, thirty-five hundred
dollars.
Justice of the superior court for the county of Cumberland, two
thousand five hundred dollars.
Justice of the superior court for the county of Kennebec, two
thousand five hundred dollars.
Attorney general, one thousand dollars, in full for all services,
expenses and travel.
Reporter of decisions, five hundred dollars, with the right to
retain for his own use the profits arising from a publication of his

