EEYISED EULES OF PEACTICE.

CIRCUIT COURT RULES.

RULE 1.
Original Writs.
(a) Original writs may be issued in vacation or in term time,1
and, except as otherwise provided by statute,4 tmay be made
returnable at any time, except Sunday,10 not exceeding three
months from the date when issued;2 and original writs for
the commencement of suit shall notify the defendant to appear
in person or by attorney within fifteen days after service of the
writ upon him, to answer to the suit of the plaintiff according
to the rules and practice of the court, with such additional
command as shall be appropriate to the action of replevin and
to actions commenoed by attachment or capias ad respon
dendum; and such writ shall be served 11 by the sheriff, who
shall make his return thereon 12 immediately after service, or,
in case of no service, then immediately after the return day
mentioned in the summons. If there be more than one defend
ant the return of service shall, at the request of the plaintiff, be
made immediately after service on each defendant, and in such
case the return of service may be indorsed upon or attached
to a copy of the writ, and the original retained until the return
day for service on the other defendants. [Substitute for former
Eule 13.]
(b) On the filing of a sheriff's return, within thirty days after
the return day of the writ, that he has failed to serve or ex
ecute any writ, a further writ, to be designated as an alias or
a,pluries, as the case may be, may be issued at any time within
ten days after the filing of such return.'

~' ~

12a 170

8

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 1.

(c) The following form of writ, or one substantially like it,
shall be used in actions not requiring the seizure of property
or the arrest of the defendant:
State of Michigan,
The Circuit Court for the County of
.
*
In the Name of the People of the State of Michigan.4
You are hereby notified that a suit has been commenced
against yon in the circuit court for the county of
, by
,6 as plaintiff, and that if you desire to defend the same
you are required to have your appearance filed or entered in
the cause, in accordance with the rules and practice of the
court, in person or by attorney, within fifteen days after service
of this summons upon you. Hereof fail not, under penalty of
having judgment taken against you by default. The plaintiff
claims damages in said suit not exceeding
dollars. Serv
ice of this summons shall be made on or before the
day of
, 189—, which is the return day hereof.2
Witness, Hon.
,5 circuit judge, and the seal of said
court, at the
of
, the place of holding said court, this
•
day of -!—, 1S9—.
» Clerk.
,7 Plaintiff's Attorney.
Business address,8
.
(d) In actions of replevin, there shall be added to the fore
going form, before the testing clause, a clause substantially as
follows : [See sees. 8320, 8336, How. Stat.]
To the Sheriff of said County:
We command you that you do forthwith, and on or before
the return day above mentioned, take into your custody the
following goods and chattels, to wit: (describing the goods and
chattels to be replevied), and deliver the same to said plaintiff,
if he shall give you security as required by law to prosecute
to effect this writ against said defendant, and to return the
aforesaid goods and chattels, if return thereof shall be ad
judged, and to pay all such sums of money as may be recov
ered against him hereupon; and also that you summon the
said defendant to appear before said court, as above set forth,
to answer to said plaintiff concerning the unlawful detention
of said goods and chattels.
U9 291

(e) In attachment suits there shall be added a clause substantially as follows: [See Laws of 1895, p. 258, and sec. 7990,
How. Stat.]
To the Sheriff of said County:
We command you that you do forthwith and on or before
the return day above mentioned attach so much of the lands,

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 1.

9

tenements, goods, chattels, moneys and effects of the said de
fendant,
—, not exempt from execution, wheresoever
the same may be found within said county, as will be sufficient
to satisfy the demand of said plaintiff, and that you make an
inventory thereof, and safely keep said property to satisfy any
judgment that may be recovered by said plaintiff ; and that
you serve a copy of this writ and a copy of such inventory, cer
tified by you, upon the said defendant if he can be found in
said county.
And in case you shall seize any property of said defendant
in said county, but not sufficient to satisfy the demand of said
plaintiff, and costs, then you are hereby further commanded to
seize other property of said defendant subject to attachment,
sufficient with that seized within said county, to satisfy said
demand and costs, wherever the same may be found within the
state, and to serve a copy of this writ and a certified copy of
your inventory upon said defendant if found withia either
county where property has been seized under this writ.
(f) In actions commenced by capias ad respondendum there
shall be added a clause substantially as follows : [See sees. 7295,
7301. How. Stat.]
To the Sheriff of said County:
You are hereby commanded to take said defendant, if he
may be found in your bailiwick, and keep him in your custody
until he shall be discharged according to law.
Advantage in commencing suit by summons.— Sec. 7291 authorizes ac
tions for the recovery of any debt, or for damages only, to be commenced
either by original writ, or by filing declaration, entering rule to plead and
serving a copy of the declaration and notice of such rule on the defend
ant. Sec. 7295 authorizes the form of the writ to be prescribed by rule of
court. An important advantage arising from the commencement of suit
by summons, instead of by declaration, is that the suit is " commenced,"
so as to stop the running of the statute of limitations, when the sum
mons is placed in the hands of the officer, bona fide, for service; while in
the other case, the suit is not commenced until actual personal service of
the declaration has been made. (See Detroit Co. v. Bagg, 78 Mich. 650 ; Peck
v. Insurance Co., 102 Mich. 52, which overrule or explain Ellis v. Fletcher,
40 Mich. 321, and Wetherbee v. Kusterer, 41 Mich. 361.) As to service of
garnishment in advance of service of declaration, see Coe v. Hinkley, de
cided June 30, 1896.
1 Issuance in vacation is expressly authorized by sec. 7295, vol. 3, How.
Stat.
2 Return day as fixed by statute.— [Sec. 7295, vol. 3, affects in an impor
tant respect the provision in the rule as to the return day of the writ, es
pecially in counties where the court is not continuously in session. The
legislature will be asked to repeal the section so far as relates to return

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 1.
days, but until it is repealed the following is the practice under the rule
and the statute:]
The writ may be made returnable on any day in term, except Sunday.
It may be made returnable on the first Tuesday of any month whether
that day be in term or not. It cannot be made returnable more than
three months from its date, unless more than three months intervene be
fore the next term ; in which case it may be made returnable " on or be
fore the first day of the next term." (See Burt v. Wayne Circuit Judge,
82 Mich. at page 253.) These provisions apply to writs of summons and
capias (sec. 7295 and Rule 1) and to writs of attachment (sec. 7990) and
to writs of replevin (sec. 8320); but not to writs of garnishment (sec.
8058, vol. 3).
Sec. 7769 provides that it shall not be necessary to have any particu
lar number of days intervene between the teste and return day of any
process, except in cases otherwise expressly provided for by law. As
to defective statement of return day, see note on Defects in Process,
post.
'Alias and plurics writs.— [Until the adoption of Rule 1 (b) there was
no rule governing the issue of alias writs in suits at law. Nor is there
any statute on the subject.] The right to an alias writ of replevin, in a
case where a portion only of the goods was found, was raised in Maxon v.
Perrott, 17 Mich. 334, and was indirectly sustained. And in Bell v. Me
costa Circuit Judge, 26 Mich. 414, it was held that an alias writ of replevin
might issue, by order of the court, for the purpose of personal service
where the property had been seized under the original writ. In Axtell v.
Gibbs, 52 Mich. 639, it was decided that an alias summons may be taken
out against the principal defendant in a special garnishment proceeding
under secs. 8087, 8088, How. Stat., even though the return of the first sum
mons was informal, the return being amendable; and that an alias sum
mons may be treated as a new writ if the first suit has gone down. [But
this would not satisfy the plaintiff in a case where the statute of limita
tions is important.] And in Johnson v. Mead, 58 Mich. 67 (the opinion on
page 72 controlling), it was held that where the continuity of an action
was interrupted by an interval of two days between the return day of one
writ of summons and the issue of an alias writ, the issue of the first writ
did not bar the operation of the statute of limitations. This case was fol
lowed in Peck v. Insurance Co., 102 Mich. 54, where the interval was thirtytwo days. [The new rule on this subject amounts to an overruling of these
cases, and allows a reasonable interval between the return of the original
writ and the issue of an alias, viz.: ten days.]
4 Requirements as to the form, etc., of a summons.— The constitution
provides that "the style of all process shall be: 'In the Name of the Peo
ple of the State of Michigan.' " (Art. VI, § 35.) And sec. 7290 of How
ell's Statutes is the same in substance. For the effect of a failure to use
the constitutional phrase verbatim, see Johnson v. Insurance Co., 12 Mich.
216. An entire omission of it was held fatal to the validity of the proceed
ings in Forbes v. Darling, 94 Mich. 627. In that case it is said: "The ob
ject of this provision undoubtedly is to make this style the distinguishing
feature of all process. The requirement is constitutional and the defect

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 1.

11

jurisdictional." But it does not apply to declarations and notices of rule
to plead. (Penfold v. Slyfield, decided July 28, 1896.)
6 The requirement as to attestation is statutory. Sec. 7290 requires that
all process from courts of record "shall be tested in the name of the chief
or presiding justice or judge, or one of the judges of the court from which
the same shall issue." If there be a vacancy in the judgeship, the writ
may be tested in the name of the chief justice or one of the associate jus
tices of the supreme court. (Sec. 7290.) As to when a vacancy has been
filled, so as to warrant the use of the name of an appointee, see Howerter
v. Kelly, 23 Mich. 336. '
6 "The common law requires that the process shall state with certainty
who are the parties and does not sanction the use of a copartnership name,
or generally allow anything else than the Christian and surnames of the suit
ors, and the common law is so far the law of the circuit court. The case
is different in justice's court " by statute. (Barber v. Smith, 41 Mich. at
page 142.) But such a defect does not render the process void, and the
defect is remediable by the court through its power of amendment, even
in an attachment case which proceeded ex parte (p. 145). See upon this
subject, also, Fisher v. Northrup, 79 Mich. at page 289.
7 Sec. 7290 requires that process " before the delivery thereof to any offi
cer to be executed shall be subscribed or indorsed with the name of the
attorney, solicitor or other officer by whom [at whose instance] the same
shall be issued." And in Potter v. Hutchinson Mfg. Co., 87 Mich. 61, the
writ is said to be incomplete until that is done. But if it is omitted, the
court may permit the indorsement to be made nunc pro tunc, even after
motion has been made to quash the writ on account of the omission.
(Parks v. Goodwin, 1 Doug. 57.) The signing of the writ by the attorney
does not render him liable to the clerk of the court for his fees. (Preston
v. Preston, 1 Doug. 293.)
8 [The requirement of the business address of the plaintiff's attorney is
made in connection with Rules 28 (e) and 29 (b), which relate to service of
papers by mail. The business address appearing upon the summons should
contain the street and number, or postoffice box, if either is necessary for
proper mail delivery. In the absence of this information upon the sum
mons, it will be assumed that the same is unnecessary in addressing the
plaintiff's attorney.]
9 Process may be signed by the deputy clerk in his own name, without
adding the name of the clerk. In law the deputy has the whole power of
his principal. (Calendar v. Olcott, 1 Mich. 346.) Under the authority of
Potter v. Hutchinson Mfg. Co., 87 Mich. 59, and Sweet v. Newaygo Circuit
Judge, 95 Mich. 449, the clerk of the court may sign, seal and deliver a
summons in blank, to be filled up by the attorney, and the summons will
be valid, where no abuse is shown. In Sweet v. Newaygo Circuit Judge,
supra, the summons was signed and sealed in blank by the clerk and de
livered to the plaintiff's attorney several months before it was filled out
by the attorney and placed in the hands of the sheriff for service. The
summons was held valid, although not originally obtained by the attorney
for the particular suit. It was held, however, that the clerk is under no
obligation to deliver such a blank summons to an attorney.

12

CIRCUIT COURT RULE L

Defects in process.— [A party served within the jurisdiction with de
fective process cannot always safely ignore it, but may lose his right to
complain of the defect by inaction and silence for an unreasonable length
of time. The defect must be very serious to permit a party to remain
silent, while the other proceeds to a judgment, and then attack the pro
ceedings collaterally.] Upon this subject, see Granger v. Judge Superior
Court, 44 Mich. 386; Creveling v. Moore, 39 Mich. 563; Gould v. Castel, 47
Mich. 604; Low v. Mills, 61 Mich. 35. In Wayne county, under supposed
legislative authority, a special rule was made requiring a plea within ten
days after service of declaration, and a large number of suits went to
judgment by default after the lapse of only ten da3rs and on a ten-day
notice of rule to plead. The supreme court held that the special rule was
unauthorized and invalid (Wyandotte Rolling Mills Co. v. Robinson, 34
Mich. 433); yet, it was also held that the judgments rendered on the
strength of the rule, where the defect was not called to the attention of
the court, were valid. (Granger v. Judge Superior Court, supra.) Even
where a defect in process is called to the attention of the court, it does
not necessarily result in an abatement of the suit, for by statute the court
has power to amend any process, either in form or substance, for the
furtherance of justice, on such terms as shall be just, at any time before
judgment. (Sec. 7631.) And after judgment, defects in form may be recti
fied. (Sec. 7633.) The omission of plaintiff's Christian name in a summons
does not destroy the process; it is open to amendment. (Barber v. Smith,
41 Mich. 138.) Entry by clerical error of a ten-day rule to plead was held
corrected by a twenty-day notice on the copy of declaration served on the
defendant. (Howe v. Maltz, 35 Mich. 500.) A rule to plead may be entered
nunc pro tunc after service of a declaration containing notice of such a
rule. (Coe v. Hinkley, 3 Det. Leg. News, 265; Brown v. Wayne Circuit
Judge, unreported, decided June, 1896.) Yet, the omission to serve any
notice of rule to plead whatever, is fatal, and the defendant waives no
rights by failing to notice the defect. (Furrill v. Walker, 4 Mich. 177.)
As to defect in respect to return day of capias, see Wonderly v. Circuit
Judge, 41 Mich. 722; also, Epstein v. Circuit Judge, decided June, 1896, no
opinion, which is to same effect.
^Defects in process are waived by a general appearance; as where the
writ was made returnable on Sunday. (Pierce v. Rehfuss, 35 Mich. 53.)
Security for costs by non-residents.— Before the service of a summons
or other original writ, or declaration, in suits commenced by a non-resi
dent plaintiff or foreign corporation, security for costs must be furnished,
by an indorsement of security upon the writ or declaration, by some suffi
cient person who is an inhabitant of this state. Security is not required
if one of several plaintiffs is an inhabitant of the state. (Sees. 7296, 7799,
8135.) It is the settled practice, however, to permit original writs to be
indorsed nunc pro tunc, where the indorsement required to be made earlier
has been omitted, and permission will be granted even after motion made
to set aside the writ on account of such omission. (Parks v. Goodwin, 1
Doug. 56.) Where no motion is made the objection is deemed to be waived
and the defect cured, but the motion when made must prevail unless the
requisite security be furnished. (Ibid.) Judgment may be entered against

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 1.

13

such a surety in connection with a final judgment against the plaintiff.
(Sec. 7663.) If the indorser of the writ or declaration removes out of the
state, or if he is deemed insufficient by the court, the plaintiff may be re
quired to give new security to the satisfaction of the court, and every such
surety is liable for all costs from the commencement of the suit and not
merely from the time of his indorsement. (Sec. 7299.)
[A distinction is to be noted between the security required of a non-resi
dent plaintiff in an action at law, and the security required of a non-resi
dent complainant in a chancery cause. In the former case there is required
an unlimited undertaking to pay all costs that may be awarded against
the plaintiff (sec. 7296), while in chancery causes the only provision for se
curity by a non-resident is found in Rule 3, which requires only a bond in
the penal sum of $100, although permitting a general undertaking for costs
in the place of the bond. The following form of security as a compliance
with section 7296 has been generally approved : "I hereby acknowledge
myself surety for the payment of all such costs as may be awarded against
the plaintiff in this action."]
"Service of summons, exemption from service, etc.— "Writs of sum
mons shall be served by showing the original writ to the defendant and
delivering to him a copy thereof." (Sec. 7300.) Laying it on the body of
a man too sick to understand it is invalid service. (Midler v. Superior
Court Judge, 38 Mich. 319.) Service of process made from midnight pre
ceding to midnight following the first day of the week is void. (Sec. 2019.)
" During the day on which any election shall be held, pursuant to the pro
visions of law, no civil process shall be served on any elector entitled to
vote at such election." (Sec. 227.) Officers of a court of record are exempt
from arrest during the actual sitting of the court; but an attorney is sub
ject to arrest unless actually employed in some cause pending and then to
be heard. (Sec. 7253.)
Where a person is brought into a county where he does not reside, by
some process by which he is arrested, or subpoenaed as a witness, or where
he attends necessarily as a witness, even though not subpoenaed, he is ex
empt from service of process and exempt from arrest on process, while
going to, attending upon or returning from the court. This extends to all
proceedings in their nature judicial. The rule is based upon the principle
that a person should not be forced to a trial in a local court to whose pro
cess he was not properly subject. (Watson v. Judge Superior Court, 40
Mich. 730; Baldwin v. Branch Circuit Judge, 48 Mich. 525; Mitchell v. Huron
Circuit Judge, 53 Mich. 541; Letherby v. Shaver, 73 Mich. 500; Jacobson v.
Wayne Circuit Judge, 76 Mich. 234.) But there is no exemption from serv
ice when a person is merely attending court in his own county; yet cases
may exist where a party may be entrapped into attendance and where
service of process may be an abuse to be relieved against. (Case v. Rorabacher, 15 Mich. 538.) For cases where non-residents were decoyed into
the county for the purpose of service, see Capas v. Provision Co., 73 Mich.
541; Campbell v, Hudson, 64 N. W. Rep. 483.
A summons cannot be served beyond the limits of the county in which
it is issued, except as otherwise particularly prescribed by statute, and
service outside the county would not give jurisdiction, unless by consent

14

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 1.

or waiver. (Turrill v. Walker, 4 Mich. 182. See, also, MoEwan v. Zimmer,
38 Mich. 765; Granger v. Judge Superior Court, 44 Mich. 386; Dewey v.
Central Car Co., 42 Mich. 399; Baxter v. Kent Circuit Judge, 92 Mich. 292.)
A chancery subpoena may be served anywhere in the state by reason of
special statutory authority. (Sec. 7317.) Among the statutory provisions
permitting service of process outside the county under particular circum
stances are secs. 7316, 7317 and sec. 7801, vol. 3.
"The sheriff in person or by his under-sheriff or deputies shall serve or
execute, according to law, all process, writs, precepts and orders issued or
made by lawful authority and to him directed." (Sec. 586.) A declaration
is not directed to the sheriff, and it may be served by private persons
(Munn v. Haynes, 40 Mich. 142), and even by the plaintiff himself. (Penfold v. Slyfield, decided July 28, 1896.) [The summons provided for by
Rule 1 is not directed to the sheriff, but it will be observed that the rule
provides that the writ " shall be served by the sheriff."] Sheriffs and their
deputies may execute all process in their hands at the expiration of their
terms of office or at the time of their removal from office. If there occur
a vacancy in the office of sheriff, a deputy may still serve and execute pro
cess in his hands at the time. (Sec. 587.) On the election of a new sheriff
the former sheriff is required to deliver up to his successor all original
writs which shall not have been fully executed. (Sec. 599.) But the former
sheriff shall return, in his own name, all original process which he shall
have fully executed. (Sec. 601.) When the sheriff is a party or interested
in the case, the coroner is required to serve and execute process of every
kind. (Sec. 606.) But since Act No. 30, Laws of 1887 (sec. 586, vol. 3), the
right of a coroner to serve process is confined to cases where the sheriff is
himself a party or interested in the case. By the terms of that act, a sheriff
or his under or deputy sheriff, not being a party to the action, may serve
all writs in any action where an under or deputy sheriff is a party. (Hubel
v. Rorison, 81 Mich. 41.) If the sheriff and coroner are both parties, or in
terested or incapacitated to act, the circuit judge may appoint a person to
serve process. (Sec. 7674, vol. 3.) It is the statutory duty of the officer
to serve the writ "with all convenient speed." (Sec. 7293.)
12 Proof of service of " process."— A declaration and notice of rule to
plead is " process," as the term is here used (Menominee v. Circuit Judge,
81 Mich. 577); but not within the meaning of the constitution and statute
requiring that process be issued " In the name of the people of the state
of Michigan." (Penfold v. Slyfield, decided July 28, 1896.) It is well set
tled that proof of service of process cannot rest in parol. (King v. Bates,
80 Mich. 369.) Nor can it generally be made by an affidavit or certificate
showing the substance or purport of the process. It should be made by
copy sworn to or officially certified. (McCaslin v. Camp, 26 Mich. 390.) In
suits commenced by declaration, the certificate of service may be indorsed
on the original declaration on file or on a copy. (Lamed v. Wilcox, 4
Mich. 333.) The sheriff's return of service need not be sworn to. His cer
tificate is sufficient. This applies also to a deputy. (Sec. 7294.) An undersheriff or a deputy sheriff ma/ act in his own name and need not sign the
return to a writ served by him in the name of the sheriff. (Calender vs.
Olcott, 1 Mich. 347; Allen v. Hazen, 26 Mich. 142; Wheeler v. Wilkins, 19

CIRCUIT COURT RULE &

15

Mich. 78; Wilcox v. Ismon, 34 Mich. 268; secs. 586, 587, 7294, How. Stat.)
The sheriff's return, showing " the time and manner of such service," must
be filed with the clerk or delivered to the plaintiff's attorney. (Sea 7293.)
The return must show the time and manner of the service. It is not suf
ficient to state that " due service " was made, and a judgment and default
based on such a return was set aside in mandamus, proceedings. (People's
Society v. Frazer, Circuit Judge, 97 Mich. 627; Town v. Tabor, 34 Mich.
262.) But it seems that where a sheriff's return of service does not state
the place of service the presumption is that he discharged his duty by
making service within the county. (Norvell v. McHenry, 1 Mich. 227.)
A return may be enforced by rule and attachment (sea 7294 and Rule
43) in the same manner as the return of a capias. (Sec. 7327.) And an
officer's return of personal service of process is conclusive, in any collat
eral proceeding, upon the parties to the suit in which the process issued.
The remedy for a false return is by suit against the sheriff, and not by de
feating the proceedings in which the return is made. The truth of the
officer's return or the truth of an affidavit of service made by a private
person may, however, be disputed by affidavit on a motion in the same suit
to set aside the return. In one case a judgment was set aside six years
after its rendition on such an affidavit. (Michaels v. Stork, 52 Mich. 260,
and cases cited; Facey v. Fuller, 13 Mich. 527: Detroit Free Press Co. v.
Bagg. 78 Mich. 650.) In other words, while the return of an officer show
ing personal service may be set aside upon sufficient cause shown in the
same proceeding (even after judgment), still the return, until so set aside
in the same proceeding, is sufficient to give the court jurisdiction. (Low
v. Mills, 61 Mich. 41.) A sheriff's return of service may be amended by the
court in matter of form before or after judgment. (Sec. 7634.)

RULE 2.
Proceedings in Suits Commenced by Original Writ.
(a) In suits commenced by original writ (except as otherwise
specially provided by statute) the plaintiff shall file his dec
laration within fifteen days after the issue of the writ.1
(b) The defendant shall serve notice of his appearance or of
retainer and file a copy thereof with the clerk, within fifteen
days after service of the writ upon him, and the business ad
dress of the defendant's attorney shall appear upon the notice.2
(c) The plaintiff shall serve a copy of the declaration upon
the defendant's attorney within fifteen days after receiving no
tice of appearance or of retainer.
(d) The defendant shall file his plea or demurrer, and serve
a copy thereof upon the plaintiff's attorney within fifteen days

16

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 2.

after service of a copy of the declaration ; and this shall apply
also to aj>lea in abatement.
(e) All subsequent pleadings when admissible shall be re
spectively filed and copies served on the opposite party within
fifteen days of each other.
[Substitute .for former Kules 16 and 2A.]
Attachment Suits.— As to time for appearance in suits begun by attach
ment, where there has been no personal service of the writ and the statu
tory notice has been published, see note to Rule 12, Defaults.
1 Filing declaration in capias Suits.— The exception in subdivision (a)
refers to secs. 7310-7313, How. Stat., which relate to proceedings in suits
commenced by capias and which appear to prescribe a time for filing dec
larations in such suits inconsistent with subdivision (a). Those sections
provide, in substance, that if the defendant fails to give bail and is im
prisoned, upon special return showing those facts, "the plaintiff shall
declare against the defendant before the end of the term next after such
process was returnable " and deliver a copy of the declaration to the pris
oner or sheriff. In default of such declaration and service the defendant
shall be discharged and entitled to judgment of discontinuance. If the
defendant causes his appearance to be entered, or perfects special bail,
" the plaintiff shall declare against such defendant by the end of the next
term after the return of the writ." If the plaintiff fail to so declare, judg
ment of discontinuance may be entered. (See Fisher v. Barbour, 43 Mich.
19; In re Stephenson, 32 Mich. 60; Campau v. Seeley, 30 Mich. 60.)
2 " The plaintiff in his declaration, and the defendant in his plea, shall
state the name of the attorney or attorneys by whom they respectively
appear," but, except as specially required by law, the filing of a warrant
of attorney showing his authority to appear shall not be necessary. (Sec.
7314, How. Stat.; Dunlap v. Byers, 67 N. W. Rep. 1069.) Every person of
full age and sound mind may appear by attorney in every action or plea
by or against him in any court; or may at his election prosecute or de
fend such action or plea in person. But no person is permitted to appear
on the record in any civil cause in person while he has an attorney in
such case. (Sec. 7252.)
Effect of voluntary appearance.— On the one hand it operates as a
waiver of all defects in the process and irregularities in, or even the en
tire omission of, the service of process. (Pierce v. Rehfuss, 35 Mich. '53;
Bryant v. Hendee, 40 Mich. 543; Daily v. Kennedy, 64 Mich. 208; Austin v.
Burroughs, 62 Mich. 181; Manhard v. Schatt, 37 Mich. 234; Pardee v.
Smith, 27 Mich. 33; Gunn Hardware Co. v. Denison, 83 Mich. 40; Cofrode
v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 79 Mich. 339.) On the other hand, it entitles the
defendant to notice of future proceedings, whether he has followed his
appearance by plea or not (Rule 35), and also to fourteen days' notice of
the assessment of damages by the clerk. (Sec. 7647, How. Stat. ; Sinnock v.
Wayne Circuit Judge, 97 Mich. 475.)
A defendant may voluntarily appear in advance of service of process.
And a plaintiff submits himself to the jurisdiction of the court by filing a

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 3.

17

declaration as commencement of suit, whether there be the statutory serv
ice upon the defendant or not. (Cofrode v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 79 Mich.
339.) But this is true only as to jurisdiction of the person. Neither ap
pearance nor the actual consent of the parties can confer jurisdiction as
to subject-matter. (Kirkwood v. Hoxie, 95 Mich. 62.)

RULE 3.
Forms and Contents of Declarations — Affidavits to be At
tached Thereto.
(a) The forms of declarations adopted under the new English
rules prior to 1840, so far as they are not inconsistent with
either the statutes or the peculiar organization of the cir
cuit courts, may be used, or the same may be drawn according
to the forms heretofore in use. The business address of the
plaintiff's attorney, in suits begun by declaration, shall appear
upon the declaration. [Substitute for former Rule 18.]
(b) The statement of losing and finding in a declaration in
trover may be omitted.
(c) In declaring upon a policy of insurance, it shall not be
necessary to set forth specifically any more than the date and
amount of the policy, the premium paid or to be paid, the prop
erty or risk insured, and the loss; and upon the trial, proofs
may be made in the same way as if the declaration had set
forth the policy in full. [Portion of former Rule 104.]
(d) In actions brought by corporations, foreign or domestic,
the plaintiff may fie with the declaration an ajjiduvit stating
that the plaintiff is a corporation under the laws of some state,
territory or country, to be specified, and that the contract in
question was made, or the cause of action sued on accrued to
it as such corporation. If a copy of such affidavit is served
with the declaration, such affidavit shall be prima facie evi
dence of such incorporation, unless the defendant shall file with
the plea an affidavit denying such incorporation.1
Statutes bearing' upon the contents of declarations and decisions on
such statutes.— Sec. 7646 provides that, in actions on bills of exchange
or notes, a copy of the instrument may be filed and served with the
declaration, with the same effect as if it had been specially set out in the
declaration. And sec. 7346 permits the money counts alone to be used
2

18

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 3.

in actions on bills of exchange or notes, provided a copy of the instru
ment be served with the declaration. (See notes to Rules 1 and 8.)
Secs. 7341, 7342 and 7343 provide in substance that in actions of assump
sit, debt or trover for the recovery of property "received by any person
contrary to the provisions of any statute," the declaration may simply
aver an indebtedness to the plaintiff in the sum of money or in the value of
the goods so received, or converted, whereby an action has accrued to the
plaintiff according to the provisions of such statute, naming the subjectmatter of the statute. As, for instance, "according to the provisions of
the statute regulating the rate of interest on money." Or, "according to
the provisions of the statute against betting or gaming." A similar stat
ute relates to actions of assumpsit or debt to recover any penalty or for
feiture imposed by any statute. In such actions, in debt, the declaration
need not set forth the special matter, but needs simply to allege " that the
defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in the amount of such penalty or
forfeiture, whereby an action hath accrued according to the provisions of
the statute, specifying the section and chapter, or in some other similar
terms referring to such statute;" and in assumpsit to add in addition a
promise to pay. (Secs. 8432, 8433.) A similar statute applies to actions of
trover for the recovery of property forfeited by the provisions of any stat
ute. (Sec. 8434.) Under this last-mentioned statute, it seems, the partic
ular section of the statute should be named in the declaration, and not
merely the statute as a whole, and more particularity is required gener
ally. (Benalleck v. People, 31 Mich. 204.) But where the action is not for
the recovery of a penalty, but for damages arising from a neglect of duty
imposed by general statute, the declaration need not be specially framed
upon the statute. As, actions for damages arising out of the neglect of a
railroad company to fence its road. (G. R. & L v. Southwick, 30 Mich.
443.)
'
These statutes do not embrace actions for treble damages under sec. 8306.
In such actions, and generally in actions based on statutory liability, it has
been the rule that the statute must be both pleaded and counted on. By
pleading the statute is meant stating the facts which bring the case within
it, and negativing any exceptions in it; and by counting on it, is meant
making express reference to it by apt terms to show the source of right
relied on. (Myers v. Carr, 12 Mich. 63: Howser v. Melcher, 40 Mich. 189;
People v. Pendelton, 79 Mich. 317; People v. Curtis, 95 Mich. 212; Chicago,
etc. R R. Co. v. Sturgis, 44 Mich. 538; Benalleck v. People, 31 Mich. 201.)
But if the facts are stated, the objection that the declaration does not
count upon the statute is waived by failure to demur. (Fuller v. City of
Jackson, 82 Mich. 480; Hayes v. West Bay City, 91 Mich. 421.) And even
on demurrer it was held in Clark v. North Muskegon, 88 Mich. 310, that if
the pleader alleges the facts which bring his case within the statutory lia
bility, he is not required to refer expressly to the statute. [This seems to
overrule to some extent the cases before cited.]
If the plaintiff claims to recover on account of the violation by defend
ant of a municipal ordinance, the ordinance should be pleaded in the dec
laration. (Richter v. Harper, 95 Mich. 221 ; Gardner v. Railway Co., 99 Mich.
188.)

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 3.

19

In replevin, whether the original taking was lawful or otherwise, it is
sufficient to allege, " with requisite certainty of time, place and value, that
the defendant received the property to be delivered to the plaintiff when
thereunto afterwards requested, and that the defendant, although requested
so to do, has not delivered the same to plaintiff, but has unlawfully de
tained the same, to the damage of the plaintiff, such sum as he may
specify." (Sec. 8337; Riley v. Littlefield, 84 Mich. 26.) It is not necessary
to state a place certain within the township, city or village as that where
the property was detained. (Sec. 8338.) Nothing else than the statute
mentions need be alleged. In replevin for exempt goods seized by an offi
cer, they need not be described as exempt. (Elliott v. Whitmore, 5 Mich.
532.) There is no occasion to repeat the words of ownership in describing
other property. (Hasceig v. Tripp, 20 Mich. 219.) Nor to allege an assign
ment to plaintiff of title to the goods. (Myers v. Yople, 60 Mich. 345.)
In ejectment, the contents of the declaration are fixed by statute. It
needs to aver: 1st. That the plaintiff on some day therein specified, which
shall be after his right or title accrued (see Newell v. McLarney, 49 Mich.
232), was possessed of the premises in question, describing them, by setting
forth the section or part of section, town and range, with such certainty
that from such description possession of the premises claimed may be de
livered. 2d. That being so possessed, the defendant afterwards, and on
some day to be stated, entered into such premises and unlawfully with
holds from the plaintiff the possession thereof, to his damage any nominal
sum the plaintiff shall think proper to state. 3d. If the plaintiff claims
an undivided share or interest, the same must be stated particularly in
the declaration. And in every case, the declaration must state whether the
plaintiff claims in fee, or for his own life, or for the life of another, or for
a term of years, or otherwise, specifying such lives, or the duration of such
term. 4th. If the action be for the recovery of dower, the declaration
shall state that the plaintiff was possessed of the one undivided third part
of the premises, as her reasonable dower as widow of her husband, naming
him. (Secs. 7794-7797.) A declaration in ejectment which fails to state the
nature and extent of the plaintiff's title is fatally defective. The require
ment of the statute in that regard is mandatory. (Goodall v. Henkel, 60
Mich. 384, and cases cited.) But the plaintiff may be permitted to amend
the declaration in this respect so as to make it correspond with the right
established at the trial (Bringhurst v. Railroad Co., 78 Mich. 572; McCammon v. Railroad Co., 66 Mich. 442), even after judgment (Fisher v. Hallock,
50 Mich. 463); and where there has been no demurrer, it is error to refuse
to permit an amendment of the declaration, after issue joined, by setting
forth the estate which the plaintiff claims. (Ludeman v. Hirth, 96 Mich.
17.) The plaintiff in ejectment is not bound to aver the character of his
title, except as to its extent. (Richards v. Pierce, 44 Mich. 447.)
As to the sufficiency of certain descriptions in declarations in ejectment,
see Seely v. Howard, 23 Mich. 11; White v. Hapeman, 43 Mich. 267; Hovey
v. Smith, 22 Mich. 170.
In ejectment (except for dower), the declaration may contain several
counts, and several parties may be named as plaintiffs jointly in one
count and separately in others. (Sec. 7798.) (See De Mill v. Comstock, 49
Mich. 125, and Stewart v. Ashley, 34 Mich. 183.)

20

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 3.

In actions for seduction, the declaration need no longer allege loss of
service (sec. 7779), nor that the person seduced was the servant of the
plaintiff. Instead, it is sufficient to allege the relationship of such per
son to the plaintiff or that such person is the ward of the plaintiff. (Sec.
7780.) (See Watson v. Watson, 49 Mich. 540; Ryan v. Fralick, 50 Mich,
483; Badder v. Keefer, 91 Mich. 613.)
Sec. 7777 makes it unnecessary to entitle any declaration of any term
•of the court, or of any day in term . or vacation, or to mention the name
of the state in the venue. (See Danaher v. Hitchcock, 34 Mich. 516.)
In actions on bills of exchange or promissory notes, a declaration on
the money counts alone and the service of a copy of the bill or note with
the declaration is sufficient. (Secs. 7345, 7346.)
By the terms of sec. 2, subd. 18, How. Stat., acts of incorporation may
be declared on as public acts, and given in evidence without specially
pleading the same.
1 Affidavits as proof of incorporation.— Subdivision (d) of this rule is
to be read in connection with secs. 7528, 7529, How. Stat. Sec. 7529 pro
vides in substance that an affidavit of copartnership served with the decla
ration or process by which the suit is commenced shall be prima facie
evidence of such copartnership, unless denied by affidavit filed with the
plea. This section applj'ing only to copartnerships, it is supplemented by
subdivision (d) of the rule. Sec. 7528 provides in substance that when
necessary to prove the incorporation of any company, or corporation, or
the existence of any joint-stock company or association, foreign or do
mestic, evidence that it is doing business under a certain ; name shall
be prima facie evidence of its name and its due incorporation or exist
ence. And as shown in the notes to Rule 6, a plea general issue is an ad
mission of the incorporation of the jjlaintiff, if it sues as a corporation.
A similar provision to Rule 3 (d) and sec. 7529 is found in sec. 7525,
which provides in substance for serving with the writ or declaration, in an
action on account, an affidavit of the amount due and a copy of the ac
count. The affidavit is made prima facie evidence of the indebtedness
unless denied on oath by affidavit accompanying the plea. A like pro
cedure may be taken by the defendant in connection with a notice of set
off. To be effectual as prima facie evidence the statute must be complied
with and the record must show the fact. And it seems the affidavit must
be offered in evidence. (Gordon v. Sibley, 59 Mich. 253; McGowan v. Lamb,
66 Mich. 615; Bjorkquest v. Wagar, 83 Mich. 229; Morrill v. Bissell, 99
Mich. 411.)
When different causes of action may be joined in one declaration.—
[There is no statute governing this subject. The common-law rules pre
vail.] A plaintiff may join all of his causes of action in one declaration
and have them all tried in one suit if in separate suits he could recover on
each in the same form of action. (Tregent v. Maybee, 54 Mich. 227; Ran
dall v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 96 Mich. 286; Bellant v. Brown, 78 Mich. 296.)
Since the statute permitting assumpsit on judgments, a claim upon a
judgment may be joined with a claim for use and occupation, and with
the common counts. (Hogsett v. Ellis, 17 Mich. 350.) False imprisonment
.and slander may be joined in a declaration in an action of trespass on the

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 3.

21

case, since sec. 7759 permits that form of action for all injuries to the
person, or to personal property for which an action of trespass is main
tainable. (Moore v. Thompson, 92 Mich. 498.) And for the same reason,
false imprisonment and malicious prosecution may be joined. (Long v.
Wayne Circuit Judge, 27 Mich. 164; Haskins v. Ralston, C9 Mich. 65.) The
statute referred to removes all objection to the joinder of a count in tres
pass with one in trespass on the case, in cases where either form of action
is permissible, and should be liberally construed. (Bellant v. Brown, 78
Mich. 294; Haines v. Beach, 90 Mich. 565.) But as that statute does not
cover a case of trespass upon lands but only to the person or to personal
property, [an action for trespass upon land could not be joined with an ac
tion of trespass on the case]. (Wood v. Railroad Co., 81 Mich. 358.)
With the common counts in assumpsit there may be joined a special
count charging the fraudulent obtaining of the moneys sued for,' and
waiving the tort. Under our practice, assumpsit may be brought on the
waiver of a tort, and the action on such waiver may be joined with other
causes of action maintainable in assumpsit. (Tregent v. Maybee, 54 Mich.
227.) And a special count in assumpsit for breach of warranty on the sale
of a horse may be joined with a count for the recovery of money paid for
the horse without consideration. (Murphy v. McGraw, 74 Mich. 322.)
An action for maliciously suing out a writ of attachment, and an action
for circulating reports of the same general character as the allegations of
the affidavit for attachment, may be joined. (Cadwell v. Corey, 91 Mich.
335.)
A series of wrongful acts, all aimed at a single result, and contributory
to the injury complained of, viz., the destruction of one's business and
credit, may be counted upon collectively in one count in an action of case,
and need not be made the basis of separate actions, especially when grow
ing out of the breach of a single contract. (Oliver v. Perkins, 92 Mich.
304.)
In an action of trespass on the case, separate causes of action for ob
structing a navigable river, for a like obstruction at another time, for
breaking plaintiff's booms, and for breaking his booms at another time,
may be joined, each being set forth in a different count. (Bellant v.
Brown, 78 Mich. 294.) And in case, there may be joined a count for wrong
ful expulsion of plaintiff from premises, and a count for assault and bat
tery. (Taylor v. Adams, 58 Mich. 187.)
An action of trover cannot be joined with one of trespass, nor with an
action of assumpsit. (Haines v. Beach, 90 Mich. 563.)
A count for damages for the unlawful sale of liquor cannot include a
claim for the recovery of the money paid, nor can two such claims be
joined in a single action. (Friend v. Dunks, 37 Mich. 26.) But joining
two repugnant counts in a declaration does not preclude a recovery upon
one of them. They do not destroy and nullify each other. (Berringer v.
Cobb, 58 Mich. 560; Barton v. Gray, 48 Mich. 167.)
Some general rules of pleading applicable to declarations.— A mul
titude of words is not necessary, although reasonable certainty is required
of a pleader's meaning. Our practice neither requires nor encourages the
needless repetition of allegations. A plain and clear statement of the facts

22

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 3.

constituting the wrong complained of is sufficient. Extreme niceties and
technical exactness in form is not favored. The object of the declaration
being to apprise the defendant and the court of the grounds of the pleader's
claim, to give the defendant fair notice of the case he is called to
meet, it is sufficient when it accomplishes this purpose. (Ayers v. Toulmin, 74 Mich. 44; Antcliffe v. June, 81 Mich. 477: Coon v. Plymouth Co.,
31 Mich. 178; Merkle v. Bennington, 68 Mich. 133; People v. Miller, 15 Mich.
354: Gooding v. Underwood, 89 Mich. 187.) The pleader should state facts
and not the evidence of facts, nor conclusions from the facts. He should
be reasonably precise in his wording, for all implications are against him,
and an ambiguous or equivocal allegation is construed most favorably for
the other party. (O'Neil v. Railway Co., 101 Mich. 437 ; Picard v. McCormick,
11 Mich. 68; Bush v. Dunham, 4 Mich. 339; Brown v. Moore, 32 Mich. 254;
Leland v. Goodfellow, 84 Mich. 357.) He should not join in a single count
two or more causes of action. (Ives v. Williams, 53 Mich. 636; Perkins v.
Hershey, 77 Mich. 512; Portage Lake Society v. Phillips, 36 Mich. 23; Shafer
v. Boyce, 41 Mich. 256; Bellant v. Brown, 78 Mich. 296.) He need not and
should not allege presumptions of law, nor anticipate the answer of the
opposite party. (Farmers' Bank v. Kingsley, 2 Doug. 387; Attorney-Gen
eral v. Bank, 2 Doug. 359; Brown v. Thompson, 29 Mich. 72.)
Allegation of assignment to plaintiff.— One suing upon a claim which
he holds by assignment must allege the assignment in his declaration.
(Blockwood v. Brown, 32 Mich. 107; Rose v. Jackson, 40 Mich. 34.) The
rule is a reasonable one and often has the effect to prevent surprise.
(Cilley v. Van Patten, 58 Mich. 406.) It is affirmed in Altman v. Fowler,
70 Mich. 61 ; Pierce v. Closterhouse, 96 Mich. 124, and Powell v. Williams,
99 Mich. 30. But in averring an assignment by a firm, it is not necessary
to specify the individual members comprising the firm. (Wyckoff v.
Bishop, 98 Mich. 352.) An averment "that the plaintiff is now the owner
and holder of said agreement " was held sufficient in the absence of special
demurrer. (Draper v. Fletcher, 26 Mich. 154.) And an amendment is al
lowable to introduce a proper averment (Waldron v. Hairing, 28 Mich. 494),
especially if a bill of particulars shows the character of the claim sued
upon. (Kelly v. Waters, 31 Mich. 404.) And it has been held that such a
bill of particulars renders unnecessary any further allegation of assign
ment. (Snell v. Gregory, 37 Mich. 501; Morrill v. Bissell, 99 Mich. 414.)
Allegation of partnership or incorporation.— A general allegation that
the plaintiff or defendant is a corporation under the laws of this state, or
descriptive words to that effect, is sufficient. (Paliniter v. Lumber Co., 31
Mich. 183; G. R & I. v. Southwick, 30 Mich. 445; Clark v. North Muskegon,
88 Mich. 309^) A declaration against two defendants on the common counts
with a promissory note appended, purporting to be signed in a firm name,
is not open to demurrer for a failure to allege that defendants are partners.
(Danaher v. Hitchcock, 34 Mich. 515.) Sec. 8141 provides that it shall
not be necessary, in actions by or against domestic corporations, to recite
the act of incorporation or the proceedings by which the incorporation
was created, or to set forth the substance thereof, but it " may be pleaded
by reciting the title of such act and the date of its approval."

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 4.

23

RULE 4.
Bill of Particulars.
(a) In cases in which the defendant is entitled to demand a
bill of particulars, the plaintiff shall serve and file a copy of
such bill, unless it has been already furnished, on being served
with a notice demanding the same; and if such bill be de
manded before the expiration of the time for filing plea or
demurrer, the defendant shall have like time to plead or demur
after receiving the bill of particulars, to which he was entitled
at the time of serving such notice. [Former Rule 37.]
(b) If the plaintiff shall unreasonably neglect to furnish a
bill of particulars, or if the bill of particulars delivered be
insufficient, the court may in its discretion nonsuit the plaint
iff, allow further time to furnish it, or require a more particular
bill to be delivered. [Former Rule 38.]
(c) In cases where it is competent for the plaintiff to call
upon the defendant for a hill of the particulars of his set-off, the
defendant shall file and serve a copy of such bill, unless already
furnished, on the written request of the plaintiff's attorney;
and in case it be not furnished within thirty days after such
request, the court may exclude all testimony concerning it.
If the bill of particulars of set-off furnished by the defendant
is insufficient, the defendant, on motion, shall be required to
furnish a more specific bill of particulars. [Former Eule 39,
with last clause added.]
Must be filed.— Under the practice prior to act 100 of the Laws of 1885
(sea 73706, vol. 3) it was not necessary to file a bill of particulars. By the
terms of that act, a duplicate of the bill of particulars required of either
party must be filed in the cause at the time of furnishing it to the other
party, and the new rule is to the same effect.
The object of a bill of particulars.— It is to inform the opposite party
of the causes of action to be relied upon on the trial which are not specific
ally set out in the declaration (Davis v. Freeman, 10 Mich. 188; Hamilton
v. Frothingham, 71 Mich. 627); to prevent surprise at the trial by unex
pected claims under cover of the common counts (Mason v. Fractional
School District, 34 Mich. 228); to apprise the other party of the nature of
the items (Waterman v. Waterman, 34 Mich. 490); to avoid surprise, but
not to enable parties to make vexatious requirements (Freehling v.
Ketchum, 39 Mich. 300); to obviate the uncertainty of general pleading

24:

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 4

and secure such information as will enable the parties to make an intelli
gent preparation for trial, and to enter upon the investigation before the
court or jury with an understanding as to what is really in controversy.
(Cicotte v. Wayne County, 44 Mich. 174 ; Hamilton v. Ingham Circuit Judge,
84 Mich. 397.) The bill of particulars is explanatory of the declaration and
in some respects an amplification of it. (Nugent v. Teachout, 67 Mich.
574; Wright v. Dickinson, 67 Mich. 583; Knop v. Insurance Co., 101 Mich.
361.) But "it is not required that the bill of particulars shall contain all
the essential elements of a special declaration. It is neither given nor re
quired for the purpose of disclosing to an adverse party the proof relied
on to substantiate the same; nor is it the office of such bill to furnish to
defendant facts whereon to found an affirmative defense in his behalf. 'r
(Hamilton v. Ingham Circuit Judge, 84 Mich. 397.)
Not considered on demurrer, etc.— A bill of particulars is not so far a
part of the declaration as to be considered in determining a demurrer to
the declaration. " A demurrer to a bill of particulars would be an anom
aly." (Cicotte v. Wayne County, 44 Mich. 175; Same Case, 59 Mich. 512;
Weston v. County of Luce, 102 Mich. 528.) But it was held, although the
common counts may not include a count for real property sold and con
veyed, still where, with a common counts declaration, there is filed a bill
of particulars showing the plaintiff's claim to be for money due on a sale
of land, the plaintiff may proceed as if he had counted generally for land
sold. (Nugent v. Teachout, 67 Mich. 574.)
Action before justice of the peace on common counts to recover price
of fruit trees sold and delivered. The order for the trees was filed. Held,
on certiorari, not error to admit evidence of an assignment of the claim to
the plaintiff. The court said: "A demand of a bill of particulars would
have furnished all the information needed. We see no difficulty where
the suit is under the common counts in getting all needful notice of the
nature of the demand by bill of particulars." (Kelly v. Waters, 31 Mich.
405.) And where a bill of particulars is attached to a common counts
declaration and shows an assignment of the claim to the plaintiff, an aver
ment of the assignment in the declaration is unnecessary. (Snell v. Greg
ory. 37 Mich. 500.) But see Hatzenbuhler v. Lewis, 51 Mich. 585.
When not a matter of right.— A bill of particulars in a slander case
cannot be required where the suit is begun by capias and the affidavit
gives the particulars. (Gibbs v. Superior Court Judge, 53 Mich. 497.) In
an action for breach of contract, where the damages are unliquidated, the
plaintiff cannot be required to fix such damages in a bill of particulars.
(Van Vranken v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 85 Mich. 142.) Nor can a bill of par
ticulars be required in an action on the case for consequential injuries.
(Everett v. Marquette Circuit Judge, 39 Mich. 437; Kehrig v. Peters, 41
Mich. 478; Shadock v. Alpine Co., 79 Mich. 7.) Nor is it generally a matter
of right against a plaintiff who is proceeding against a garnishee, though
it might be proper in some cases. (Strong v. Hollen, 39 Mich. 411.)
Failure to furnish.— When properly demanded, a bill of particulars is
not waived by pleading or by noticing the case for trial. And on refusal
of a plaintiff to furnish it. an objection to the evidence is properly sus
tained. (Peterson v. Tilden, 44 Mich. 168; Lovette v. Essig, 92 Mich. 461.)

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 4.

2i>

But in case of inability to furnish it that fact may be shown, and the per
formance of an impossibility will not be required as a condition of relief.
(Rossman v. Bock, 97 Mich. 435.)
What a bill of particulars must contain.— Where the bill of particulars
sets up money loaned, it is admissible to give in evidence the loan of coin,
bank bills or any well-known circulating medium, popularly known and
designated as money; but under such a bill of particulars it is not admis
sible to show the loan of a United States bond or a municipal bond, or other
bond, or promissory note, even though worth par and converted into money
by the borrower. (Waterman v. Waterman, 34 Mich. 491.) An item for
wages will not cover money returned by plaintiff to defendant, as a loan,
after receiving it as payment for the wages. (Judd v. Burton, 51 Mich. 74.)
Evidence of damages for breach of contract of hire is not admissible under
a notice of set-off and recoupment when the bill of particulars gives no in
timation of such damages. (Ritter v. Daniels, 47 Mich. 617.) And where
the bill of particulars was for "services in procuring a sale " of newspaper
property, and the plaintiff's claim on two trials was for the excess over a
certain sum received, he cannot, on a third trial, when defeated on that
claim, rely on an express promise to pay $1,000. (Hamilton v. Frothingham, 71 Mich. 628.) Nor can there be a recovery for money had and re
ceived, for plaintiff's use, where the bill of particulars was for money loaned,
without an amendment. (Feiertag v. Feiertag, 73 Mich. 300.) As to what
should be included in a bill of particulars in an action for breach of a pub
lisher's contract, see Van Vranken v. Wayne Circuit Judge. 85 Mich. 142.
There can be no recovery for items not in the bill of particulars, nor for
more than it alleges, 'unless an amendment of it is allowed. (Bennett v.
Smith, 40 Mich. 212.) In an action agains,t a stockholder on a labor debt,
it seems tiiat the defendant may require a bill of particulars showing the
time the labor was performed and the character thereof. (Peterson v.
Tilden, 44 Mich. 168.) In an action for goods sold, the bill of particulars
informed defendant of the dates and amounts of the several sales and de
liveries of merchandise. No demand was made for a further bill. The
court decided that " this is all that can usually be necessary to inform a
defendant what he is expected to meet, and if he is dissatisfied and really
needs a fuller statement he should demand it." (Freehling v. Ketchum, 39
Mich. 300.) (See. also, Township of Buckeye v. Clark, 90 Mich. 432; Tanner
v. Page, 63 N. W. Rep. 993.) But this rule applies only to cases where there
has been some effort at compliance with the first demand, and not to a case
where the bill furnished is obscure and evasive, giving no more informa
tion than the declaration. (Knop v. Insurance Co., 101 Mich. 361.) A bill of
particulars is sufficient if it fairly apprise the opposite party of the nature
of the claim, so that there can be no surprise. (Wright v. Dickinson, 67
Mich. 583.) Under a bill of particulars for money had and received by de
fendant on land contracts without consideration, by reason of lack of title,
plaintiff may show, in the absence of a claim of surprise, that the con
tracts were void under the statute of frauds. (Ibid.) In an action for
money had and received, the bill need not state the grounds on which the
plaintiff claims, but only the items and particulars, which must be suffi
ciently specific and certain to apprise the defendant of what the demand

26

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 5.

is and how it arose and the amount claimed. It need not state how and
by what right and when the plaintiff or his assignors became entitled, and
how and when the plaintiff acquired such right. (Hamilton v. Ingham
Circuit Judge, 84 Mich. 397.) In an action by a township to recover money
paid to defendant on its township orders, a bill of particulars referred to
the orders by number. Held, that if defendant desired further informa
tion in advance of the trial, he should have made application for a more
specific bill. (Buckeye Township v. Clark, 90 Mich. 434.)
The date of a transaction as fixed in the bill of particulars, in an action
for the balance due on the sale of a horse, is not necessarily controlling.
(Tate v. Hamilton, 81 Mich. 224.) In mentioning dates, it is not necessary
that the exact date shall be given; but it may be stated as "on or about"
a certain day, without resulting in a restriction to proof of that special
day, so long as the date is not so variant as to mislead. (Hamilton v. Ing
ham Circuit Judge, 84 Mich. 397.)
See, also, Duplanty v. Stokes, 103 Mich. 630.
Amendment of bill of particulars at the trial.— A formal amendment
of a bill of particulars (as the changing of a date) should be allowed at the
trial, without costs or delay, where the claim of surprise on the part of
the defendant is clearly a mere pretense, and it is not a reasonable exer
cise of discretion for the court to refuse it in such a case. (Tate v. Ham
ilton, 81 Mich. 224; Collins v. Beecher, 45 Mich. 437.) In its discretion, the
court may at the trial permit proper items to be added, if the opposite
party does not ask an adjournment or continuance to enable him to ex
amine the new items; if he does, and claims surprise, he may then prop
erly claim that his rights have been prejudiced. (Lester v. Thompson, 91
Mich. 248; Connell v. McNett, 67 N. W. Rep. 344.) The court may also
permit the amount of a set-off in a bill of particulars to be increased,
where such amendment cannot take plaintiff by surprise. (Mead v. Glidden, 79 Mich. 209.) (See, also, Cumin v. Wilcox, 47 Mich. 502; Hollywood
v. Reed, 57 Mich. 234, and Feiertag v. Feiertag, 73 Mich. 297.)

RULE 5.
Demurrers.
(a) The form of a demurrer may be as follows : " The de
fendant says that the declaration of the plaintiff is not sufficient
in law," adding hriefly but plainly the special reasons in matters
of substance as well as form. [Taken from former Rules 17
and 34.]
(b) If any pleading shall be adjudged bad for any cause
which is not plainly specified in the demurrer, the party plead
ing shall be permitted to amend without costs. [From former
Bule 34.]

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 5.

27

(c) To every demurrer there shall be added the individual
.certificate of counsel having principal charge of the cause in
behalf of the party filing the demurrer, to the effect that the
•demurrer is not interposed for delay, and that in his opinion it
is well founded. And a demurrer not accompanied with such
a certificate shall be stricken from the files on motion, unless
the court shall deem it proper to allow the certificate to be
added. _
(d) . A joinder in demurrer shall not he necessary, and on the
filing of a demurrer the cause may be noticed for trial on the
issue of law, by either party. [Substitute for former Rule 17.]
Form of a demurrer.— [Under the present practice, a special demurrer
is one which relates to matters of form in the declaration, while a general
demurrer questions the substance of the plaintiff's case and the right of
the plaintiff to recovery on the facts alleged. (See Mayor v. Park Com'rs,
44 Mich. 603.) In both cases, however, the special reasons for the demurrer
" in matters of substance as well as form " must be plainly added.]
Sec. 7358. How. Stat., provides in substance that a defect or imperfec
tion in a process or pleading shall be ignored on demurrer, " unless such
defect or other imperfection be specially expressed in the demurrer."
And sec. 7359 provides substantially as does Rule 5 (b). The sections and
the rule have been construed to mean that every objection either of form
or substance be specified in a demurrer, and that if this is not done and
the declaration sets forth a cause of action, the demurrer will be over
ruled. (Adrian Water-works v. Adrian, 64 Mich. 585.)
The special reasons should be so stated as to apprise the court of the
real objection, and if they are not, the party demurring can claim noth
ing under them. " Any other practice would be an obvious affront to com
mon sense as well as justice." (Kellogg v. Hamilton, 43 Mich. 271.) An
objection to a declaration for duplicity should specially assign duplicity.
{Randall v. Evening News, 92 Mich. 467.)
Verbal demurrers in the circuit court are unauthorized. (Jenks v.
Brown, 38 Mich. 651.) A demurrer on technical grounds will not affect
the sufficiency of the declaration in matters of substance. (Enright v.
Hartsig. 46 Mich. 471.) And when a party demurs on technical grounds,
technical regularity in the demurrer will be required of him. " Whenever
a party proposes to hold his adversary to the utmost strictness in matters
of practice, he virtually demands the application of the same stringent
rule to himself." (Comstock v. McEvoy, 52 Mich. 326.)
In a case on a city contract the declaration set out the contract but not
the specifications which formed part of it. It was held proper practice
for the defendant to attach to his demurrer the specifications, so that the
whole contract might be before the court. (Matthewson v. Grand Rapids,
88 Mich. 561.)
A motion to strike from the files is the proper proceeding for getting
rid of a defective demurrer. (Comstock v. McEvoy, 52 Mich. 324.)

28

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 5.

Effect of demurrer.—While a demurrer in the determination of thequestions, of law raised by it is taken as an admission of the facts set forth
in the declaration, the inferences and conclusions of the pleader are not
admitted. (Dubois v. Hutchinson, 40 Mich. 262.) A demurrer is an ap
pearance, and a general demurrer waives objections to jurisdiction of the
person. (Thompson v. Michigan Asso., 52 Mich. 522.)
What objections must be raised by demurrer, etc.— The objection that
the declaration in an action for trespass to land does not contain a suffi
cient averment of plaintiff's ownership should be raised by demurrer.
(Clark v. Field, 42 Mich. 342.) And so of an objection that the declaration
on a bond does not sufficiently allege its breach. (Jennison v. Haire, 29
Mich. 200.) And the objection that in a suit based on a statute the decla
ration does not count upon the statute. (Fuller v. City of Jackson, 82
Mich. 4S0; G. R & L v. Southwick, 30 Mich. 446; Benalleck v. People, 31
Mich. 205.) And the objection that a declaration in ejectment does not
state the nature and extent of the plaintiff's title. (Goodall v. Henkel, 60Mich. 382.) And the objection that a single count contains two incompat
ible causes of action. (Shafer v. Boyce, 41 Mich. 256.) Formal and tech
nical defects in the declaration can be raised only by demurrer. (Sec. 7358,
How. Stat.; Aldrich v. Chubb, 35 Mich. 359: Hathaway v. Sackett, 32 Mich.
103; Briggs v. Milburn, 40 Mich. 513.) When a defendant is called to an
swer a declaration which he deems objectionable, he should demur, unless
he means to waive the supposed defect. (Van Middlesworth v. Van Middlesworth, 32 Mich. 187; G. R & L v. Southwick, 30 Mich. 445. See, also,
sea 7635, How. Stat., subd. 7.) The defendant may demur to a declara
tion in ejectment as in personal actions. (Sec. 7808, How. Stat.) A de
murrer to an entire declaration, which in addition to the special counts
contains the money counts, cannot be sustained. (Weston v. County of
Luce, 102 Mich. 529.)
Demurrer to special counts, etc.— A demurrer maybe interposed to
one or more counts of a declaration, and a plea filed to the remainder. In
such case the court cannot render final judgment for defendant on the
whole record, when determining the sufficiency of the demurrer. The
plaintiff has a right to a trial on the issue of fact made by the plea. (Bosman v. Akley, 39 Mich. 711.) A demurrer to special counts would not
admit facts stated only in the consolidated common counts. (Rose v.
Jackson, 40 Mich. 30.) But a demurrer and a plea to the merits to the
same count are inconsistent. A demurrer should be taken before going toissue on the facts. And a plea to the merits filed after demurrer waives
and supersedes the demurrer. (Cicotte v. Wayne County, 44 Mich. 173;
Peterson v. Fowler. 76 Mich. 258.)
Frivolous demurrers.— A plaintiff may move the court for judgment
on the ground that the demurrer is frivolous. In such case, to entitle the
plaintiff to judgment, the demurrer must be so clearly without foundation
as to justify the inference that it was interposed merely for delay. In
such a case particularly, it is not a matter of right for the defendant to
plead over. (Wyckoff v. Bishop, 98 Mich. 354.)
Demurrer at the trial.— If a defendant claims that the declaration is
defective on its face, he should demur. If he waits until the trial and.

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 6.

29

then objects, he will be held to strict rules, all intendments should be
against him, and, if possible to save the case by amendment, the necessarypermission should be given. (Jen ni son v. Haire, 29 Mich. 209; Barton v.
<iray, 48 Mich. 166; Sutton v. Van Akin, 51 Mich. 463.) Objections to the
form of pleadings, raised by way of objections to the admission of evi
dence, are not favored, and will not be noticed if amendable. (Van Middlesworth v. Van Middlesworth, 32 Mich. 183; Aldrich v. Chubb, 35 Mich.
359; Norton v. Colgrove, 41 Mich. 544; Cook v. Perry, 43 Mich. 625; Burke
v. Wilber, 42 Mich. 327; Lamb v. Jeffrey, 41 Mich. 719.)
As to amendment of demurrer, without leave of court, see Rule 10 (b).
As to certificate of counsel, see note to Chancery Rule 9.

RULE 6.
Pleas in Abatement and Proceedings Thereon.
(a) Whenever the defendant interposes a plea in abatement,
he may also, at the same time, plead the general issue; and in
such case, if an issue of fact be made on the plea in abatement,
such issue shall stand for trial first; and if it be found against
the defendant, the trial shall at once proceed on the issue on the
merits, unless the court, on cause shown, shall allow a postpone
ment. And if the issue on the plea in abatement is tried by
jury, the issue on the merits, except when postponement is
ordered, shall stand for trial before the same jury. When the
issue in abatement shall be found for the defendant, the court
may, in its discretion, allow the plaintiff to amend the declara
tion, and the cause shall thereupon proceed on such terms as
the court shall prescribe. [Former Rule 102.]
(b) The court will not entertain a motion to set aside the
proceedings in a cause on the ground of misnomer1 of the
party arrested, but will leave him to his remedy by a plea in
abatement. [Former Rule 25.]
(c) When the defendant in any action founded on contract
shall plead in abatement the non joinder of any other person as
defend-ant, the court in term time, or the judge in vacation,
may, at any time, allow the plaintiff, on such terms as the court
or judge shall prescribe, to amend his declaration, by inserting
therein the name of any other person as defendant,2 and de
claring against him jointly with the original defendant. [Former
Rule 66, slightly altered.]

n9 348
i|7

•

30

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 6.

(d) The plaintiff may thereupon take out a writ, in such form
as the court or judge shall prescribe, which shall be in the nat
ure of a summons, and shall require the new defendant to appear
and answer as defendant in the original action ; and such writ
shall be served as in other cases. [Former Kule 67.]
Upon the return of such writ, every person named therein as
defendant shall be bound to appear and answer with the other
defendants, in the same manner as if they had all been originally
made parties. [Former Kule 68.]
(e) If a legal service cannot be made on any such new defend
ant, by reason of his absence from the state, or other sufficient
cause, the action may nevertheless proceed against all the de
fendants who are duly served, in like manner as provided by
law when one of several defendants is not duly served with
process. [Former Rule 69.]
(f) Judgment shall be rendered and execution shall issue in
every such case, for either party, in the same manner as if the
suit had been originally commenced against all the defendants.
[Former Rule 70.]
'»
Requirements of form, etc., In a plea in abatement.— By statute, on
plea in abatement, or other dilatory plea, which does not involve the mer
its of the action, shall be received by any court, unless the party offering
such plea shall prove the truth thereof by affidavit or by some other evi
dence. (Sec. 7360, How. Stat.) Pleas in abatement are not favored, and
certainty to every intent is required. Nothing can be taken by intend
ment in favor of the pleader, and a plea of former suit pending, which
does not plainly show that the former suit is still pending and is based on
the same promises and undertakings mentioned in the second suit, is in
sufficient. (Wales v. Jones, 1 Mich. 256.) It must have the highest degree
of certainty and precision, and every allegation necessary to make out the
case must be distinctly and not inferentially set forth. And a plea of for
mer replevin suit must aver that the former writ of replevin described
and was directed against the same property, and that the necessary affi
davit was attached to the former writ. (Beldon v. Laing, 8 Mich. 502.
See, also, Burt v. Addison, 74 Mich. 730, and Carew v. Matthews, 41 Mich.
576.) It must be certain according to the most rigid rules of precision. A
plea to the jurisdiction must always show another forum where the rights
have already become subject to judicial authority. (Heyman v. Covell, 36
Mich. 158.) It must expressly state every fact necessary to support it, and
exclude everything that would defeat it, if alleged on the other side, and
must not rest on mere conclusions drawn from facts which are not set
forth. (Dubois v. Hutchinson, 40 Mich. 262; People v. Lauder, 82 Mich.
109. See Campbell v. Hudson, 64 N. W. Rep. 483.) A plea of former suit
is bad if it does not aver that the former suit is pending at the time of

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 6.

31

putting in the plea. (Pew v. Yoare, 12 Mich. 20.) A plea of non-joinder
of plaintiffs in a trespass case must show the interest of the person not
joined at the time of the trespass and not merely at the time of commence
ment of suit. (East v. Cain, 49 Mich. 475.) And a plea in abatement based
on the alleged copartnership of the plaintiff and defendant, but which
fails to aver that the cause of action set up in the plaintiff's declaration
grew out of partnership accounts, is too uncertain to stand. But it seems
a plea in abatement is not necessary to raise such a defense. (Mcintosh v.
Mcintosh, 79 Mich. 199.)
But pleas in abatement involving the abuse of the process of the court
are not regarded with the same strictness as other pleas in abatement.
(Campbell v. Hudson, 64 N. W. Rep. 483.)
As to amendment of pleas in abatement without leave of court, Bee
Rule 10 (b).
When plea in abatement necessary or proper.— It is said that " matter
which is merely in denial of the plaintiff's right of action is never plead
able in abatement." Applied to a case where the defendant pleaded an
agreement on the part of the plaintiff not to sue defendant until plaintiff
had used all legal means against another, etc. (Morgan v. Butterfield, 3
Mich. 616, 625.) On the other hand, " there is nothing in any of our stat
utes which permits matter in abatement to be given in evidence under a
plea in bar [to the merits"]. (Near v. Mitchell. 23 Mich. 383.)
Non-joinder of a defendant cannot usually be pleaded except in abate
ment, where there is no statute or other fixed rule requiring parties to be
joined as a condition of the action. (Purvis v. Butler, 87 Mich. 248; Peo
ple v. Dennis, 4 Mich. 609; Bowen v. Culp, 36 Mich. 224; Hinman v. Eakins,
26 Mich. 81; Ballow v. Hill, 25 Mich. 204; Munn v. Haynes, 46 Mich. 140;
Coon v. Anderson, 101 Mich. 296; Dillenbeck v. Simmons, 63 N. W. Rep.
438. And see Campbell v. Sherman, 49 Mich. 535; sec. 7353, How. Stat.)
So must non-joinder of plaintiffs be pleaded in abatement. (Ackley v.
Hull, 7 Mich. 429; Butterfield v. Gilchrist, 53 Mich. 22.) But a failure to
plead it does not enlarge the private cause of damage of the plaintiff.
(Ives v. Williams, 53 Mich. 641.) And the rule was held not to apply to a hus
band who has, independently of his wife, no legal interest or cause of ac
tion, but who sues alone for her property. The non-joinder of the wife
need not be pleaded, and the husband's action will fail. (Brown t. Fifield,
4 Mich. 322.) Non-joinder cannot be taken advantage of, with a plea of
abatement, when the case is submitted. (Mitchell v. Chambers, 43 Mich.
157.) There is no waiver, however, when the defendant has had no chance
to plead non-joinder, as by discontinuance as to one defendant after plea
by another. (Munn v. Haynes, 46 Mich. 145.)
An objection that a county should have sued in its own name instead
of in that of the board of supervisors is waived if not pleaded in abatement.
(Johr v. Board, 38 Mich. 532:)
A plea in abatement, it seems, is proper when a non-resident defendant
claims to have been decoyed into the county for the purpose of service of
process, and such a plea will not be treated as dilatory. (Campbell v. Hud
son, 64 N. W. Rep. 483, and cases cited.)
By statute, in actions by or against corporations, a mistake in the nam

32

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 6.

ing of the corporation shall be pleaded in abatement, and if not so pleaded
shall be deemed waived. (Sec. 8142. How. Stat.) And in actions brought
by domestic corporations, it is not necessary to prove the existence of the
corporation, unless the defendant shall have pleaded in abatement or
given sworn notice of such defense. (Sec. 8140, How. Stat.) A plea of
the general issue admits the corporate existence of the plaintiff. (Garton v. Union City Nat. Bank, 84 Mich. 279; Lake Superior Co. v. Thomp
son, 32 Mich. 293; Wilson Co. v. Spears, 50 Mich. 535; Smith v. Village of
Adrian, 1 Mich. 495.) The rule is different, however, as to foreign corpo
rations. (Bank v. Bank, 1 Doug. 457; Owen v. Bank, 2 Doug. 134.) . But
only slight evidence is required (sec. 7528. How. Stat.; Gow v. Collin Co.,
66 N. W. Rep. 676); even when the defendant pleads nul tiel corporation.
(Gravel Road Co. v. Paas, 95 Mich. 373.)
Suit on a bond against one of two obligors is good if the non-joinder of
the other is not pleaded in abatement. (Porter v. Leache, 56 Mich. 40.)
Objection to the jurisdiction of a court of general jurisdiction must be
taken advantage of by a plea in abatement. (Webb v. Mann, 3 Mich. 141.)
As, that another court has exclusive jurisdiction. (Chicago, etc. Ry. Co.
v. Nestor, 63 Mich. 658.) But it seems that the defense that the plaintiff's
cause of action grew out of the accounts of a partnership between plaint
iff and defendant need not be pleaded in abatement. (Mcintosh v. Mc
intosh, 79 Mich. 199.)
The pendency of another suit, either in this state or another, involving
the same matters, if relied upon at all, must be pleaded in abatement and
is not ground for dismissal on motion. (Wilcox v. Cassick, 2 Mich. 178:
Gi-uler v. McRoberts, 48 Mich. 316; Fenton v. Miller, 94 Mich. 215; Suitings
v. Goodyear Co., 36 Mich. 313; Breckon v. Ottawa Circuit Judge, 67 N. W.
Rep. 906.) But a prior suit pending, in which there can be no recovery be
cause it was prematurely brought, is no bar to recovery in a new suit for
the same cause of action. (Blackwood v. Brown, 34 Mich. 4.)
A garnishee defendant may. if sued by the principal defendant, plead
in abatement the pendency of the garnishment proceeding. But the gar
nishment proceeding is not an absolute bar until judgment is obtained
against the garnishee. When the garnishee suit is subsequent to the suit of
the principal defendant and before judgment, a plea in abatement, under
Rule 9 (former Rule 106), is proper. (Grosslight v. Crisup, 58 Mich. 531.) Sec.
8050, How. Stat., provides that no suit shall be maintained or recovery had
" by the creditor of a garnishee for the money or effects involved in the gar
nishment proceeding while the same is pending." But such pending garnish
ment proceeding must be pleaded in abatement, the same as any other
prior suit pending. The statute does not establish any new rule of plead
ing. (Near v. Mitchell, 23 Mich. 383. See, also, Tabor v. Van Vranken, 39
Mich. 794.) *
In a case of cross-replevin, a motion to quash is not the proper remedy.
The defendants in the second writ may raise the question at the outset by
plea in abatement. (Fisher v. Marquette Circuit Judge, 58 Mich. 451.)
Pendency of foreclosure proceedings cannot be. pleaded in abatement to
a suit at law on the mortgage notes. If leave to sue at law has not been
granted under sec. 6703, application should be made in the equity cause

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 6.

33

to restrain the unauthorized suit at law. (Joslm v. Millspaugh, 27 Mich.
517; Goodrich v. White, 39 Mich. 489. See, also, Steel v. Kent Circuit Judge,
67 N. W. Rep. 963.)
As to pleas to the jurisdiction in actions against corporations, see Thomp
son v. Michigan, etc. Asso., 52 Mich. 525; Dewey v. Car Co., 42 Mich. 399.
As to pleading in abatement the title of the plaintiff as administrator,
etc., see Bassett v. Shepardson, 57 Mich. 430; Vickery v. Bier, 16 Mich. 51.
Allowing subsequent plea to the merits.— After a plea in abatement is
overruled, the court may permit a plea to the merits, "and in many cases
great injustice would be done by depriving a party, who has honestly
pleaded in abatement, of his defense on the merits." (McOmber v. Holmes,
41 Mich. 417.)
1 Misnomer.— The following cases illustrate the disposition of the court
to overlook and allow corrections of mistakes in the names of parties in
pleadings and court proceedings, under the statute of amendments, which
expressly covers "any mistake in the name of any party or person." (Sec.
7635, subd, 9.) Misnomer of defendant in replevin. After service of the
writ and before execution of replevin bond, the court may permit plaintiff
to file a new affidavit and thereupon amend the writ by inserting the true
name. (Parks v. Barkham, 1 Mich. 95, where "James Barkham" was
changed to "Joseph Barkham.") An attachment suit was begun in the
name of "Evans & Walker," copartners, the affidavit stating that the
Christian names were unknown. In a replevin suit wherein the attach
ment proceedings were relied on, it was said that the designation of the
plaintiffs was no doubt erroneous, but that the defect was curable by
amendment, and that the proceedings were not void. Proceedings by at
tachment " should, so far as consistent with the nature of the remedy and
the particular provisions supplied by the legislature, be subject to the
same practice as other personal actions." (Barber v. Smith, 41 Mich. 145,
and numerous cases cited.) But where suit is begun without giving the
full names of the plaintiffs and objection is made thereto, the full names
should be supplied by amendment. (Fisher v. Northrup, 19 Mich. 288.) An
amendment to a declaration whereby the plaintiff's name was changed
from " Dilks " to " Wilks " was held proper after personal service and de
fault absolute. (McLaughlin v. Wilks, 42 Mich. 553.) Allowing a ' fore
closure bill to be taken as confessed is an admission which disposes of any
error in foreclosing in the name of " Orrin P. Ramsdell " a mortgage exe
cuted to "O. P. Ramsdell," and in naming the defendant "Alexander
Eaton" when the mortgage was executed by "Alexander Eaton, Junior."
(Ramsdell v. Eaton, 12 Mich. 116.) It is held in other states that "Junior"
is not a part of a person's name and may be omitted. (Johnson v. Ellison,
4 T. B. Monroe, 526, 16 Amer. Dec. 163; Brainard v. Stilphin, 6 Vt. 9, 27
Amer. Dec. 53&; Simpson v. Dix, 131 Mass. 179.) An affidavit for an order
of publication began " Fred B. Lee, being duly sworn," etc., and was signed
" Charles H. Lee." The misrecital was treated as a clerical error and over
looked. (Torrans v. Hicks, 32 Mich. 308.) Variance of declaration from
summons in stating defendant's name is not a jurisdictional defect, and
an amendment will, after judgment, be treated as made. (Bole v. Sands
Co., 77 Mich. 239. See, also, Hibernia Ins. Co. v. O'Conner, 29 Mich. 241 J
3

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 7.

34

Merrick v. Mayhue, 40 Mich. 196; Buhl v. Trowbridge, 42 Mich. 44; Bald
win v. Talbot, 43 Mich. 11; Welch v. Hull, 73 Mich. 47.)
[The result of the rule (6 b), the statute of amendments, and the decis
ions, is that a misnomer will be disregarded unless raised by plea in abate
ment, and that if the plea is sustained an amendment will be allowed cor
recting the error.]
2 Proceedings to bring in new defendants.— [If a plea of non-joinder
of defendants is interposed and is held or accepted as good, the plaintiff
should, under subdivisions (c) to (e), make a motion for leave to amend his
declaration by inserting the name of the new defendant, and for an order
authorizing a special summons against him and fixing the form thereof,
and also for an order fixing a time within which the defendant who has
pleaded in abatement shall plead to the amended declaration. The fol
lowing form of summons is recommended :
" [Title of court and cause, as amended.] In the name of the People of
the State of Michigan. To
, defendant: Take notice, that suit has
been commenced against you by the above-named plaintiff in said court
by amended declaration, and that you are hereby required to appear and
answer in said action within twenty days after service upon you of a copy
of this writ and of said amended declaration. Hereof fail not, under
penalty of having judgment rendered against you by default. Witness
——. Circuit Judge, at
, this
day of
, A. D .189-.
,
Clerk. [With signature of plaintiff's attorney added.] "
The use of this form and the service of a copy of the amended declara
tion with the special writ will save questions as to the time of pleading.}

135 154
118 433

132 527 030

RULE 7.
•

**

General Issue — Special Defenses.
1ss 220
126 224 326
130 491
133 212
139 13

679
138
129 439
137 573

134 393
132 674
129 439

(a) The general issue may be as follows: "The defendant
comes and demands a trial of the matters set forth in the plaintiff's declaration." The business address of the defendant's attorney shall appear upon the plea, unless previously given in a
notice of retainer. [Former Rule 17 ; sec. 7362.]
(b) An affirmative defense, such as payment, release, satisfac
tion, discharge, license, fraud, or failure of consideration in
whole or in part, and an}^ defense which by other affirmative
matter seeks to avoid the legal effect of or defeat the cause of
act,iori set forth in plaintiff's declaration, must be plainly set
forth in a notice added to the defendant's plea. The signature
of the defendant's attorney following such a notice shall be a suf
ficient signing of both the plea and the notice. [See sec. 7364.]
(c)
w Whenever it shall be claimed in defense that any written
.
instrument set forth in the plaintiff's declaration is void or
voidable, or cannot be recovered upon by reason of any statute

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 7.

35

or by reason of non-delivery, failure of consideration, fraud,
payment, discharge or release, the facts upon which such defense
is based shall be plainly set forth in -a notice added to the de
fendant's plea. [See sec. 7364.]
(d) In a suit upon a policy of insurance, if the defendant shall
rely, in whole or in part, upon any breach of any of the condi
tions, agreements, representations or warranties of the policy
or application therefor, or upon the failure to perform or make
good any promise, representation or warranty, or upon the
failure to furnish any proof of loss, as required by the policy,
there shall be added to the plea a notice plainly indicating the
facts relied on. [Substitute for former Rule 104.]
(e) Any statement of fact set forth in a notice added to a
plea shall be treated as an admission by the defendant and need
not be proved by the plaintiff.
General statutory provisions applicable.— " The general issue shall con
sist of a demand by the defendant of a trial of the matters set forth in the
plaintiff's declaration." (Sec. 7362.) To the plea there must be added a
notice "briefly stating the precise nature of such matter of defense " as
under the common-law practice was required to be pleaded specially or of
which a special notice was required under a general plea. (Sec. 7363.)
" The supreme court may make such rules in relation to notice of matters
in-tended to be given in evidence by either party as shall be necessary to
prevent surprise and to afford opportunity for preparation for trial."
(Sec. 7364.) No special plea in bar shall be pleaded, but all matters of de
fense may be given in evidence under the general issue. (Sec. 7361.) As
to notice of the defense that the plaintiff, an attorney, bought the claim
sued on for the purpose of suit contrary to law, see secs. 7185, 7189.
Scope of the general issue.— A plea of the general issue, as a general
proposition, denies and puts in issue every material averment of fact in
the plaintiff's declaration, and under that plea the defendant may deny
whatever the plaintiff is obliged to prove as an essential part of his own
case, whatever the nature or form of the action. (Kinnie v. Owen, 1 Mich.
249; Edwards v. Chandler, 14 Mich. 475; Ingalls v. Eaton, 25 Mich. 32; Wil- i
son v. Wagar, 26 Mich. 452; Rawson v. Finlay, 27 Mich. 270; Rawlings v.
Cole, 67 Mich. 432.)
Sufficiency of notice of special defense.— The sole test is whether it
fairly apprises the plaintiff with reasonable certainty of the nature of the
defense relied on, so that the plaintiff may be prepared to meet it and
avoid surprise on the trial. (Rosenbury v. Angell, 6 Mich. 508; McHardy
v. Wadsworth, 8 Mich. 350; Breisenmeister y. Supreme Lodge, 81 Mich. 525.)
It need not contain the substance of a special plea under the common-law
practice, nor be such as if pleaded would be good on demurrer, but it is
sufficient if it briefly state the precise nature of the matter of defense.

«

119 207

36

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 7.

(Cresinger v. Read, 25 Mich. 450. See, also, Insurance Co. v. Crampton, 43
Mich. 421.)
A notice of recoupment need not he formal, hut must inform plaintiff of
the nature of the damages and specify the breaches of the contract that
' are complained of. (Watkins v. Ford, 69 Mich. 357; Sinker v. Diggins, 76
Mich. 557; Darrah v. Gow, 77 Mich. 16; Maltby v. Plummer, 71 Micb. 578;
Kerr v. Bennett, 67 N. W. Rep. 564.) A mere general notice of recoup
ment without any particulars is insufficient. (Ritter v. Daniels, 47 Mich.
617.) And one which does not point out in what respect the contract had
been broken, to defendant's injury, is insufficient. (Roethke v. Brewing
Co., 39 Mich. 340.) The notice ought to be as specific as a declaration.
(Dictum, Canal Co. v. Roberts, 72 Mich. 50. See notes to Rule 3.) The de
fendant is bound by his notice and cannot enlarge its scope by claiming
damages not specified therein. (Taylor v. Lumber Co., 103 Mich. 1.)
Defenses held to require special notice with the plea.— [As the rule
does not dispose of the necessity of notice in any case, the authorities hold
ing special notices necessary are still applicable, either by reason of the
rule or sec. 7363.] Any defense arising out of fraud or misrepresentation
must be specially pleaded. (Miller v. Finley, 26 Mich. 249; McCabe v. Caner,
68 Mich. 182; Insurance Co. v. Hannawold, 37 Mich. 103; Eureka Iron
Works v. Bresnahan, 66 Mich. 493; Insurance Co. v. Crampton, 43 Mich. 421;
• Morley v. Insurance Co., 92 Mich. 590. But see Soper v. Peck, 51 Mich. 563,
contra.) In trover, for goods taken in attachment against a third person, the
plea must be accompanied by notice of the attachment in order to justify
thereunder. (Rosenbury v. Angell, 6 Mich. 512; Fry v. Soper, 39 Mich. 727;
Frankel v. Coots, 41 Mich. 75; Eureka Iron Works v. Bresnahan, 66 Mich.
494. But see McLaughlin v. Smith, 45 Mich. 277.) And if the plaintiff in
trover adds a count in trespass on the case and alleges the source of his
title, the defendant, in order to assail the title on the ground of fraud,
must specially plead the fraud. (Eureka Iron Works v. Bresnahan, supra.
See, also, Wait v. Kellogg, 63 Mich. 138.) In an action for trespass on
lands, it seems that the defense of title and license cannot be shown ex
cept under a special notice. (Vanderkarr v. Thompson, 19 Mich. 82;
Senecal v. Labadie, 42 Mich. 126; Walters v. Tefft, 57 Mich. 390; Druse v.
Wheeler, 22 Mich. at p. 445; Hopkins v. Briggs, 41 Mich. 175.) Yet it is held
that under the general issue alone a freehold or mere possessory right may
be shown (Rawson v. Finlay, 27 Mich. 268) ; or an adverse title by tax deeds
issued to defendant. (Solomon v. Groesbeck, 65 Mich. 540.) Notice of the
statute of limitations must be added to the plea to enable the defendant to
avail himself of such defense. (Ripley v. Davis, 15 Mich. 75; Snyder v.
Winsor, 44 Mich. 140; Whitworth v. Railroad Co., 81 Mich. 98. But see Miller
v. Beck, 68 Mich. 76, as to the defense of adverse possession in ejectment.)
In a suit to recover rent of a dwelling, notice must be given of a defense
of non-tenantability. (Holmes v. Wood, 88 Mich. 437.) In an action for
false imprisonment, for arrest without a warrant, the defendant must give
special notice of the defense that he had probable cause to believe the
plaintiff guilty of a felony. (White v. McQueen, 96 Mich. 249.) And in an
action for libel, where the libel charged is not privileged, the justification
of it as true must be specially pleaded by defendant. (Edwards v. Chand

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 7.

37

ler, 14 Mich. 475; Bailey v. Kalamazoo Pub. Co., 40 Mich. 251; Bourreseau
v. Detroit Journal, 63 Mich. 425; Wheaton v. Beecher, 79 Mich. 443.)
In an action at law on a contract for the sale of lands, the defense of
want of title in the plaintiff, it seems, must be specially pleaded. (Dictum,
Ingalls v. Eaton, 25 Mich. 34.) Payment under garnishee process, and de
fenses in the nature of former judgment, cannot be set up under the gen
eral issue alone. (Tabor v. Van Vranken, 39 Mich. 793; Briggs v. Milburn,
40 Mich. 513; Porter v. Leach, 56 Mich. 41. See note to Rule 6.) Nor pay
ment made after joining issue. (Souvais v. Leavitt, 53 Mich. 578.) In an
action on a judgment, a special notice is necessary to show that defendant
was a surety on the instrument forming the basis of the judgment and
that plaintiffs agreed not to enforce it. (Field v. Plummer, 75 Mich. 437.)
In actions on sealed instruments, the defense of failure of consideration
must be specially pleaded. (Sec. 7521 ; Boyer v. Sowles, 67 N. W. Rep. 530.)
And in an action on a note against two joint makers, the defense of re
lease by unauthorized extension of time to the principal debtor, made by
the other who claims to be a surety, can only be made under special no
tice. (Rawlings v. Cole, 67 Mich. 431.)
In an action on a policy of insurance, such defenses as that the applica
tion for the policy misrepresented the amount of the incumbrances must
be specially pleaded. (Minnock v. Insurance Co., 90 Mich. 240; Home Ins.
Co. v. Curtiss, 32 Mich. 402; Pangborn v. Insurance Co., 62 Mich. 638; Hop
kins Co. v. Insurance Co., 48 Mich. 148.) And so of the defense that the
insured caused the destruction of insured property. (Insurance Co. v. Hannawold, 37 Mich. 103; Morley v. Insurance Co., 92 Mich. 592.) And the de
fense in a life insurance case, that the deceased misrepresented his place
of residence in the application for the insurance. (Hann v. National
Union, 97 Mich. 513.)
Defenses held admissible without special notice.— [The following cases
are probably not affected by the new rule.] In trover, a plea of the gen
eral issue amounts to a denial not only of conversion but also of the plaint
iff's title, and the defendant has the right to prove that the title to the
goods is in a third person (Stephenson v. Little, 10 Mich. 433; Abbott v.
Chaffee, 83 Mich. 256; Wessels*v. Beaman, 87 Mich. 481), or in himself as
general owner, or specially as bailee, or by way of lien; for as the plaintiff
in such an action is not bound to disclose his source of title, the defend
ant is not bound to anticipate under what source of title the plaintiff may
claim; and testimony from defendant on the subject of title is purely re
butting to that introduced by plaintiff to establish his title. (Eureka Iron
Works v. Bresnahan, 66 Mich. 493; Thomas v. Watt, 104 Mich. 207.) So
held in a case where defendant claimed title by estoppel. (Rogers v. Rob
inson, 104 Mich. 330. See, also, Cooper v. Smith, 67 N. W. Rep. 516.) Yet,
as already stated, in actions of trover for goods taken in attachment
against a third person, the plea must be accompanied by notice of the at
tachment, in order to justify thereunder by showing a right to possession
derived by defendant from the true owner. [But this notice, it seems, is
unnecessary where there has been a sale under execution.] (Fry v. Soper,
39 Mich. 727; Frankel v. Coots, 41 Mich. 75; Eureka Iron Works v. Bresna
han, 66 Mich. 494.) Title by adverse possession may be shown by defendant

38

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 7.

uqder the general issue, without notice, in an action of ejectment (Miller
v. Beck, 68 Mich. 76, based on secs. 7808 and 7809, How. Stat.), and, it would
seem, in an action of trespass also (Solomon v. Groesbeck, 65 Mich. 540); yet
there are decisions apparently to the contrary. (Druse v. Wheeler, 22
Mich. 439; Walters v. Tefft, 57 Mich. 390; Vanderkarr v. Thompson, 19
Mich. 82; Senecal v. Labadie, 42 Mich. 126; Hopkins v. Briggs, 41 Mich.
175.) The defense that a township cannot sue for damages on account of
injuries to its highways and bridges maybe made under the general issue
without notice. (Denver Township v. Boom Co., 51 Mich. 473.) Nonownership of a note at the time suit was brought on it is a full defense
and may be shown under the general issue without notice. It is not mat
ter in avoidance, but goes to the very foundation of the action. (Reynolds
v. Kent, 38 Mich. 246; Hovey v. Sebring, 24 Mich. 232.)
In an action for libel, where the communication is privileged, the defend
ant may show the truth of the statements in the communication under
the general issue; because in such a case it is incumbent on plaintiff not
only to show the falsity of the statements but that they were made mali
ciously; and the truth of the statements is but a contradiction- of the
plaintiff's case; but where the Hbel charged is not privileged, the plaintiff
is not bound to prove its falsity; and the justification of it as true is strictly
in avoidance and must be noticed specially. (Edwards v. Chandler, 14
Mich. 475.)
Where suit is brought on an implied contract to pay the reasonable
worth of goods sold and delivered, the defendant has the right under* a
plea of the general issue alone to show that the goods were not sold on an
implied contract but on an express contract, and that by reason of the
failure of the plaintiff to carry out his express contract, in respect to other
goods, he cannot recover more than the contract price for the goods deliv
ered. (Wilson v. Wagar, 26 Mich. 456, 465. See, also, Berringer v. Iron Co.,
41 Mich. 305.) But in such a case a notice of recoupment is necessary if it
is desired to offset or recoup damages suffered by defendant on account of
the breach of the contract by the plaintiff. (Same Case, p. 470.) In an ac
tion for rent on a written lease defendant may, without notice, show the
substitution of a new verbal agreement. (Conkling v. Tuttle, 52 Mich. 631.)
It is proper for the defendant, under the general issue, to prove that the
article delivered by plaintiff was not the article he purchased, as in the
case of the purchase of a new machine and the delivery of a second-hand
one. (Grieb v. Cole, 60 Mich. 402.)
In an actioil by a saleman on a time contract to recover salary after his
alleged unwarranted discharge, the defendant, under the general issue,
without notice, may show refusal to obey and violation of instructions by
plaintiff, failure to work according to the agreement, failure to earn his
salary, etc. " The defense was a refutation of the facts stated in the dec
laration and necessary to be proved to enable plaintiff to recover, and should
have been allowed under the general issue." (Child v. Detroit Mfg. Co.,
72 Mich. 628.)
In an action for trespass upon lands where the plaintiff claims treble
damages under the statute (sec. 7957-8, How. Stat.), the defendant, to escape
paying treble damages, may, under the general issue, without special notice,

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 7.

39

show that while he committed a trespass, it was involuntary and under a
bona fide claim of right. (Oshorn v. Lovell, 36 Mich. 249.) But if the de- -v
fendant relies upon justification or excuse, he must plead it specially.
(Ibid.) And in such cases the defense of title and license must also be spe
cially pleaded (Vanderkarr v. Thompson, 19 Mich. 82; Senecal v. Labadie,
42 Mich. 126; Walters v. Tefft, 57 Mich. 390; Druse v. Wheeler, 22 Mich.
445; Hopkins v. Briggs, 41 Mich. 175); yet under the general issue alone it
was held proper for defendant to show a freehold or a mere possessory
right in himself (Rawson v. Finley, 27 Mich. 270), or an adverse title by tax
deeds issued to defendant. (Solomon v. Groesbeck, 65 Mich. 540.)
Other decisions as to the necessity of special notice.— [The following
are probably affected by the new rule. Those relating to the defense of
payment are undoubtedly affected.] The defense of payment is admissible
under the general issue. (Olcott v. Hansen, 12 Mich. 452; Burt v. Olcott,
33 Mich. 178; Huntoon v. Russell, 41 Mich. 316; Brennan v. Tietsort, 49
Mich. 397.) In an action on an insurance policy, the defense that the suit
was prematurely brought, no award having been made as provided in the
policy, may be shown under the general issue without notice, on the prin
ciple of pleading that, when the declaration is upon a written contract, the
defendant, under the general issue, may show a non-compliance with any
of the conditions of the contract which will defeat recovery. (Morley v. In
surance Co., 85 Mich. 217.) It seems that the defense of rescission of the con
tract sued upon may be shown under the general issue. (Stahlein v. Sowle,
87 Mich, at p. 134.) In assumpsit for the sale of chattels, evidence that they
were sold in violation of the United States revenue laws is admissible
under the general issue as equivalent to a denial of delivery of a valuable
thing. (Dean v. Chapin, 22 Mich. 274.) And the defense, based on a stat
ute, that the instrument sued on never had any validity; as under a pro
hibitory liquor law, in an action on an accepted order, the statute declaring
the instrument void. (Hill v. Callaghan, 31 Mich. 425.) The defense that
a note was given for an illegal consideration, as the suppression of crimi
nal proceedings, need not be specially noticed. (Snyder'v. Willey, 33 Mich.
483.) And the defense that the note was made by a married woman, etc.
(Dictum, Same Case, page 489.)
[It was formerly held that the defense of estoppel must be specially
pleaded.] Facts constituting estoppel must be set out in a notice, as that
the filing of a bill of sale and taking possession of the property estopped
plaintiff from asserting that the instrument was an absolute bill of sale
and not intended as security merely (Wessels v. Beaman, 87 Mich. 485); or
that the stating of an account by the parties estops plaintiff from adding
a claim for unliquidated damages not mentioned at the time. (Boston v.
Henderson, 92 Mich. 609. See, also, Johnson v. Stellwagen, 67 Mich. 14,
and cases cited.) The rule as to pleading estoppel in declarations was ap
plied in Gooding v. Underwood, 89 Mich. 187, and Pearson v. Hardin, 95
Mich. 361. These last-mentioned cases were expressly overruled in Dean
v. Crall, 98 Mich. 591 ; and the decision seems to overrule the cases above
mentioned relating to pleas, for in Thomas v. Watt, 104 Mich. 201, it was
held that under the general issue in trover the defendant might claim an
election of remedies against the plaintiff on the following facts: Plaintiff

40

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 8.

gave a bill of sale to defendant as security for a debt, and afterwards sued
him in assumpsit for a surplus arising from a sale of the property by de
fendant. The case was dismissed for failure to give security for costs and
plaintiff afterwards sued in trover. " If the bringing of the suit in as
sumpsit be regarded as an estoppel, it would not be necessary to plead it in
order to make proof of the fact in the trover suit. Dean v. Crall, 98 Mich.
591." (p. 206.) It was also held in Rogers v. Robinson, 104 Mich. 336, that
defendant may avail himself of the defense of estoppel under the plea of
the general issue. (See, also, Cooper v. Smith, 67 N. W. Rep. 516.)
Notice of set-off required by statute.— Sec. 7366, How. Stat., provides
that " to entitle a defendant to a set-off he must annex a notice thereof to
his plea of the general issue." A notice in terms as broad as the common
money counts in assumpsit will, if no bill of particulars is demanded, cover
anything that could be proved as a demand under such counts. (Fergu
son v. Milliken, 42 Mich. 441.) A notice of set-off, limited to a particular
demand, restricts the defendant to that demand. (Cleveland v. Miller, 94
Micb. 98.) As to amendment of, see note to Rule 10; Rawlings v. Fisher,
67 N. W. Rep. 977, and cases cited.

RULE 8.
Execution of Written Instrument Admitted if Not Denied
on Oath.
Upon the plea, of the general issue in an action upon any
written instrument, under seal or without seal, the plaintiff shall
not be put to the proof of the execution of the instrument or
the handwriting of the defendant, unless the defendant or some
one in his behalf shall file and serve a copy of an affidavit deny
ing the same, and this rule shall apply in actions brought against
indorsers as well as other parties, and shall also apply infavor
of a defendant in cases where claims by way of set-off are in
sisted upon by him. Such affidavit shall be filed, when by the
defendant, with the plea, and when by the plaintiff, within ten
days after service of the specific set-off claimed; but the court
may, upon proper showing, enlarge the time for filing such
affidavit. [Former Rule 79.]
The character of the affidavit.— It "should not be subjected to any very
technical rules of construction. If it appears that a defendant means to
contest the execution or delivery in good faith, any legal questions con
cerning the sufficiency of the defense should be reserved for the trial. It
never was designed that a defendant should be compelled in his affidavit
to state every fact, but merely to indicate his defense or to make a plain

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 8.

41

denial." (McCormick v. Bay City. 23 Mich. 459; Anderson v. Walter, 34
Mich. 114; Haight v. Arnold, 48 Mich. 513.) Yet in Mills v. Bunce, 29 Mich.
364, an action on notes executed in a firm name, it was held that an affi
davit by two of the three defendants, denying " each for himself that he
ever signed, executed or delivered either of said notes," was not sufficient
to put plaintiff to proof of their execution, as the third defendant might
still have made the notes for the firm. The denial in such a case should
either be jointly by all the defendants, or if by less than all it should be
broad enough to negative such a proper execution of the instrument in
behalf of the partnership by another partner as would bind the defendants.
(But see Haight v. Arnold, 48 Mich. 512.) In McRobert v. Crane, 49 Mich.
484, an affidavit filed by one of the partners sued averred that he did not
execute the note, or expressly or impliedly authorize, direct, empower or
consent to its execution, etc. Held sufficient.
Where several persons are sued as separate makers, an affidavit by one
of them is sufficient to put in issue the execution of the note as to him,
even though his co-defendants do not join in the affidavit. (Wren v. Mc
Laren, 48 Mich. 197.)
The signature may be genuine and yet the instrument a forgery. In
such a case defendant could not deny the signature under oath. Hence,
if an affidavit is filed admitting the signature, but averring that it was ob
tained under circumstances, fully set forth, which would render the de
fendant not liable thereon, the plaintiff must prove execution and delivery.
(Anderson v. Walter, 34 Mich. 114.)
As to the sufficiency of evidence to admit the introduction of the instru
ment in evidence in a case where the affidavit has been filed, see Burson
v. Huntington, 21 Mich. 415; Gibbs v. Linabury, 22 Mich. 479; Hunter v.
Parsons, 22 Mich. 95; Ortman v. Merchants' Bank, 41 Mich. 482.
To what cases applicable.— The rule is not restricted to instruments
specially counted upon, but applies to bills and notes appended to and
served with the declaration. (Hoard v. Little, 7 Mich. 470.) It covers a
policy of insurance set forth in the declaration (Clay, etc. Ins. Co. v. Huron,
etc. Co., 31 Mich. 346), and apparently the policy need not, in order to come
within this rule, be set forth verbatim, but only described in accordance
with Rule 3 (c) (Simon v. Home Ins. Co., 58 Mich. 279; Lorscher v. Knights
of Honor, 72 Mich. 330); and also an instrument of renewal thereof set
forth in the declaration as constituting the contract sued upon (Peoria,
etc. Ins. Co. v. Perkins, 16 Mich. 384); but not an instrument of renewal
which is not set forth in the declaration. (Montross v. Insurance Co., 49 Mich.
477.) It applies to a county treasurer's bond to account for all moneys, etc.
(People v. Johr, 22 Mich. 461.) Also a replevin bond. (Jennison v. Haire,
29 Mich. 211.) And a lease. (Jacobson v. Miller, 41 Mich. 90.) And a judg
ment note, although non-negotiable. (Brewing Co. v. McKittrick, 86 Mich.
191.) And to a subscription paper. (Detroit Chamber of Commerce v.
Goodman, decided July 31, 1896.)
The rule does not apply to cases appealed from justice's court, unless a
new issue is framed in the circuit court. (Bauer v. Wasson, 60 Mich. 195.)
Action by indorsee of note against the maker. A copy of the note with
the indorsement accompanied the declaration, and the note and indorse

42

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 8.

nient were read in evidence without objection and no evidence was given
tending to disprove the indorsement. Held, not necessary to prove the
indorsement in any other way. (Thatcher v. West River Bank, 19 Mich.
202.) Nor is it necessary to prove the signatures of indorsers when they
are made defendants and do not file the affidavit. (Howry v. Eppinger, 34
Mich. 32.)
A recognizance of special bail signed by sureties and acknowledged be
fore an officer out of court and filed is not "a written instrument" within
the meaning of this rule. " The rule was designed to cover cases of pri
vate instruments and not such undertakings in the course of justice as are
at least prima facie evidence of themselves when produced." (Elliott v.
Green, 10 Mich. 113.) [Whether this case is not overruled by the later de
cisions, qucere.]
Effect of failure to file affidavit.— " When the party makes no such affi
davit it is an admission that he does not mean to contest -the fact, and by
such admission he is bound." (Peoria, etc. Ins. Co. v. Perkins, 16 Mich. 384.)
It is an admission of the execution of the instrument in manner and form
as alleged (Jenkinson v. Monroe, 71 Mich. 631; Hemminger v. Western
Assurance Co., 95 Mich. 358; Insurance Co. v. Howell, 101 Mich. 334); that
the instrument was given substantially in the form specified in the decla
ration. In case of a material variance between the instrument pleaded
and the one offered in evidence, the rule is different. (Polhemus v. Ann
Arbor Bank, 27 Mich. 47.) The admission conclusively establishes the exe
cution and delivery, and the effect of the admission is not impaired by
going into the facts as to the way in which the paper was really executed.
{Jennison v. Haire, 29 Mich. 207.) It makes the instrument prove itself.
(Mills v. Bunce, 29 Mich. 385.) In an action against makers and indorsers,
each defendant by failure to file the affidavit thereby admits that he signed
the instrument, and also that it was executed by the parties declared
against by the name and description as partners or otherwise, alleged in
the declaration. (Lobdell v. Merchants' Bank, 33 Mich. 409.)
Where the affidavit has not been filed, evidence to impeach the execu
tion of the instrument is inadmissible. (Chicago, etc. R. R Co. v. Edson,
41 Mich. 673.) But evidence is still admissible to show want of legal ca
pacity to execute the instrument except for a particular consideration, as
in the case of married women's notes. (Kenton Ins. Co. v. McClellan, 43
Mich. 564.)
And under this rule, delivery of the instrument constitutes a part of the
execution, and is admitted also, if no affidavit is filed. (People v. Johr, 22
Mich. 463; Wright v. Irwin, 33 Mich. 33.) But even if-no affidavit is filed,
in an action by an indorsee against the maker of a note, the plaintiff must
prove his title to the note through the alleged indorsement, for the failure
to file the affidavit does not, in such a case, admit the genuineness of the
indorsement to the plaintiff. (Spicer v. Smith, 23 Mich. 96.) The failure
to file the affidavit in an action on a sealed instrument would not operate
as an admission of the execution of an unsealed instrument. An instru
ment varying from that described in the declaration must be proved. (McCormick v. Bay City, 23 Mich. 459.)
In an action for breach of contract, which is set out verbatim and al

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 8.

43

leged to have been jointly executed by the defendants, the failure to file
affidavit operates as an admission of the execution of the contract in man
ner and form as it is alleged. (Curran v. Rogers, 35 Mich. 220.) And in an
action on the note of a railroad company executed by its auditor, the fail
ure to file the affidavit is an admission that the company as well as the
auditor signed it. Whether it is also an admission that the officer was
authorized by the company to sign it, qucere. (See Dewey v. Railway Co.,
91 Mich. 359, and cases cited.) But it is an admission of the authority of
an agent by whom the defendant's name purports to have been signed to
the contract. (Inglish v. Ayer, 92 Mich. 371, and cases cited.)
The failure to file the affidavit does not preclude an inquiry into the date
of delivery or the circumstances of the signing of the instrument as bear
ing on any defenses dependent on time in any way. Execution includes
the actual making and delivery, but it cannot involve other matters. The
only object of the rule is to enable the plaintiff to make out a prima facie
case, not a conclusive one, and the failure to file the affidavit does not pre
clude a defendant from introducing any defense on the merits which does
not contradict execution. (Freeman v. Ellison, 37 Mich. 462. But see In
surance Co. v. Howell, 101 Mich. 333.) Nor does the rule apply where no
opportunity has been given to deny execution. (McMillen v. Beach, 38
Mich. 399; Newton v. Principal, 82 Mich. 273.)
The right of the court to permit the affidavit to be filed later.— "The
rule as framed was intended to leave a discretionary authority to be exer
cised as the justice of particular cases should require." Leave may be
granted or denied upon the merits in the exercise of that power. (Polhemus
v. Ann Arbor Bank, 27 Mich. 48.) The court may impose terms. (Tupper v.
Kilduff, 26 Mich. 394.) And may allow the affidavit to be filed at any stage
of the cause, and such allowance ought not to be refused where it will
work manifest injustice to decline it. (Freeman v. Ellison, 37 Mich. 464;
Portsmouth Bank v. Circuit Judge, 83 Mich. 647.)
Applicability of decisions under justice's conrt statute.— A similar
rule prevails in justice's court by virtue of sec. 6875, How. Stat., which
provides that " the execution of a written instrument, filed with the jus
tice, shall not be denied, except under oath, as hereinafter provided; " and
sec. 6928, which provides that " when any instrument, purporting to be exe
cuted by one of the parties, is declared upon or set off, it may be used in
evidence on the trial of the cause against such party, without proving its
execution, unless its execution be denied by oath at the time of declaring,
or pleading, or giving notice of set-off, if such instrument shall be produced
and filed with the justice." It seems that these sections accomplish sub
stantially the same result as the circuit court rule, and the decisions under
these sections apply with some force to the above Rule 8. Where plaintiff
declares against two or more defendants as makers of a promissory note
signed by a firm name and filed with the justice, and there is no affidavit
filed denying execution, not only the execution of the note in the abstract
is admitted, but also that it was executed by the parties declared against.
(Pegg v. Biddleman, 5 Mich. 28.) The affidavit must be filed at the time
of filing the plea, and cannot be filed later. (Fish v. Hale, 4 Mich. 506.) If
the affidavit merely denies delivery of the note, and alleges that it was

44

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 9.

tal:en from defendant's house without authority, the plaintiff need not
offer proof of the execution of the note, and has made a prima facie case
when he proves it to have been indorsed and delivered to him. (Burson v.
Huntington, 21 Mich. 420.) But the rule does not dispense with the neces
sity of proving the title of the plaintiff through "an alleged indorsement,
in an action against the maker (Spicer v. Smith, 23 Mich. 96), nor through
an assignment, even though attached to and filed with the instrument
bearing defendant's signature. (Hinkley v. Weatherwax, 35 Mich. 510.)
In a suit on a note signed "Arnold & Ackley," the one defendant who was
served with process filed affidavit denying that he executed it, or that he
authorized any person to sign it for him. Held, sufficient. (Haight v.
Arnold, 48 Mich. 512.) The statute does not apply where the instrument
is not filed with the justice; and on appeal, Rule 8 does not apply unless a
new issue is framed. (Bauer v. Wasson, 60 Mich. 195; Newton v. Principal,
82 Mich. 273.)

RULE 9.
369
9

Pleading Facts Arising Subsequent to Joining Issue.
When matter shall arise subsequent to the joining of issue
which the defendant shall desire to rely upon as defense, he
shall be at liberty to give notice thereof as a special defense
under the plea of the general issue, and the filing of such notice
shall not be deemed a waiver of other defenses. The notice shall
be served under the rules for service of pleas, and no replica
tion thereto shall be necessary. The notice shall be interposed
under the practice heretofore regulating the filing of pleas puis
darrein continuance, and if the filing is after the case is noticed
for trial, or during a term of court when the case is on the
docket for trial, the plaintiff shall not be compelled to proceed
to trial at that term, and costs on continuance shall be in the
discretion of the court. [Former Rule 106.]
Decisions under this rnle.— This rule was first adopted in 1884 (51
Mich.), and only a few decisions have been rendered affecting it. It is
held to apply to a case where, after suit brought, the principal defendant
is garnished. In such case he may file an additional plea in abatement
setting up the garnishment proceedings, or, it seems, the facts constitut
ing flie defense may be set up in a notice with plea general issue, which
will constitute a plea in abatement. (See Grosslight v. Crisup, 58 Mich.
531.) And where just prior to commencing a trial the defendant was
garnished, it was held proper for him, under this rule, to give verified
notice of the garnishment, and for the court to stay the proceedings, un
less a bond to protect the garnishee was furnished in accordance with

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 9.

45

sec. 8105. (Burt v. "Wayne Circuit Judge, 82 Mich. 251. See, also, Souvais
v. Leavitt, 53 Mich. 579.)
No replication need be filed by the plaintiff to a notice of defense under
this rule. It stands simply as a notice under the general issue. The rule
modifies in this respect the former practice under a plea puis darrein con
tinuance, which formerly had the effect to eliminate all other defenses
and to place the issue of the suit entirely on the new plea, and called for
a reply from the plaintiff. (Burt v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 90 Mich. 522.)
The rule and the decision last cited overrule Wheelock v. Rice, 1 Doug.
267; Johnson v. Kibbee, 36 Mich. 269; Whittemore v. Stephens, 48 Mich.
573, so far as they relate to the practice mentioned.
Decisions on pleas puis darrein continuance.— "They are, as their
name imports, of matters which have arisen subsequent to the former
pleadings and the last continuance of the cause, and which go to abate or
bar the suit. As they tend to delay, great strictness is required in regard
to them. They must be verified by oath, and must be framed with great
certainty." (Wheelock v. Rice, 1 Doug. 271.) The fact that pending
an action the plaintiff corporation consolidated with another company
does not defeat the action ; and the fact, if important at all, should be
pleaded puis darrein. (Swartwout v. Railroad Co., 24 Mich. 389.) The
statute abolishing special pleas was not designed to deprive the defendant
of the right to set up matters arising subsequent to joining issues. (John
son v. Kibbee, 36 Mich. 268.) A plea puis darrein continuance that plaint
iff has assigned his claim since the commencement of suit is held to
offer an immaterial issue. " If plaintiffs had sold their demand, whether
before suit brought or afterwards, the purchaser was still entitled to pur
sue his remedy in the name of the original party." (Moon v. Harder, 38
Mich. 566.) But a deed from plaintiff in ejectment to defendant's wife
conveying the disputed premises, made after the commencement of suit,
is not admissible without a special notice in the nature of a plea puis
darrein continuance. (Jenney v. Potts, 41 Mich. 52.) Nor is a tax deed
issued to defendant in ejectment after the joinder of issue. (Hurd v.
Raymond, 50 Mich. 369.) Such a plea showing payment of a judgment in
garnishment since the commencement of suit, held proper. (White v.
Kent Circuit Judge, 47 Mich. 645.) Such plea in a trover suit, setting up
that the property had been taken from defendants on an attachment
against the plaintiff, should show also the disposition of the attachment
suit or that the property has been applied to the plaintiff's use. (Erie Co.
y. Kane, 49 Mich. 377.) A plea puis darrein, when proper, may serve in
place of a notice of defense. (Snyder v. Quarton, 47 Mich. 211.)
As to when it is not necessary to plead puis darrein facts happening
after joining issue, see Haven v. Beidler Co., 40 Mich. 288; Vickery v.
Beir, 16 Mich. 50. And as to the right to amend by adding notice of such
facts, see Souvais v, Leavitt, 53 Mich. 580.

46

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 10.

KULE 10.
135 643

Amendments of Declarations, Pleas and Demurrers With
out Leave of Court.

125 636

(a) The plaintiff may, at any time before plea or demurrer, or
within ten days after plea or demurrer, amend his declaration
in matter of substance or form, of course, and without costs,
unless the cause shall have previously been noticed for trial, in
which case special leave of court shall first be obtained. If
such amendment is made after plea or demurrer, such plea or
demurrer shall stand as the plea or demurrer to the amended
declaration, unless the defendant shall, within ten days after
receiving such amendment, file another plea or demurrer.
[Substitute for former Rule 35.]
(b) The defendant may, within ten days after plea or demur
rer, amend the same, in matter of substance or form, of course,
and without costs, unless the cause shall have been previously
noticed for trial, in which case special leave of court shall first
be obtained. [Substitute for former Rule 35.]
(c) Under this rule, new counts, pleas or notices may be
added. [Taken from former Rule 35.]
(d) ISo rule to amend shall be required, but a copy of the
amended pleading or notice, indorsed " amended declaration,"
" plea," " nbtice," etc., as the case may be, shall be filed and
served with a notice that the same is a copy of the pleading or
notice as amended. [Taken from former Rule 36.]

125 636

.

Amendments without leave of court.— [The foregoing rule deals exclusively with such amendments, those granted by the court being covered by
statute.] When a party suffers the time to elapse within which, by rule,
he may amend of course, the right becomes extinguished. (People v. Wash
tenaw Circuit Judge, 1 Doug. 434)
The scope of the statute of amendments.— It extends to any process,,
pleading or proceeding. It covers both form and substance, at any time
before judgment is rendered. After judgment it covers defects or imper
fections in matters of form, and variances, either in the pleadings, pro
cess, entries, returns or other proceedings. (Secs. 7631-7634.) It covers a
large number of specified defects, imperfections and omissions, after judg
ment is rendered, either upon verdict, or by default; and provides that
when not against the right and justice of the matter of the suit, and not

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 10.

47

altering the issue, such defects, imperfections and omissions shall be sup
plied and amended by the court,— but not by the clerk of the court, with
out the court's order. (Secs. 7635-7637.) The court may in all cases, as
a condition to the granting of leave to amend, impose "such terms as
shall be just," and if a pleading be amended in substance, the adverse party
has a right to answer the amended pleading. (Sees. 7631, 7632.)
Special provision is made for the amendment "in any respect" of de
fective bonds required in any proceedings, and for the substitution of new
bonds. (Sec. 7771; Kidd v. Dougherty, 59 Mich. 240.) A similar provision
applies especially to bonds on appeal from justice's court. (Sec. 7018.)
And awards of arbitrators may be amended, to correct matters of form,
miscalculation of figures, mistakes in descriptions, etc. (Sec. 8483.) Com
missioners' reports in garnishment cases may be amended. (Sec. 8102.)
And pleadings on appeal from justice's court. (Sec. 7025.) And the dec
laration and other proceedings, where there is a change of parties to a
suit, arising from death. (Sec. 7415.)
"Such terms as shall be just."— As to what are not just terms, see
Beecher v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 70 Mich. 368. The judicial discretion in
this regard should not be exercised to impose conditions by way of punish
ment. (Ibid.)
Radical amendments which have been held to be proper.— Substitut
ing the heirs of a member of a mutual benefit association, as plaintiffs in
a suit against the association, in place of the administrator, to prevent a
failure of justice. (Wood v. Lenawee Circuit Judge, 84 Mich. 521.) Per
mitting a plea to be amended by adding an affidavit denying execution of
municipal bonds, after the completion of trial and the submission of a
cause. (Portsmouth Savings Bank v. Circuit Judge, 83 Mich. 646.) Per
mitting an affidavit for writ of replevin to be amended, after motion to
quash, by adding the word "assessment" in the statutory negative clause.
(Taylor v. Kalamazoo Circuit Judge, 100 Mich. 181.) Permitting a declara
tion in a personal injury case to be amended at the trial, after a ruling
that the plaintiff could not recover, by changing the date, the direction
and the train by which the plaintiff was traveling. (Brassel v. Railway
Co., 101 Mich. 8.) Permitting a declaration in a personal injury case to be
amended at the trial by adding an allegation that the plaintiff's injuries
are permanent. (Edwards v. Village of Three Rivers, 102 Mich. 155.)
Permitting a declaration in ejectment to be amended at the trial so as to
show ownership of an undivided interest by the plaintiff as to part of the
lands, instead of the whole title. (Hoban v. Coble, 102 Mich. 207.) Adding
a count for malicious prosecution to a declaration for false imprisonment.
(Long v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 27 Mich. 164.) Adding a special count to a
common counts declaration. (Chapman v. Colby, 47 Mich. 46. But see
Gorman v. Circuit Judge, 27 Mich. 138.) Striking out the name of a coplaintiff. (Hudson v. Feige, 58 Mich. 148.) Permitting an amendment
changing the capacity in which the plaintiff sues from that of adminis
tratrix to an individual. (Enright v. Insurance Co., 91 Mich. 238. But see
Weise v. Rich, 77 Mich. 325.)
Amendments held improper.—In a suit by a widow on an insurance pol
icy, an amendment adding a daughter as co-plaintiff. (Wood v. Insurance

48

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 11.

Co., 96 Mich. 437.) Changing a declaration in trover to one in assumpsit.
{People v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 13 Mich. 206.) Adding to a declaration a
count upon a cause of action which has become barred by the statute of
limitations, since the original declaration was filed. (Gorman v. Newaygo
Circuit Judge, 27 Mich. 138; Railroad Co. v. Kalamazoo Circuit Judge, 35
Mich. 227; Nugent v. Kent Circuit Judge, 93 Mich. 462; Pratt v. Montcalm
Circuit Judge, 63 N. W. Rep. 506; Railroad Co. v. Donovan, 65 N. W. Rep.
583. But see Johnston v. Insurance Co., 64 N. W. Rep. 5.) Changing a
declaration on a fire insurance policy to recover a loss, to one claiming
damages for failure to deliver a policy in conformity to an oral agreement.
(Connecticut Ins. Co. v. Monroe Circuit Judge, 77 Mich. 231.) Changing a
declaration under sea 8314, relative to negligent killing, etc., to one under
sec. 7397, relative to negligent injuries to the person. (Hurst v. Railway
Co., 84 Mich. 539.) Making the name of the principal defendant in gar
nishment proceedings "Jonathan C. Davis," instead of "John C. Davis,"
where an intervener would be injured. (Moore v. Graham, 58 Mich. 25.)
And, generally, it is true that the statute does not permit amendments
which introduce new causes of action, or to bring in new parties. (See
Wood v. Circuit Judge, 84 Mich. 523: Wood v. Insurance Co., 96 Mich. 439;
Shearer v. Middleton, 88 Mich. 621; Vreeland v. Loeckner, 99 Mich. 93;
People v. Washtenaw Circuit Judges, 1 Doug. 434; Gorman v. Newaygo
Circuit Judge, 27 Mich. 138; Abbott v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 55 Mich. 410;
Nugent v. Kent Circuit Judge, 93 Mich. 462. But see Brassel v. Railway
Co., 101 Mich. 9.)
This does not apply to undesigned misnomer, in which case an amend
ment is proper, so long as there is no real change in the identity of the
parties. (Welch v. Hall, 73 Mich. 47; Tuller v. Ginsburg, 99 Mich. 142;
Final v. Backus, 18 Mich. 218; McLaughlin v. Wilkes, 42 Mich. 553.)
The importance of actually filing the amendment after allowance.—
The amendment to a declaration should be actually made, after it has
been allowed. It cannot be presumed. Yet, if the record furnishes the
means of applying the order so as to show the precise effect of the amend
ment, it may be considered as made. (Ballou v. Hill, 23 Mich. 59. See Cook
v. Perry, 43 Mich. 623.) And a statement of the court during a trial that
a certain amendment has been allowed operates as an amendment, even
though the amendment was not actually filed. (Johnston v. Insurance Co.,
64 N. W. Rep. 5.)
RULE 11.
Common and Special Orders and Rules.
[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15.]
(a) Every rule to which a party would, according to the prac
tice of the court, be entitled of course, without showing special
cause, shall be denominated a common rule ; and every other rule
shall be denominated a special rule. All common rules and all

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 11.

49

rules by consent of parties shall be entered with the clerk at
his office, in a book to be provided by him for that purpose, to
be called " common rule book," and may be entered at any
time, as well in vacation as during term ; and the day when
the rule shall be entered shall be noted therein, and the party
may enter such rule as he may conceive himself entitled to, of
course, but at his peril. [Former Kule 14.]
(b) Except as required by statute, such rules may he filed with
the clerk with the like effect as if entered as above provided.
(c) All orders, made by the direction of the court, shall be
entered in the record of the proceedings of the court, and all
orders made by the judge at chambers 1 shall be signed by the
judge and filed in the cause.
[It is believed that the statute requiring entry of rule to plead in suits
commenced by declaration (sec. 7291, How. Stat.), and the one relating to
rule for appearance in quo warranto proceedings (secs. 8650, 8651), are the
only statutes requiring common rules to be entered. Hereafter default
orders, discontinuances, appearances, etc., may be filed with the like effect
as if entered, yet the practitioner may still enter the rule, if he desires,
and thereby save the risk of the loss of files.] But where the files have
been lost, the calendar entries may be given in evidence to show the steps
taken in the cause before judgment. (Norvell v. McHenry, 1 Mich. 228.)
Sec. 6471 gives the circuit court power to make all orders, in any cause
pending therein, which may be necessary or proper for carrying into effect
its jurisdiction, and to give full effect to any judgment of such court, and
power to enforce any lawful order so made by attachment and proceed
ings for contempt.
Sec. 6473 requires the clerk of the court to keep a journal of its proceed
ings, under the direction of the judge; "and all entries therein shall be
read over in open court by the clerk, from day to day, and shall be corrected
when necessary, and signed by the circuit judge." (For the history of the
practice, see Norvell v. McHenry, 1 Mich. 229, 232.) But the absence of
the signature of the presiding judge to the journal, although required by
law, does not vitiate the record. (Dictum, Lacey v. Davis, 4 Mich. 157.
The files and journal entries are sufficient evidence in an action of eject
ment, of a judgment on which an execution sale was had. (Crane v.
Hardy, 1 Mich. 57.) They take the place of and constitute the " record,"
which, at common law, was made by the clerk by transcribing the files
and journal entries into a book kept for that purpose. (Prentiss v. Holbrook, 2 Mich. 374; Whitewell v. Emery, 3 Mich. 84; Emery v. Whitewell,
6 Mich. 474; Kenyon v. Baker, 16 Mich. 373; Hovey v. Smith, 22 Mich. 170.)
But the journal entry of the judgment alone is not sufficient proof of it.
The previous files or proceedings on which it is based must also be pro
duced, to show the jurisdiction of the court. (Kenyon v. Baker, 16 Mich. 374.)
1 As to the power of a judge at chambers, see note to Chancery Rule 21.
4

50

CIRCUIT COURT RULE la

RULE 12.
Defaults and Proceedings Thereon.
(a) If either party shall make default in filing or serving anypleading or notice within the time limited by rule or statute,
the opposite party may have the default entered in the commonrule book, or filed, in vacation or in term time. [Substitute for
former Rule 21.]
(b) The default of either party being duly filed or entered,
the other party shall not be bound afterwards to accept the
pleading or proceeding which was in default until such default
shall be set aside by the court. The party desiring to have a
default set aside shall, as soon as practicable after he shall know
or have reason to believe that the default has been filed or
entered, file and serve an affidavit of merits, and make appli
cation to the court to have the default set aside; and the ap
plication therefor may be granted or refused in the discretion
of the court. But in cases where personal service shall have
been made upon a defendant, and proceedings taken after de
fault on the strength thereof, his default shall not be set aside
unless the application shall . be made within six months after
such service. And in any case where personal service shall
have been made upon a defendant, an order setting aside his
default shall be conditioned upon his payment to the plaintiff of
the taxable costs incurred in reliance on said default, and the
court may impose such other conditions as shall be deemed
proper. [Substitute for former Eule 22.]
(c) Hereafter a further order making a default absolute shall
not be necessary, but judgment shall not be entered on a default
until at least one day in term has passed after such default.
(d) If such default be taken by plaintiff for want of plea, ho
may, in cases where it is competent, make reference to the clerk
to assess the damages ; and in other cases the order shall direct
that the assessment be made by the court or by a jury. [From
former Rule 23.]
(e) When a plea is withdrawn the case shall stand as on de
fault, and damages may be assessed at any time thereafter.
[From former Rule 23.]

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 12.

51

Statutory provisions.—" Upon due proof of the service of a copy of the
declaration and notice of rule to plead personally on the defendant, his
appearance shall be entered in the same manner as if process had been duly
served and returned, and his default maybe entered for not pleading; and
the same proceedings may be had against such defendant, in all respects,
as if he had appeared." (Sec. 7292, How. Stat.) On the return of a writ
of summons personally served, " the defendant shall be considered in court
and may be proceeded against accordingly." (Sec. 7300.)
In ejectment, on filing proof of service of declaration and notice of rule
to plead, or due proof of publication of notice, etc., " then the appearance
of such defendant shall be entered; and in case such defendant shall neg
lect to plead within the time prescribed by such rule or order, his default
for not pleading may be entered." (Sec. 7802.)
In proceedings against a garnishee, if he fails to file disclosure or answers
to interrogatories, or fails to submit to examination on demand, " the de
fault of such garnishee for want of appearance and disclosure or want of
answers to such special interrogatories, or for want of appearance and sub
mission to such examination, may be entered in the cause and made abso
lute as in other personal actions; and in case of final judgment against the
principal defendant, judgment may be rendered and execution issued
against such garnishee, his goods and chattels, lands and tenements, for
such amount as the plaintiff shall recover against the principal defendant.
Such defaults may be set aside for any cause for which defaults for want
of appearance and plea may be set aside, upon such terms as the court
shall impose." (Sec. 8062.) For special authority for defaults in scire facias
proceedings, see sec. 8628.
The practice on the assessment of damages is governed by secs. 7644
et seq. See note, post.
Default in attachment cases where no personal service of the writ has
been made.— [In such cases, the defendant has fifteen days from the date
of filing proof of publication (or of personal service, under Laws 1895, p. 259)
of the statutory notice, in which to serve notice of appearance or retainer,
and his default cannot be entered until that time has elapsed. (See
Rule 2 b.) Under the former rules he had thirty days after the filing of
the affidavit of publication, because of the provisions of former Rule 16,
giving a defendant thirty days from the return day of the writ in which
to appear.]
Sec. 7990, How. Stat., provides that writs of attachment shall be made
returnable in the same manner as other writs issuing out of the circuit
court, and sec. 8002 provides that if personal service of the writ is made
on defendant, or if he shall appear, "the same proceedings may be there
upon had in such suit, in all respects, as upon the return of an original
writ of summons personally served, in a suit commenced by such sum
mons." Sec. 8014 provides that "the practice in actions commenced by
attachment shall be the same in all respects as in personal actions com
menced by summons, as near as may be, except as otherwise provided by
law." Sec. 8005, as amended (Laws 1895, p. 259), provides in substance
that on filing affidavit of publication (or of personal service of the notice
of attachment), the plaintiff " may file his declaration in the suit and pro

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 12.
ceed therein as if a copy of such attachment had been served upon the
defendants." It is well settled that in such cases the time for the defend
ant's appearance begins to run from the date of filing the affidavit of pub
lication, and that he has the same time from that date to appear and
plead as he would have had after a return of the writ personally served.
(Thompson v. Thomas, 11 Mich. 274; Wells v. Walsh, 25 Mich. 344; Woolkins v. Haid, 49 Mich. 299; Trowbridge v. Bullard, 81 Mich. 451.)
[Inasmuch as, under the new rules, the time for defendant's appearance
begins to run from date of service of the writ, instead of from the return
day of the writ, the filing of the affidavit of publication takes the place of
personal service of the writ, instead of the return day of the writ.]
Due proof of service necessary.— (See note to Rule 1, "Proof of Service
of Process.") Before default can be taken there must be positive and suf
ficient evidence filed by oath or official certificate, showing due service.
An acknowledgment of service purporting to be signed by defendant is
not sufficient. It must be accompanied by some sworn showing of the
genuineness of the signature. (Johnson v. Delbridge, 35 Mich. 438. See,
also, Rule 40.) One cannot be defaulted for not appearing on a void serv
ice, as where the service of declaration was made before the date of filing
it. (Ellis v. Fletcher, 40 Mich. 321 ; South Bend Co. v. Manahan, 62 Mich.
143.)
In cases of courts of special and limited jurisdiction, as the superior
court of Grand Rapids, a default must be preceded by a showing of such
service as gives jurisdiction. Where service within a particular district
is required to be made on one, at least, of the defendants, and then per
mits service on the others in another district, evidence of service on the one is necessary as a foundation of service on the others. (Denison v.
Smith, 33 Mich. 157.)
The statute of amendments, which provides that no judgment by default
shall be reversed for any " imperfect or insufficient return " (sec. 7635,
How. Stat.), cannot go beyond formal defects or those by which " neither
party shall have been prejudiced." (Subd. 13.) And a defect in jurisdic
tional showing cannot be held formal. (Denison v. Smith, 33 Mich. 158.)
An affidavit for default is not required where the records and files are
• sufficient to show the fact of default, where the failure to plead is evident
to the court. The court may take judicial notice of what is shown by the
files, as that no plea has been filed, and may order judgment accordingly.
(Leonard v. Woodward, 34 Mich. 514; Elliot v. Farwell, 44 Mich. 188; Edson v. La Londe, 88 Mich. 162.) But where, as in suits commenced by writ,
service of notice of retainer is equivalent to an appearance, and there is no
requirement that the records and files be made to show the appearance, an
affidavit showing defendant's non-appearance is essential to a regular entry
of his default. (Dictum, Low v. Mills, 61 Mich. 44. See Story v. Child, 2
Mich. 108.) [Under the former rules it was not necessary to file a notice
of retainer. Under the new Rule 2 (b) a copy is required to be filed.]
In cases where an affidavit of non-appearance is proper and has been
omitted, a judgment taken on the default will not be set aside on writ of
error, where there is no prejudice. The omission may be cured nunc pro
tunc. (Bogue v. Prentis, 47 Mich. 125; Steers v. Holmes, 79 Mich. 432.) A

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 12.

53

default nunc pro tune is also proper in some cases. (Steers v. Holmes,
supra.)
Opening default.— The imposing of costs as a condition to the opening
of a default is discretionary and not reviewable. (Miller v. Wayne Circuit
Judge, 39 Mich. 375.) Nor will the supreme court review the action of the
circuit court in refusing to set aside a default, where the defendant has
not filed an affidavit of merits, as required by rule. (Walsh v. Wayne Cir
cuit Judge, 76 Mich. 470.) Nor will such action be reviewed generally.
(Mills v. McLeod, 94 Mich. 627; Final v. Backus, 18 Mich. 218; Evans v. Sag
inaw Circuit Judge, 39 Mich. 123.)
Notice of default and of assessment.— A defendant who has appeared
is entitled to notice of default; and this is true of a defendant who has
withdrawn his plea. (Watson v. Hinchman, 41 Mich. 716. See, also, Rule 35.)
And by the express terms of sec. 7647 a defendant who has appeared is
entitled to the like notice of the assessment of damages by the clerk " as
is required of the trial of a cause." It is held that while this does not require
a notice of fourteen days before the first day of term, it does require four
teen days' notice; that the quoted portion of the statute refers only to the
length of time that must elapse between the service of the notice and the
assessment, and that the notice may be for a day in term fourteen days
ahead. (Sinnock v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 97 Mich. 476.) Assessment with
out notice in the case of a defendant who has appeared is unauthorized.
(Mason v. Reynolds, 33 Mich. 61.) And a judgment entered by the clerk
on a reference without authority from the court is void. (Upham v. Cald
well, 100 Mich. 265.)
Form of default.— [It has been the practice generally to include in the
rule for default a recital at some length of the date of service, by whom
made, etc., but no statute or rule is found which requires such recital, and
it is unnecessary. By reason of the abolishing of default absolute (subd. c),
the form of the rule for default must be altered and the new forms should
be based on secs. 7292 and 7644, and Rule 12.]
Assessment of damages after default.— The practice is governed by
statute. (Secs. 7644 et seq.) An assessment by the clerk of the court is
authorized in the following cases: When the declaration sets forth, as the
cause of action, a bill of exchange, a promissory note, order or draft for
the payment of money, a contract for the absolute payment of monsy only,
a contract for the payment of a sum certain though payable in specific
articles, or a contract for the delivery of specific articles at a value or price
stipulated in the same contract. (Secs. 7644, 7645.) When there is a refer
ence to the clerk, no proof of execution of the instrument is necessary
(sec. 7648), but he may take testimony (sec. 7649) and examine, ascertain
and report to the court the sum the plaintiff ought to recover for his dam
ages (sec. 7644), and certify under his hand upon the written obligation, or
by certificate annexed thereto, the amount of damages. (Sec. 7650.) Either
party may except to the report, and the court examines the matter and
causes justice to be done between the parties. (Sec. 7651.) In entering
judgment, the reference to the clerk is not stated, hut the damages are
stated as having been assessed by the court. (Sec. 7652.)

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 13.

RULE 13.
Notices of Trial.
(a) Either party to a cause may give notice of trial for the
next term of court. [From former Rule 54.]
(b) Any party giving notice of trial may countermand such
notice at any time before the first day of term, and in such case
he shall be liable for all taxable costs to which the opposite
party has been put in preparing for trial after receiving such
notice, unless the cause has been noticed by both parties ; and
if such costs shall be taxed and payment thereof demanded
within six days after such countermand, payment may be com
pelled at once by attachment, or in default of payment the case
may be placed on the calendar for trial. [From former Rule 54.]
(c) Any party who shall have noticed a cause for trial and
not countermanded such notice, may be compelled to proceed
to the trial thereof at the term for which the same was noticed,
unless the same is continued on cause shown, and there, is a
compliance with such terms as the court may impose. [From
former Rule 54.]
Length of notice required.— (See Rule 36 and note.) The statutes sup
ply what is lacking in subdivision (a). Sec. 7551 provides that written no
tice of trial of issues of fact shall in all cases be served at least fourteen
days before the first day of the term. This applies also to chancery causes
to be heard on testimony taken in open court. When the service is by mail a
day must be added for each one hundred miles or fraction thereof. (See
Rule 29 b.) The rule is different in cases appealed from justice's court.
(Secs. 7016, 7017.) If the return on appeal is filed ten days before the first day
of the term, either party may notice the cause for trial, by written notice
served at least eight days before the term begins, in such manner as the
rules of court require. (See Rules 28 to 33 inclusive and notes.) Probate ap
peals require no separate notice of trial for the first term after they are
taken. The notice given with the appeal is sufficient for the first term. (Peo
ple v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 39 Mich. 1. See, also, Torrey v. Wayne Circuit
Judge, 38 Mich. 615.) A notice of assessment of damages in a default case
required to be given to a defendant who has appeared, under sec. 7647,
must be a fourteen days' notice, but need not be given fourteen days be
fore the first day of the term. (Sinnock v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 97 Mich.
475.)
[The provision as to eight days' notice of trial in appeal cases probably
applies only to the term next succeeding the filing of the return.]

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 14.

55

When cause may be noticed for trial.— [The cause must be at issue as
to all parties who have appeared, and as to those who have not appeared
there must be a default or a discontinuance.] In a case where one de
fendant pleaded and the other two defendants Were not served and did not
appear, the plaintiff served notice of trial. On the first day of the term, the
defendant who had pleaded had the cause set for trial on a certain day.
On that day he questioned the regularity of the notice, whereupon leave
was granted plaintiff to discontinue as to the other defendants. Held, all
objection was waived by having the cause set for trial. (Cook v. Perry, 43
Mich. 624. See, also, Graham v. Elmore, Harr. Ch. 275, applicable by anal
ogy-)
Form of notice.— A notice without date that a cause " will be brought
on for hearing at the next term of said court " is good in form, if it appears
that the party addressed could not have been misled. (Brushaber v. Stegeman, 22 Mich. 199.)
Effect of omission to serve notice of trial.— Sec. 8340 provides that in
replevin cases, if neither party shall have noticed the cause for trial, "the
defendant may move for judgment, as in case of nonsuit, in the same man
ner as in personal actions." If such a motion is made, it must be accom
panied by a sworn showing of the lack of notice of trial. (Storey v. Child,
2 Mich. 107; Hill v. Webber, 50 Mich. 144.)
See Penfold v. Slyfield, decided July 28, 1896. As to proper attorneys
upon whom to serve notice of trial, see Landyskowski v. Lark, 66 N. W.
Rep. 371 ; Roskopp v. Circuit Judge, 97 Mich. 628.
As to when proof of service of notice is necessary, see People ex rel. v.
Bacon, 18 Mich. 247, wherein it is said: " Where any one attempts to bring
on a cause ex parte, the court fails in its duty and does a legal wrong to
the absent party, unless it requires strict proof of regular notice, as a con
dition of going to the hearing."
Costs on countermand.— By the terms of sec. 8983 it is provided that,
whenever the " plaintiff " countermands a notice of trial, the defendant
shall be entitled to all the costs actually and in good faith incurred by him
previous to the service of such countermand. [The statute does not cover
the case of a countermand by defendant.]

RULE 14.
Notices of Inquest and Proceedings Thereon.
(a) The plaintiff in any action on money bonds, promissory
notes or bills of exchange, at issue as well as at default, may
have the same called out of its order on the calendar, and an
inquest taken and judgment rendered thereon on any day of
the term after the first, in all cases where parties are sued in
their individual capacity, unless the defendant or his attorney
shall, before the first day of the term, have filed an affidavit

56

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 14

of merits, and served a copy thereof on plaintiff's attorney:
Provided, the intention of the plaintiff to take an inquest under
the rule be expressed in the notice of trial. [Substance of for
mer Kule 99.]
(b) The plaintiff in any action on an open account may hav©
the same called out of its order on the calendar and judgment
rendered thereon on any day of the term after the first, unless
the defendant or his attorney shall, before the first day of the
term, have filed an affidavit of merits and served a copy thereof
on plaintiff's attorney. Provided, the intention of the plaint
iff to take such course under the rule be expressed in the notice
of trial, and the same be accompanied by the affidavit of the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, showing the amount of the in
debtedness over and above all legal set-offs, and that he has
good reason to believe and does believe that the defendant has
no defense to the plaintiff's action, and that he believes the
plea is interposed for the sole purppse of delay. And provided
further, that a bill ofparticulars of the plaintiff's demand, con
taining the debit and credit items of the account, accompany
the notice of trial and inquest, unless the same shall have been
previously filed and served.
[There was once a statute similar to this rule, applying to all actions
upon contract. See Brown v. Cowee, 2 Doug. 432.]
This rule applies to a defendant corporation. (G. R. Furn. Co. v. Burnham, 34 Mich. 29.)
If the plaintiff takes an inquest when he has no right to it, the defend
ant may have the judgment reviewed by writ of error. (Wells v. Booth,
35 Mich. 424.)
Effect of notice of inquest.— Notwithstanding a notice of inquest and
a failure to file an affidavit of merits, the defendant may still produce wit
nesses on the inquest to show the accurate amount due or the quantum of
recovery. But he cannot make any substantive defense to the plaintiff's
right of action. (Begole v. Ionia Circuit Judge, 32 Mich. 61.) The defend
ant has a right to have the court consider a motion for a continuance in
such a case. (Ibid. See, also, Bitzer v. Wagar, 83 Mich. 224)

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 15.

61

RULE 15.
Affidavit of Merits.
An affidavit of merits shall be made by the defendant, hi*
agent or attorney, having personal knowledge of the facts,
and shall set forth that the defendant has a good and substan
tial defense to the plaintiff's action (or to a portion thereof),
upon the merits as the deponent verily believes, and it shall
appear in the affidavit that the facts pertaining to the action
have been fully and fairly stated to the defendant's counsel,
naming him, and that the defendant upon such statement has
been advised by such counsel that he has a defense to the ac
tion (or to some portion thereof) upon the merits. [Substitute
for former Rule 59.]
When necessary.— [An affidavit of merits is necessary to prevent sum
mary judgment on notes, etc., and on alleged undisputed accounts, under
Rule 14. It is necessary on an application to set aside a default, under
Rule 12 (b). It is usually required on applications for security for costs.]'
Requirements in the affidavit.— Under a statute providing in substance
the same as Rule 14 (a), it was held that the person who makes the affi
davit, whether he be the defendant or his agent or attorney, must swear
to a defense on the merits, from his own knowledge of the facts, and not
from information and belief. (Brown v. Cowee, 2 Doug. 432.) On motion,
to set aside default, if the' affidavit is made by the solicitor, a sufficient
reason should be shown for it not being made by the party. (Bank v„
Williams, Harr. Ch. 219.) Under the chancery practice, he must state what
the merits are; either by producing a sworn answer such as he proposes
to file, or by stating the nature of his defense in his affidavit of merits.
(Stockton v. Williams, Harr. Ch. 241; Thayer v. Swift, Walk. Ch. 385.)
An affidavit made by a defendant and stating that he has fully and fairly
stated his case to his counsel and has been advised by his counsel, after
such statement, that he has a full and complete defense upon the merits,
and that he verily believes such advice to be true, was held sufficient under
the former rule. (Wells v. Booth, 35 Mich. 424.) If the affidavit is made
in good faith and contains all the substantial essentials, it is sufficient.
If wanting in some respect, an amendment should be permitted. (Ibid.)

58

/'

CIRCUIT COURT RULES 16, 17.

RULE 16.
Notes of Issue.

/

[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15.]
(a) The party noticing a cause for trial shall, at least' twelve
days before the first day of the term, file with the clerk a note
of issue, giving the title of the cause, the names of the attor
neys, the date of joining issue or of filing appeal, and the cause
of action. If a jury has previously been demanded the same
shall also appear in the note of issue. Provided, that, in the
•court's discretion, for cause shown, the court may, not later
than the first day of the term, add to the term calendar a cause
which has been regularly noticed for trial, although a note of
issue was not filed. And in appeal causes, the note of issue shall
be filed eight days before the first day of the term.
(b) The prosecuting attorney shall, at least four days before
the first day of term, deliver to the clerk a list of all such crim
inal cases as he intends to bring on to trial, or in which any
action of the court may be required. [Former Eule 60.]
Sec. 7552, How. Stat., provides that a note of issue shall be served on the
.clerk of the court, before each term thereof, as provided by rule; and if
no rule, then the same shall be served four days before the first day of the
term.

RULE 17.
Demand for Jury.
A party desirous of a trial by jury shall make his demand
for a jury in writing, and file such demand with the clerk at
least eight days before the first day of the term for which the
cause is noticed for trial ; otherwise he shall be deemed to have
waived his right to a jury. Provided, however, that the court
may, in its discretion, for cause shown, transfer a cause to the
jury calendar, although the demand for a jury was not filed as
herein provided. And provided further, that only one demand

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 17.
for jury shall be necessary in any one qase.
former Rule 61.]

59
[Substitute for

[This rule renders void all special rules of the different circuits respect
ing this subject.]
i
The effect of failure to demand a jury, etc.— The constitution of this
«tate provides that the right of trial by jury " shall be deemed to be waived
in all civil cases unless demanded by one of the parties in such manner as
shall be prescribed by law." (Art. VI, sea 27, which nullifies sec. 7550,
How. Stat., passed previous to the Constitution of 1850.) And sec. 6485,
How. Stat, provides that all issues and questions of fact shall be tried
by the court " unless a jury be demanded by one of the parties in the
manner prescribed by the rules of the court; " yet the court is given
power by the same section to order a jury " in all actions of tort, and in
all other actions the subject-matters whereof are, in the opinion of the
<iourt, peculiarly proper for the consideration of a jury." (See Van Sickle
v. Kellogg, 19 Mich. 51, which holds this section constitutional.) On pro
bate appeals a trial may be had by jury (sec. 6783) or by the court without
a jury, if not demanded (American, etc. Union v. Peck, 9 Mich. 445); but
a demand for jury in such appeals prevents a valid judgment being ren
dered by the court without the verdict of a jury, even after one jury has dis
agreed. (Grovier v. Hall, 23 Mich. 10; In re Stebbins' Estate, 94 Mich. 307.)
The constitutional provision and sec. 6485 do not prevent the court from
relieving against a technical failure to comply with the rule in making a
demand, even if the court sees no reason, in the nature of the case, why a
jury trial should be ordered. (Dictum, Van Sickle v. Kellogg, 19 Mich. 53.)
But the failure to make the demand, in the manner prescribed by law,
takes away the strict right to a jury trial. (Mabley v. Judge Superior
Court, 4 Mich. 34.) And, it seems, it may be waived, after demand, by the
conduct of the party. (Hudson v. Roos, 72 Mich. 364.) In all cases, how
ever, there must be an opportunity to make the demand, or the right will
not be waived. (Odell v. Reynolds, 40 Mich. 21.)
A defendant who has appeared, and who has been defaulted for want of
plea, may still demand a jury for the assessment of damages. (O'Flynn
v. Holmes, 8 Mich. 97.) But sea 7658 does not require an assessment by a
jury unless one of the parties demand it. (Ibid.)
As to the right of trial by jury in probate appeals, involving discre
tionary matters, see Wisner v. Mabley Estate, 70 Mich. 271, and cases cited,
and Estate of Stebbins, 94 Mich. 307. Not a matter of right in disbarment
proceedings. (In re Shepard, 67 N. W. Rep. 470.)
The court cannot compel parties to proceed with a trial with less than
twelve jurors. (McRae v. Railroad Co., 93 Mich. 399.)
Payment of jury fee.— Sec. 6474 provides that "in case either party to
a suit shall demand a jury, he shall pay the further sum of three dollars."
In Odell v. Reynolds, 40 Mich. 23, where the regularity of a demand for
jury was questioned, for failure to pay the jury fee, it was held that pay
ment need not be made at the time the jury is demanded, but only before
the jury is called, or at any rate the failure to pay at the time the demand
is made cannot be considered as nullifying the demand.

60

CIRCUIT COURT RULES 18, 19.

Demand for jury to prevent reference.— In cases requiring the exam
ination of mutual accounts, or of a long account on one side only, the
parties may be deprived of a jury trial, unless demanded in writing
" within ten days after joining issue." If not so demanded, the court may
order a reference to a referee. (Sec. 7378.) But it seems this does not
apply to appeal cases. (Odell v. Reynolds, 40 Mich. 22.)

RULE 18.
Term Calendar — How Made Up.
(a) Previous to each term, the clerk shall prepare a calendar
of causes for the term. The same shall be made up in the follow
ing order : 1. Criminal cases. 2. Jury civil cases. 3. Non-jury
civil cases. 4. Issues of law. 5. Chancery cases, including
issues of law in such cases.
(b) Criminal cases shall have precedence. Jury and non
jury and chancery cases shall have precedence in the order of
the respective dates of joining issue, or, in appeal causes, the
respective dates of filing the appeal. [Substitutes for former
Rule 58 and Chancery Rule 63.]
Sec. 575 provides that printed calendars for each regular term of court
shall be procured by the clerk, under the direction of the circuit judge, at
the expense of the county, and that the board of supervisors shall allow
the account therefor, on the certificate of the judge.
[The foregoing rule governs the order of the cases on the calendar only,
and not the order of their trial, which the court controls.] But sec. 6628
provides that the equity calendar at any regular term shall not be taken
up until the issues of fact upon the calendar have first been disposed of,
unless by special order of the court.

RULE 19.
Motions and Petitions.
[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15.]
(a) All petitions and special motions (except motions for con
tinuance and motions to strike causes from calendar) shall be in
writing and shall be signed by the attorney, or counsel, of the
party in whose behalf the same are entered, and shall set out
briefly but distinctly the grounds upon which the same arefoundedf

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 19.

61

and with the affidavits supporting the same shall be filed in
the office of the clerk of the court on or before the day on
which they are noticed for argument.
(b) Notice of the argument of motions and petitions (except
motions for continuance and motions to strike causes from cal
endar), together with a copy thereof and of the affidavits 1 on
which they are based, shall be served on the opposite attorney
at least four days 2 before the time noticed for hearing the
same. Provided, that for good cause the court may hear such
argument on shorter notice.
(c) Motions and petitions shall be argued on the day for
which they are noticed, if the party has an opportunity to be
heard on that day, unless the court (or circuit court commis
sioner, in a matter pending before him) shall otherwise direct.
If there is not sufficient time to finish the business noticed for
any day, it may be continued from day to day until it is com
pleted ; or it may be adjourned to some subsequent day. And
motions and petitions which cannot be heard on the day for
which they are noticed shall, in the absence of special order,
stand continued from day to day without any special continu
ance.
(d) Not more than one counsel on each side shall be heard
on the argument of any petition or motion, the mover being
entitled to open the argument and to reply to the argument of
the opposite counsel.
[Substitutes for former Rules 28, 29, 30, 33, 64, 72 and 73,
and former Chancery Rules 5 and 61.]
See Rules 21, 22 and 46.
1 Copies of affidavits served with notice of a motion must be true and
complete copies. The omission of the jurat renders the copies essentially
defective. (Chesebro v. Chesebro, 21 Mich. 506.)
Generally no matter can be tried upon mere affidavit, unless it be mat
ter which depends upon the discretion of the court. (Parker v. Calhoun
Circuit Judge, 24 Mich. 408.) On this subject, see Stringer v. Dean, 61 Mich.
200; Lyon v. Smith, 66 Mich. 676; Gruler v. McRoberts, 48 Mich. 366;
Jewell v. Lamoreaux, 30 Mich. 155; Leavitt v. Superior Court Judge, 52
Mich. 595; Watson v. Watson, 47 Mich. 427; Maxwell v. Speed, 60 Mich. 36;
Haywood v. Johnson, 41 Mich. 598.
2 See Rule 29 (b), requiring one extra day for each one hundred miles, or
fraction thereof, in case of service by mail. Four days' notice was the
general established practice prior to this revised rule. If the service was for
a distant point, a longer notice was needed. (McCoslin v. Camp, 26 Mich.

62

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 30.

392; Stringer v. Dean, 61 Mich. 196.) While a party may waive strict ob
servance of the rules on this subject, he may also insist on strict com
pliance. (Hill v. Webber, 50 Mich. 145.)
Framing an issne.— It seems to be within the discretion of the court toframe an issue on the hearing of a motion. (Haywood v. Johnson, 41
Mich. 605; Turner v. St. Clair Tunnel Co., 103 Mich. 577.) And Act No. 180of the Laws of 1895 provides for the taking of depositions "needed for use
on hearing of motions," etc. Secs. 7766, 7767, How. Stat., on this subject
are repealed by that act.
Motion for security for costs.— The court has general power to require
security for costs of the plaintiff in any civil action, " when it shall ap
pear reasonable and proper." (Sec. 7298.) The requirement is generally
discretionary with the court, but the defendant has a right to demand it,
when the plaintiff is a non-resident of the state or removes out of the
state after the commencement of his suit. (Sec. 7296.) It is discretionary
when the suit is brought for or in the name of the trustees of any debtor;
or for or in the name of any person being insolvent who shall have been
discharged from his debts pursuant to law, the suit being for the collec
tion of any debt contracted before the assignment of his estate; or for
or in the name of any person committed in execution for a crime; or in
the name of any infant whose next friend has not given security for costs.
(Sec. 8989, vol. 3; Rabidon v. Muskegon Circuit Judge, 68 N. W. Rep. 147.>
If, after the commencement of suit, all the plaintiffs shall become insolv
ent and be discharged from their debts pursuant to law; or if the plaint
iff be sentenced to imprisonment in the state prison for any term less
than for life, security may be demanded by defendant; but in no case, it
seems (sec. 8990), can a general unlimited undertaking for costs be de
manded by the defendant as in the case of a non-resident plaintiff. A
bond in the penalty of at least $100 with one or more sufficient sureties,
filed with the clerk, will satisfy the requirements of the statute in the
absence of a further requirement by the court. (Sees. 8989, vol. 3; 8992,
8993, vol. 2.) Notice must be given to the defendant of the filing of this
bond, and exceptions, if any, filed within twenty days. (Sees. 8993, 8994.)

RULE 20.
Stay of Proceedings to Make Motions.
[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15.]
Whenever a stay of proceedings may be necessary in order
to make a special motion, the judge may grant an order for
that purpose ; and service of such order, with copies of the af
fidavits on which it is grounded, and the notice of the motion,
shall operate as a stay of proceedings until the order of the
court is had in the premises, unless the judge shall in the mean

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 21.

63-

time supersede or set aside such order. But the proceedings
shall not be stayed for a longer time than to enable the party
to make his motion according to the practice of the court, and
if made, until the decision of the court thereon. [Former
Rule 74.]
This rule is subject to the provisions of sec. 7621c, vol. 3, How. Stat., pro
hibiting a stay of proceedings for more than twenty days to move for a.
new trial or settle exceptions, except on filing a bond.

KULE 21.
Motions for New Trial, etc.
Motions for a new trial and motions in arrest of judgment^
with the reasons on which they are founded, shall be filed and
a copy thereof be served on the opposite party within five days
after the rendition of a verdict, in the case of a trial by jury,
and within a like time after the decision of the court, when the
cause has been tried by the court, or within such further time
- as shall be allowed therefor by the court or judge. Such mo
tions may be brought on for hearing by either party before
the court, and the decision on such motion may be made by
the judge and entered in vacation as of the last day of the
preceding term. [Substitute for former Kules 31 and 32.]
When new trial may be granted.— The former rule requiring a motion
for new trial to be made within two days was held not to interfere with
the court's discretion, but only to fix a time beyond which "no one could
move as a matter of right and without leave." (People v. Wayne Circuit
Judge, 20 Mich. 222. Same held in effect in McMillan v. Grand Traverse
Circuit Judge, unreported, decided June, 1896.) A new trial may be
granted after the expiration of the term at which the judgment was en
tered, even though the time for making the motion therefor had not been
extended (Van Rensaeler v. Whiting, 12 Mich. 450; Manufacturers' Ins.
Co. v. Gratiot Circuit Judge, 79 Mich. 241); and even though the steps toset aside the judgment were not taken during the term (Campau v. Coates,.
17 Mich. 236); and even after the judgment has been affirmed in the su
preme court and sent back for enforcement (Reynolds v. Newaygo Circuit
Judge, 67 N. W. Rep. 529); and by the court oryits own motion, in a per
sonal injury case, on the ground that the verdict was inadequate. (Rail
way Co. v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 68 N. W. Rep. 115.)
The fact that the county is placed in a new circuit pending a hearing on

125 277
129 151
138 09

«4

CIECUIT COURT RULE SL

a motion for new trial does not deprive the trial judge of jurisdiction to
grant the motion. (Insurance Co. v. Gratiot Circuit Judge, 79 Mich. 241.)
Whether a new trial may be granted in cases which have been referred
to a referee, qucere. (Smith v. Warner, 14 Mich. 158.)
As to the conditions under which a new trial should be granted, see
Brassel v. Railway Co., 101 Mich. 7; Loree v. Reeves, 2 Mich. 133; People v.
Sackett, 14 Mich. 320; Alderman v. Montcalm Circuit Judge, 41 Mich. 550;
People v. Hennsler, 48 Mich. 49; Churchill v. Alpena Circuit Judge, 56 Mich.
536; Gray v. Barton, 02 Mich. 186; Guerold v. Holtz, 103 Mich. 120; White
v. Peabody, 64 N. W. Rep. 41 ; Rohde v. Biggs, 66 N. W. Rep. 331 ; Will v.
Mendon, 66 N. W. Rep. 58. On the subject of newly-discovered evidence,
see following chancery cases: Ryerson v. Eldred, 23 Mich. 537; Taylor v.
Boardman, 25 Mich. 526; Savings Bank v. Truesdail, 38 Mich. 431.
Conditions may be imposed to the granting of a new trial. (Mabley v.
Superior Court Judge, 41 Mich. 31.)
The affidavits of jurors to impeach their verdict cannot be considered.
(Sharp v. Merriman, 66 N. W. Rep. 375.)
Review of denial of motion for new trial.— The Laws of 1893, p. 222,
provide that, where a motion for a new trial has been refused by the trial
judge, the appellant may incorporate in the bill of exceptions a record of
all proceedings had on the motion, " including the reasons given by the
trial judge in refusing to grant said new trial." Exceptions may be taken
and error assigned, and "the same shall be reviewed by the supreme court."
In order to have the benefit of this statute, the appellant must have filed
exceptions to the decision of the trial judge; otherwise he will be deemed
to have waived the error, if any (Knop v. Insurance Co., 101 Mich. 361);
and he must see that " reasons " are filed by the trial judge for his decis
ion [by requesting them, if not voluntarily filed]; otherwise the court will
not review his action. (McRae v. Garth Co., 102 Mich. 492.) And, it seems,
the request for the filing of "reasons" should be made before the motion
is decided. (See Morley v. Wayne Circuit Jndge, 102 Mich. 488, note.)
On review, under this statute, where the only ground urged was newlydiscovered evidence, and the same was merely cumulative, the action of
the trial judge was sustained. (Guerold v. Holtz, 103 Mich. 123; White v.
Peabody, 64 N. W. Rep. 42.) [The language of the opinion in that case,
and in Aultman v. Dodson, 104 Mich. 510, and White v. Peabody, supra, in
dicates that in reviews under this statute the question whether the trial
judge abused his discretion in denying the motion will usually control.]
The fact that in denying the motion the trial judge indicated that he
would have found the facts differently from the jury was not considered
by the supreme court as ground for reversing his action. (Rohde v. Biggs,
66 N. W. Rep.- 333.) For a case where the court reviewed the action of the
trial judge on a motion based on the. misconduct of jurors, see Sharp v.
Merriman, 66 N. W. Rep. 375; and on a motion based on the incompetency
of a juror and newly-discovered evidence, see Will v. Mendon, 66 N. W.
Rep. 60.

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 23.

65

RULE 22.
Motions for Continuance.
[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15.]
(a) "No motion for the continuance of a cause made after the
first day in term shall be heard, unless a sufficient excuse is
shown for the delay, and on a second application by a party
for the continuance of a cause, the party so applying shall state,
in addition to the usual requisites, the facts which he expects to
prove by the absent witness, and shall also state with particu
larity the diligence he has used to procure his attendance. In
case it is admitted by the opposite party in a civil cause that
the witness named would, if placed on the stand, testify as
stated in such affidavit, the motion for a continuance shall be
denied, unless the court, for the furtherance of justice, shall
deem a continuance necessary. [Former Rule 55.]
(b) If the party receiving notice of trial shall serve a notice
on the opposite party that he will move for a continuance of the
cause at the term for which it is noticed, together with a copy
of the affidavits upon which he intends to found the motion,
he shall not be liable to such party for any costs of preparing
to try the cause, accruing after the service of such notice and
affidavits, in case a continuance is granted on the papers so
served, excepting such as may be unavoidable. [Former Rule
56.]
(c) When a continuance is granted upon payment of costs, such
costs may be taxed summarily by the court, and on being taxed,
shall be paid on demand of the party, his agent or attorney ;
and if not so paid, on affidavit of the fact, such continuance
may be vacated, or the court may grant an attachment there
for, with the accruing costs. [Substitute for former Eule 57.]
Notwithstanding a cause has been noticed for inquest and no affidavit
of merits is filed, the defendant has a right to be heard on a motion for
continuance, for he is still entitled to produce witnesses on the inquest, to
show the accurate amount due, although he cannot make any substantive
defense to the right of action. (Begole v. Ionia Circuit Judge, 32 Mich. 61.)
It seems that where an amendment is granted at the trial, whereby the
issue is materially changed, the opposite party has the option to proceed
5

66

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 23.

with the trial or have the case continued on the payment of his costs for
the term. (Jennings v. Sheldon, 53 Mich. 431.)
The granting of a continuance is a matter within the trial court's dis
cretion, and will not be reviewed, unless an abuse of the discretion appears.
(Bussey v. Bussey, 71 Mich. 504; Winkelmeir v. Daiber, 92 Mich. 621.)
(See People v. Anderson, 53 Mich. 60; People v. Mason, 63 Mich. 510;
McDonald v. Weir, 76 Mich. 243, for general decisions on continuances.)
Costs on continuance.— The court granted a continuance on payment of
costs, whereupon the party waived continuance rather than pay costs.
The lower court held he could not do so, and issued execution for the costs.
Mandamus was granted to rescind the order and recall the execution.
(Henderson v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 40 Mich. 244.) If a party is granted
a continuance on payment of costs, he should promptly waive the continu
ance if he does not desire it on the terms imposed, and acts indicating an
acceptance of the terms will preclude a subsequent waiver, and the order
will become absolute, unless vacated on the motion of the other party, who
may, at his option, make such a motion, if the terms of the order are not
complied with, or move for an attachment. Contempt proceedings are proper
if the costs are not paid. (Barney v. Love, 101 Mich. 545; sec. 7257, How.
Stat. See, also, Love v. Vance, 97 Mich. 625.) Costs on continuance are
not taxable without some showing that the case was continued on motion
of the losing party or that it was not reached during the term. (Jeffrey
v. Hursh, 58 Mich. 248, 262.) Term fees, under sec. 9004, How. Stat., which
allows $5 for every term " at which a cause is regularly on the calendar
and not reached or is postponed," are not taxable when there is a continu
ance by consent or by order of the court " without costs." (Fisher v. Kent
Circuit Judge, decided Nov. 19, 1895, no opinion; Crippen v. Kent Circuit
Judge, decided Nov. 6, 1885, no opinion.)

RULE 23.
Genuineness of Documents.
[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15.]
Either party may exhibit to the other or to his attorney, at
any time before the trial, any paper material to the action, and
request an admission in writing of its genuineness. If the ad
verse party or his attorney fail to give the admission within
four days after the request, and the delivery to him of a copy
thereof, if such copy be required, and if the party exhibiting
the paper be afterward put to expense in order to prove its
genuineness, and the same be finally proved or admitted on
the trial, such expense, to be ascertained and summarily taxed

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 24.

67

at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing the admission,
unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court that there
were good reasons for the refusal, and an attachment or exe
cution may be granted to enforce payment of such expenses.
[Substitute for former Eule 50.]

RULE 24.
Conduct of Trials — Arguments, Nonsuit, etc.
(a) On the trial of a cause it shall be the duty of the plaint
iff's counsel, before offering evidence to support the issue on his
part, to make a full and fair statement of his case and of the
facts which he expects to prove. After the evidence is closed
on the part of the plaintiff, and before any evidence is offered
on the part of the defense, a like statement shall be made by the
counsel for the defendant, or at his election such statement may
be made at the conclusion of the statement by the plaintiff's
.counsel. [Substitute for former Eule 62.]
(b) The plaintiff shall, in all cases except as stated below and
except where otherwise ordered by the court, commence the
evidence. On the trial of issues of fact, one counsel only on 122 286
each side shall examine and cross-examine a witness. No more
than two hours shall be allowed to either side for the summing
up of a cause, unless the court shall otherwise order, but coun
sel upon either side shall be allowed at least one-half hour if it
is desired. [Substitute for former Rule 63.]
(c) Whenever, in any action, the defendant, by notice accom
panying his plea, waives the benefit of the general issue and
admits the facts alleged in the plaintiff's declaration, but at
tempts to defeat the plaintiff's recovery by set-off or by recoup
ment, or by affirmative defense which, if true, defeats plaintiff's
recovery, such defendant shall have the opening and closing in
the taking of testimony and in the argument on the trial of the
cause.
(d) It shall not be necessary to call the plaintiff when the
jury return into court to deliver their verdict, and the plaintiff
shall have no right to submit to a nonsuit after the jury have

68

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 24.

gone from the jury-box to deliberate upon their verdict. [For
mer Rule 65.]
As to trial fees in each county and how payable, see Appendix.
Character of opening statement, etc.— The language of the rule indi
cates the extent of both the right and the duty. It draws a line between
" evidence " and " facts," and contemplates a " fair " statement of the
" facts " expected to be " proved " before putting in the " evidence " by
which these " facts " are expected to be proved. The rule does not sanc
tion the reading of every document which counsel may assert his intention
of subsequently offering in evidence, nor the statement of the whole of
depositions or oral statements of expected witnesses. The end and scope
of the opening address is to enable the court and jury and opposing coun
sel to apprehend the necessities of the plaintiffs case and to understand
the drift of the proof. Its object is not to convey proof or to prepossess
the jury, nor to get before the jury a detail 'of,the testimony expected to
be offered, nor may it be used as a cover for any topics not fairly perti
nent. It should be a brief summary or outline of the substance of the
evidence intended to be offered, with requisite clear and concise explana
tion. (Scripps v. Reilly, 35 Mich. 388.) It should not be a minute argument
of the facts, but a reference to the salient points and to what is to be es
tablished, without repeating the evidence by which he expects to prove
them. (Zucker v. Karpeles, 88 Mich. 413.) But counsel has a right in his
opening to the jury to state what he claims the law to be and that he
will request the court to so instruct them, so as to give the jury an intel
ligent idea of the force, effect and bearing of the testimony; but he can
not read law to the jury. (Fosdick v. Van Arsdale, 74 Mich. 305; Edwards
v. Three Rivers, 96 Mich. 629.) Counsel has a right to state both his claimsas to the law and the facts as he expects to prove them, and he is not a
guai-antor of the correctness of his views of the law, in the sense that a
judgment in his favor will be vacated if he is mistaken. Nothing short
of bad faith or gross misconception of what is admissible will call for re
versal. (Prentiss v. Bates. 93 Mich. 238, overruling same case, 88 Mich. 567.)
It is not proper in a will contest for counsel to read from medical books
as a part of his opening statement. (Fraser v. Jenison, 42 Mich. 214.)
While the trial judge has a large discretion in controlling the routine
proceedings at the trial, including the opening statement of counsel, still
an abuse of that discretion plainly shown will be corrected by a court of
review. (Scripps v. Reilly, 35 Mich. 388; Porter v. Throop, 47 Mich. 313;
Hudson v. Roos, 76 Mich. 176; Prentiss v. Bates, 93 Mich. 238.)
For cases where the propriety of portions of the opening statements was
questioned, see Baumier v. Antiau, 79 Mich. 509; Ricabus v. Gott, 51 Mich.
227; Battishill v. Humphreys, 64 Mich. 494; Porter v. Throop, 47 Mich. 313;
Gavigan v. Scott, 51 Mich. 373; Prentiss v. Bates, 93 Mich. 234; Campbell
v. Kalamazoo, 80 Mich. 655; People v. Montague, 71 Mich. 451.
For a case where the opening statements were held broad enough to
admit subsequently offered testimony on a particular topic, see Canning v.
Harlan, 50 Mich. 320.
As to the duty of counsel generally during the trial of a case, and as to

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 24.

69

prejudicial remarks by him during the testimony, see Carter v. Hill, 81
Mich. at page 280; Sullivan v. Deiter, 86 Mich. 404; Thompson v. Railway
Co., 91 Mich. 255; Kirchner v. Railway Co., 91 Mich. 400; Clink v. Gunn,
90 Mich. 140; Arnstine v. Treat, 71 Mich. 563: Van Alstine v. Kaniecki, 67
N. W. Rep. 503; Provost v. Brueck, 67 N. W. Rep. 1116.
Objection to improper language during the opening statement or at any
time during the trial, and generally to irregularities in the conduct of the
trial, must be made at the time, in order to be available. (Welch v. Palmer,
85 Mich. 310; Safford v. Board of Health, 67 N. W. Rep. 1095; Louden v.
Vinton, 66 N. W. Rep. 222.) And where the language- is properly and en
ergetically rebuked by the court, and a proper effort made to prevent fur
ther language of the kind, and where it does not appear that injury has
been done, it will not generally be ground for reversal. (Tunnicliffe v.
Bay Cities, 65 N. W. Rep. 226: Warren v. Halley, 64 N. W. Rep. 1058; Pro
vost v. Brueck, 67 N. W. Rep. 1114.)
When opening statement to be made.— It is error for the court, on the
examination of the jurors as to their competency, to permit counsel, under
the pretense of ascertaining whether or not the jurors know anything about
the case, to really open his case to them, by stating not only the full par
ticulars of plaintiff's claim, but also his version of the defense that would
be set up. (Hudson v. Roos. 76 Mich. 176.)
Offers to prove, made in the presence of the jury.—The character of an
offer may be such as to require a reversal, even if rejected below. " Every
thing having a tendency to prejudice or influence a jury, which is not
legally admissible in evidence, should, as far as possible, be kept from com
ing to their knowledge." The rule excluding incompetent testimony
" would be of slight protection if counsel could be permitted to make a
statement of the incompetent testimony." The essence of the wrong con
sists in the fact that such incompetent testimony is brought to the atten
tion of the jury, more than in the method of communicating the fact.
" The correct practice is to present the article, if in writing, to the court
and counsel for examination, without stating either the purport or sub
stance of it." (Scripps v. Reilly, 38 Mich. 15.) It is never proper practice,
when an objection to a question has been sustained, for counsel to state in
the presence of the jury what he can or proposes to prove if allowed to do
so. (McDuff v. Journal Co., 84 Mich. 11.) Counsel should rest content with
the ruling of the court, and should not be permitted, under objection, to
state to the jury what he proposes to prove. (Turner v. Machine Co., 97
Mich. 177; Jones v. Village of Portland, 88 Mich. 607.)
Prejudicial remarks of the court.— It is error for the court to express
an opinion about a disputed fact, or about the character of a witness, or
to compliment one attorney at another's expense, or to use language tend
ing to bring an attorney of one of the parties into contempt of the jury
(McDuff v. Evening News, 84 Mich. 1); or to comment unfavorably upon
testimony that tends to prove any of the circumstances leading up to the
assault in an action for assault and battery (Pokriefra v. Mackurat, 91
Mich. 399); or to intimate that counsel is pursuing an unfair course in ob
jecting to the exclusion of a witness (Mcintosh v. Mcintosh, 79 Mich. 198);
or to reflect before the jury on the capacity and memory of counsel, or to

70

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 24,

volunteer the purpose of a question (Wheeler v. Wallace, 53 Mich. 356); or
to intimate his view of testimony, or to reflect on the veracity of a wit
ness (People v. Hare, 57 Mich. 506); or to say that the case is trivial and
that so much time ought not to be spent upon it, in an action for damages
where plaintiff has testified to serious injuries inflicted by defendant (Zube
v. Weber, 67 Mich. 52); or to refer disparagingly to the plaintiff and to the
value of his services, in an action for services rendered by an attorney.
(Baldwin v. Clock, 68 Mich. 201. See, also, Mooney v. Davis, 75 Mich. 188:
Connell v. McNett. 67 N. W. Rep. 344.) As to the interruption by the court
of a proper cross-examination, see Zucker v. Karpeles, 88 Mich. 421. Excep
tion to the alleged improper remarks of the court is necessary, if relief is
to be asked in the supreme court. (People v. Shelton, 99 Mich. 333.)
One counsel only to examine a witness.— This rule does not extend to
objections to testimony and arguments thereon. One counsel may exam
ine a witness, while his associate watches out for the legality of the ad
mission or rejection of the testimony. This is a matter of right which
the trial court cannot take away, unless the right is abused. (Baumier v.
Antiau, 65 Mich. 38.) The rule covers; however, a case where a plaintiff's
witness who has been cross-examined by one counsel for defendant is re
called by plaintiff and another counsel for defendant seeks to cross-examine
him. (Cook v. Insurance Co., 86 Mich. 555.) But the trial judge has some
discretion in the enforcement of the rule, and may permit an examination
to be completed by another counsel. (Malone v. Gates, 87 Mich. 338. See,
also, as to general power of trial judge, Tuller v. Ginsburg, 99 Mich. 137.)
Limiting the number of witnesses.— It was held error for the court to
limit the number of witnesses to be sworn by either side upon a material
and one of the main issues. (Barhyte v. Summers, 68 Mich. 342.) But the
court may limit the number of expert witnesses and witnesses as to char
acter. (Fraser v. Jenison, 42 Mich. 206; Hollywood v. Reed, 57 Mich. 235.)
Time allowance for arguments, etc.— In a criminal case, where the
court limited counsel to one hour on a side, held prejudicial to defendant's
counsel, and that he should have been allowed the full time, two hours.
(People v. Labadie, 66 Mich. 704.)
There is no absolute right on the part of counsel for defendants to cut
off further argument by declining to reply to plaintiff's opening argument.
The matter is within the discretion of the court, but fair opportunity
should be given counsel for thorough presentation of the whole case to
the jury. (Barden v. Briscoe, 36 Mich. 255.)
Arguments of counsel.— Counsel may make such proper comment on
the absence of a material witness for the opposing party as the facts war
rant. (Gavigan v. Scott, 51 Mich. 373; Cross v. Railroad Co., 69 Mich. 363.)
But such comment is only proper when the facts and circumstances shown
justify an inference that the testimony of the absent person would be im
portant and material. It is the duty of the court to prevent such comment
in the absence of such testimony. (Cook v. Insurance Co., 86 Mich. 555.)
He may affirm that the natural presumptions are against the testimony of
a witness, and not being bound to admit any fact because it is sworn to,
he cannot be prevented from arguing in a decent and orderly way the
probabilities of the truth or falsity of any statement of any witness.

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 24.

71

(Bronson v. Leach, 74 Mich. 713.) He is entitled to some license in his
argument. (Dikeman v. Arnold, 83 Mich. 218.) He may state what he
claims to be the law, and a judgment in his favor will not be reversed
simply because he was mistaken, unless his language shows bad faith and
a gross misconception of what is admissible. (Prentiss v. Bates, 93 Mich.
238, and cases cited.)
While captious objections to the arguments of counsel will not be re
garded, and allowance made for their zeal and presumedly good inten
tions, still where there is shown a studied purpose to arouse the prejudices
of the jury, based on facts not in the case, it is ground for reversal. So
held in a case where the nationality of the opposing parties was referred
to (Cluett v. Rosenthal!, 100 Mich. 199); or where an appeal is made to the
jury's prejudice against non-residents (Bedford v. Penny, 58 Mich. 424);
or against wealthy litigants. (Louden v. Vinton, 66 N. W. Rep. 222.) It
is not always easy to discover the line which separates the involuntary
transgressions of propriety in an argument and the deliberate perversions
or misstatements of testimony. The only practicable method of control
ling counsel is with the trial court, which has a large discretion in such
matters. (Randall v. Evening News, 101 Mich. 573.)
Counsel is not authorized to go outside of any proper issue for the jury.
(Seligman v. Ten Eyck Estate, 60 Mich. 269.) Nor to comment on testi
mony that has been stricken out. (Hitchcock v. Moore, 70 Mich. 112;
Hollywood v. Reed, 57 Mich. 235; Donovan v. Richmond, 61 Mich. 467.)
Nor, in a negligence case, to read to the jury the opinion of the supreme
court holding that the evidence on a former trial tended to show defend
ant to have been guilty of negligence. (Laughlin v. Railway Co., 80 Mich.
155.) Nor generally to read law to the jury; although he may state what
he claims the law to be and that he has requested the court to so instruct
the jury. (Phoenix Ins. Co. v. Allen, 11 Mich. 501: Fosdick v. Van Arsdale,
74 Mich. 305; Lendberg v. Iron Co., 75 Mich. 84; Edwards v. Three Rivers,
95 Mich. 629.) Nor to comment upon alleged entries in books of account
which are not in evidence. (Hirschfield v. Waldron, 83 Mich. 116.)
For other cases where the propriety of certain statements of counsel in
argument was questioned, see O'Callaghan v. Boeing, 72 Mich. 669; Ross
v. Detroit, 96 Mich. 447; Geist v. Railway Co., 91 Mich. 446; Moore v.
Thompson, 92 Mich. 498; Evans v. Montgomery, 95 Mich. 497; Delong v.
Booming Co., 88 Mich. 282; Retan v. Railway Co., 94 Mich. 146; Mitchell
v. Beck, 88 Mich. 342: Bullen v. Granger, 58 Mich. 274; Sweet v. Railway
Co., 87 Mich. 559; Malone v. Gates, 87 Mich. 332; Finn v. Adrian, 93 Mich.
504; Harris v. Railway Co., 76 Mich. 227; Kirchner v. Railway Co., 91
Mich. 400; Amperse v. Fleckenstein, 67 Mich. 247; Minor v. Lorman, 66
Mich. 530; Battishall v. Humphreys, 64 Mich. 514; Strudgeon v. Sand
Beach, 65 N. W. Rep. 616.
Voluntary nonsuit at the trial.— Subdivision (d) of this rule alters the
practice as stated in Helwig v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 73 Mich. 258, wherein
it was decided that the plaintiff had a right to withdraw his case at any
time before taking the verdict. That case was decided in 1889, and the
rule was changed in 1891, appearing in 85 Michigan. It is error to refuse
to allow a nonsuit after refusal to allow the amendment of a declaration in

72

CIRCUIT COURT RULES 25, 26.

ejectment. (Ludeman v. Hirth, 96 Mich. 17.) Nonsuit is not a matter of
right where a set-off has been pleaded. (Sec. 7370, vol. 3, How. Stat. ; Heiwig v. Wayne Circuit Judge, supra.) Whether this was so before the
statute, qucere. (Canada Bank v. Schulenburg, 54 Mich. 49.)
As to setting aside a nonsuit, see Hoffman v. St. Clair Circuit Judge, 37
Mich. 131; Higley v. Lant, 3 Mich. 612; Wineman v. Wayne Circuit Judge,
35 Mich. 498; Johnson v. Shepard, 35 Mich. 115; Lindsay v. Wayne Cir
cuit Judge, 63 Mich. 735.

RULE 25.
Court May Require Parties, etc., to Testify.
127 322
139 145

[This rule applies to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15.]
In any suit, whether contested or not, the court may, for the
furtherance of justice, call upon any or all of the parties to such
suit, or any witness therein, to testify orally in open court, and
may continue or keep open the cause for that purpose, and may
issue process to compel the appearance of such party or witness
before the court. [Substitute for former Law Rule 48 and
former Chancery Rule 99.]
This rule is expressly authorized by sec. 6424, How. Stat. "But no party
or witness whose evidence may not be received under the statutes of the
state shall be called upon to testify under the provisions of this section."
(Amendment of 1887, sec. 6424, vol. 3.) (See Eaton v. Knowles, 61 Mich. 633;
Spry Co. v. Steam Barge, 76 Mich. 320.) Its first adoption as Chancery Rule
99 and Law Rule 48 was not affected, so far as divorce cases are concerned,
by the subsequent passage of the statute, sec. 7546, referring to the testi
mony of husband or wife against each other. (Hamilton v. Hamilton, 37
Mich. 603. See, also, sec. 6260.)

IJs 288

136 587
137 480

RULE 26.
Demand for Special Findings of Fact and Law by the Court,
and Proceedings Thereon.
(a) When cases are tried by the court without a jury, either
party may, if he sees fit, at any time before judgment, present
such points of lav} as may be deemed material, in the same man
ner in which such points are presented upon requests to charge
in jury trials, and the court in its findings shall pass specially

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 26.
on all such points, as in charging a jury, as near as may be.
Whenever such points are presented, and also whenever the
court is requested in writing before judgment, the facts as well
as the law shall be embodied in the finding. [Former Rule 87.]
(b) If either party considers the finding not sufficiently full
or definite on facts or law, or botn, he shall, within ten days
after judgment (or such other time as may be granted by the
court), propose such amendmen ts to the finding as he may see fit,
and serve copies thereof on the adverse party ; and such find
ing shall be settled by the judge who tried the cause, at such
time as may be fixed by him for that purpose. The same prac
tice shall prevail in case any party is aggrieved by the refusal
or omission to perfect such finding as prevails in cases of ex
ceptions. [Former Rule 88.]
(c) Within four days after the filing of such completedfinding
(or such other time as may be allowed by the court), any party
aggrieved may briefly, in writing, allege exceptions to the mat
ters of law embodied in such finding, and such exceptions shalL
be thereafter put in form and settled in the same bill, which
may contain the exceptions taken during the trial, and in the
same manner with bills of exceptions in other cases. [Former
Rule 89.]
(d) The finding of the facts by the court shall be treated in
all respects as a special verdict, and error may be alleged that
the same does not support the judgment, as on a special verdict ;
but no ruling of law embodied in such finding can be reviewed
except on exceptions, or on a case made as provided by statute.
[Former Rule 90.]
The importance of demanding: special findings.— He who desires a re
view by the supreme court of a judgment wherein the trial was had before
the court without a jury, and who desires to question the conclusions
reached by such court upon the facts and the law, must ask for written
findings and must take exceptions thereto. (Butts v. Davis, 50 Mich. 310;
Haines v. Saviers, 93 Mich. 441, and cases cited; Gemberling v. Lazarus,
100 Mich. 325, and cases cited.) Otherwise a review of the conclusions of
the trial judge upon the whole testimony will not be had, even though the
whole testimony be printed. (Township of Cumming v. Schick, 94 Mich.
222.) The testimony will not be examined to ascertain whether the con
clusions of the lower court thereon were correct (Plummer v. Abbey, 39
Mich. 167; Morgan v. Botsford, 82 Mich. 153), even if it may be inferred
from the record that the case in the court below turned upon a certain

74

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 26.

question of law. (Wertin v. Crocker, 47 Mich. 642.) The court will not go
into an examination of the testimony to ascertain whether there is any
which would sustain the judgment. (In re Estate of Buchan, 100 Mich.
219, and cases cited.)
If it is claimed that the result reached by the trial court included ele
ments not warranted by the testimony, or that it excluded items of dam
age or offset which should have been included, a written finding of fact
and law must be requested. (Manufacturing Co. v. Jenkinson, 69 Mich.
223.)
As to the necessity of exceptions to the findings and the refusal to find
as requested, see Cole v. Burnett. 83 Mich. 251; O'Brien v. Fulkerson, 75
Mich. 554; Dodge v. Kennedy, 93 Mich. 547; Robards v. Waterman, 96 Mich.
233, and cases cited.
But without findings of fact the supreme court will review the ruling
of the lower court on the admission or rejection of evidence if exception
was duly taken to the ruling. (Green v. Gill, 47 Mich. 86.) Yet it being
the province of the trial court to pass upon the testimony after its admis
sion and make the necessary inferences 'and deductions, there will be no
reversal, it seems, unless it appears to have operated to the legal prejudice
of the appellant; and where the ruling concerns evidence admitted and
the real question is in regard to its weight and the proper deductions and
inferences, it will not be reviewed without findings. (See Green v. Gill, 47
Mich. 88.)
Even where findings are filed, the supreme court cannot weigh the evi
dence, nor determine the facts, or review the findings of the court below
on questions of fact. It is only where there is a total want of evidence,
or where the finding is contrary to the undisputed evidence, that the facts
found by the trial court can be overturned. (Lamoreaux v. Creveling, 104
Mich. 501; Cragen v. Gardner, 64 Mich. 404, and cases cited; Bateman v.
Blaisdell, 83 Mich. 358, and cases cited.) Nor can the parties by stipula
tion confer upon the supreme court the jurisdiction to review the facts,
except as above stated. (Schmidt v. Miller, 22 Mich. 278.) Nor does the
practice on " case made " confer the power. (Earle v. Insurance Co., 29
Mich. 414, and cases cited.)
If it appears that evidence bearing on the turning point of the merits
and adapted to influence the findings in a vital part was improperly ad
mitted against objection and exception, the judgment will be reversed.
(Earle v. Insurance Co., 29 Mich. 414)
Necessity of demand for findings.— Where a detailed finding is desired
under this rule it must be demanded. (People v. Littlejohn, 11 Mich. 61.)
The judgment may be vacated to give effect to a demand filed after its
entry. (Coit v. Judge Superior Court, unreported, decided June term, 1896.)
Sec. 6487, How. Stat., provides that " the court shall specify the facts found
and the conclusions of law thereon, upon the request of either party." If
more specific findings are desired than those which have been filed, there
must be a request for the same in the way of proposed amendments and
exception taken to the refusal thereof; otherwise an objection that the
findings are not sufficiently specific will not prevail if the facts found are
consistent with the judgment and sufficient to support it; and in such

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 27.

75

case, too, it will be assumed that the evidence warranted the findings
(Merrill v. Newton, 99 Mich. 229, and cases cited); and the court will not
go outside the findings and draw inferences from circumstances for the
purpose of establishing error. (Gambs v. Estate of Sutherland, 101 Mich.
355; Seeley v. Albrecht, 41 Mich. 525; Monroe Co. v. Frenchtown, 98 Mich.
432.)
But if findings are filed, they will be presumed to have been made upon
request, and will have the same effect as if requested. (Delashman v.
Berry, 20 Mich. 292.) If a demand for findings was filed by one of the par
ties only, the other party cannot complain of the failure of the court to
file such findings before entering judgment. (Cook v. Wiles, 42 Mich. 440.)
And as the request must be filed before judgment, the neglect of the court
to file findings will not be reviewed, unless the record shows affirmatively
that the request was filed before judgment. (Brown v. Haak, 48 Mich. 229.)
The form and extent of the findings.— They need not cover every prop
osition of law and fact mentioned in the request, especially where the
same are immaterial to the issue, so long as there is no prejudice. (Babcock v. Township, 65 Mich. 484; Schuler v. Eckert, 90 Mich. 165.) There is
no impropriety in the trial judge requesting the attorney for the prevail
ing party to draw up the findings, and error cannot be assigned upon it.
(Bateman v. Blaisdell, 83 Mich. 358.)
The finding should state a distinct conclusion, or at least set forth suffi
cient facts to lead to one by inevitable inference. (Danaher v. Ward's
Estate, 40 Mich. 301.) It should state conclusions of fact and not merely
the evidence of facts. (Yelverton v. Steele, 40 Mich. 538.) It may include
facts established by necessary inference. (Neuman v. Mining Co., 57 Mich.
97.) While it may embrace some of the evidence and state the reasons
which induced the conclusions, the practice is not good, as it creates con
fusion between the facts found and the evidence of facts. (Tower v. Rail
way Co., 34 Mich. 337.) It must be something more than an informal
statement made up of facts, items of evidence, offers of proof, rulings on
objections and an opinion on the result. Such a document cannot be
made the basis of a judgment. So held of a judgment entered in vacation
by the clerk, which must be based on a special finding, under sec. 6486.
(Steele v. Matteson, 50 Mich. 313.) The findings may be amended by the
trial judge, even after the expiration of the term. (Sweetzer v. Mead, 5
Mich. 33.)

RULE 27.
Discontinuance — Proceedings Where Several Defendants.
(a) The plaintiff may, at any time, upon notice to the de
fendant or his attorney, and on the payment of costs, discon
tinue his suit, by order filed or entered in the cause, except
where a set-off is asserted by the defendant. [Substitute for
former Rule 26.]

us 639

76

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 27.

(b) When an action is brought against several persons, the
plaintiff shall, at any time before the final submission of thecause, he allowed to discontinue as against any of the defend
ants, upon the payment of costs to them, as in case of nonsuit,
and upon such other terms as the court shall direct, and the
plaintiff may thereupon amend his declaration, and proceed
against the other defendants in like manner, as if the action
had been originally brought against them alone. [Substitute
for former Rule 71.]
(c) But in case an action is brought against two or more de
fendants, the plaintiff shall not be required to discontinue as to
any of them, hut the jury shall show hy their verdict, or the court
hy its finding, in a trial hy the court without a jury, which of
them are and which of them are not liable to the plaintiff, and
judgment shall be given accordingly.
See Rule 24 (d) in connection with subdivision (a). It forbids a voluntary
nonsuit after the jury have taken the case for deliberation.
As to whether a discontinuance could be entered where a set-off was
pleaded prior to the statute forbidding it (sec. 7370, vol. 3, How. Stat.) was
left undecided in Merchants' Bank v. Schulenburg, 54 Mich. 49.
Where a discontinuance has been entered on the stipulation of the plaint
iffs themselves and the attorneys for the defendants, and a motion to strike
the stipulation from the files has been denied, the court cannot proceed
witli the case. (Kittridge v. Railway Co., 53 Mich. 354.)
Subdivisions (b) and (c) are in accord with sec. 6409, How. Stat., which
calls upon the supreme court to " effectually prevent the defeat or abate
ment of any civil suit ex contractu for either misjoinder or non-joinder of
parties, where the same can be done consistently with justice." Rule 6 (c)
to (f) is also in accord with this statute.
The right given by this rule, to discontinue as to one defendant, is not,
it seems, an absolute right in all cases: and where the object was to defeat
the right of removal to the federal court, it was held improper to permit the
amendment. (Yawkey v. Richardson, 9 Mich. 531.) And the amendment
must be on leave and on such terms as will do no injustice. (Post v.
Sharer, 63 Mich. 88.)
As to the effect of a discontinuance under this rule upon a bond given
to secure a release of attached goods, see Andre v. Fitz Hugh, 18 Mich. 94.
And as to its effect on an appeal bond given by joint defendants, see Post
v. Shafer, 63 Mich. 88.
The scope of the rule.— In Anderson v. Robinson, 38 Mich. 409, it was
held that former Rule 71 (of which subdivision (b) is a copy, except that
the words "founded on contract" are omitted in the revision) was not in
tended to transform a purely joint obligation into a several one, but only
to allow a plaintiff to recover against one or more of the defendants, where
the case might have regularly been brought against him or them origi

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 27.

Y7

nally, and that it does not authorize recovery against part of those subject
to an exclusively joint liability. [The revision does not affect this decis
ion.] See upon this subject the note to Chandler v. Lawrence, 3 Mich.
261; Winslow v. Herrick, 9 Mich. 380; Yawkey v. Richardson, 9 Mich. 531;
Ballou v. Hill, 23 Mich. 60; Munn v. Haynes, 46 Mich. 145, and cases cited;
Post v. Shafer, 63 Mich. 88, which are all to the same effect. In Winslow
v. Herrick, supra, it is said: "The rule was not designed to change any
legal rights, but merely to enable a plaintiff who had sued more parties
than he could recover against to amend his case by declaring against his
real debtors." And in Ballou v. Hill, supra, and Van Leyen v. Wreford,
81 Mich. 606, it is held that a discontinuance against one defendant, on an
.exclusively joint contract, is "as fatal to the case as a discontinuance
against both."
The opinion in Munn v. Haynes, 46 Mich. at page 146, may seem to be
contrary to the foregoing. There three defendants were sued as joint
makers of a promissory note, which two of them were alleged to have
signed as partners. The default of two was entered and a discontinuance
as to the third. The opinion says: "In the case at bar the plaintiff no
doubt had the right to amend by striking out the female defendant; " but
it was held the defaulted defendants were entitled to notice of it. But
this appears to have been based on an exception to the rule stated in An
derson v. Robinson, supra, where the joint defendant, as to whom a dis
continuance is entered, is an infant or otherwise incapable, and whose
undertaking Is regarded as a mere nullity. (See Post v. Shafer. 63 Mich.
at page 90.) This is made plain in Atkinson v. Weidner, 83 Mich. 412,
where the suit was on a joint obligation of four defendants, and at the
trial, after the court had held one of the defendants, a married woman,
not liable on the note, a discontinuance was entered as to her. Held, that
it did not follow that no judgment could be entered against the remain
ing defendants because the obligation was joint as to all the parties. "She
was discharged because not bound by the promise, and therefore the ob
ligation was the joint obligation of those who were qualified to enter
into it."
The rule does, however, permit a discontinuance in the case of defend
ants severally liable, as by discontinuing against a husband in an action
against husband and wife for commissions, when it appears, if any liability
exists, it is that of the wife alone. But in the case of defendants jointly
and severally liable, the rule does not permit a discontinuance so as to en
able a plaintiff to proceed against more than one and less than all. (Codd
v. Seitz, 94 Mich. 193.) For it is held that where an obligation is joint as
well as several, all must be proceeded against jointly or each severally,
subject to exceptions in cases of infancy, discharge in bankruptcy, etc,
(Fay v. Jenks, 78 Mich. 312.)
In Beekman v. Sylvester, 66 N. W. Rep. 1093, suit was brought upon a
judgment against the three defendants. It appeared that two of the de
fendants had been released, and the judgment rendered against the re
maining defendant was reversed because there had been no discontinuance
as to the other two. [This would probably not be necessary under the new
provisions found in subdivision (c).]

78

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 28.

Effect on defaulted defendants.— Where an action was brought against
three defendants on a joint obligation, and two of them were defaulted,
and a discontinuance afterwards entered as to the other, who had pleaded,
the defaulted parties were held entitled to notice of the change, and a
judgment based on the default was set aside on error. The only effect of
the default was an admission of the same promise the plaintiff would have
been bound to prove in case a plea had been filed, viz. : a promise by the
defaulted defendants jointly with the other defendant. " The proper prac
tice was to serve the amended declaration on the defaulted defendants and
give them opportunity to contest the rightto proceed against themalone."
(Munn v. Haynes, 46 Mich. 141, 146.) This question was raised but not de
cided in Winslow v. Herrick, 9 Mich. 380.
In appeal cases.— Subdivision (b) was not intended, it seems, for appeal
cases. (Anderson v. Robinson, 38 Mich. 409.) But where an action on a
note was appealed, and the surety on the appeal bond was impleaded as
defendant, and the defendants showed that one of the original promisors
was an infant, held, that the plaintiff might discontinue as to him. (Tay
lor v. Dansby, 42 Mich. 84, citing Chandler v. Lawrence, 3 Mich. 261. See,
also, Post v. Shafer, 63 Mich. at page 90.)

RULE 28.
Service of Papers.
When the attorney for the adverse party resides or has his
office in the same city, village or township as the attorney making
the service, papers shall be served as follows :
(a) By delivering the same to the attorney personally.
(b) Or, by leaving the same in his office with his clerk, or
with a person having charge thereof.
(c) Or, when no person is to be found in his office, by leaving
the same, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in
the evening, in some suitable and conspicuous place in such
office.
(d) Or, if the office be not open, so as to admit of service
therein, then by leaving the same at the residence of the attor
ney with some person of suitable age and discretion.
(e) Or, by depositing the same in the postoffice of the city, vil
lage or township, inclosed in an envelope, plainly addressed to
such attorney, with postage fully prepaid. [Substitute for for
mer Rule 7.]
[This rule and Rules 29, 30, 31, 32, 35 and 36, on this general subject,
apply also to chancery causes. See Chancery Rule 15.]

CIRCUIT COURT RULES 29, 30.

79

RULE 29.
Service of Papers by Mail.
When the attorney resides or has his office in a different city,
village or township than the attorney making the service, papers
shall be served as follows :
(a) By delivering the same to the attorney personally, or by
leaving the same in his office with his clerk or with a person
having charge thereof.
(b) Or, by depositing the same in some postoffice directed to
the attorney at his business address, with postage fully prepaid,
such address to be ascertained according to the best information
and belief of the person making such service. And in such case
the' time of service must be increased one day for every one hun
dred miles distance, or fraction thereof, between the place of
deposit and the place of address. [From former Rules 5 and 9.]
The usual route of travel governs the distance under such a rule. (Ray
mond v. Hinckson, 15 Mich. 516.)
" It is a general rule that, when service is sought to be made by mail, it
should appear that the conditions on which the validity of such service
must depend had existence." The affidavit must show full prepayment of
postage, and that the notice was directed as the rule requires. An affidavit
that deponent " caused to be mailed " a notice, etc., is insufficient. (Clark
v. Adams, 33 Mich. 162.)

RULE 30.
Service Where There are Several Defendants or Several
Attorneys.
(a) In cases where there are two or more defendants, who ap
pear by different attorneys, service of all papers in behalf of the
plaintiff shall be made on the attorney for each of the other de
fendants.
(b) And in such case service of all papers in behalf of any
defendant shall be made on the attorney for each of the other
defendants, and upon the attorney for the plaintiff.
(c) In case two or more attorneys appear for the same party

80

CIRCUIT COURT RULES 31-3&

or parties, service on any one of said attorneys, whether they
be partners or not, shall be sufficient. But this shall not apply
to attorneys appearing as "counsel" only.
[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15. See, as
to proceedings in cases where there are two or more defendants, note to
Chancery Rule 5.]
RULE 31.
Service on Party Prosecuting or Defending in Person.
When a party prosecutes or defends his cause in person, serv
ice of papers may be made on him in the manner hereinbefore
provided for service on attorneys, whether such party be a li
censed attorney or not. [From former Rules 6 and 8.]
The constitution of the state gives a suitor the right to prosecute or de
fend his suit in any court, " either in his own proper person or by an
attorney or agent of his choice." (Art. VI, sec. 24.) But a party cannot
appear in a court of record by an agent who is not an attorney duly li
censed to practice. The word "agent "in the constitution is to be con
strued as synonymous with " attorney." (Cobb v. Superior Court Judge,
43 Mich. 289.)
RULE 32.
Service in Exceptional Cases.
In all cases where service of papers cannot reasonably be
made on account of the lack of an attorney of record, or the
inability to find a party, or for any other reason, the court in
which such cause is pending, or judge thereof at chambers,
upon an ex parte application, on cause shown, may direct in
what manner and on whom service may be made. [From for
mer Rule 6.]

RULE 33.
Service of Papers in Appeal Cases.
In appeal cases, wThere the party upon whom papers, includ
ing notices of trial, are sought to be served, has not appeared
by attorney, service may be made upon such party personally,

I
CIRCUIT COURT RULE 34.

81

or by mail in the manner provided for service on attorneys by
mail; and if there be two or more such parties who are part
ners, service upon one shall be -sufficient. If such party is not
a resident of the state, or if his place of residence cannot be as
certained, such papers may be served by posting the same in a
conspicuous place in the office of the county clerk, and if the
same be a notice of trial, the same shall be posted at least
twenty days before the first day of the term for which the
cause is noticed, and if the postoffice address of said party be
Jcnown or can be ascertained, a copy shall be mailed to him.
Hut proof of such service, mailing or posting, and the facts au
thorizing such posting, shall be filed before the court shall take
any action on the strength thereof. [Substitute for former
Rule 10.]
See Rule 46 and note as to applications for special leave to appeal.
An affidavit designed to show that the place of residence of a party
"could not be ascertained " should contain the statement that deponent
had made diligent endeavors and yet had failed to ascertain, instead of
being confined to a narrative from which the conclusion is to be drawn.
An affidavit which denies simply a knowledge of the " location " of a
party is defective. (People v. Bacon, 18 Mich. 251.) In an affidavit of
posting, every clause and condition of the rule is to be regarded as having
some significance, and no presumption can be made to aid a statement
which omits any essential particular. It must show that the notice was
posted in a conspicuous place in the clerk's office, and the place must be
mentioned. (People v. Bacon, 18 Mich. 252.)
An affidavit showing the substance and purport of the notice served is
not sufficient. It must be accompanied by a sworn copy of the notice.
(McCaslin v. Camp, 26 Mich. 389.)
It seems that even before this revised rule, which permits service by
mail on a party to an appeal cause, if he has not caused his appearance to
be entered by attorney, service by mail on the party was lawful. (See
People ex reL v. St. Clair Circuit Judge, 41 Mich. 549.)

RULE 34.
Service on Party Charged with Contempt, and on Party Im
prisoned.
(a) When the object is to bring the party into contempt for
disobeying any rule or order of the court, the service shall be
on such party personally, unless otherwise specially ordered
by the court.
6

82

CIRCUIT COURT RULES 35, 36.

(b) When the defendant is returned imprisoned for want of
bail, a copy of the declaration shall be delivered to him or to
the sheriff or jailer in whose custody he shall be, and when
an exception is entered to bail, and no notice of retainer of
an attorney to defend is given, notice of such exception shall
be delivered to the sheriff or one of his deputies. [From for
mer Kules 6 and 8.]

RULE 35.
When Service Required.
No service of papers shall be necessary on a defendant who
has not regularly appeared, except as specially required by rule
or statute. But a defendant who has appeared by notice of
retainer or appearance shall be entitled to notice in advance
of all future proceedings in the cause, although he may not
have followed his appearance by plea or demurrer. [From
former Eule 8.]
Service must be made upon the attorney for a party, when an attorney
has appeared, and •service upon the party himself is not good. (Finnegan
v. Supervisor, 19 Mich. 9.)

RULE 36.
How Time Computed on Service of Papers, etc.
(a) The day on which any rule shall be entered, or order,
notice, pleading or paper served, shall be excluded in the com
putation of the time for complying with the exigency of such
rule, order or notice, pleading or paper, and the day on which
a compliance therewith is required shall be included, except
where it shall fall on Sunday, in which case the party shall
have the next day to comply therewith.
(b) When, by the terms of any order, an act is directed to
be performed instanter, it shall be done within twenty-four
hours. [From former Rule 15.] *
In computing time on notices of hearing and notices of motions, the day
of service is to be excluded and the first day of the term and an interven
ing Sunday are to be included. (Anderson v. Baughman, 6 Mich. 297, con

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 36.

83

struing the above rule, which was then (1859) known as Rule 7. Also Corey
v. Hilliker, 15 Mich. 314.) In computing time on a notice of application for
commission to take testimony, the day of service is excluded and the day
on which the application is to be made is included. (Arnold v. Nye, 23
Mich. 286; Eaton v. Peck, 26 Mich. 57; Chaddock v. Barry, 93 Mich. 543.)
" The general rule in regard to notices which has always prevailed in
this state includes the day of performance and excludes the day from
which notice begins to run." Said in sustaining a notice of foreclosure
sale in chancery, which was a twelve weeks' notice, by excluding the day
of the first publication and including the day of sale. (Gantz v. Toles, 40
Mich. 728.)
In determining the time within which process or notice must be served,
the language of the statute must be observed; and where an act is to be
done a certain number of days before a day stated, then that day is ex
cluded in the computation; but where an act is to be done a certain num
ber of days before another act, then the day on which that act is to be
done is included. (Chaddock v. Barry, 93 Mich. 543, where the apparent
confusion in the Michigan decisions on this subject is referred to and the
decisions reviewed.)
This general Rule 36 for the computation of time is apparently not re
garded in construing particular statutes governing special proceedings.
(See Cox v. Commissioners, 83 Mich. 193; Lane v. Burnop, 39 Mich. 736;
Taylor v. Burnop, 39 Mich. 739; People ex rel. v. Commissioners, 38 Mich.
247; Powers' Appeal, 29 Mich. 504; Sallee v. Ireland, 9 Mich. 154; Dousman
v. O'Malley, 1 Doug. 450. See Bank v. Williams, 67 N. W. Rep. 976.)
Sunday.— [This rule applies to chancery causes. See Chancery Rule 15.]
The forty days for an appeal in chancery expired on Sunday. The appeal
was taken on the following Monday. Motion to dismiss appeal was granted.
"In the construction of rules of court in relation to pleading and other
mere matters of practice, it is well settled that, if the last day fall on Sun
day, the party has the whole of the next day in which to perform the act
required. In the construction of statutes courts have applied the same
rule where the time is any number of days less than a week." But in this
case the court reluctantly granted the motion to dismiss. (Drake v. An
drews, 2 Mich. 205.) The contrary was held in Carothers v. Wheeler, 1
Oreg. 194
"It seems to be well settled that where an act is required by statute to be
done within any number of days less than a week, Sunday is to be ex
cluded." So held as to a citation issued on an application for the dissolu
tion of an attachment. (Caupfield v. Cook, 92 Mich. 626, citing Drake v.
Andrews, supra.)
Intervening Sundays are included in computing time for serving notices
of hearing and notices of motions. (Anderson v. Baughman, 6 Mich. 297;
Corey v. Hilliker, 15 Mich. 314.)

84

•

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 37.

RULE 37.
Entitling Papers, etc.
[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15.]
(a) All papers and the copies thereof for service shall be
fairly and legibly written or printed, and be indorsed as here
inafter provided, and the clerk shall not file such as do not con
form to this rule.
(b) All papers, except process and pleadings by which the
cause is commenced, shall be entitled in the court and cause,
and the plaintiff''s name shall be placed first. Provided, that
affidavits annexed to and referring to another paper which is
properly entitled in the court and cause need not be entitled.
(c) In casest where there are two or more plaintiffs or two or
more defendants, it shall be sufficient in entitling papers to
name the first-named plaintiff and the first-named defendant
with the usual indication of other parties, provided there be
added the official number of the cause. Provided, further, that
in all orders and notices required to be published the full names
of all parties shall appear in the title of the cause.
(d) All papers for filing or service shall also contain on the
outside an abbreviation at least of the title of the court and
cause and the character of the paper. [Substitute for former
Chancery Rule 67.]
All notices in legal proceedings must be written. (Mason v. Kellogg, 38
Mich. 141.)
Affidavits must be correctly entitled in the cause. Notices and other
papers are sufficient if they do not mislead. (Whipple v. Williams, 1 Mich.
115; Beebe v. Morrell, 76 Mich. 119.) Affidavits must be entitled with the
names of all the parties to the suit. [But subdivision (c) establishes a dif
ferent practice.] (Arnold v. Nye, 11 Mich. 456.) An affidavit referring to
a paper properly entitled, to which it is appended, must be assumed tc
have adopted the title by reference. (King v. Harrington, 14 Mich. 532.)
For cases where technical objections to the entitling of papers were dis
regarded, see Howe v. Lemon, 47 Mich. 545; Campau v. Brown, 48 Mich.
145; Comstock v. McEvoy, 52 Mich. 324.
An affidavit for capias need not be entitled in the cause for the com
mencement of which it is the foundation. (Hatch v. Saunders, 66 Mich.
185.) " If there be no suit pending at the time, the affidavit must not be
entitled. If a suit be pending and the affidavit is entitled in a suit not

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 38.
pending, the affidavit is a nullity." But an affidavit for attachment in a
suit begun by declaration was held sufficient, although not entitled, being
attached to the writ and identified as having been filed in the particular
cause. " Our attention has not been called to any authorities, in our own
state or elsewhere, where it has been held that an affidavit filed in a pend
ing suit not entitled is a nullity. The inquiry in such cases is, has the
affidavit been fully identified as having becn filed in that cause? If it has,
then the want of the formality of a title is of no consequence, since the
title is for the purpose of identifying the suit in which the affidavit is de
signed to be used. In civil proceedings courts may, and often do, refuse
to hear affidavits that are not properly entitled in a cause read, because
practice requires papers read in a cause to be correctly entitled." (Beebe
v. Morrell, 76 Mich. 119.)

RULE 38.
The Court Files.
,
[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15.]
The clerk shall indorse on every paper the day on which the
same is filed, and shall not suffer or permit any writ, pleading,
affidavit, deposition, or other paper whatever, onjtte in his office,
to be taken therefrom without the order of the court or a judge
thereof; but parties interested in any such may inspect the
same in his office, and take copies thereof. [Former Rule 75.]
Whether a clerk can be compelled by subpoena to remove the original
records of his office from that depository which the law has provided for
their safe keeping, qucere. (Prentiss v. Holbrook, 2 Mich. 375.)
Original files should not be altered, even by consent of parties, without
the leave of the court. If an addition is desired, it should be made to ap
pear by stipulation or other separate paper without changing the original.
(Farrand v. Collins Co., 8 Mich. 135.)
The practice of removing papers from the files, to be used as copy in
printing the record on appeal, is wholly irregular and should not be per
mitted. (Lamb v. Hinman, 46 Mich. 113.) The cost of a copy is taxable.
(Botsford v. Murphy, 48 Mich. 642.)
As to the authority of the court over files, see Wright v. Clerk Huron Co.,
48 Mich. 642.
Parties to suits in court may, under the direction of the court, lawfully
withhold the records and papers in the case, and prevent any statement in
regard thereto being made public until they are made public by the con
sent of the parties, or by proceedings in open court. (Schmedding v. Wayne
County Clerk, 85 Mich. 1.) Until a cause is before the court for some judi
cial action, the files are not, it seems, public records and are not subject to

123 699

•86

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 39.

be seen or handled by anyone except the parties to the suit and their rep
resentatives. (Burton v. Reynolds, decided July 28, 1896.) There is no rule
of law which authorizes any but the parties interested to handle the files.
(Park v. Free Press Co., 72 Mich. 568.)

itULE 39.
Agreements to be in Writing.
[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15.]
No private agreement or consent between the parties to a
cause, or their attorneys respecting the proceedings in a cause,
which shall be denied by either party, shall be binding, unless
the same shall have been made in open court, or unless evidence
thereof shall be in writing subscribed by the party or his attor
ney against whom the same is alleged. [Substitute for former
Rule 12 and Chancery Rule 84.]
See Brooks v. Mead, Walk. Ch. 389, and Suydam v. Dequindre, Walk.
Ch. 24.
But where there has been a misunderstanding between attorneys, it
seems it is an ordinary exercise of the power of the court to relieve a party
who has acted in good faith on a verbal agreement. (Scott v. Scott, 5 Mich.
106.) In a federal case (Drummond, J.), on a motion to set aside a judgment
by default, it being alleged that the default was enteredan violation of an
understanding between counsel, the rule was stated to be: "That where
there is any agreement, understanding, "negotiation, or anything of the
sort, as to the disposition of a case, and there is a difference of opinion be
tween counsel as to what actually took place, and difficulty and misunder
standing arise in consequence of that," the court will not allow the party
to be prejudiced by the misunderstanding. " Where counsel deal with each
at arm's length, each standing on his own rights," or if it is claimed "that
there never was an agreement or understanding, . . . that is another
matter." (Campbell v. Barclay, 4 Biss. 517.)
Held, as to a similar rule, that it did not apply to an agreement to dis
continue a cause under special circumstances. (Gaillard v. Smart, 6 Cow.
387.) Nor to an agreement to pay costs of setting aside a default under
special circumstances. (Turner v. Burrows, 1 Hill, 627.) Nor to a waiver
of service of a paper. (Ex parte Crosby, 8 Cow. 119.)
Where there are two or more attorneys in a cause, the agreement of
either one is binding upon both. (People v. Bussey, 80 Mich. at page 504)

CIRCUIT COURT RULES 40, 41.

8?

RULE 40.
Affidavit of Genuineness of Acceptance of Service.
[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15.]
"When a defendant accepts or acknowledges in writing the
service of any process, pleading or notice, and an affidavit is
filed therewith, showing the genuineness of his signature, the
same shall have the same effect as a return or other legal proof
of service. [Former Rule 11.]
A written acceptance of service alone is not sufficient. It must be ac
companied by proof of the authenticity of the signature, to authorize the
entry of default. (Johnson v. Delbridge, 35 Mich. 436.) And where the
acceptance of service purports to be made on behalf of a corporation,
proof of the agency must be filed. (Hehel v. Amazon Ins. Co., 33 Mich.
400.)
An acceptance of service generally operates as evidence of a service at
the place where such acceptance is indorsed, and has no greater effect than
proof of an actual service made at that place. But where, in addition to
accepting service, the defendant also expressly waives formal service,
and expressly consents that the plaintiff may proceed the same as if law
ful service had been made, the court had jurisdiction. (Allured v. Voller,
«5 N. W. Rep. 386.)
RULE 41.
Depositions.

139 220

[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Rule 15.]
(a) When a deposition has been taken by either party, it may
at any time be read by the other party on the trial. [Former
Rule 52.]
(b) Objections to notices of and objections to the manner of
taking, certifying or returning depositions shall be noticed for
hearing before the court, by motion to suppress or otherwise
by the party making the same, within five days after such ob
jections are made, and if not so noticed for hearing the same
shall be considered waived.
[Act No. 180 of 1895 repeals and supersedes all other statutes on the subject
of depositions taken either on notice or by commission. Subdivision (b)
of this rule is to be read in connection with sea 4 of that act, which pro

88

CIRCUIT COURT RULES 42, 43.

vides that "objections to notices of, or objections to the manner of taking
the testimony, or of certifying or returning the deposition, shall be re
garded as waived unless made in writing within three days after knowl
edge or notice of the return thereof." But the statute makes no provision
for disposing of the objections before the trial.]
As to depositions in chancery causes, wherein a demand has been made
for an examination of witnesses in open court, see language of sec. 6647 a»
amended by Laws of 1895, page 349.

RULE 42.
Costs in Case of Tender or Payment After Suit is Com
menced.
If a tender or payment into court is made after suit brought,
such tender or payment shall include such fee to the plaintiff
as is provided for the defendant in case of nonsuit or discon
tinuance at that stage of the cause ; and upon a discontinuance
by reason of tender or payment after suit brought, the defend
ant shall not be entitled to costs. [Substitute for former
Kule 93.]
See sec. 9004 as to taxable attorney's fees.

RULE 43.
Compelling Return of Process.
[This rule applies also to chancery causes. Chancery Rule 15.]
• If any sheriff or coroner shall fail to return any process to
him directed and delivered, on or before the return day therein
specified, any party interested in procuring a return may causea rule to be filed or entered in the book of common rules, re
quiring such officer to return the process within five days after
service of notice of such rule ; and if such process be not re
turned within the time specified in such rule, on filing with the
clerk an affidavit of the service of such notice, and of the deliv
ery of such process to such officer to be served, the default of
such officer in not making such return may be entered, and

CIRCUIT COURT
RULE 44.
4

89>

thereupon an attachment may be issued of course against such
sheriff or coroner to compel such return. [Substitute for for
mer Rule 96, as amended April 23, 1889.]
" The return of any declaration, subpoena, writ or other papers, delivered
to such officer for service, may be enforced by rule and attachment in the
same manner as the return of a capias." (Sec. 7294, How. Stat.) As to.
proceedings against sheriff in capias suits, see secs. 7326, 7327.

RULE 44.
Death of Party — Method of Revival.
A scire facias shall not be necessary to revive a judgment
after the death of either party ; but, in lieu of such writ, a mo
tion may be made, upon affidavit and notice, to revive the
same; and an order of revival made upon such motion shall
have as full force and effect as if the proceedings had been by
scire facias. [Former Rule 100.]
(b) The death of a party to a suit, either before or after judg
ment, may be suggested on the retford and the cause revived in
the name of the surviving parties or representatives, by filing
•with the clerk of the court an affidavit showing tbe death of
the party, or a copy of letters of administration where the
representatives are to be brought in, entering an order in the
common rule book, or filing the same, and serving notice thereof
upon the opposite party or his attorneys, and such order shall
have the same force and effect as if made in open court. [For
mer Rule 105.]
(c) When, after trial or judgment, and before the final settle
ment of a bill of exceptions, finding, or case for review, either
party shall die leaving no survivor, the representatives of the
deceased party, when they have notified the adverse party of
their appointment, shall be entitled to notice of any further
proceedings on his behalf to perfect such settlement, and shall
notify him of all further proceedings on their own behalf for
that purpose. But if such bill, finding or case shall have been
settled on behalf of the adverse party before he is so notified
of such appointment, such representatives may, within thirty
days after their appointment and qualification, apply to the

<Q0

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 44.

judge who heard the cause, to have the same opened for fur
ther settlement upon amendments proposed by them, on such
notice as he shall direct to the adverse party. And no delay
between the death of such decedent and the notice to be given
by his representatives of their appointment shall prejudice the
adverse party, or cause him to lose any of his rights in obtain
ing any such settlement. [Former Rule 101.]
See Healy v. Newton, 96 Mich. 228.
[This rule should be examined in connection with sees. 7393 et seq.,
How. Stat., which relate to the survival of actions and to proceedings on
the death of a party to a suit. The rule provides a method for taking the
steps mentioned in the statute, and subdivision (c) covers a subject not
provided for by statute. Subdivisions (a) and (c) were adopted originally
in 1868, and subdivision (b) in 1880, all subsequent to the statutes men
tioned.]
The proceeding on suggesting the death of a plaintiff was held to be en
tirely ex parte. " If he [the defendant] happen to be present he has no right
to intervene; and if he be not present the first intimation he receives of it
may be when he is served with notice of trial. He then learns, by the en
titling of the notice, that a change in the parties has taken place." [This is
altered by subdivision (b) adopted in 1880 after this decision.] "There should
be proof presented to the court in all cases, when the death is suggested;
but the practice is lax in this respect, and we cannot presume that it will
always be furnished and filed." [Altered by rule as above stated.] (Vickery v. Bier, 16 Mich. 53. See Larned v. Wilcox, 4 Mich. 333.)
The suggestion of a party's death upon the record is enough, if not dis
puted, to have all the proceedings construed with it, without amending
the declaration. But the later proceedings must be properly entitled.
(People ex reL v. Judge Seventh Circuit, 41 Mich. 3. See Webster v. Hitch
cock, 11 Mich. 56, and Webster v. Bailey, 31 Mich. 35.)
A bill of exceptions is not irregular, although signed and settled after
the death of the opposing party and before there has been any revival of
the judgment. If regular notice has been given to the administrator to
attend such settlement, no further steps can be required to complete it;
but if such notice is not given, an opportunity may be granted, on cause
shown, to obtain amendments. And a writ of error may issue without
any steps to revive the judgment where the party prevailing in the court
below has died since judgment: and in such case steps may be taken after
the return of the writ to bring in the representatives by scire facias or by
the process provided by rule of court. (Van Valkenburg v. Rogers, 17 Mich.
322.) [The facts of this case prompted former Rules 100 and 101, subdivis
ions (a) and (c), which were adopted at the same term of court as the above
decision; the court, in referring to the new rules, said: "And the parties
can, if they please, follow them, instead of resorting to the somewhat in
convenient writ of scire facias." (p. 326).]
As to revival in an action against partners, one of whom died, see Van
Kleck v. McCabe, 87 Mich. 600.

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 45.

91

RULE 45.
Special leave to Appeal.
Applications for leave to appeal after the statutory time has
expired shall be heard only on the usual notice required for
special motions, and notice thereof shall be accompanied with
a copy of the petition or affidavit on which the same is based.
[Substitute for former Rule 103.]
See Rule 19 (b) as to "the usual notice required for special motions."
Held, in McCaslin v. Camp, 26 Mich. 391, that the words quoted refer to
the time of service, and as there was then no statute or rule permitting
the notice to be served by mail, it was decided that service by mail was
invalid, and that there must be personal service, unless there are circum
stances of necessity which would authorize a substituted service. [In such
case Rule 33 governs; but probably not Rule 33, which seems to be limited
to proceedings following an appeal, as does also the act of 1891. See Dan
ville Stove Co. v. Kent Circuit Judge, 88 Mich. 245.]
By act No. 73 of the Laws of 1891; which amends sec. 7005, How. Stat., it is
provided that appeals may be authorized by the circuit court or by the
circuit judge at chambers, after the expiration of five days, when the party
has been prevented from taking the appeal " by circumstances not under
his control." In such cases, " where the party in whose favor such judg
ment was rendered appears by an attorney or agent, it will be sufficient
to serve such attorney or agent " with all orders made and with the notices
of all subsequent proceedings, with the same effect as if made on the party.
It has been held that an appeal cannot be authorized after a transcript
of the justice's judgment has been duly filed. (Davison v. Elliott, 9 Mich.
252. But see Aldrich.v. Clinton Circuit Judge, 49 Mich. 609.)
The time for appeal may be enlarged by stipulation. (Climie v. Odell,
20 Mich. 12.)
" Circumstances not under his control."— This does not cover a case
where the justice reserved his decision without stating how much time
he would take and then rendered judgment the next day. In such a case
the parties are bound to take notice when the judgment is rendered.
(Draper v. Tooker, 16 Mich. 73.) "The statute did not intend to give a
general discretion to the circuit court to allow appeals in any case after
the five days, where, in their judgment, it would be equitable, or when the
party had made a mistake or drawn an erroneous inference. The inten
tion was to confine that discretion to the class of cases mentioned in the
statute. (Ibid.) But the statutory term includes a case of serious illness
of the proposed appellant or of a member of his family, requiring his con
stant attention during the whole time allowed by law for the appeal.
Applied to a case of the sickness of the only agent or officer of a non
resident corporation. (Braasted v. Mining Co., 54 Mich. 260.) It also

92

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 46.

includes a case where the defeated party relied on his attorneys and they
were honestly mistaken about the date of an adjournment, so that a judg
ment was rendered by default and they did not hear of it until the time
for appealing had gone by. (Capwell v. Baxter, 58 Mich. 571.) But where*
the only obstacle shown to perfecting the appeal is the absence of the
justice, and it does not appear that the appellant could not have complied
with sec, 7006, allowing the bond and affidavit to be left with some
member of the family of the justice, the proposed appellant does not show
circumstances beyond his control. (Combs v. Saginaw Circuit Judge, 99Mich. S34.) " The granting of permission is not' a matter of discretion "
(Ibid.); even under the special law governing justices of the peace in the
city of Detroit. (Goldhammer v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 65 N. W. Rep. 97.>
A review of the decision of the circuit judge on this question can only
be had by mandamus. (Vincent v. Bowes, 78 Mich. 315.)
Rule 46 Added
123 Mich., p XXXII
April 26, 1901.
118 688

RULE 46.
Jurisdiction in Mandamus and Certiorari Proceedings —
Practice on Quo Warranto.

Amended
127 XXXIV
129 270
Amended
127 XXXIV

131 130
139 309

131 130

(a) Circuit courts shall have jurisdiction, within their respect
ive counties, in all mandamus proceedings, involving the action
of any officer or board of any county, township, city or school
district, or of the common council of any city or village, and
the action of any private corporation or officer or board thereof.
Said circuit courts shall also have jurisdiction to issue writs of
certiorari in all cases Avhere they may now be issued by the
supreme court to probate courts, circuit court commissioners
and justices of the peace, or any corporate body or officer
thereof. Writs of certiwari and orders to show cause in cases
of mandamus shall be made returnable and service thereof made
within such time as the circuit courts shall upon each occasion
direct. [Former Rule 107.] (b) All orders to show cause in mandamus proceedings may
be made by the court or in vacation by the judge of the court.
(c) All material allegations of the petition in mandamus pro
ceedings not specifically answered by the respondent may he
taken as admitted by the respondent to be true as alleged.
(d) Mandamus and certiorari proceedings shall stand for
hearing upon the return day of the writ without notice of trial
or hearing unless the court for cause shown shall order a post
ponement of such hearing.

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 47.

93

(e) At the time of filing an information in the nature of a
quo warranto, a rule shall also be filed with the clerk of the
court, requiring the respondent to plead to such information
within twenty days after service upon him of the summons and
a copy of such information, together with a copy of such rule.
The respondent shail plead to such information within twenty
days after service upon him of said summons and a copy of
such information, together with a copy of such rule, and in de
fault thereof judgment by default may be entered. .Within
twenty days after filing and serving such plea, replication shall
be filed thereto, and said cause shall be deemed to be at issue.
The issue so framed shall be at once placed upon the calendar
of the then pending term for trial, upon due notice by either
party, and shall be given precedence over all civil cases.
[Former Rule 108.]
This rule is authorized by art. 6, sec. 8, Constitution of Michigan, as
amended in 1893. (See Laws 1893, page 452.)
*
Where the public interests require the immediate disposition of a case,
and forbid the delay of awaiting an opportunity to apply to the circuit
court under subdivision (a), an order to show cause will be granted by the
supreme court. (Loranger v. Novarre, 97 Mich. 615.) But since the adop
tion of the rule in 1893 (94 Mich.), orders to show cause have been denied
in numerous cases on the ground that the application should have been
made to the circuit court. (See list of cases in note, 97 Mich. at page 615.)
If a circuit judge illegally refuses to hear an application for a mandamns under this rule, application may be made to the supreme court to
compel him to do so, and the relator will be denied an order to show cause
except against the circuit judge. (Backus v. Carleton, 97 Mich. 624.)
If the circuit judge is disqualified to act, the application may be made
to the supreme court. (Hitchcock v. Probate Judge, 99 Mich. 128.)
In a quo warranto proceeding, it seems the issue framed may be set for
trial during the then term, without notice of trial under sec. 7551.
(Schattler v. Wayne Circuit Judge, unreported, decided June term, 1896.)

RULE 47.
H7 243 318
Practice on Settlement of Bill of Exceptions for Review by
Supreme Court.
122 434
(a) A party shall have not less than twenty days after entry of 126 S77 629
judgment for the settlement of a bill of exceptions, but the stay 132 480
of execution during that time shall be discretionary with the
court.

94

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 47.

i34Cxxxii
(b) Subject to the limitations prescribed by statute, and upon
' •
* such terms and conditions as shall be deemed just, the court

1 13 535

may grant such further reasonable time as shall be deemed
proper for a settlement of a bill of exceptions, and may extend
such time when proper. But no more than sixty days further
time shall be granted for that purpose, except for good cause
shown by affidavit on special motion after notice to the adverse
party, or on the written stipulation of the parties.
(c) The party desiring the settlement of a bill of exceptions
shallfurnish to the adverse party such portion of the stenogra
pher's minutes as shall have been procured, for inspection and
use by such adverse party in the preparation of amendments
to the proposed bill of exceptions, and may also be required to
furnish a copy of such further portions of the stenographers
minutes as shall be deemed necessary by the court to a settle
ment of such bill of exceptions.
(d) A bill of exceptions shall contain only such parts of the
testimony and only such parts of the charge as are necessary to
present the questions of law raised by the exceptions and assign
ments of error. It shall be in narrative form unless the trial
court shall determine it necessary to a full understanding of
the questions of law that it be set out in whofe or in part by
question and answer, in which case the trial court shall so cer
tify in writing.
(e) There shall accompany every bill of exceptions at the time
of its service and at the time of its settlement a detailed assignment of all the alleged errors upon which the appellant proposes
to rely. No bill of exceptions shall be signed unless accom
panied by such assignment of errors, and no errors shall be
considered by the supreme court that are not a part of such
assignment.
(f) A copy of the proposed bill of exceptions, together with
a notice when and where the same will be presented for settle
ment, shall be served on the opposite party, at least four days
before the time for such settlement. Amendments thereto may
be proposed in writing by the opposite party, and all contro
versies respecting the same shall be determined by the trial
judge according to the facts at such time and place as he shall
appoint.
(g) The bill of exceptions, when settled, shall be signed by

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 47.

9fr

the trial judge, and delivered to the proposed appellant, whoshall file the same, and the assignments of error, with the clerk
of the court within ten days thereafter, or in default thereof
shall be deemed to have waived such exceptions, unless further
time be allowed therefor by the trial judge, on special motion
for cause shown. [See sec. 7615, How. Stat.]
(h) Unless within ten days after the settlement of a hill of ex
ceptions the proposed appellant cause a writ of error to be issued
out of the supreme court and filed, any order staying execution
shall become inoperative and the adverse party shall- be en
titled to an execution. Provided, that on cause shown, on
special motion, and on proper terms, the court may order the
recall of such execution.1
The practice on the settlement of bills of exceptions and case made is
expressly left by statute to the rules of the court. (Sec. 6489, How. Stat.)
This rule takes the place of former Rules 85 and 86. See, also, Rule 44 (c).
It governs the settlement of testimony on appeals in chancery (Laws 1895,.
p. 349), and also the settlement of a case made. (Rule 48.)
Time for settlement of bill.— Where time has been allowed for settling
a bill and it has expired, the trial judge has power to make a further order.
(People v. Littlejohn, 11 Mich. 60.) It has been held that while the time
may be extended into a term subsequent to that at which the judgment
was rendered (White v. Campbell, 25 Mich. 463), still if no order was made '
during the term at which the trial was had, the circuit judge has no power
to make one afterwards. (Cleveland v. Stein. 14 Mich. 334, Justice Camp
bell dissenting.) [No reason is given for this rule in the opinion, and the
case is virtually overruled by Lenhoff v. Saginaw Circuit Judge, 82 Mich.
565, and Adrian Furniture Co. v. Lenawee Circuit Judge, 92 Mich. 296.
There is certainly no reason for such a holding under the revised rule,
which, without order of the judge, gives the absolute right to time which
may extend into the next term, and the whole tenor of the revised rule is
opposed to any such limitation on the power of the trial judge in this re
spect.] Moreover, sec. 7612, referring to this subject, expressly provides
that "the court may allow such time as shall be deemed reasonable to
settle such exceptions and reduce the same to form."
The settlement of the bill on notice, without objection from the appel
lee, operates as a waiver and disposes of the question whether it was set
tled within a proper time. (Atlas Co. v. Johnston, 22 Mich. 78.) And a
stipulation between counsel for an extension of the time is binding on the
circuit judge. (Hunt v. Kalamazoo Circuit Judge, 39 Mich. 123.) But the
bill itself must be signed by the trial judge. A stipulation between coun
sel, showing its correctness, is insufficient. (Lynch v. Craney, 95 Mich. 199.),
The inaction of the circuit judge, or of the appellee, after the presentation
of a bill in due time, will not deprive the appellant of his right to its set
tlement. (Detroit v. Blackby, 20 Mich. 219; Wright v. Superior Court.
Judge, 41 Mich. 726; De Moss v. Van Buren Circuit Judge, 41 Mich. 725.)

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 47.
Stenographer's minutes and taxation of cost of same.— It is a general
rule that costs are not recoverable where there is no statutory authority
for awarding them. (Jeffrey v. Hursh, 58 Mich. 258; Talford v. Church, 66
Mich. 442; Booth v. McQueen, 1 Doug. 41.) And in early cases it was held,
under the general law then applicable to the circuits outside of Wayne,
Kent and Saginaw counties (sec. 6506), that the cost of a copy of the ste
nographer's minutes for use in settling the bill of exceptions was not tax
able. (Hayes v. Livingston, 35 Mich. 371; Bell v. Pate, 48 Mich. 640; Rail
way Co. v. Hayt, 55 Mich. 347.) Yet it was held later, under sec. 6515,
How. Stat, (now amended), applicable to the Kent circuit court, and dif
ferent from the general provision, that if the judge refused to order a copy
to be made and filed and yet found it to be necessary to the settlement of
a bill of exceptions, the cost of a copy was taxable. (Maynard v. Vinton,
59 Mich. 156; French v. Fitch, 68 Mich. 115.) On a case appealed from the
superior court of Grand Rapids, as to which secs. 6590, 6591 governed (sim
ilar to sec. 6515 above mentioned), it was held that where appellant pro
cured a copy on his own motion without an effort to take advantage of
sec. 6590, the cost was not taxable. (Thurston v. Luce, 61 Mich. 487.) It
was next held, under the general law, that the cost of a copy was not tax
able where the copy had been procured on a former trial and afterwards
used in preparing the bill of exceptions. (Roby Co. v. Gray, 73 Mich. 364.
But see Turner v. Machine Co., 97 Mich. 635.) In Cole v. Ingham Circuit
Judge, 77 Mich. 623, it was said (dictum) that if the appellee needs a copy
of any portion of the stenographer's minutes to enable him to prepare
amendments, he must procure it himself, and cannot require the other
party to furnish it or bear the expense of the same, except as taxable costs
in case he prevails, in which case "the expense may be taxed as part of
the costs, if such minutes have been properly certified to as necessary; "
and if further testimony is desired by the court, he should direct the ste
nographer to transcribe and file the same free of charge. But in Gillies
v. Kent Circuit Judge, 64 N. W. Rep. 733, it was held, under sec. 6534 e 2,
vol. 3, being an amendment of sec. 6515 above mentioned, that the court
may compel an appellant to procure additional copy of the stenographer's
minutes to enable the appellee to prepare amendments to the bill of excep
tions, and that the appellant may tax such outlay as a part of his costs.
The court says: "The statute [governing the seventeenth judicial (Kent)
circuit] is very different from that relating to the duties of the stenog
rapher of the fourth judicial circuit referred to in Cole v. Ingham Circuit
Judge."
[The case of Cole v. Ingham Circuit Judge was based, apparently, on
sec. 6506, How. Stat., the same as the early decisions above mentioned, for
no special statute is found governing the subject of stenographers of the
Ingham circuit at the date of that decision. That section (6506) contains
no reference to fees for copy of minutes, nor to the taxation of the cost
thereof by the prevailing party. Gillies v. Kent Circuit Judge, supra, was
based on a statute (sec. 6534 e 2) fixing the price to be charged and allow
ing the cost to be taxed by the appellant, if he prevail, on the certificate
of the circuit judge showing the necessity for the copy in settling the bill.
Since the early decisions above mentioned, similar provisions, allowing

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 47.

97

taxation of the cost of a copy of the minutes, have been incorporated into
late statutes governing this subject in the following judicial circuits only:
Second (Examine sec. 6522 b 3), third (sec. 6480 f, vol. 3). fifth (sec. 6522 d 2),
sixth (sec. 6522 e 2), seventh (sec. 6522 f 5, and see Laws of 1895, p. 254),
eighth (sec. 6522 g 6),< ninth (sec. 6522 h 6), tenth (Laws of 1895, p. Ill), elev
enth (Laws of 1891, p. 97), thirteenth (sec 6534 a 0, and La ws of 1895, p. 254),
fourteenth (Laws of 1895, p. 355; Turner v. Foundry Co., 97 Mich. 635), fif
teenth TJsep. 6534 c 1) sixteenth (sec. 6534 dl), eighteenth (sec. 6534 f 4),
nineteenth (sec. 6534 g 3), twentieth (sec. 6534 h 2), twenty-first (sec. 6534 i 1),
twenty-third (Laws 1891, p. 113), twenty-fourth (Laws 1895, p. 105), twentysixth (Laws 1891, p. 25), twenty-seventh (sec. 6534 k 3), twenty-eighth (Laws
1891, p. 31), twenty-ninth (sec. 8534 1 2), thirtieth (Laws of 1891, p. 6), thirtyfirst (Laws 1891, p. 75), thirty-second (Laws 1891, p. 243), thirty-third (Laws
1833,.p. 30), thirty-fourth (Laws 1895, p. 103), thirty-fifth (Laws 1895, p. 254).
In the following judicial circuits there is no statutory provision making
the cost of the minutes taxable: First (sec. 6522 a 4), fourth (sec. 6522 c 4),
twelfth, twenty-second, twenty-fifth (sec, 6511), and in the superior court
of Grand Rapids (Laws 1891, p. 46), and in these courts, it seems, the early
decisions still govern and the cost is not taxable.]
In some of the judicial circuits, in order to tax the cost of a copy of
the stenographer's minutes, there is needed the certificate of the circuit
judge showing the necessity of procuring the minutes for use in the set
tlement of the bill of exceptions. It is so in the following judicial cir
cuits: Eleventh (Laws of 1891, p. 97), fifteenth (sec. 6534 c 1), seventeenth
(sec. 6534 e 2), eighteenth (sec. 6534 f 4), nineteenth (sec. 6534 g 3), twenti
eth (sec. 6534 h 2), twent3'-first (sec, 6534 i 1 ), twenty-third (Laws 1891,
p. 113), twenty-sixth (Laws 1891, p. 25), twenty-seventh (sec. 6534 k 3),
twenty-ninth (sec. 6534 12), thirty-second (Laws 1895, p. 243), thirty-third
(Laws 1893, p. 30). [These statutes do not specify when the certificate of
the circuit judge shall be obtained.] As to the custom of estimating the
number of folios, see Maltby v. Plummer, 73 Mich. 541.
Form and contents of bill.— For the more important decisions on the
form and contents of bills of exceptions, under the former rules, see Cole
v. Ingham Circuit Judge, 77 Mich. 619; Welch v. Palmer, 85 Mich. 310;
Pease v. Monroe, 83 Mich. 475: Finch v. Karste, 97 Mich. 20; Churchill v.
Alpena Circuit Judge, 56 Mich. 536; Johr v. People, 20 Mich. 427; Crane
v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 24 Mich. 513. The framework of the bill ten
dered by the party taking the exceptions should be adopted if in proper
form, with such amendments as the facts warrant. In such a case it is
wrong to adopt a substitute submitted by the adverse party. (Harbough
v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 32 Mich. 259.) A bill is not necessarily prolix be
cause it introduces a large amount of testimony when there is room for
difference concerning the tendency thereof. (Whittaker v. Kilroy, 70
Mich. 635.) Where the trial judge declines to include in a bill of excep
tions matters proper to be included, he may be compelled by mandamus.
(Crane v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 24 Mich. 513; Hamilton v. Calhoun Cir
cuit Judge, 28 Mich. 208: Bublitz v. Bay Circuit Judge, unreported, de
cided June term, 1896.)
7

98

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 47.

Practice on exceptions to charge to jury.— Sec. 7621 b, vol. 3, How. Stat,
provides that it shall not be necessary in any case to except to the charge
given to the jury, and that the appellant may assign error upon such
charge in his assignments of error, the same as if exception had been taken,
and all conflicting acts are repealed. This operated to abolish the " salu
tary rule " requiring exceptions to be taken to the charge before verdict.
(Sec. 7611; McCullough v. Railway Co., 101 Mich. at page 24S; Just v. Por
ter, 64 Mich. 568; Hubbard v. Railroad Co., 64 Mich. 636.) But the statute
covers only the charge as given and not the omission or refusal to charge.
(Peterson v. Toner, 80 Mich. 353.) Exceptions must be taken before verdict
to such omissions or refusals. (Ibid.) As to the manner of and time for
such exceptions, see Doyle v. Stevens, 4 Mich. 90; Turner v. People, 33
Mich. 382; Carton v. Bank, 34 Mich. 279. And in any case, where the ob
jections are not made to the charge at the trial, they will not be considered
unless they are substantial and calculated to do injustice. (People v. Jen
sen, 66 Mich. 713.)
For practice on review of denial of motion for new trial, see note to
Rule 21.
Amendments to the bill.— In Cole v. Ingham Circuit Judge, 77 Mich.
623 (dictum), it was said that amendments must contain a copy of whatever
additional testimony or exhibits or other matter which the appellee desires
to have inserted, and copies thereof must be served on the opposite party
before the time noticed for the settlement of the bill. [But see subdivis
ion (c).]
The signature of the judge, etc.— The bill will be presumed to have
been signed within the proper time (Sweetzer v. Mead, 5 Mich. 33), and if
signed after the writ of error was issued it is a mere irregularity. (Brown
v. Bissell, 1 Doug. 273.) It is not sufficient alone for counsel to stipulate
that the bill is correct. It must bear the signature of the judge. (Lynch
v. Craney, 95 Mich. 199.) See Rule 44 (c). Sec. 7613, How. Stat., as amended
in 1879, provides for the settlement of the bill by the successor of the trial
judge, in case of his death, resignation, expiration of term of office, etc.,
from the minutes of the stenographer. [This disposes of the decision which
holds that the death of the trial judge without settling the bill makes a
new trial a matter of right. Wright v. Superior Court Judge, 41 Mich.
726.]
The settling of a bill of exceptions does not prevent the subsequent
argument of a motion for a new trial based on the ground that the verdict
was against the evidence. (Sec. 7614.)
1 As to the effect, under former rules, of failure to issue writ of error
promptly after settlement of bill, see secs. 8679, 8681, How. Stat., and secs.
7621 o, 7621 f, vol. 3, in connection with Howard v. Hess, 63 Mich. 725, and
Healy v. Newton, 96 Mich. 228.

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 48.

99

RULE 48.
Case Made — Practice on.
Any ruling, order or finding of the court or judge, or judg
ment of the court, reviewable by writ of error, may, at the op
tion of the complaining party, be reviewed by case made. A
case made shall be settled in the time and manner, and have
attached thereto a statement of errors the same as bills of ex
ceptions; and the practice in settling and filing cases made
shall be the same as that hereinbefore provided for the settling
of bills of exceptions; provided, that no more of the testimony,
proceedings or record in the cause shall be set forth in such
case made than is necessary to present the questions of law to
be reviewed. [Substitute for former Rules 80, 81, 82, 83 and
84.]
The practice on case made for review by the supreme court is left to
rule (sec. 6418), except as far as prescribed in sec. 6469.
Formerly the law authorized the review of facts on case made, but it
was repealed (Wheeler v. Wilkins, 19 Mich. 79) [in 1867 by the amendment
of sec. 6488, How. Stat., which appears to modify the words "all questions "
in sec. 6469.]
The following decisions on case made show the similarity in the prac
tice and the results of review by that method to the results of review by
bill of exceptions. Exception to the rulings of the court below on the law
and to its findings of facts are necessary and must be expressly shown.
(Turner v. Grand Rapids, 20 Mich. 390; Wertin v. Crocker, 47 Mich. 642;
Wood v. Seaver, 90 Mich. 546; Wilkinson v. Earl, 39 Mich. 626. But see
Henderson v. Detroit, 61 Mich. 378, and Perkins v. Nugent, 45 Mich. 1E6.)
Findings of fact are necessary in a case tried before the court without a
jury. (Adams v. Champion, 31 Mich. 233; Armstrong v. Adams, 31 Mich.
236; Tuxbury v. French, 39 Mich. 190. The court will not weigh the evi
dence nor review the findings of fact. (Cragin v. Gardner, 64 Mich. 399;
Wertin v. Crocker, 47 Mich. 642; Earl v. Insurance Co., 29 Mich. 414; Walwrath v. Campbell, 28 Mich. 111.) When bearing the signature of the
judge, it will be presumed to have been regularly settled. (Sallee v. Ire
land, 9 Mich. 154.)
[The main advantage by this method of review is supposed to be that
the record, both for filing in the supreme court and for printing, may be
somewhat shortened by an abbreviation of pleadings. No writ of error
need issue, and sec. 6469 seems to permit the case to be settled by the
agreement of the parties. But see Rule 47, and Gard v. Stevens,. 12
Mich. 9.]

100

CIRCUIT COURT RULE 49.

After the settling and filing of the case made, either party has a right
te cause it to be certified to the supreme court for its action. (Sec. 6469.)
It cannot be acted upon, by dismissal or otherwise, until so certified.
(Robertson v. Little, 10 Mich. 371.) By analogy to the statute limiting the
time for taking out a writ of error to one year (sec. 8686, vol. 3), the party
who, for that length of time, neglects to have the case made certified to
the supreme court is deemed to have abandoned it. (Van Blarcom v. In
surance Co., 6 Mich. 299, and Faust v. Calhoun Circuit Judge, 30 Mich, 264,
decided on motion to dismiss before filing.)
Notice of the filing of the case made in the supreme court must be given
within ten days after such filing. (See Supreme Court Rule 18.) [The
original case made is certified and filed in the supreme court, and not a
copy of it.]
RULE 49.
When Rules to Take Effect.
These rules shall take effect January 1, 1897, as to all causes
•ommenced on or after that date, and also as to any causae com- .
menced previous to that date as far as concerns proceedings
therein subsequent to the date ichen the same shall he at issue.
All rules not herein contained are hereby repealed, except as
above provided.

137 154
Rule 50
Sub d
Rule 58 adopted
137 XXXVI I Under Rule 57

CHANCERY

RULES.

RULE 1.
Bills of Complaint.
(a) Suits in chancery shall be commenced by bills of com
plaint, setting forth the facts relied on, the names of the de
fendants therein, and the relief desired, and shall be addressed
to the court, and signed by the complainant, or his agent or
solicitor.
(b) Every bill of complaint shall be divided into paragraphs
numbered, consecutively, and each paragraph shall contain, as
near as may be, a separate and distinct allegation. The prayer
of every bill of complaint shall also be divided into paragraphs
numbered consecutively, and shall specify the particular relief
which the complainant shall conceive himself entitled to, and
may also contain a prayer for general relief.
(c) The prayer for process heretofore common in a bill of
complaint may be omitted, and the complainant shall be entitled
to the process of subpoena on the filing of the bill of complaint,
and to other process when ordered by competent authority.
(d) A bill of complaint which shall not comply with the rule
in respect to paragraphs shall be stricken from the files on mo
tion, unless the court shall deem it proper to allow amendments
thereto to cure the defect.
(a) As to whether a suit in chancery is commenced when the bill is filed,
without reference to whether the subpoena is issued at the same time or
not, see Gordon v. Tyler, 53 Mich. 629; Sheridan v. Cameron, 65 Mich. 680;
Hannah Co. v. Mosser, 62 N. W. Rep. 1120; Rule 28 (e), note (e).
[Prior to subdivision (a) there was no court rule or statute declaring
that a suit in chancery should be begun by bill of complaint or by petition.
The decisions are as follows:] Proceedings in regard to the administration
of a trust must be begun by bill of complaint, not by petition. So held, on
» the court's own motion, in a case involving an insolvent estate, where a
petition was filed for dividends from assets in the hands of assignee. (Led

102

CHANCERY RULE L

yard's Appeal, 51 Mich. 625.) But a petition by a creditor to compel as
signees to make proper dividend was sustained in Southern Bank v. Byles,
67 Mich. 296, where it was said, in substance, that there was no reason why
the alleged grievance might not as well be heard upon petition as upon bill,
that the facts can as well be stated in a petition as in a bill, and the rights
of parties protected, and that " a court of chancery may always direct the
manner of proceeding before it, unless the practice is prescribed by stat
ute." (p. 306.) And in Spring v. Randall, 64 N. W. Rep. 1063, the court
sustained a petition filed by a judgment creditor in a former chancery
proceeding, to reach the surplus income due to the judgment debtor from
a trustee appointed by the former proceeding. In Sheridan v. Cameron,
65 Mich. 682, it was said of a mechanic's lien statutory proceeding, " it per
mit? a petition as well as a bill." And sec. 5587 seems to recognize the
right to begin by petition in matters relating to the resignation of trustees.
See, also, sees. 6231, 8962, 5588, 6603, which use the words " bill or petition."
[The new rule, it seems, will hereafter control, except where the statute
clearly authorizes the commencement of proceedings by petition.]
" No bill can be regularly filed without being signed in person or by
counsel. Under our practice, every attorney is ex officio a counselor; but
unless a bill is actually signed by him in some capacity, by the responsible
signature of himself or some authorized representative, it is irregular, and
may be stricken from the files." A printed signature is not sufficient.
(Eveland v. Stephenson, 45 Mich. 396.) But a bill is signed by "counsel"
when it is signed by a solicitor. Signing by "counsel " specifically is now
obsolete. (Henry v. Gregory, 29 Mich. 68.) And signature will be allowed
nunc pro tunc. (Sill v. Ketchum, Harr. Ch. 423.)
[Under this rule and the general practice in equity proceedings, a bill of
complaint should be as brief and direct in its allegations as the facts will
reasonably permit. The facts need not be set out in minutict, and the bill
should not contain allegations of the evidence of facts, nor unnecessary
recitals of deeds or other documents at length, and it is no longer neces
sary to include the common "confederacy clause," nor the "charging
part." And the general rules of pleading, mentioned in the note to Law
Rule 3, apply to bills of complaint.] As to the requirements of a bill based
on a statute containing an exception in the enacting clause, see AttorneyGeneral v. Bank, Walk. Ch. 90, and cases cited in note.
(b) Subdivision (b) is similar to a special rule of the sixth circuit federal
courts, viz.: "Every bill of complaint shall contain, as concisely as may
be, a narrative of the material facts, matters and circumstances on which
the complainant relies, such narrative being divided into paragraphs, num
bered consecutively, and each paragraph containing, as nearly as may be.
a separate and distinct matter or allegation; and shall pray specifically for
the relief which the complainant may conceive himself entitled to, and
also for general relief; and the prayer shall be divided into paragraphs,
numbered consecutively, each praying separate relief." (Harsha's Federal
Court Rules, p. 98.)
(c) Even under the former practice, the omission of the prayer for pro
cess was held immaterial. " The chancery rule [referring, no doubt, to the
general chancery practice under" former Rule 119] which requires the

CHANCERY RULE 2.

103

prayer for process to identify the parties would not make a bill fatally de
fective for the want of it if they are otherwise identified, and the statute
does not require any such particularity." (Sheridan v. Cameron, 65 Mich.
682.) The omission of the prayer for process is similar to the federal prac
tice. General Equity Rule 23 provides that " if an injunction or a writ of
ne exeat regno, or any other special order pending the suit, is asked for in
the prayer for relief, that shall be sufficient without repeating the same
in the prayer for process." But a prayer for process of subpoena is still
required in the federal courts. (Harsha's Federal Court Rules, p. 4G.)

RULE 2.
Verifying Bills of Complaint, etc.
(a) Sworn bills may be verified by the oath of the complain
ant, or in case of his absence from the state, or other sufficient
cause shown, by the oath of his agent, attorney or solicitor.
[Former Rule 7.]
(b) In bills which are to be verified by the oath of the party,
the several matters stated shall be stated positively, or upon
information or belief only, according to the fact. The oath
administered to the party shall be, in substance, that he has
read the bill, or has heard it read, and knows the contents
thereof, and that the same is true of his own knowledge, ex
cept as to the matters which are therein stated to be on his
information and belief, and as to those matters he believes it
to be true; and the substance of the oath shall be stated in
the jurat. [Former Rule 8.]
(c) The bill may be sworn to before any officer authorized by
the laws of this state to administer oaths or take affidavits.
It may also be sworn to before any notary public or other per
son authorized by the laws of any other state or territory to
administer oaths; but if sworn to in any other state or terri
tory, there shall be added the certificate of the clerk of some
court of record of the county, under the seal thereof, showing
the official character of the person administering the oath, and
the genuineness of his signature. The bill may be sworn to in
any foreign country before any minister or other diplomatic
agent or consul of the United States, or any notary public; but
the certificate of such notar}7 shall be made under his notarial
seal. [Substitute for former Rule 19.]

104

CHANCERY RULE 2.

See Rules 8 (a) and 10 (b), which extend the above provisions to the oath
to a plea or answer.
When verification is necessary.— Where it is not desired to use the bill
as a sworn statement on which to base an application for preliminary
relief, it is not ordinarily necessary that the bill should be sworn to.
(Atwater v. Kinman, Hair. Ch. 245; Moore v. Cheeseman, 23 Mich. 335;
Robinson v. Baugh, 31 Mich. 292; Glidden v. Norwell, 44 Mich. 203; Wardle
v. Cummings, 86 Mich. 395.) But there are exceptions to this statement,
created by statute and by rule. Rule 30 (c) requires every creditor's bill
to be verified, "as provided by rule " (referring to Rule 2). But it seems
that a bill in aid of execution is not a " creditor's bill " within the tech
nical meaning of that term, and need not be verified. (Moore v. Cheeseman, 23 Mich. 335.) Rule 29 requires bills for divorce to be verified, and
sec. 6232, vol. 3, recognizes the force of the rule (People v. McCaffrey, 75
Mich. 123), and gives it the effect of statute law. (Ayres v. Gartner, 90
Mich. 381.) And when a bill for divorce is amended, the whole bill as
amended must be re-sworn to, even though the proposed amendment was
sworn to in the petition for leave to amend. (Briggs v. Briggs. 20 Mich.
34; Green v. Green, 26 Mich. 437. But see Tackaberry v. Tackaberry, 101
Mich. 104, and Harrison v. Harrison, 94 Mich. 559.) And a mechanic's .lien
bill is required to be sworn to, by statute. (Act No. 179, Laws 1891, sec. 10.)
It is said, too, that a bill should be verified "when it seeks to have settled
in equity matters capable of enforcement at law." (See Bernier v. Bernier,
72 Mich. 45; Lebanon Township v. Burch, 78 Mich. 641, and Moore v. Cheeseman, 23 Mich. 332.) To justify the issue of a preliminary injunction, the bill
must be sworn to on personal knowledge of facts that will justify its issue,
or reason must be shown for the absence of such verification. (Manistique
Co. v. Lovejoy, 55 Mich. 190; Toledo, etc. Co. v. Detroit Co., 61 Mich. 9.)
An answer in the nature of a cross-bill must be sworn to under Rule 11 (a)
whenever a verification would be necessary in case the relief were sought
by a bill, even though the bill to which the answer in the nature of a cross
bill is filed may waive an answer under oath. As, an answer in a divorce
case in the nature of a cross-bill. (Harrison v. Harrison, 94 Mich. 559.)
"Possibly a verification might be allowed on the hearing nunc pro tunc,
when no injustice would follow." (Bernier v. Bernier, 72 Mich. 45.)
The form of the verification, etc.— The jurat should show where, when
and before whom the affiant was sworn, and it seems that the omission of
the words "before me," usually appearing in verifications, renders the
verification void, unless the affidavit is made for the purpose of being used
before the officer who administers the. oath to it. (Smart v. Howe, 3 Mich.
5'J0: Cross v. People, 10 Mich. 24; In re Teachout, 15 Mich. 346.) Where
the verification is by an agent who is not also the solicitor of the com
plainant, the jurat should state the person verifying to be the agent of
the complainant; but where it is verified by the oath of the complainant's
solicitor, the court will take notice of that fact from the record. (Bergh
v. Poupard, Walk. Ch. 5.)

CHANCERY RULES 3, 4.

105

RULE 3.
Security for Costs by Non-residents.
In all cases where the complainant is not a resident of this
state, before process shall issue, a bond in the penal sum of one
hundred dollars, with one or more sufficient sureties, shall be
filed with the register, to be approved by him, conditioned to
pay all such costs as shall be decreed against the complainant
in such case; or there shall be indorsed on the bill a general
undertaking, by one or more responsible sureties, to pay all
costs for which the complainant may become liable, and the
register shall indorse his approval of such surely or sureties.
[Substitute for former Rule 6.]
In actions at law commenced by non-residents, the statute requires a
general undertaking or indorsement for costs, without any limit in amount.
(Sec. 7296.) This Rule 3 covers the only general requirement in chancery
suits; but in any civil action the court may, '• when it shall appear reason
able and proper," require sufficient security for all costs. (Sec. 7298.) See
notes to Law Rules 1 and 19.
The requirement of approval by the register is not a condition precedent
to the liability of the sureties. (Skinner v. Lucas, 68 Mich. 434.)

"2 133

RULE 4.

Process — Form of Chancery Subpoena — How Served.
(a) All process, unless otherwise directed, shall be made re
turnable on a day certain (except Sunday) either in vacation
or in term, not less than ten days from the issuing thereof; and
if process is not executed on or before the return day, further
process may he taken out of course, as often as may be necessary.
[Substitute for former Rule 9.]
(b) The names of all the defendants in a cause shall be in
serted in the subpoena. It may be served by delivering a copy
of the writ, subscribed by the complainant, his solicitor, or the
officer or person serving the same, and inscribed " copy," and
showing the original, under seal of the court, at the time of
such delivery, to the defendant. The service may be on or be

106

CHANCERY RULE 4

fore the return day mentioned in the subpoena. [Former
Rule 10.]
(c) The subpoena in a suit in chancery shall notify the de
fendant that a bill of complaint has been filed against him by
the complainant (naming him), and that if he desires to defend
the same he is required to cause his appearance to be filed or
entered in the cause, in accordance with the rules and practice
of the court, in person or by solicitor, within fifteen days .after
service of the subpoena upon him, and the return- day thereof
shall be indicated at the foot of the subpoena, and there shall
be an underwriting designating against what defendant, if any,
a personal decree is asked. The business address of the com
plainant's solicitor shall appear upon the subpoena.
(d) The form of the subpoena may be as follows : [Substitute
for former Rule 122.]
State of Micht'>a.n,
The Circuit Court for the County of
.
In Chancery.
In the Name of the People of the State of Michigan.
Greeting: You are hereby notified that a bill of complaint
has been filed against you in the circuit court for the county
of
in chancer}-, by
, as complainant, and that if
you desire to defend the same, you are required to have your
appearance filed or entered in the cause, in accordance with
the rules and practice of the court, in person or by solicitor,
within fifteen days after service of this subpoena upon you.
Hereof fail not, under the penalty of having said bill taken as
confessed against you.
The return day of this writ is the
day of
, A. D.
189-.
Witness, the Honorable
, circuit judge, at the
,
this
day of
, A. D. 1S9-.
, Register.
Underwriting: A personal decree is
sought against the
defendants
and
.
, and the bill is filed to
reach interests in property, and not to obtain any further relief
against the remainder of the defendants.
Solicitor for Complainant.
Business address:

.

By a recent amendment the register is authorized to issue as many
original writs of subpoena as there may be different counties in this state
in which the defendants reside, and service of any of such originals shall
be valid. (Sec. 6630, vol. 3, How. Stat.)

CHANCERY RULE 4.

107

Form and contents.— The statute confers upon the supreme court spe
cial authority to prescribe the form of all chancery process. (Sec. 6629.)
It must be signed by the register in chancery (sec. 6630, vol. 3) and sealed
with the seal of the court, and shall bear date on the day when issued,
and when, from its nature, it is required to be executed by the sheriff, it
shall be directed to him. (Sec. 6631.) It is the duty of the register in
chancery to furnish solicitors with blank chancery subpoenas, with the
court seal impressed thereon, and with the name of the process printed or
written, on the body of the seal, on payment by the solicitor of the fees
allowed by law. . (Sec. 6632.)
The constitution and statute require that all process shall be "In the
Name of the People of the State of Michigan." (Const., art. VI, sec. 33,
and sec. 7290, How. Stat.) An entire omission of these words is fatal to
the validity of the process. (Forbes v. Darling, 94 Mich. 627. See, also,
Johnson v. Insurance Co., 12 Mich. 627, and Penfold v. Slyfield, decided
Jul}' 28, 1896.) And all process must be tested in the name of one of the
judges of the court from which it issues. (Sec. 7290. See Howerter v.
Kelly, 23 Mich. 336.)
It would seem, by analogy, that the subpoena may be signed by the
deputy register in his own name without adding the name of the clerk.
(Calendar v. Olcott, 1 Mich. 346; Colton v. Rupert, 60 Mich. 320. But see
Creveling v. Moore, 39 Mich. 563, and Tarrans v. Hicks, 32 Mich. 307.)
Before delivery to any officer to be executed the subpoena must be sub
scribed or indorsed by the solicitor at whose instance it was issued. (Sec.
7290.) And it is incomplete until that is done. (Potter V. Hutchinson
Mfg. Co., 87 Mich. 61. But see Creveling v. Moore, supra.)
It may, however, by leave of court, be made nunc pro tunc. (Parks v.
Goodwin, 1 Doug. 57.) In connection with the requirement of the busi
ness address of the solicitor, see Rule 15 and Law Rules 28 (e) and 29 (b), re
lating to the service of papers by mail on solicitors.
Defects in form, amounting to mere irregularities, must be brought to
the attention of the court promptly. (Creveling v. Moore, 39 Mich. 563;
Gould v. Tyron, Walk. Ch. 339; Gould v. Castel,47 Mich. 604; Colton v. Ru
pert, 60 Mich. 328; Low v. Mills, 61 Mich. 35. See, also, note on this subject
to Law Rule 1.)
Return day.— [Neither under this rule, nor under the former Rule 9, is
there any maximum limit to the return day of a chancery subpoena. But
under the new practice- it may be made returnable a considerable time in
advance of its issue, without at the same time deferring the time for the
defendant's required appearance, which now begins to run from the date
of service, rather than from the return day of the subpoena. The neces
sity for alias subpoenas will be lessened by this practice and the cause
brought to an issue sooner.]
Service.— Chancery process may be served in any part of the state, by
the sheriff or any other competent person. (Sec. 6630, vol. 3. See, also,
sec. 6608, vol. 2.) If delivered to a sheriff for service it is his duty to serve
it with all convenient speed. (Sec. 7293.) Service outside of the state is
irregular and will be set aside on motion. (Pratt v. Bank of Windsor,
Harr. Ch. 254; Dunn v. Dunn, 4 Paige, 4C5.) Under a former rule, where

108

CHANCERY RULE 5.

the defendant was confined in state prison, service upon the keeper was
held sufficient. (Johnson v. Johnson, Walk. Ch. 311.) It may he served
on or before the return day (subdivision b; Johnson v. Shepard, 35 Mich.
115); but not on Sunday. (Sec. 2019.) If an injunction is taken out, sub
poena should be served with it unless it has been previously served. Oth
erwise the injunction will be set aside, it seems, and possibly the service
of it may be disregarded. (Sullings v. Goodyear Co., 36 Mich. 314, citing
Peltier v. Peltier, Harr. Ch. 19.)
In order to make a basis for an order of publication as to a defendant
whose whereabouts are unknown (sec. 6670, vol. 3), the proof of inability
to serve process must come from one who testifies on his own responsibil
ity, and the effort to serve must be continued while the subpoena is in
force, and there must be due diligence shown. (Soule v. Hough, 45 Mich.
419.)
See also notes 11 and 12 to Law Rule 1 as to service and proof thereof,
and sec. 6630, vol. 3, as to authority for certificate of service by sheriffs in
other counties than that in which the subpoena was issued.
Underwriting.— The object of this requirement is to prevent the neces
sity of defendants looking into the record, unless notified that specific re
lief will be sought against them. If a grantee of mortgaged premises is
claimed to have assumed the mortgage and agreed to pay it, and if a per
sonal decree for deficiency is sought against him (which may be properly,
Corning v. Burton, 102 Mich. 86), the underwriting must show that fact,
[notwithstanding the requirement of further proceedings and further serv- .
ice after sale.] (Vaughn v. Black, 63 Mich. 220.)
An underwriting to a subpcena in a divorce case, showing that a per
sonal decree is sought for divorce and that the "bill is filed to reach inter
ests in property and not to obtain any further relief," is sufficient to indi
cate a claim for alimony. (Seibly v. Ingham Circuit Judge, June 4, 1895, 63
N. W. Rep. 528.)
So far as the return of service is conoerned the subpoena and the under
writing may be treated as one instrument, and a return of service of the
subpoena is sufficient to show service of both. (Corning v. Burton, 102
Mich. 86.)
RULE 5.
Proceedings Following the Service of Subpoena.
(a) A defendant desiring to defend a causje, or to have no
tice of the proceedings therein, shall cause notice of his ap
pearance to be filed or entered in the office of the register of
the court within fifteen days after service of the subpwna upon
him, and within the same time shall serve notice of such ap
pearance upon the complainant's solicitor. Such appearance,
whether followed by answer or not, shall entitle him to notice
of all future proceedings in the cause.

CHANCERY RULE 5.

109

(b) Such notice of appearance shall be entitled in the cause
and addressed to the complainant's solicitor, and may be in
substance as follows:
Take Notice, that the defendant,
, hereby appears
in the above entitled cause and demands a copy of the bill of
complaint therein.
Dated,
.
Yours, etc.,
,
Solicitor for said Defendant.
Business address:
.
' (c) The complainant shall cause a copy of the bill of com
plaint to be served on the solicitor so appearing, within fifteen
days after receiving the notice and demand above mentioned.
(But he shall not be required to serve more than one copy of
the bill upon any one solicitor, although such solicitor may ap
pear at different times for more than one defendant, and in
such case service of a copy of the bill shall be deemed to
have been made on the fifteenth day after receiving a subse
quent notice of appearance.)
(d) The defendant shall file his demurrer, plea or answer to
the bill of complaint within fifteen days after receiving a copy
of the hill of complaint. [See sec. 603^, How. Stat.]
Effect of appearance in favor of defendant.— Notice of appearance en
titles the defendant's solicitor, by statute also, to " copies of the pleadings
and proceedings at any time filed in the cause on the part of the complain
ant." (Sees. 6636, 6638.) A verbal notice of legal proceedings is not suffi
cient. It is a well-recognized general rule that every notice of that
character must be in writing. (Mason v. Kellogg, 38 Mich. 141, and cases
cited.) A notice not signed by the solicitor, nor by his authority, nor
emanating from his office, may be disregarded, and testimony taken under
such a notice may properly"-he suppressed. (McClintock v. Laing, 22 Mich.
212.) Ex parte proceedings without notice to a defendant who has ap
peared are void. (Cook v. FreYich, 96 Mich. 525.)
The statute (sec. 6636) contemplates that a party who has appeared shall
be entitled to notice of all proceedings, and this applies to notice of the
hearing before a commissioner on a reference, and where the rules fix the
period of the notice such notice must in all cases be given. A decree
based on four days' notice of hearing will be reversed on appeal. (Jenny
v. O'Flynn, 5 Mich. 217. See. also, Cook v. French, 96 Mich. 525.) But when
there has been a lack of such notice, the proper course is for the complain
ing party to apply to the court below for redress, upon a showing that he
has or will sustain injury if the decree stands. (Martin v. McReynolds, 6
Mich. 75; Kellogg v. Putnam, 11 Mich. 345.) And while a party is entitled
to notice of a hearing before a commissioner on a reference involving an

110

CHANCERY RULE 5.

inquiry into facts, a decree will not be reversed on appeal, where there
had been a notice of final hearing, and the court merely refers a computa
tion to the commissioner, after passing on the facts, contemplating an
immediate report and decree on the computation, even though there was
no notice of filing the report or of the final decree. (Kellogg v. Putnam,
11 Mich. 345.) And for a similar state of facts, where the lack of notice
was held not fatal to the decree, see Michigan Ins. Co. v. Whittemore, 12
Mich. 429.
"Good practice requires that a defendant who has appeared iri the cause
should have such notice of the entry of the decree as will afford him an
opportunity to attend and be heard upon the settlement thereof." (De
troit Ins. Co. v. Renz, 33 Mich. 299.)
[An examination of the foregoing decisions taken together shows that
this rule and the statute on the subject do not mean that a decree is in
valid, or that it will be set aside on appeal, for every failure to give notice
of proceedings to a defendant who has merely appeared. The defendant
may, by inaction, waive the effect of a want of such notice.' If he intends
to raise the question of his right to notice, he must act diligently, especially
if he has not been injuriously affected by it, and should not appeal, where
application to the lower court would probably result in relief; and ordi
narily a decree will not be reversed for a mere irregularity which has not
in fact affected the appellant injuriously. It would seem, from the decis
ions, that the purpose of the rule is simply to prevent undue advantage by
ex parte proceedings.]
Effect of appearance as against the defendant.— After appearance, it is
the statutory duty of the defendant to serve on the complainant's solicitor
copies of all pleadings and proceedings filed on the part of such defendant.
(Secs. 6637, 6638; and see the additional Requirement in Law Rule 30 ap
plicable to chancery causes.) [A general appearance in a chancery cause,
as well as in a^suit at law, waives all irregularities in the manner of bring
ing in the party appearing, whether the irregularity relates to a subpoena
or to an order for the appearance of a non-resident defendant.] (See note
to McCaslin v. Camp, 26 Mich. 390.)
After decree, a defendant who had not been personally served with pro
cess petitioned the court for leave to defend, setting forth irregularities
in the proceedings. The petition was granted, and the defendant then
filed an answer. Held, that the objection that the order for the appear
ance of the defendant as a non-resident was not in compliance with the
statute, and that consequently the proceedings were void, was obviated by
the appearance and answer. (Stone v. Welling, 14 Mich. 524.) But an ap
pearance made for the purpose of demurring to the jurisdiction of the
court does not admit the jurisdiction. (Woodruff v. Young, 43 Mich. 548.)
An appearance for the purpose of setting aside the proceedings for irregu
larities cannot be treated as a general appearance. (Brown v. Thompson,
29 Mich. 76.)
Proceedings where two or more defendants.— The complainant cannot
upon a pro confesso obtained against one, before the cause is at issue or in
readiness for hearing against the other, take a decree against the one as
to whom the bill has been taken as confessed, and leave the cause to pro

CHANCERY RULES 6, 7.

Ill

ceed against the other defendant. A final decree cannot be pronounced
until all the parties to the bill are before the court, when the court may *
do justice to all the parties to the suit and make a final disposition of the
cause. And a defendant who has appeared and answered cannot notice
the cause for hearing until the cause is in readiness for hearing as to the
other defendants. If the complainant does not move with diligence to
put the cause in readiness for hearing as to all parties, a defendant who
has answered may move to dismiss the bill for want of prosecution. (See
Graham v. Elmore, Harr. Ch., 27o"; McVickaT v. Filer, 24 Mich. 241. See,
'also, note to Rule 7.)

RULE 6.
Extending Time for Pleading, etc.
The circuit judge (or a circuit court commissioner, in the ab
sence of the judge of the court from the county, or in case of
his inability) for a good cause shown, on special motion, after
notice to the opposite party, may extend the time for putting
in or serving any pleading, or for taking any other step which
is required by the rules to be taken within a limited time.
[Substitute for former Eule 86.]

RULE 7.
Proceedings on Default of Either Party.
(a) If either party shall make default in filing or serving any
pleading or notice, within the time limited by these rules, or
the special order of the court in the cause, the opposite party
may have the default entered in the common order book, or
filed, in vacation or in term time.
(b) If the defendant has failed to appear or to plead, answer
or demur, the complainant may enter or file an order taking
the bill of complaint as confessed, and referring the cause to a
commissioner or to the court for proofs.
(c) If the complainant has failed to serve a copy of the bill
of complaint, the defendant may, on filing an affidavit of the
service of the required notice, and showing the complainant's
neglect, enter or file an order dismissing the bill of complaint.
(d) Any order entered under these rules may be set aside on 131 xxxvi
Amended
special motion, for cause shown, in the discretion of the court,

112

CHANCERY RULE 7.

on such terms as may be deemed just and proper. But to en
title a defendant to an order setting aside his default for want
of appearance or answer, he shall proffer a sworn answer show
ing a defense on the merits as to the whole or a part of the
complainant's case. And in cases where personal service shall
have been made upon a defendant, and proceedings taken after
default on the strength thereof, his default shall not be set
aside unless the application shall be made within six months
after such service. And in any case where personal service
shall have been made upon a defendant, an order setting aside
his default shall be conditioned upon his payment to the com
plainant of the taxable costs incurred in reliance on said default,
and the court may impose such other conditions as shall be
deemed proper.
Good practice requires an affirmative showing of the non-appearance of
the defendant as a preliminary to an order pro confesso; and such an
order entered before the proof of service of the subpoena has been made or
file 1 is irregular. (Eaton v. Eaton, 33 Mich. 305.) See upon this subject
and upon the snbject of proof of service, notes to Law Rules 1 and 12.
Affidavit of publication as basis for default.— [Nothing short of full
compliance with the statutory conditions will justify a default where
thei;e has been no personal service.] "The affidavit of the printer, or fore
man, or clerk of any printer," etc., of the publication of any notice or ad
vertisement required to be published shall be prima facia evidence of such
publication. (Sec. 7500.) This section, rather than sec. 7407, governs with
respect to orders of appearance. (Brown v. Phillips, 40 Mich. 269.) An
affidavit by " a person in the employ of the printers of said newspaper"
does not comply with the statute. (Perrien v. Fetters, 35 Mich. 233.) Nor
one made by "a printer in the office of" the paper. (Gillett v. Needham,
37 Mich. 146.) But if made by the "foreman of the" newspaper (naming
it) instead of " the foreman of the printer," it will be sufficient. (Dexter
v. Cranston, 41 Mich. 453.) And the statute above mentioned does not ex
clude other proof of publication, and an affidavit made by any other per
son having personal knowledge is sufficient (Pettiford v. Zoelner, 45 Mich.
358; Wyman v. Baer. 46 Mich. 418; Matthews v. Supervisors, 48 Mich. 587;
Persinger v. Jubb, 52 Mich. 308; Schlee v. Darrow Estate, 65 Mich. 371),
and the files of the newspaper seem to be competent evidence. (Colton
v. Rupert, 60 Mich. 328.) An order of appearance was required to be pub
lished once in each week for six successive weeks; and an affidavit show
ing that it was published for six successive weeks, commencing January 6th
and ending February 10th (six insertions), was held sufficient, as no action
was taken by complainant until after the expiration of the week in which
the order was last published. (Colton v. Rupert, 60 Mich. 328.) On this
subject see, also, Gantz v. Tolles, 40 Mich. 728; Bacon v. Kennedy, 56 Mich.
329: Torrans v. Hicks, 32 Mich. 307.

CHANCERY RULE 7.

113

Default decree based on pnblication alone.— Sec. 6674 provides for tak
ing the bill as confessed after an order of publication, and for a reference
to a master [commissioner] to take proofs of the facts and circumstances;
but in such a case the bill cannot be considered as evidence before the
commissioner (sec. 6675), and full proof is required of the facts alleged in
the bill. (Brown v. Thompson, 29 Mich. 74; State Tax Law Cases, 54 Mich.
415.) But a reference is not necessary where the proofs are taken in open
court. (Bussey v. Bussey, 71 Mich. 507.) No personal decree can be based
on an order of publication, without personal service or appearance. Noth
ing is bound except the property involved in the litigation, and a personal
decree, if taken, is absolutely void. (State Tax Law Cases, 54 Mich. 415;
Outhwite v. Porter, 13 Mich. 540; Tyler v. Peatt, 30 Mich. 65; Innes v. Stew
art, 36 Mich. 285; Lawrence v. Fellows, Walk. Ch. 468; Lillibridge v. Tregant, 30 Mich. 105; Booth v. Insurance Co., 43*Mich. 299; Colton v. Rupert,
60 Mich. 326.) In foreclosure cases the court may direct that the com
plainant be examined as to any payments made upon the mortgage. (Sec.
6676; Brown v. Thompson, 29 Mich. 75.) The court may, as a condition to
awarding possession of the property involved, require security from the
complainant, to abide the order of the court touching the restitution of
the premises in case the defendant shall subsequently appear and be ad
mitted to defend. (Sec. 6679.) And any defendant (whether he be the
mortgagor in a foreclosure case or merely a subsequent purchaser) against
whom a decree has been rendered, based on publication alone, has the ab
solute right, within one year after notice in writing of the decree, and
within seven years when such notice is not given, to be permitted to an
swer the bill upon paying or securing the payment of costs (secs. 6681,6682,
6685; Bragg v. Whitcomb, Walk. Ch. 307; King v. Harrington, 14 Mich,
539; McDonald v. McDonald, 45 Mich. 45; Colton v. Rupert, 60 Mich. 326);
and the cause then proceeds as if the defendant had appeared in due sea
son and no decree had been made. (Sec. 6681; Griggs v. Railway Co., 10
Mich. 123; Hardwick v. Bassett, 25 Mich. 151.) But in case a sale has been
had based on a foreclosure decree, the defendant cannot have the sale set
aside, but may file a bill to require the complainant to account for the
proceeds of the sale. (Sec. 6686.)
'
Default based on personal service.—It amounts to an admission by the
defendant of every material fact which is clearly stated in the bill (Ward
v. Jewett, Walk. Ch. 45); and he cannot be charged with the costs of testi
mony in support of the bill (Covell v. Cole, 16 Mich. 223); nor permitted to
introduce evidence on a reference. (Ward v. Jewett, Walk. Ch. 45.) But
it admits no more than the case made by the bill, and not any new agree
ment relied upon which appears in the proof only. (McCabe v. Farnsworth,
27 Mich. 53.) Nor facts set forth in a subsequent amendment of the bill.
(Harris v. Dietrich, 29 Mich. 366.)
For cases where the answer of one defendant was held to inure to the
benefit of another defendant who suffered the bill to be taken as confessed,
see Stockton v. Williams, Walk. Ch. 120; Buchoz v. Lecour, 9 Mich. 234;
McCabe v. Farnsworth, 27 Mich. 53.
Motion to set aside default.—If, on appeal, it is sought to have a decree
set aside on account of irregularities, they should be shown to have been
8
.

114

CHANCERY RULE 8.

injurious. (Mich. Insurance Co. v. Whittemore, 12 Mich. 427.) Under the
former practice even, it was held that a regular order for default will not
be set aside upon a simple affidavit of merits, although an excuse is given
for the defendant's default, and that he must either produce the sworn
answer which he proposes to put in or must in his affidavit or petition
state the nature of his defense and his belief in the truth thereof, so that
the court may see that an injustice will probably be done, if the default
order is permitted to stand. (Stockton v. Williams, Harr. Ch. 240; Hart
v. Lindsay, Walk. Ch. 72. See, also, Mills v. McLeod, 86 Mich. 290; Stradley v. Chippewa Circuit Judge, 96 Mich. 287.) When such an answer is
proffered and some excuse shown for the delay, the inclination of the court
is to permit it to be filed. (Smith v. Saginaw Bank, Harr. Ch. 426.) A de
cree by default will be opened, on diligent showing of an adequate excuse,
by petition, where the case has not been enrolled, even though third par
ties have purchased in reliance on the decree, for such persons purchase at
the risk that the decree may be set aside. (Benedict v. Auditor-General,
62 N. W. Rep. 364, and cases cited; Cook v. French, 96 Mich. 525. But see,
as to the rights of such purchaser to notice, Carlisle v. Carlisle, 96 Mich.
128.) No general rule can be laid down. Each case must, in a great meas
ure, depend upon its own circumstances and the sound discretion of the '
court. (Russell v. Waite, Walk. Ch. 31; Brewer v. Dodge, 28 Mich. 359;
Low v. Mills, 61 Mich. 44; Benedict v. Auditor-General, supra. See, also,
note to Rule 24.)

RULE 8.
Pleas to a Bill and Practice Thereon.
(a) No plea shall be allowed to be filed to any bill unless upon
a certificate of counsel that in his opinion it is well founded in
point of law, and supported by the affidavit of the defendant
that it is not interposed for delay merely, and that he knows
or has good reason to believe it to be true in point of fact.
(b) The defendant may plead to the whole or any part of
the bill, but in every case in which the bill specially charges
fraud or combination, a plea to such part must be supported
by an answer explicitly denying the fraud and combination
and the several facts on which the charge is founded.
(c) The complainant may set down the plea to be argued, or
he may take issue on the plea, and in default of the complain
ant taking any action within twenty days the defendant shall
be entitled as of course to a decree, dismissing the bill or so
much thereof as is covered by the plea, unless the court allow
defendant further time for the purpose.

CHANCERY RULE 8.

115

(d) If upon the argument the plea is overruled, the defend- •
ant shall be required to answer within such time as the court
shall deem reasonable, and if the defendant make default, the
bill, or so much thereof as the plea covered, shall be taken pro
confesso, and the matter thereof proceeded in and decreed ac
cordingly.
(e) If, upon the argument, the plea is allowed^ complainant
may, within ten days after notice of such allowance, take issue
upon the plea on payment of the costs of hearing thereon, un
less he shall, within such ten days, move for leave to amend the
bill, on which motion the court may allow such amendment on
such terms as it may deem reasonable. Within ten days after
the determination of such motion for leave to amend, the claim
ant may take issue on the plea upon the terms above provided.
In default of such motion for leave to amend or in case such
leave is denied, and in default of taking issue on the plea, the
bill, or so much thereof as is covered by the plea, shall be dis
missed. [Substitute for former Rule 25.]
(f) If, upon an issue, the facts stated in a plea be determined
for the defendant, they shall avail him as far as in law and
equity they ought to avail him ; if the facts are determined for
the complainant, the effect shall be the same as though the bill
or so much thereof as is covered by the plea was taken pro
confesso.
(g) No plea shall be held bad and overruled upon argument,
only because it shall not cover so much of the bill as it might
by law have extended to.
(h) No plea shall be held bad and overruled upon argument,
only because the answer of the defendant may extend to the
same matter as may be covered by such plea.
" A plea is a special answer to a bill demanding the judgment of the
court in the first instance whether the special matter urged by it does not
debar the complainant from his title to an answer which the bill re
quires." (Scharz v. Wendell, Harr. Ch. 401.) It is " a special answer to the
bill setting forth and relying upon some one fact, or a number of facts
tending to one point, sufficient to bar, delay or uismiss the suit." Its ob
ject is to reduce the cause or some part of it to a single point and thus
prevent the expense of an examination at large. (Sims v. Lyle, 4 Wash.
C. C. 303; Ferguson v. O'Hara, 1 Pet. C. C. 494.) It seems it is a proper
method of presenting the defense that the complainant in a foreclosure
suit has since filing the bill assigned all his interest in the mortgage

116

CHANCERY RULE 8.

(Wallace v. Dunning, Walk. Ch. 416); and the defense of former suit pend
ing (Railroad Co. v. McCaiumon, 66 N. W. Rep. 471 ; Bank v. Williams,
Harr. Ch. 220. See Wheeler v. McCormiok, 8 Blatch. 268); and discharge
of defendant in bankruptcy. (Peck v. Burgess, Walk. Ch. 485.) It is a
proper but not a necessary method, for a person made a party defendant
in foreclosure as a subsequent purchaser only, to set up that he is in pos
session under a tax deed. (Shafer v. Thompson, 67 N. W. Rep. 511; 3 Det.
Leg. News, 189.) And a proper method of setting up the want of jurisdic
tion of the court (Chapin v. Montcalm Circuit Judge,' 104 Mich. 233); by
reason of the citizenship of the complainant. (Gernon v. Boccaline, 2
Wash. C. C. 199.) In general it is not proper to insist by plea upon matter
which is apparent on the face of the bill and whioh might be taken ad
vantage of by demurrer. (Noyes v. Willard, 1 Woods, 187.) A plea of a
former suit pending in another court for the same cause of action must
set forth the general character and objects of the former suit and the relief
prayed for. Otherwise it will be overruled as insufficient (Bank v. Will
iams, Harr. Ch. 220); and a plea of former adjudication must show that it
was on the merits. (Railroad Co. v. McCammon, 66 N. W. Rep. 473.) An
insufficient plea to a bill for accounting was allowed to stand for an an
swer. (Schwarz v. Wendell, Harr. Ch. 403. Same done in Lewis v. Baird,
3 McLean, 56.) A plea must be positive and not on belief, when it states
a fact within the defendant's knowledge, or touching his own acts. When
it relates to the act of third persons, it may be on information and belief.
(Parker v. Parker, Walk. Ch. 457.) It is said that a plea must rest the de
fense upon a single point, and a plea containing two distinct points is bad.
It must not be multifarious. (Bank v. Dorr, Walk. Ch. 322; Carroll v.
Lyon, Walk. Ch. 355.)
(a) Subdivision (a) is a copy of general equity Rule 31 of the federal court.
As to the effect of the absence of certificate of counsel, see note to Rule 9.
Held, in Railroad v. McCammon, 66 N. W. Rep. 471, that a plea which sets
up a public record of the same court in which the action is pending need
not be verified. (See same case as to formal parts of a plea.)
(b) This is in substance like general equity Rule 32 of the federal court.
It is held that under that rule a defendant may demur to a part of a bill,
plead to a part, and answer to the residue; but he cannot demur to the
whole bill, plead to the whole bill and answer to the whole bill at the same
time. If that be done, the plea waives the demurrer and the answer waives
the plea. (Crescent City Co. v. Butcher's Co., 12 Fed. Rep. 225; Ferguson
v. O'Hara, 1 Pet. C. C. 493.) And it is improper to file two pleas to a bill,
without special leave of the court. (Wheeler v. McCormick, 8 Blatch. 268.)
Such leave will be granted when great inconvenience might otherwise re
sult. The defendant has no right as a matter of course to file more than
one plea. (Noyes v. Willard, 1 Woods, 187.) The requisites to a good plea
and the necessity of an accompanying answer denying fraud are discussed
in Sims v. Lyle, 4 Wash. C. C. 301; Ferguson v. O'Hara, 1 Pet. C. C. 494;
Lewis v. Baird, 3 McLean, 56. A defendant may plead to one part of the
bill and answer to another part; but these defenses must clearly refer to
separate and distinct parts of the bill; and if the answer and plea are to
the same parts of the bill, the former overrules the latter. (Clark v. Bank,
Harr. Ch. 240. See Lewis v. Baird, 3 McLean, 56.)

CHANCERY RULE 8.

117

(c) This is taken from general equity Rules 33 and 38 of the federal
court. Issue is taken on the plea by the filing of a replication thereto,
and thereupon the truth of the plea is the only question to be tried. Its
sufficiency is admitted by the replication. If the truth of the plea is es
tablished, it is a bar to so much of the bill as it professes to cover. (Hurlbut v. Britain, Walk. Ch. 455: Same Case, 2 Doug. 194: Hughes v. Blake.
6 Wheat. 453.) If the truth of the plea is not established, the complain
ant will be entitled only to the same decree as if the bill had been taken
as confessed, and if the bill contains no case upon which he would be en
titled to any relief whatever, the bill will be dismissed. (Hurlbut v. Brit
ain, 2 Doug. 194.) If no replication is filed to the plea, the truth of the
plea is not at issue, but only its legal sufficiency. (Railroad Co. v. McCammon, 66 N. W. Rep. 472; Shafer v. Thompson, 67 N. W. Rep. 511; 3 Det.
Leg. News, 189; Gallagher v. Roberts, 1 Wash. C. C. 320; Melius v. Thomp
son, 1 Cliff. 125.) On demurrer to the plea the question of the sufficiency
of the bill as well as the plea is raised. (Beard v. Bowler, 2 Bond, 13.)
(d) This is fashioned after former Rule 26 and general equity Rule 34 of
the federal court. It is held that Rule 34 requires that, on overruling a
plea, the defendant shall be allowed to answer; that such leave must be
given. (Wooster v. Blake, 7 Fed. Rep. 816.)
(e) See former Rule 25; Railroad Co. v. McCammon, 66 N. W. Rep. 472.
By the general equity practice, in the absence of express rule, the com
plainant had no absolute right to test the legal sufficiency of the plea be
fore taking issue upon the facts. If he did so, and the plea was held
legally sufficient, the court generally allowed him to take issue on the
facts, but he had no absolute right to do so, which this subdivision gives
to him, without the delay and expense of an application to the court.
(See Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 14 Pet. 435.) But where, instead of
first testing its legal sufficiency by setting it down for argument, the
complainant replies to the plea, he thereby admits its sufficiency if its
truth is established. (Myers v. Dorr, 13 Blatch. 23; Hughes v. Blake, 6
Wheat. 453.)
See Rule 16 (e) as to amendment of bill without leave of court on the
overruling of a plea.
(f) This is in substance former Rule 26 and general equity Rule 33 of
the federal court.
(g) This is a copy of former Rule 41 and of the federal general equity
Rule 36. A plea may be good in part and not so in the whole, and the
court will allow it to so much of the bill as it is properly applicable to, unless
it has the vice of duplicity in it. (Kirkpatrick v. White Co., 4 Wash. C. C.
595.) It is not defective in not responding to all the allegations of the bill,
for a plea may be to the whole bill or to a part only. (Beard v. Bowler, 2
Bond, 14.) It may be good in part and bad in part. (Wythe v. Palmer, 3
Sawy. 415.)
(h) This is a copy of former Rule 42 and of the federal general equity
Rule 37. A plea is superseded by an answer to an amended bill filed after
the plea. (Peck v. Burgess, Walk. Ch. 485.) See note (b), supra.

118

CHANCERY RULE 9.

RULE 9.
117 197 198
126 264
131 176
130 608
136 666

Demurrers and Practice Thereon.

(a) The form of a demurrer may be as follows :
" The defendant says that the complainant has not stated
sucn a case iQ his bill as entitles him to relief in a court of
equity for the following reasons:" (adding briefly but plainly
the special reasons in matters of substance in a general demur
rer, as well as matters ofform in a special demurrer).
(b) If any pleading shall be adjudged bad for any cause
which is not plainly specified in the demurrer, the party plead
ing shall be allowed to amend without costs.
(c) To every demurrer there shall be added the individual
certificate of counsel having principal charge of the cause in
behalf of the party filing the demurrer, to the effect that the
demurrer is not interposed for delay and that in his opinion it
is well founded. And a demurrer not accompanied with such
a certificate shall be stricken from the files on motion, unless
the court shall deem it proper to allow the certificate to be
added.
(d) A joinder in demurrer shall not be necessary, and either
party may at once notice a demurrer for argument at the next
term of court. Such notice shall be served at least ten days
before the first day of such term. But if the cause is not in
readiness for hearing in time to so notice it, it may be noticed
for a subsequent day in term, not less than ten days after such
notice, and placed at the foot of the calendar.
(e) If the demurrer be overruled, the court shall, on such
terms and conditions as are reasonable,permit the defendant to
answer, and if the demurrer be sustained the court shall like
wise permit the complainant to amend the bill. [See former
Rule 23.]
See note to Rule 10 on the subject of demurrer clause in answer,
(a) [Whatever may have been the former practice, the causes of de
murrer must now be plainly specified in both matters of form and matters
of substance. The rule abolishes the distinction between general and spe
cial demurrers only to that extent. Within the meaning of the law (sec.
6737) permitting an appeal from an order overruling a "general demurrer,"
that term still means a demurrer going to the merits of the bill as distin

CHANCERY RULE 9.

119

guished from a demurrer which relates to matters of form and imperfect
allegations. See, however, Turck v. Soule, 55 Mich. 128; Babcock v. McJury,
76 Mich. 316; Shaw v. Case, 77 Mich. 438. But the revised rule requires a
"general demurrer" to specify plainly the special reasons why the com
plainant is not entitled to equitable relief.] For decisions tending to show
how definitely the special reasons should be assigned, see cases under
former practice. (Kellogg v. Hamilton, 43 Mich. 269; Taylor v. Taylor, 87
Mich. 64; Sweet v. Converse, 88 Mich. 1; Munch v. Shabel, 37 Mich. 166;
Day v. Cole, 56 Mich. 295; Farwell v. Johnston, 34 Mich. 342; Shaw v. Chase,
77 Mich. 440.)
Under the former practice a general demurrer was one to the merits of
the bill and assigning no particular cause, except a want of equity. (Tay
lor v. Taylor, 87 Mich. 64.) A general demurrer admits the facts stated in
the bill and waives all technical objections, but denies that they make a
case for the interposition of a court of equity. ' (Cochrane v. Adams, 50
Mich. 16; Caldwell v. Ward, 83 Mich. 16.) Such a demurrer will be over
ruled if any equitable relief can be properly granted on the matters set up
in the bill. (Clark v. Davis, Harr. Ch. 227; Hawkins v. Clermont, 15 Mich.
511; Hoffman v. Ross, 25 Mich. 175; Wilson y. Eggleston, 27 Mich. 257;
Glidden v. Norvell, 44 Mich. 202; Wilmarth v. Woodcock, 58 Mich. 482;
Darragh v. Boyce, 62 Mich. 480; Carney v. Carney, 63 Mich. 382; Hatch v.
St. Joseph, 68 Mich. 220.) On joint demurrer by two defendants for want
of equity solely, neither defendant can be allowed to raise a question not
available to both. (Sweet v. Converse, 88 Mich. 1, where the question of
misjoinder of parties was raised by joint demurrer. But see Barstow v.
Smith, Walk. Ch. 394.)
(b) See sec. 7359, How. Stat., which is to the same effect. See, also, Rule
16 (d) and note (e) to this rule.
(c) The requirement of a certificate of counsel is like the federal rule,
which also requires an affidavit from the defendant that the demurrer is
not interposed for delay. (Harsha's Rules, p. 52.) A demurrer without the
required certificate may, it is said, be disregarded. (National Bank v.
Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54; Secor v. Singleton, 9 Fed. Rep. 809; Same Case,
3 McCrary, 232.) And complainant may, it seems, take a decree pro corvfesso after the filing of a demurrer which does not have the certificate.
(Secor v. Singleton, supra.) But the lack of a certificate to a plea under a
similar rule is waived if the cause is brought on for argument on the in
sufficiency of the plea. (Goodyear v. Tobey, 6 Blatch. 130.) [And a motion
to strike from the files is probably the proper practice under this rule,
rather than to proceed in disregard of the defective demurrer. See subdi
vision (c); Ewing v. Blight, 3 Wall. Jr. 134; Comstock v. McEvoy, 52 Mich.
324.]
(d) [A joinder in demurrer in chancery was not necessary under the
former practice, although not stated in any rule.]
(e) [This gives the absolute right to a defendant to answer after his de
murrer has been overruled, and the right to a complainant to amend his
Wll if the demurrer is sustained, leaving only the terms discretionary.]
And under the former rules it was held that the proper practice was to
grant defendant leave to answer, on overruling a demurrer, and that a

120

CHANCERY RULE 10.

decree dismissing the bill entered immediately upon the overruling of the
demurrer was premature. (Creasy v. St. George's Society, 34 Mich. 51.)
And that on the allowance of a special demurrer, where the objection
could have been obviated by striking out the objectionable feature, the
court should have allowed amendment and should not have dismissed the
bill. (Bigelow v. Sanford, 98 Mich. 662.) And it was held that where
the bill contained equity enough to furnish the means of amendment it
should not have been dismissed on sustaining a demurrer. (Merrifield v.
Ingersoll, 61 Mich. 4; Lamb v. Jeffrey, 41 Mich. 719.) But if the demurrer
went to the merits of the whole bill, and it could not be improved by
amendment, it was held proper, under the former practice, to dismiss it on
sustaining the demurrer. (Bigelow v. Sanford, 98 Mich. 662.) [And in
such case, under this rule, the complainant, although having the right to
amend, would not desire an amendment.]
When demurrer is necessary or proper.— If the defendant intends to
assert that there is a legal remedy for complainant, on the facts stated in
his bill, he should demur. If he answers without taking this objection,
he cannot insist on the objection, if the case is also within the equitable
powers of the court; but if the relief sought by complainant is in no sense
equitable, the objection cannot be waived, but may be taken at any stage
of the cause. (Williams v. Detroit, 2 Mich. 560; Bennett v. Nichols, 12 Mich.
22. See Hurlbut v. Britain, 2 Doug. 195; Wales v. Newbould, 9 Mich. at page
81 ; Deer Lake Co. v. Mich. etc. Co., 83 Mich. 12.) A demurrer is necessary to
raise objections as to indefinite allegations in the bill,<and other technical
and formal objections (Salisbury v. Miller, 14 Mich. 160; Weaver v. Van
Aiken, 77 Mich. at page 596; Caldwell v. Ward, 83 Mich. 13; Glidden v.
Norveil, 44 Mich. 202; Day v. Cole, 56 Mich. 295; Shaw v. Chase, 77 Mich.
439); and the objection that the bill does not show previous leave of court
to sue a defendant receiver (Burke v. Machine Co., 98 Mich. 615); and the
objection as to misjoinder of parties defendant ; but only those misjoined
may raise that point. (Sweet v. Converse, 88 Mich. 1; Bigelow v. Sanford,
98 Mich. 657.) It is necessary to raise the question of multifariousness by
demurrer. (Burnham v. Dillon, 100 Mich. 357, and cases cited.) It is proper
but not necessary to raise by demurrer the defense of the statute of lim
itations (Campau v. Chene, 1 Mich. 400; McLean v. Barton, Harr. Ch. 279),
but laches alone must be raised by demurrer. (Baint v. Kennecutt, 57
Mich. 268.)

98

RULE 10.
Answers and the Practice Thereon.

(a) Whenever in a cause a sworn oill of complaint is filed
and a sworn answer demanded, the defendant shall be required
to file such sworn answer. But neither a sworn bill nor a
sworn answer shall have the force of evidence except as to ad
missions, and except on the hearing of motions and petitions.

CHANCERY RULE 10.

121

Provided, however, that when a cause is heard on bill and an
swer, the allegations of the answer shall be taken as true.
[Substitute for former Rule 18.]
(b) An answer may be sworn to before the persons and in
the manner specified in the rule governing verification of bills
of complaint. [See Rule 2.]
(c) An answer shall be divided into paragraphs, numbered
consecutively, and each paragraph shall contain as near as may
be a separate and distinct allegation, admission or denial. An
answer not complying with this rule shall be stricken from the
files on motion, unless the court shall deem it proper to allow
amendments thereto to cure the defect.
(d) Every answer shall contain an explicit admission or de
nial of each allegation in the hill of complaint as to which the
defendant has knowledge or. belief. But as to matters charged
in the bill as to which the defendant avers he has no knowl
edge sufficient to form a belief, he shall not be required to
admit or deny the same, but shall state his want of such knowl
edge. And every material allegation in the bill to which the
defendant shall not make answer shall be taken as admitted by
the defendant.
(e) An answer shall be signed by the defendant, or by his
agent or solicitor.
(f) All objections to an answer heretofore raised by excep
tions shall be disposed of by- the court on special motion. [Sub
stitute for former Rules 18, 23, 27 to 38.]
(a) [Subdivision (a) materially alters and improves the practice, and ren
ders obsolete numerous decisions as to the effect of a sworn answer.] But
under the former practice, also, where the case proceeds to a hearing on
bill and answer alone, the complainant's relief must be based solely on the
admissions in the answer, for the answer is taken as true in all points,
whether responsive to the bill or not, and the bill is not evidence for com
plainant (Fields v. Highway Commissioner, 102 Mich. 450; Huyck v. Bai
ley, 100 Mich. 225; Ruhlig v. Wiegert, 49 Mich. 400); while, on the other
hand, the effect of a sworn answer as evidence in a case where a replica
tion had been filed and the cai"e heard on testimony taken upon that
issue, was limited to matters directly responsive to the bill. (Schwartz v.
Wendell, Walk. Ch. 267; Van Dyke v. Davis, 2 Mich. 145; Hart v. Carpen
ter, 36 Mich. 402; Mandeville v. Comstock, 9 Mich. 536.) See, upon this
subject, sec. 6621. The former rule as to the limit to the effect of a sworn
answer as evidence is well stated in Roberts v. Miles, 12 Mich. 297, and
Newlove v. Callaghan, 86 Mich. 301.

122

CHANCERY RULE 10.

Sec. 6233 permits a defendant to a divorce bill to answer the same with
out oath. [Subdivision (a) does not, it seems, apply to such cases, so far
as it gives a complainant the right to call for a sworn answer.] The
filing of a replication to an unsworn answer, where a sworn answer was
demanded by the bill, amounts to a waiver of the demand. (Adair v. Cum
min, 48 Mich. 375.)
(c) Subdivision (c) is similar to a special rule of the federal courts of the
sixth circuit, viz. : " Every answer shall contain not only the defendant's
answer to the several paragraphs of the bill, but thereafter such state
ment of his case as he may deem it necessary or advisable to make; and
such answer shall also be divided into paragraphs numbered consecu
tively, each paragraph containing, as nearly as may be, a separate and
distinct allegation; and such answer must be full and explicit and distinct
to each separate paragraph in the bill, in the same order as numbered in
the bill, before it enters upon any statement of the defendant's case."
(Harsha's Federal Court Rules, p. 99.)
(d) [Under the former practice an opinion has prevailed to some extent
that in drawing an answer it has not been necessary either to admit or
deny all matters charged in the bill which were within the knowledge of
the defendant, and that, unless the answer expressly admits an allegation
in the bill, the complainant must make proof of it; and it has been com
mon for a defendant to say that he neither admits nor denies a particular
allegation, but leaves the complainant to his proofs, without excusing this
evasion by a denial of knowledge of the matter. Subdivision (d) should
effectually correct this practice. It is doubtful, too, whether the former
rules permitted such practice. (See Shook v. Proctor, 27 Mich. 358, and
same title, 27 Mich. 383; Rawson v. Finley, 27 Mich. 270.) Yet there are
decisions to the effect that nothing will be regarded as admitted by the
answer unless expressly admitted. (Morris v.^Morris, 5 Mich. 171; Morris
v. Hoyt, 11 Mich. 9; Young v. McKee, 13 Mich. 553. And see former Rule 18
and Hardwick v. Bassett, 25 Mich. 151.) But these decisions are disposed
of by subdivision (d), and the authorities mentioned in the following para
graph show that it does not materially alter the practice.]
Under the former practice, held, that if an allegation is made with
divers circumstances, the answer should not deny it literally as laid in the
bill, but should answer the point of substance positively and certainly.
(Jones v. Wing, Harr. Ch. 304.) And that an answer should state the
facts, and not merely conclusions of law without showing the existence
of the facts from which the conclusions are drawn. (Attorney-General v.
Bank, Walk. Ch. 95; Match v. Hunt, 38 Mich. 1.) And that the defend
ant must generally answer the bill fully, ?'. e., every particular charge or
allegation in it; the exceptions being, where the answer would subject him
to a penalty or forfeiture or would criminate him, or would be immaterial
to complainant's case or require him to disclose facts which he is net
bound by law to disclose. An answer, the result of choice as between
that and a demurrer or plea, must be as specific as an answer from neces
sity. (Gilkey v. Paige, Walk. Ch. 521.) And an answer which denies the
validity of a deed set out in the bill should state the facts which are sup
posed to render it invalid. (Paine v. Atterbury, Harr. Ch. 417.) And an

CHANCERY RULE 10.

123

answer to a judgment creditor's bill should set out fully and in detail all
the facts connected with the alleged fraudulent conveyance (Hubbell v.
Grant, 39 Mich. 641); and a mere general assertion that the judgment
debtor has property liable to execution, without specifying what and
where the property is or was, is insufficient. (Rankin v. Rothschild, 78
Mich. 11.) The statute requires a defendant to answer a bill for discovery
filed by creditors, and provides that such an answer shall not be evidence
against the defendant on the trial of any indictment for the fraud charged
in the bill. (Secs. 6617, 6618, 8169, 8171, How. Stat,; McCreery v. Bay Cir
cuit Judge, 93 Mich. 464.) And where an answer is silent as to a material
allegation in the bill, the fact will be considered in helping out the com
plainant's proofs. (Insurance Co. v. Bank, 68 Mich. 116.) And in a taxsale proceeding by the auditor-general, an answer which relies on the al
leged fact that the assessment was fraudulent and void must set forth the
specific facts which are claimed to constitute the fraud. (Auditor-General
v. Stiles, 83 Mich. 461.) And an answer should set up the facts which it is
claimed defeats a tax title, on which complainant relies in filing a bill to
quiet title. (Wagar v. Bowley, 104 Mich. 41.) And a defendant cannot be
allowed to depart from the defense set up in his answer and avail himself
of another. (Smith v. Brown, 2 Mich. 164.)
As to whether in an answer facts constituting an estoppel in pais must
be set forth, see Dean v. Crall, 98 Mich. 591, and cases cited; Johnson v.
Stellwagen, 67 Mich. 11, and cases cited.
The defense of the statute of limitations can be raised by answer as well
is by demurrer. (Highstone v. Franks, 93 Mich. 57.) And if the suit is
for the recovery of money, set-offs are allowed, as in actions at law. (Sec.
6616.)
An answer by a guardian ad litem cannot admit anything. It should
be separate from the answers of other defendants, and the complainant
must fully prove his case. (See Peck v. Circuit Judge, 98 Mich. 640; Wood
v. Truax, 39 Mich. 631 ; Thayer v. Lane, Walk. Ch. 202; Chandler v. McKinney, 6 Mich. 219; Smith v. Smith, 13 Mich. 258; Ballentine v. Clark, 38 Mich.
395; Cooper v. Mayhew, 40 Mich. 528.)
A defendant who professes to be willing to do justice, and who acknowl
edges the complainant's right to relief,-should disclaim, if he desires to
avoid costs. (Blodgett v. Dwight, 38 Mich. 597.)
As to a disclaimer under sec. 6626, How. Stat., see Ellison v. Kittridge,
45 Mich. 475.
(e) The lack of the signature of the defendant is waived by replication.
If not so waived, the defect justifies a motion to strike the answer from
the files. (Berner v. Berner, 72 Mich. 43; Kimball v. Ward, Walk. Ch. 439.)
But where on amendment the signature is a mere formality, it may be dis
pensed with. (Balen v. Mercier, 75 Mich. 44)
(f) [But few cases are reported involving exceptions to answers, and the
practice is nearly obsolete; yet, if an answer contains scandalous or im
pertinent matter, the complainant may have it corrected on motion.
Under the former practice, exceptions for insufficiency were only proper
to a sworn answer (see former Rule 18), and they are said to be obsolete
since the statute making .parties to suits competent to testify. See Mc

124

CHANCERY RULE 11.

Creery v. Bay Circuit Judge, 93 Mich. 465.] Upon the subject of excep
tions, see Bragg v. Whitcomb, Walk. Ch. 307; Cummings v. Corey, 58 Mich.
494.
Demurrer clause in answer.— No direct authority, either by rule, stat
ute or Michigan decision, is found for the prevalent practice of adding a
demurrer clause to an answer, and claiming the benefit of a demurrer in
the answer. The practice is recognized, however, and rendered important
by the language in Williams v. Detroit, 2 Mich. 9, 586, viz.:
" The true rule would seem to be, that when the subject of the suit is
embraced under any of the appropriate heads of equitable jurisdiction,
the court will take cognizance of it, notwithstanding there may be a rem
edy at law, or other circumstances exist which would induce the court to
refuse to entertain jurisdiction in the particular case, unless the defend
ant raises the objection by demurrer, or claims the benefit of it. in his an
swer."
The practice is also incidentally referred to in Gorham v. Wing. 10 Mich.
486, and Hubbard v. McNaughton. 43 Mich. 220. In Hewlett v. Shaw, »
Mich. 346; Lamb v. Jeffrey, 41 Mich. 721, and Zabel v. Harshman, 68 Mich.
271. it is held that a separate hearing on the demurrer clause ought not
to be granted, and that it is improper to dismiss a bill on an argument of
the demurrer clause without permitting the complainant to put in his
proofs. In Paine v. Avery, 21 Mich. 537, it is held that as to the objection
of multifariousness in the bill, the desirable practice is a demurrer, and if
the defendant merely reserves the right to make the objection at the hear
ing by incorporating a demurrer clause in his answer, he cannot complain
if the court disregards the objection. "At that stage of the case the
court, instead of the party, is to take the objection of multifariousness,"
and is not bound to allow it. In Ronayne v. Loranger, 66 Mich. 382, the
answer contained a demurrer, "without praying any benefit thereof."
Held, that the " demurrer contained in the answer must be regarded as
waived, the defendant having put in his proofs and submitted the cause
upon the merits." (Citing cases.) In Smith v. Blake, 96 Mich. 542, held that,
on a demurrer clause in the answer, a bill will not be dismissed unless it
is fatally defective and past remedy by amendment. The subject is inad
equately discussed in Welford's Eq. PL 385; Beach's Modern Eq., secs. 244.
274; Story's Eq. PI., sec. 448, note (10th ed.), and 1 Daniel's Ch. Pr. 582.

RULE 11.
Answers in the Nature of Cross-bills and the Practice
Thereon.
(a) In any case in equity where a defendant shall claim from
the complainant any relief which, according to the established
course and practice of courts of chancery, might be had by
cross-bill, such defendant shall be at liberty by his answer to
present the facts upon which his equity rests, and to claim by

CHANCERY RULE 11.

125

such answer the benefit of a cross-bill, and the court shall have
power to give relief upon such answer to the same extent that
it might have giyen it had a cross-bill been filed. But if the
cause be such that, if a cross-bill had been filed, the practice of
the court would have required it to be sworn to, the answer
claiming such relief shall be under oath, notwithstanding an
oath thereto may be waived by the bill. [Former Rule 123.]
(b) In such case the defendant shall first answer the allega
tions of the Mil in accordance with the foregoing rule, before
entering upon an allegation of additional matters upon which
he shall claim affirmative relief. And his . allegations of ad
ditional matters and his prayer for affirmative relief shall com
ply with the rule governing theform of hills of complaint.
(c) The complainant shall, within fifteen days after service of
such answer in the nature of a cross-bill, file and serve a de
murrer, plea or answer to the matters therein contained upon
which the defendant prays affirmative relief, which pleading
and the practice thereon shall comply with the rules governing
similar pleadings. But the defendant shall not be required to
file a replication to any such plea or answer.
Under the former practice of cross-bills, as distinguished from answers
in the nature of cross-bills, it was held that a cross-bill is necessary where
the defendant is entitled to some positive relief beyond what the complain
ant's bill will afford him. (Schwarz v. Sears, Walk. Ch. 174; Wisner v.
Farnham, 2 Mich. 474; Vary v. Shea, 36 Mich. 388.) A cross-bill is to enable
a defendant to avail himself of some defense which can only be made com
plete by granting him some affirmative relief against complainant or
against some co-defendant. It must be strictly confined to the matters
involved in the original cause. Where a bill introduces other distinct
matters, it is an original bill, and the suits are separate and distinct. (An
drews v. Kibbee, 12 Mich. 96.) For a case where parties made defendants
to a foreclosure bill, as subsequent incumbrancers, filed a cross-bill to have
complainant's mortgage postponed to an alleged equitable mortgage held
by them, see Farmers' Bank v. Bronson, 14 Mich. 362. Cross-bill sustained
when filed by assignee of one of several notes secured by mortgage, who
had been made defendant in foreclosure. (Wilcox v. Allen, 36 Mich. 160.)
A cross-bill cannot be maintained if the defense to the original bill fails,
where both are based on the same facts. (Hall v. Harrington, 41 Mich.
146.) Where a bill is filed for a partnership accounting, a cross-bill is not
necessary to authorize the court to decree payment by complainant to de
fendant of a balance found due to defendant. (Wyatt v. Sweet, 48 Mich.
543.) Nor to protect the right of a subsequent purchaser of mortgaged
premises, a party defendant in foreclosure, to a sale in the inverse order

126

CHANCERY RULE 12.

of alienation. (Caruthers v. Hall, 10 Mich. 40.) Nor by a subsequent mort
gagee, a party defendant in foreclosure, to contest the validity of the prior
mortgage. (Dye v. Mann, 10 Mich. 291.) As to cross-bill for divorce, see
Clutton v. Clutton, 66 N. W. Rep, 52, which holds that it may be filed by a
non-resident defendant.
. Subdivision (a) was first adopted as a rule of practice in 1884. (Former
Rule 123.) It was held not to apply to a suit pending at the date of its
adoption in which an answer had been filed. (Hackley v. Mack, 60 Mich.
592.) " It was not the intention of the rule to deprive a party of any of
his substantial rights secured to him by resort to a cross-bill, but to pre
serve to him all the benefits to be derived from a cross-bill, by stating the
substance thereof in the answer." The rule does not deprive the com
plainant of the right to demur or answer to the matter set up in the an
swer of the defendant by way of a cross-bill. (Ibid.) And the defendant
is likewise entitled to an answer from the complainant the same as if a
cross-bill had been filed under the former practice. And a replication
merely from the complainant is not enough. In the absence of any answer
from complainants, the answer in the nature of a cross-bill may be taken
as confessed. (Coach v. Kent Circuit Judge, 97 Mich. 564.) Subdivision (c)
is based on these decisions. And a party taking advantage of the rule
must state the facts with the same particularity and certainty as if he
had resorted to a cross-bill under the former practice. It can be sustained
only as to matter growing out of the original bill. It is necessary only
when the defendant is entitled to some positive relief beyond what the
scope of the complainant's suit will afford him. The relief sought must
be equitable relief. When the matter set up is simply a matter of de
fense, it is disposed of by a dismissal of the original bill. (McGruire v.
Van Buren Circuit Judge, 69 Mich. 594.)

RULE 12.
Replications.
(a) The complainant shall file a replication to the defendant's
answer within fifteen days after service of such answer. Other
wise the cause shall stand for hearing on such bill and answer,
unless the time for filing a replication shall be extended.
(b) The form of a replication may be in substance as follows :
"The complainant says that, notwithstanding the answer of
the defendant, he is entitled to the relief prayed in his bill of
complaint."
(c) A special replication shall not be filed except by leave of
the court, for cause shown, on motion. [Substitute for former
Rule 45.]

CHANCERY RULES 13, 14.

127

Where by mistake or'inadvertence a replication has not been filed or
served, and yet witnesses have been examined, the court will permit a
replication to be filed nunc pro tunc (Hardwick v. Bassett, 25 Mich. 149),
and the failure to serve a copy of one filed may be waived. (Brooks v.
Mead, Walk. Ch. 390.) Replication is proper to an answer to a petition for
deficiency decree in foreclosure proceedings, after sale. (Wallace v. Field,
56 Mich. 3.)
i
RULE 13.
When Cause at Issue.
(a) Every cause shall be deemed at issue of fact or of law on
filing a plea or demurrer, or on filing a replication to the an
swer, or in a case where an answer in the nature of a cross-bill
is filed, when a replication and a demurrer, plea or answer is
filed to such answer in the nature of a cross-bill.
(b) If there he more than one defendant the cause shall be
deemed at issue when replications have been filed to all answers
filed, and when an order pro confesso has been filed or entered
as to all those defendants who have not answered, or when the
cause is discontinued or dismissed as to such defendants. [Sub
stitute for former Rule 45.]
See sec. 6645, How. Stat., and Rule 11 (c).
As to proceedings where there are several defendants, see note to Rule 5.

RULE U.
Proceedings After Cause is at Issue — The Taking of Testi
mony, etc.
(a) In causes where there are more than one defendant the
complainant shall, when the cause is at issue, serve upon the
solicitors for such defendant or defendants who have appeared
and answered, and whose answers have been replied to, a notice
that such cause is at issue, or the solicitor for any defendant
may serve like notice upon the complainant and the other de
fendants who have appeared, and the time for either party to
give notice of intention to claim the right to examine witnesses
in open court shall commence from the time such notice is
served. In cases where the notice of such intention is given

128

CHANCERY RULE 14

by 'a defendant he shall serve the same upon the solicitors of
all co-defendants who have answered, as well as upon the com
plainant's solicitor. Proof of service of such notice shall be filed
with the register in chancery. [Substitute for former Rule
124.]
(b) If either party shall elect to have the testimony taken in
open court, under the statute, and the cause is at issue as to all
parties, the cause may thereafter be noticed for trial and hear
ing in open court by either party. Such notice may be coun
termanded in the same manner and with like effect as a notice
of trial in an action at law.
% (c) If neither party so elects, the testimony shall, without
further order, be taken before a circuit court commissioner, un
less the parties shall stipulate to take it before some other per
son authorized to administer oaths. The complainant shall put
in his testimony in chief within thirty days after the time lim
ited by law for electing to take the proofs in open court ; the
defendant shall put in his testimony within forty days there
after; and the complainant shall have ten days thereafter in
which to put in his rebutting testimony. At least four days'
notice shall be given by each party of the time and place of
taking such testimony. Each party shall pay in the first in
stance the fees for taking down and transcribing his own ex
aminations or cross-examinations.
(d) The time for taking testimony may, on motion, for cause
shown, be extended. But the party making application for
such extension shall be required to show under oath the specific
character of the testimony desired. [See Rule 6.]
(e) Process of subpoena to compel the attendance of wit
nesses before a commissioner shall issue of course, and the time
and place of attendance shall be specified in the writ ; and such
witnesses may be punished by the court as for contempt if
they fail to attend and submit to examination. But no wit
ness shall be compelled to appear before a commissioner more
than one hundred miles from his place of residence, unless by
special order of the court. [Substitute for former Bule 57.]
(f) The testimony shall be taken, as near as practicable, in
the manner provided by statute for the taking of depositions,
and the commissioner may adjourn the same from day to day
as may be deemed proper.

CHANCERY RULE 14.

129

(g) Within five days after the testimony shall be concluded,
the commissioner, on being applied to for that purpose by
either party, shall cause the testimony and exhibits taken or
produced before him to be returned and filed with the register
of the court. [Substitute for former Rule 58.]
(h) At the expiration of the time for taking testimony, the
testimony shall be considered closed without order, and either
party may thereupon notice the cause for hearing at the next
term of court. Such notice shall be given at least ten days be
fore the first day of the next term. But if the cause is not in
readiness for hearing in time to so notice it, it may be noticed
for a subsequent day in term, not less than ten days after such
notice, and placed at the foot of the calendar.
(i) If the complainant shall fail to take any testimony within
the forty days above specified, or within the time allowed him
by extension, the defendant may notice the cause for hearing
on pleadings.
(a) [Notice that the cause is at issue may well be served also on all de
fendants who have appeared. See sec. 6636, How. Stat., and Rule 5 (a).]
The matter of election to have the testimony taken in open court is gov
erned by statute. There must be notice in writing of the intention to
claim such right, within ten days after the cause is at issue, or (as supple
mented by rule) after notice that the cause is at issue. In that case, no
testimony shall be taken before a commissioner, but the case shall be heard
in its course on the calendar by an examination of witnesses in open court,
" unless the court, on cause shown, shall otherwise direct." (Sec. 6647,
vol. 3.) See Eslow v. Township of Albion, 27 Mich. 4, holding a chambers
order invalid, and same case, 32 Mich. 193, holding that an order of the
court nunc pro tunc did not cure the error. The order must be a special
order of the court on cause shown. (Stebbins v. Barry Circuit Judge, 27
Mich. 169.) The provision in sec. 6647 for a jury trial was held unconsti
tutional in Brown v. Kalamazoo Circuit Judge, 75 Mich. 279, and was
omitted in a later amendment. (Laws 1895, p. 349.) Depositions of wit
nesses outside the jurisdiction of the court may be taken by commission
notwithstanding the election above mentioned, by order of the court on
application of either party; and so of depositions where a party may be
deprived of material testimony or rights if a commission is not issued.
(Ibid.)
The demand for an examination of the witnesses in open court is of no
force unless made within the ten days, and one party is not entitled to the
benefit of a demand by another who may have waived it, or as to whom
the suit has been discontinued. (Gray v. Ferguson, 86 Mich. 385.) The de
mand cannot be• made nor the cause noticed for hearing, nor testimony
taken before a commissioner, until the cause is at issue as to all of the de
9

130

CHANCERY HULK 14

fendants, or until those who have not answered are defaulted. (Hall Lum
ber Co. v. Gustin, 54 Mich. 624; Kelly v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 90 Mich. 265.)
As to whether the court may, under Rule 6, extend the time for serving
the demand, see Drake v. Andrews, 2 Mich. 206. A proper demand doesnot deprive the court of the right to direct an accounting before a com
missioner in a proper case (Shoule v. Bonander, 80 Mich. 540); nor generally,
when done by special order, on cause shown, as above stated.
(b) Sec. 7551, How. Stat., requires fourteen days' written notice of trial
of chancery causes wherein the testimony is to be taken in open court.
(See Law Rules 13 and 22 and notes.) And the notice must be given that
length of time before the first day of the term and cannot be given for a
later day in the term. (Sec. 7551 ; Dunn v. Judge Superior Court, 29 Mich.
228.) The provision in former Rule 64, that the notice of hearing shall be
for the first day of the term, has been omitted in the revision. (See, as to
that provision, Munch v. Shabel, 37 Mich. 168, 169.) As to the duty of the
court to receive all proffered testimony on a trial in chancery unless
grossly improper, see Merson v. Merson, 101 Mich. 55; Meech v. Lee, 82
Mich. 274; Bilz v. Bilz, 37 Mich. 116.
(c) [This and the following subdivisions furnish a speedy and certain
method of taking proofs other than in open court, and without the neces
sity of the entry of orders opening and closing the proofs, and with the
opportunity of noticing the cause for hearing on a subsequent day during
a pending term. (Subdivision h.) Causes so dealt with are heard strictly
de novo in the supreme court (Hodges v. Cook, 93 Mich. 577), the rule men
tioned in Fender v. Powers, 67 Mich. 433, and many other cases not apply
ing, and the labor of settlement of testimony after decree is obviated. See
Stone v. Welling, 14 Mich. 524.] The statute authorizes the testimony to
be taken before a justice of the peace or notary public, on the written
stipulation of the parties filed in the cause. (Sec. 7151; and see Woods v.
Monroe, 17 Mich. 238, as to testimony taken by consent.) The commissioner
or other officer must receive all proffered testimony (Brown v. Brown, 22
Mich. 246; Collins v. Jackson, 43 Mich. 561), unless it is grossly improper;
as, where it is sought to draw from a physician facts which he learned to
enable him to prescribe for a patient. (Storrs v. Scougale, 48 Mich. 395.)
And a commissioner should refuse to take down unprofessional statements
and scandalous objections made by counsel. (Rea v. Rea, 53 Mich. 40.)
The fees of circuit court commissioners for taking depositions are twenty
cents for each folio (sec. 9010) and of notaries public the same (sea 9020).
But the fees are less under the 1895 law. (Sea 8, page 337.)
[The decision in Brown v. Brown, 22 Mich. 246, based on former Rule 47,
holding that either party during the period allowed by the rule for taking
proofs has a right to take his testimony in any order he may choose, and
that testimony in support of the complainant's original case may be put in
after the defendant's testimony, probably does not have force under the
language of subdivision (c).]
(d) It is in general within the discretion of the trial judge to open a
cause for further proofs at any time before decree, and the discretion will
not be reviewed, except in case of abuse. It is an abuse of the discretion
where the case is re-opened to admit proof of facts not alleged in the plead

CHANCERY RULE 15.

131

ings in such manner as to have been admissible in the first instance and
where the petition for re-opening fails to point out what the testimony
sought to be offered will show. (Wagar v. Bowley, 104 Mich. 41.) No mo
tion is necessary to suppress depositions taken after the closing of proofs,
in order to exclude them from consideration on the hearing. If either
party desires to take testimony after the time allowed for that purpose, he
should apply to the court to open the case for further proofs. (Abbott v.
Alsdorf, 19 Mich. 161.) And must state what facts he expects to be able
to prove (Thayer v. Swift, Walk. Ch. 384; Slater v. Breeze, 36 Mich. 78);
and must, it seems, show a better excuse than the fact that his counsel
was occupied with other business (Thayer v. Swift, supra); and must show
that he has not been so far at fault as to have forfeited his claim to favor.
(McClung v. McClung, 40 Mich. 493; Wendell v. Highstone, 52 Mich. 552.)
And the court may, in its discretion, open the proofs generally and allow
further testimony on both sides. (Ibid.)
Upon the subject of extension of time by stipulation, see Damouth v.
Klock, 29 Mich. 289; James v. McMillan, 55 Mich. 136.
(e) As to manner of service of such subpoenas and contempts thereunder,
see secs. 7483, 7484, How. Stat.
(f) The taking of depositions is governed exclusively by Laws of 1895,
p. 334, all other statutes upon the subject being repealed.
(h) It seems that the notice of hearing for a subsequent day in term
should specify a particular day. (Munch v. Shabel, 37 Mich. 166.) It must
be served on all defendants who have appeared. (See. 6636; Rule 5 (a);
Jenny v. O'Flynn, 5 Mich. 215.) But a defendant who has not appeared
is not entitled to notice of hearing. (Warner v. Juif, 38 Mich. 662.)
(i) In case of a hearing on pleadings the bill is not evidence for com
plainant, and he must rely for relief upon the admissions in the answer
[or under Rule 10 (d), upon the constructive admissions arising from a
failure to answer matters within the defendant's knowledge]. (Weigert
v. Franck, 56 Mich. 200; Victor Co. v. Jacobs, 46 Mich. 494; Durfee v. McClurg, 6 Mich. 223; Morris v. Hoyt, 11 Mich. 9.) It is within the discretion
of the court, even at this late stage of the case, to permit an amend
ment of the bill and open the cause for proofs. (See Briggs v. Briggs, 20
Mich. 34.)

.

KULE 15.
Certain Rales Governing in Cases at Law, Made Applicable
in Chancery Causes.
(a) The following rules governing practice in cases at law
shall apply also to practice in chancery causes so far as the
same are not inapplicable, viz. :
Rule 11, relative to common and special orders and rules.
Rule 16, relative to the filing of notes of issue.
Eule 18, relative to the making of a term calendar.

139 145

132

CHANCERY RULE 16.

.
Eule 19, relative to motions and petitions.
Kule 20, relative to stay of proceedings to make motions.
Rule 22, relative to motions for continuance.
Rule 23, relative to genuineness of documents.
Rule 25, relative to the court requiring parties to testify.
Rules 28, 29, 30, 31, 32 and 34, relative to the manner of the
service of papers.
Eule 35, relative to when service required.
Rule 36, relative to how time computed on service of papers.
Eule 37, relative to entitling papers, etc.
Rule 38, relative to the court files.
Rule 39, relative to agreements to be in writing.
Rule 40, relative to affidavit of genuineness of acceptance of
service.
Rule 41, relative to depositions.
Rule 43, relative to compelling return of process.
(b) In interpreting said rules in chancery causes, wherever
the word " attorney " is used, the word " solicitor " shall be
substituted, and wherever the word " plaintiff " is used, the
word " complainant " shall be substituted, and in like manner
other words commonly used in chancery causes, as distinguished
from cases at law, shall be substituted in interpreting said
rules.

KULE 16.
Amendment of Bill and Answer Without leave of Court.
136 367
[Substitute for former Rules 21, 22 and 23.]
(a) The complainant may amend his bill, if it is not required
to be sworn to, at any time before a plea, answer or demurrer
is put in, without leave of court, and without costs.
(b) He may also amend his bill, without leave of court and
without costs, at any time within fifteen days after answer is
filed, if by the amendment a new or further answer is not ren
dered necessary.
(c) The complainant may also amend, without leave of court,
a, bill required to be sworn to, in like manner as bills not re
quired to be sworn to, if the amendments are merely in addi

CHANCERY RULE 16.

13?

tion to and not inconsistent with what is contained in the
original bill. But such amendments shall be verified by oath.
(d) If the defendant demurs to the bill for want of parties,
or for any other defect which does not go to the equity of the
whole bill, the complainant may amend of course, without'
costs, at any time before the demurrer is noticed for argu
ment, or within ten days after receiving a copy of the demur
rer.
(e) If a plea or demurrer to the hill oe overruled, the com
plainant may, within ten days thereafter, amend his bill with
out leave of court and without costs.
(f) After an answer is put in, it may be amended without
leave of court in any matter of form, or by filling up a blank,
or correcting a date or reference to a document, and may be
re-sworn, at any time before a replication is put in, or the cause
is set down for a hearing upon bill and answer.
(g) But, after replication, or such setting down for a hear
ing, it shall not be amended in any material matters, as by
adding new facts or defenses, or qualifying or altering the
original statements, except by leave of the court, upon cause
shown, after due notice to the adverse party.
[The foregoing rule refers only to amendments without leave of court.
Amendments by leave of court are governed by sec. 7631 et seq. of How.
Stat., the general scope of which is mentioned in the note to Law Rule 10.]
For cases showing the liberality generally exercised by the court in al
lowing amendments of the bill at, and even after, the hearing, to cure
defects in the statement of the case, where the proofs show the complain
ant entitled to equitable relief, and the limits to that liberality, see Gorham v. Wing, 10 Mich. 485; Palmer v. Rich, 12 Mich. 422; Abell v. Munson,
18 Mich. 305; Babcock v. Twist, 19 Mich. 516; Briggs v. Briggs, 20 Mich. 35;
Slater v. Breese, 36 Mich. 77 (more a question of terms than of power);
Munch v. Shabel, 37 Mich. 166 (with or without a continuance as justice
may require); Bank v. Hosner, 48 Mich. 201; Holcomb v. Mosher, 50 Mich.
252; Livingston v. Hayes, 43 Mich. 135; Morrison v. Mayer, 63 Mich. 249
(may be allowed to any extent necessary to secure the ends of justice);
Smith v. Sherman, 52 Mich. 637; Edinger v. Heiser, 62 Mich. 612; Dodson
v. McKelvey, 93 Mich. 263; Rugg v. Bassett, 101 Mich. 441 (terms are dis
cretionary); Daly v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 102 Mich. 394.
But where not only the bill, but also the proofs, are defective, an amend
ment will not be granted, but the case may be dismissed without preju
dice. (Curtiss v. Goodenow, 24 Mich. 19; Church v. Holcomb, 45 Mich. 30.)
And amendment of the answer at the hearing is also discretionary.
(Balen v. Mercier, 75 Mich. 43.) As by permitting an answer, in a divorce

134

CHANCERY RULE 16.

case, by way of cross-bill, to be verified so as to justify a decree for defend
ant. (Harrison v. Harrison, 94 Mich. 559.)
It is not usual, nor proper, for the court to dismiss a bill for want of
parties defendant, without allowing complainant leave to amend when
the bill is not demurred to upon that ground. (Woodward v. Clark, 15
Mich. 110.).
As to amendments granted or directed in the supreme court on appeal,
see House v. Dexter, 9 Mich. 248; Palmer v. Rich, 12 Mich. 415; Babcock v.
Twist, 19 Mich. 516; Slater v. Breese, 36"Mich. 89; Edinger v. Heiser, 62
Mich. 599; Harrison v. Harrison, 94 Mich. 559; sec. 6737, How. Stat.
As to amendments in the lower court, after the cause has been passed
upon by the supreme court and sent back, see Bank v. Niles, Walk Ch.
398; sec. 6737, How. Stat.
Simply adding a new defendant after the original defendant has an
swered calls for no further answer from the original defendant. (Salisbury
v. Miller, 14 Mich. 162.)
While proper to add a new defendant to a foreclosure bill, by amend
ment, held, that the sale could not take place for one year after the new
defendant was added. (Gray v. Bank, 83 Mich. 365.)
After sustaining a demurrer to a creditor's bill, the court allowed an
amendment to show the issue of execution and its return unsatisfied.
(Earle v. Kent Circuit Judge, 92 Mich. 287.)
Amendments to a bill for divorce must be verified. (Briggs v. Briggs, 20
Mich. 34; Green v. Green, 26 Mich. 437. But see Tackaberry v. Tackaberry,
101 Mich. 104.)
Facts which have transpired since the commencement of the suit cannot
be set forth by amendment to the original bill, but only by supplemental
bill. (Hammond v. Place, Harr. Ch. 439.)
Amendments held improper.— Substituting one person as complainant
in place of another at the hearing. (House v. Dexter, 9 Mich. 248.) But a
defendant may be added. (Palmer v. Rich, 12 Mich. 422; Woodward v.
Clark, 15 Mich. 110; Rugg v. Bassett, 101 Mich. 441.) Amending a bill for
divorce at the hearing, after the taking of testimony before a commissioner,
so as to charge the commission of an offense not charged in the original
bill (Green v. Green, 26 Mich. 436); or by substituting a prayer that the
marriage be annulled for the prayer for divorce. (Schafberg v. Schafberg,
52 Mich. 429.) Converting a bill in aid of ejectment proceedings into a
foreclosure bill; and generally the introduction or substitution at the final
hearing of a new controversy, which would transfer the cause to a differ
ent head of equity. (Livingston v. Hayes, 43 Mich. 135. But see Dodson
v. McKelvey, 93 Mich. 269.) Or matter inconsistent with or repugnant to
the substantive allegations of the original bill. Ogden v. Moore, 95 Mich.
291.) And usually the facts proposed by defendant to be inserted by
amendment must be consistent with the original defense. (Freeman v.
Bank, Harr. Ch. 311.)

CHANCERY KULE 17."

135

RULE 17.
Practice on Amendments.
[From former Rules 21 and 23.]
(a) No rule or order need he entered on the filing of amend
ments which are authorized without leave of court.
(b) In every case of amendment, without leave of court, the
party making it shall either file a new engrossment of the
pleading or an engrossed or printed copy of the amendment,
containing proper references to the pages and lines in the origi
nal pleading on file, where such amendments are to be inserted
or made.
(c) No amendment shall be considered as made until the
same is served on the. adverse party if he has appeared in the
cause.
(d) If at the time the complainant amends his bill, without
leave of court, the answer has not been filed, or if a further
answer is necessary, the defendant shall have the same time to
answer after such amendment as he originally had.
See Law Rule 19, governing motions and petitions. Applications for
leave to amend should be made at the first opportunity after the pleader
is made acquainted with the defects in his pleading. (Bank v. Niles, Walk.
Ch. 398.) They should contain a full statement of the facts intended to be
incorporated as amendments, and their materiality should be shown.
(Hammond v. Place, Harr. Ch. 438; Freeman v. Michigan Bank, Harr. Ch.
311; Bank v. Niles, Walk. Ch. 398.)
(b) Where an amendment has been allowed, the new pleading, with the
amendments added or incorporated, should be filed and served; or the origi
nal pleading should be withdrawn by leave of the court and the amend
ments added and served ; or the amendments should be drawn referring
to the portions of the original pleading intended to be amended and speci
fying their nature and application. (Mason v. Bank, Harr. Ch. 222.)
(d) See Munch v. Shabel, 37 Mich. 167, and Tompkins v. Hollister, 60
Mich. 470.

CHANCERY RULE 18.

RULE 18.
Proceedings before Commissioners.
[Former Rules 77 and 114]
(a) All parties accounting before a commissioner shall bring
in their accounts in the form of debtor and creditor ; and any
of the other parties who shall not be satisfied with the accounts
so brought in shall be at liberty to examine the accounting
party upon interrogatories, as the commissioner may direct.
On any reference to take or state an account, the commissioner
shall be at liberty to allow interest as shall be just and equi
table, without any special direction for that purpose, unless a
contrary direction is contained in the order of reference. And
every charge, discharge, or state of facts" brought in before a
commissioner shall be verified by oath as true, either positively
or upon information and belief.
(b) It shall be the duty of every such circuit court commis
sioner to procure and keep in his office a register, which shall
be delivered over to his successor in office, in which he shall
enter the title of each cause or proceeding in which he shall
make any order, and a complete memorandum of his doings
therein. And every commissioner shall file with the register
of the court all orders made by him, together with all papers
on which the same are based, immediately upon the making of
such order.
In a case involving a partnership accounting, it was said to be a mistake
for the circuit judge to undertake the accounting himself. " The custom
ary and regular method will give us a regular accounting upon charge
and discharge accounts, a commissioner's report showing what is allowed
and what disallowed, exceptions pointing out the particular items in re
spect to which the commissioner is supposed to have erred and the ruling
of the court on these exceptions." If the circuit judge does proceed with
the accounting himself, he should proceed as a commissioner would, upon
charge and discharge accounts, and the parties should file exceptions.
(Barnabee v. Beckley, 43 Mich. 618. And see note to Rule 19 as to charac
ter of the exceptions.)
The commissioner should not hold the parties to the same order of proof
as in a trial at law. Testimony for complainant in support of his original
case may be admitted at anytime. "Either party during the period al

CHANCERY RULE 19.

13T

lowed by the rule for taking proofs has a right to take his testimony in
any order he may choose." (Brown v. Brown, 22 Mich. 246.) [This is prob
ably not so under the new practice, Rule 14 (c), which is quite different
from the rule to which the above decision referred, former Rule 47.] Thecommissioner has no right to reject testimony (Brown v. Brown, supra),
except where it is grossly improper; as where a physician was permitted
to testify to facts learned by him to enable him to prescribe. (Storrs v.
Scougale, 48 Mich. 389.) He should, however, refuse to take down unpro
fessional statements and scandalous objections made by counsel. (Rea v.
Rea, 53 Mich. 40.)
j

RULE 19.
Reports of Commissioners and Proceedings Thereon.
(a) In all matters referred to a commissioner, he shall be at
liberty, upon the application of any party interested, to make
a separate report or reports, from time to time, as he shall
deem expedient ; the costs of such separate reports to be in
the discretion of the court. And where the commissioner
shall make a separate report of debts or legacies, he shall be
at liberty to make such certificate as he thinks fit, with re
spect to the state of assets; and any person interested shall
thereupon be at liberty to apply to the court as he shall be
advised. [Former Rule 78.]
(b) After the report is filed either party may file or enter an
order of course to confirm the same, unless cause to the con
trary thereof be shown in eight days after notice of its being
filed ; and if no exceptions are filed and served within that
time, the order shall become absolute of course, without fur
ther order; or either party may file exceptions, and have an
order of course to confirm the report, so far as the same is
not excepted to, and with the like effect. [Former Eule 79.]
(c) If either party shall file exceptions to a commissioner's
report, such exceptions shall be determined by the court on
motion of either party, and the costs thereon shall be in the
discretion of the court. [Substitute for former Rule 39.]
Order confirming report.— Our statutes have always required an order
confirming a report of sale under foreclosure. While the statute does not
set forth completely the course of procedure, " it is supplemented by the
pre-existing rules and practice." (Demaray v. Little, 17 Mich. 387.) An
order confirming a sale is appealable. (Insurance Co. v. Renz, 33 Mich.

i

138

CHANCERY RULE 20.

1298.) An ex parte order allowing a writ of assistance to issue does not
amount to an order confirming the report of sale. (Richards v. Morton,
18 Mich. 262.) Where there has been a regular confirmation without ex
ception, and the report has been followed by a final decree grounded upon
it, the matter covered by the report is not reviewable on appeal. (Eaton
v. Truesdale, 40 Mich. 5.)
Exceptions.— They are proper only where the commissioner has come
io an erroneous conclusion of law or fact on the evidence before him,
touching the reference, (Schwarz v. Sears, Walk. Ch. 19; Ward v. Jewett,
Walk. Ch. 45; Emmerson v. Atwater, 12 Mich. 323.) No exceptions are
necessary when the parties are satisfied with the commissioner's findings
of fact, and he has merely mistaken the legal consequences, for the court
on the hearing of the report will decide as the facts warrant. (Kingsbury
v. Kingsbury, 20 Mich. 214) But as a general rule, the commissioner's re
port is received as true when no exception or other action appropriate is
taken: citing former Rule 79, now subdivision (b). (Butterfield v. Beardsley, 28 Mich. 422, involving a commissioner's report in a partnership ac
counting. See, also, next case cited, to same effect.) " Exceptions to a
report are in the nature of an appeal from the decision of the commis
sioner to the court which has ordered the reference." Exceptions are not
necessary as to points passed upon by the court previous to the reference.
<Eaton v. Trussdale, 40 Mich. 5.) In a foreclosure case the commissioner
reported nothing due when the suit was commenced; there were no ex
ceptions to the report. Held, that the complainant was bound by it and
the defendant had a right to rely on it, and a decree for complainant was
reversed. (Thome v. Hilliker, 12 Mich. 215.) Exceptions to a report on an
accounting should be specific and point out wherein the items objected
to are not correct; otherwise the exceptions will not be considered. (Craw
ford v. Osman, 90 Mich. 77.) But the findings of fact when excepted to
.are not conclusive on the court, and the court must pass upon them ac
cording to its own view of the evidence. (Near v. Lowe, 56 Mich. 632.)

RULE 20.
Appeal from Order of Commissioner.
[Former Rules 115, 116, 117.]
(a) Any person conceiving himself aggrieved by any order
made by any circuit court commissioner, in any suit in chan
cery, may appeal therefrom to the circuit court of the county
in which such suit is pending: Provided, (1) that such appeal
shall be claimed and entered within fifteen days from the time
of making such order; and (2) that the appellant shall, within
that time, execute a bond to the appellee in such penal sum,
not less than $100, as the commissioner shall prescribe, with

CHANCERY RULE 21.

139

sufficient surety, to be approved by the commissioner, con
ditioned to pay, satisfy and perform the order which by the
circuit court may be made in the premises, and to pay all costs
in case the order appealed from shall be affirmed. But no such
appeal shall operate as a stay of proceedings, unless a special
order to that effect shall be made by the circuit judge or by
such circuit court commissioner, on proper cause shown.
(b) The appeal bond mentioned in the preceding rule shall
be filed with the circuit court commissioner approving the
same, and shall be returned with the appeal papers.
(c) It shall be the duty of the appellant under these rules to
file with the circuit court commissioner, within the time above
limited for claiming and entering his appeal, his reasons for
such appeal. Whereupon it shall be the duty of such commis
sioner, within twenty days thereafter, to transmit to the clerk
of the circuit court said bond and all papers upon which the
motion or proceeding may have been founded, or which may
have been used on such motion or proceeding, unless already
so filed, certified by him, or in case the original pleadings or
files shall have been used, he shall certify such fact to the court,
with a description of the original papers so used.

RULE 21.
Restriction on Powers of Commissioners.
[Former Rule 112.]
The general powers conferred upon commissioners are hereby
restricted in the following particulars :
1. No circuit court commissioner shall be empowered to va
cate any order or decree of the circuit court, or any order made
by a circuit judge. [See sees. 7147, 7154, How. Stat.]
2. Nor shall he grant any injunction to stay proceedings at
law unless reasonable notice of the time and place of hearing
the application therefor shall have been previously given to
the adverse party. [See sec. 7141.]
3. Nor shall he grant any injunction without such notice in
any case, unless the judge of the circuit court in which the ap
plication is made shall be absent from the county at the time

140

CHANCERY RULE 21.

of such application, or is disqualified from granting an in
junction in the cause, nor unless, in the opinion of such com
missioner, the peculiar exigencies of the case require it for
manifest reasons to be shown by affidavit of the facts and cir
cumstances.
4. Nor shall he grant any injunction restraining the execu
tion or performance of any public improvement, nor to compel
a defendant to refrain from doing any act where the injunction
will necessarily produce great and irreparable injury to the
defendant, if the claim of the complainant is not sustained. Nor
shall he grant any injunction in any case where no special pro
vision is made by law for security, except where the injunction
prayed for is against a judgment debtor who is made defend
ant in a creditor's bill, unless the officer granting the same shall
take from the complainant or his agent a bond to the party en
joined, in such sum as shall be deemed sufficient, and in not less
than $500, Avith sufficient surety or sureties, to be approved of
by the officer allowing the injunction, conditioned to pay the
party enjoined such damages as he may sustain by reason of
the injunction, if the court shall eventually decide that the
complainant was not equitably entitled to such injunction, such
damages to be ascertained by a reference to a circuit court com
missioner, or by the court having jurisdiction of the cause in
which the injunction issued, as such court shall direct. Such
officer allowing the injunction shall, before the register shall
issue the writ, file such bond with such register in chancery,
who shall carefully preserve the same for the benefit of the
obligee therein named.
This rule is expressly authorized by sees. 6419, 7150 and 7154, How. Stat.
"It absolutely prohibits" the granting of injunctions to stay proceedings
at law, without notice previously given to the adverse party. The com
missioner has no jurisdiction without notice. This relates to applications
made by any person, whether a party to the suit at law or not. " The rule
does not permit the unseemly spectacle of a subordinate officer overruling
the action of a circuit judge or court." (Boinay v. Coats, 17 Mich. 415;
Manistique Co. v. Lovejoy, 55 Mich. 193.)
Commissioners are, in a general way, given the same powers in civil
cases as circuit judges out of court (except when a power is given to a cir
cuit judge in express terms by statute, without naming commissioners in
the statute); and the same powers as formerly were exercised by injunc
tion masters. But there are numerous exceptions to these powers. (Secs.

CHANCERY RULE 21.

141

7140, 7154, How. Stat.) They cannot stay proceedings before judgment
after verdict, nor stay proceedings on a capias (sec. 7141); nor prevent
a levy of execution, but they may suspend a sale thereon .until the deoision
of the proper court (sec. 7142); nor stay proceedings against the body of a
defendant unless he file a certain bond (sec. 7143); nor suspend or affect
any order made by the supreme court (sec. 7146); nor make any order
previously refused by a judge or some other commissioner (secs. 7147, 7154)';
nor since the 1881 amendment of sec. 8556 may he issue a writ of habeas
corpus; nor make orders in common-law assignment proceedings author
ized to be made by a circuit judge at chambers. (Laws of 1895, p. 251.)
They are amenable to the circuit courts (sec. 7151) and may be suspended
by the circuit judges for misconduct. (Sec. 7161.)
For their authority to transfer causes, see sec. 6495 et seg.; Whipple v.
Saginaw Circuit Judge, 26 Mich. 342; Shannon v. Smith, 31 Mich. 453.
Held, in Loder v. Littlefield, 39 Mich. 374, that a certiorari may be al
lowed by a commissioner, although the proceedings did not occur in his
county. This refers, no doubt, to the statutory authority conferred by sec.
8692. (Zook v. Blough, 42 Mich. 487.) Sec. 8550 seems to authorize writs of
habeas corpus by commissioners to bring up a person to testify. But since
the 1881 amendment of sec. 8556, commissioners have, it seems, no author
ity to issue writs of habeas corpus or certiorari in cases of persons re
strained of their liberty. And the amendment of 1889 does not restore the
authority. (Laws 1889, page 63.) Prior to that amendment, held, that a
commissioner could not issue the writ in any case where a circuit judge at
chambers was not authorized to grant relief, and that commissioners can
not act in cases involving the custody of children. (Rowe v. Rowe, 28 Mich.
353.) Nor discharge on habeas corpus a person held under the order, sen
tence or process of any court. (Burger's Case, 39 Mich. 203.) Nor in any
case where the inquiry contemplates the review or investigation of the
proceedings of a judicial tribunal. (Matter of Buddington, 29 Mich. 472.)
Commissioners in Wayne county are specially prohibited from granting
writs of habeas corpus or certiorari in the cases of persons confined upon
criminal process. (Sec. 9870, How. Stat.)
Commissioners have authority to dissolve both justice court or circuit
court attachments. (Albertson v. Edsall, 16 Mich. 203; sec. 8026; Smith v.
Collins, 41 Mich. 173; Zook v. Blough, 42 Mich. 487; Schall v. Bly, 43 Mich.
401.)
The constitution does not authorize the legislature to confer upon com
missioners any powers exceeding those of a "circuit judge at chambers."
(Art. VI, sec. 16; Streeter v. Paton, 7 Mich. 345; Daniels v. People, 6 Mich.
381; Walby v. Callendar, 8 Mich. 430; Case v. Dean, 16 Mich. 12.) And a
commissioner has no power to issue a writ of ne exeat. (Bailey v. Cadwell,
51 Mich. 222.)
Powers of circuit judges at chambers.— [The subject is not directly in
volved in many reported cases. It is generally discussed in connection
with the above limitation on the power of commissioners. The term ap
plies generally to business done out of court by the judge thereof. For
the origin and history of the practice, see 3 Chitty's Practice, 19.] See
Daniels v. People, 6 Mich. 381, holding that they have power to take bail

142

CHANCERY RULE 22.

in criminal cases out of court, and " many powers, legal and equitable."
In Edgarton v. Hinchman, 7 Mich. 352, held, that they have power in
chambers to dissolve attachments. In Streeter v. Paton, 7 Mich. 346, it is
said it is not very clear what their powers are under the constitution. "It
would seem they must be either acts done out of court in a cause pending
in court, or all judicial acts which the circuit judge may be authorized by
statute to perform out of court, whether they relate to a cause pending in
court or not." In Eslow v. Township of Albion, 27 Mich. 4, held, that a
chambers order directing testimony in a chancery cause to be taken before
a commissioner, after an election by one of the parties to take it in open
court, was invalid, the statute giving that right to the " court " only. In
De Myer v. McGonegal, 32 Mich. 131, it is said: "Exoneration of bail has
always been considered within the range of chamber business." In Bur
ger's Case, 39 Mich. 203, it held, in effect, that a circuit judge at chambers
cannot issue writs of habeas corpus on the application of persons con
victed of crime, " but what has been said is not intended to call in ques
tion the authority of the circuit judge to hold a court for hearings on
habeas corpus at other times than when the circuit court for the county is
in session." Similar language will be found in Matter of Buddington, 29
Mich. 475. The circuit judge cannot at chambers grant leave to file a bill
of review. (Clark v. Huron Circuit Judge, 40 Mich. 166.) "The judges,
as judges, out of court do not possess " powers strictly judicial in their
character. (Dictum, Railroad Co. v. Dunlap, 47 Mich. 456, involving con
demnation proceedings.) " Where no jury is required and where the judge
acts personally, we think his action under this writ is strictly judicial and
need not be in open court at term." (Goodchild v. Foster, 51 Mich. 599,
involving habeas corpus for the possession of a child.) In Risser v. Hoyt,
53 Mich. 194, it was held that an assignment law was unconstitutional be
cause it conferred on a circuit judge at chambers powers which only a
court is permitted to exercise. (See opinion.) Under a statute (sec. 8662)
requiring "special leave of the court" for the filing of an information in
the nature of a quo warranto by a citizen, held, that leave granted by the
judge at chambers was not sufficient, and that generally where, by the ex
press terms of a statute, authority is conferred upon the court to make an
order or take other action, such order must be made and action taken by
the court when sitting in regular or special session, and it does not extend
to and include the judge sitting in chambers in another county outside of
the term, citing Eslow v. Township of Albion, 27 Mich. 4. (McDonnell v.
Supervisors, 91 Mich. 4.61.)
RULE 22.
Costs — Solicitors' Fees Taxable, etc.
The following costs shall be allowed to the prevailing par
ties, viz. :
In all cases determined by final decree on pleadings and
proofs, thirty dollars.

CHANCERY RULE 22.

U3-

In all cases determined by final decree on bill and answer^
plea or demurrer, twenty dollars.
In all cases where the decree is. taken , on the bill taken as
confessed, or where the bill is voluntarily dismissed by com
plainant after appearance and before the cause is at issue, fif
teen dollars.
Upon all special motions, such sum, not exceeding ten dollars,
as the court shall deem just. When a bill is dismissed for de
fault at the hearing, or for want of prosecution, or voluntarily
by the complainant, after the same is at issue, the defendant
shall be entitled to the same costs as if the cause had been
heard.
When the bill is dismissed upon payment of the claim or
performance of the relief sought before decree, the complain
ant shall be entitled to the same costs as if the case had been
heard. If such payment or performance is made before plea,
demurrer or answer, the costs shall be as on bill taken pro
confesso; if after any pleading is put in and before proofs,
they shall be as on a hearing upon pleadings ; and if proofs
are taken, the costs shall be as on a hearing upon pleadings
and proofs.
In divorce cases the costs shall be under the direction of the
court.
Where there are several defendants entitled to costs, the
costs granted by this rule shall be apportioned among them asthe court may deem proper. [Substitute for former Rule 90.]
Sec. 8962 provides that if the complainant shall dismiss the bill, or if it
shall be dismissed for want of prosecution, the defendant shall recover his
costs, except in those cases where he would not recover costs on a hearing.
And sec. 8963 provides that in all other cases where no special provision
shall be made by law, the costs in chancery " shall be paid by such party
as the court shall direct." This means that the costs do not follow as
matter of course in a suit in chancery as in a case at law, but are entirely
in the discretion of the court. (Wilcox v. Hill, 11 Mich. 262; Avery v.
Paine, 12 Mich. 540; Salisbury v. Miller, 14 Mich. 160; Port Huron v. Chadwick, 52 Mich. 321; Comstock v. Comstock, 24 Mich. 39; Van Wert v. Chidester, 31 Mich. 208; Dutch Reformed Church Cases, 52 Mich. 329; Vary v.
Chittenden, 50 Mich. 544; Stafford v. Stafford, 53 Mich. 522; Methodist
Church v. Clark, 41 Mich. 730; Castle v. Castle, 78 Mich. 298; Crawford v.
Osman, 90 Mich. 77. But see Gregory v. Stanton, 12 Mich. 62.) Costs should
not usually be awarded against infants. (Smith v. Smith, 13 Mich. 257.)
Nor to either party to an amicable suit. (Kent Society v. Houseman, 81
Mich. 609.)

144

CHANCERY RULE 2a

RULE 23.
Taxation of Costs.
The register of the court shall have power to tax the costs
in a cause, including his own fees therein, subject to re-taxation
by the court on motion of either party. But on such re-taxa
tion, no affidavit or objection which was not presented to the
register shall' be heard or allowed. [Substitute for former
Kule 89.]
This rule is authorized by secs. 6418 and 8997.
The notice of taxation shall be the same as in the supreme court. (Sec.
8997.) The supreme court practice, as revised, requires four days' notice.
(Rule 50.) A notice given before the formal entry of decree is not invalid.
(Murphy v. Mulvena, 66 N. W. Rep. 224.) It is the duty of the officer to
examine the bill and satisfy himself whether the items charged are cor
rect and legal, and to strike out improper items, whether the taxation be
opposed or not. (Sea 9001. But see Taylor v. Boardman, 16 Mich. 506.)
For requirements of affidavit in support of items for expenditures, witness
fees, etc., see sec. 9002; Dickinson v. Seaver, 44 Mich. 633; Jeffrey v. Hursh,
58 Mich. 247. Witness fees must be taxed, it seems, in accordance with
.the showing made by the statutory affidavit, unless there is a counter
showing; and it seems to be improper for the trial judge to disallow an
item for the defendant's attendance on the ground of his belief that he
attended, not as a witness, but to aid in the management of the defense,
and to disallow other items for witnesses because he considered their evi
dence incompetent. (Sherman v. Washtenaw Circuit Judge, 52 Mich. 475.)
Nor is it proper to assume that unsworn witnesses were not properly sum
moned, if the affidavit states that they were deemed necessary and were
•called in good faith. (Jeffrey v. Hursh, 58 Mich. 248.) If made to attend
in good faith "and there is reasonable proof of their necessity," the fact
that they are not called will not prevent taxation for their attendance
where the party had reason to believe from the state of the pleadings that
he required them. " The necessity as well as materiality must clearly
appear from the affidavits." (Gilbert v. Kennedy, 22 Mich. 18.) An attor
ney or solicitor cannot be allowed any witness fee. (Sec. 9043.) Register's
fees must be itemized; and, it seems, he must look to the complainant in
the case for all fees for services performed at the complainant's request,
even though the decree is in favor of defendant. (Dickinson v. Seaver, 44
Mich. 633.)
A party intending to appeal from a taxation by the clerk or register
should specially except to his rulings; and the matter is heard by the cir
cuit judge on those exceptions and on the showing before the clerk only.
<Sherman v. Washtenaw Circuit Judge, 52 Mich. 475.) Defects in the bill

CHANCERY RULE 24.

145

must be supplied, if at all, while the matter is before the taxing officer.
No amendment can be allowed on appeal. The bill may, however, be
-withdrawn or a postponement may be granted by the taxing officer, and
the defects supplied on the adjourned day. (Jeffrey v. Hursh, 58 Mich. 263.)

RULE 24.
118 287 46
Enrollment of Decree, etc.
(a) No process shall be issued or other proceedings had on
any final decree, to enforce the same, until the same is duly
enrolled pursuant to statute. [From former Rule 80.]
(b) The register shall include in such enrollment all papers
filed in the cause. [See sec. 6648, How. Stat.]
(c) If the decree authorizes the sale of real estate, notice of
such sale may be given in advance of such enrollment, but no
conveyance shall be executed by a commissioner or other offieer on such sale until such enrollment is had. [From former
Rule 80.]
Object of enrollment.— This rule in substance was first adopted in
1853, and appears in 2 Mich. 35, as Rule 82, being copied from the New
York practice. "The object of the practice was and is to protect purchas
ers at chancery sales from loss of material documents from the files, the
absence of which might impair or invalidate their title." (Hochgraef v.
Hendrie, 65 Mich. 560.) A similar requirement is found in the special rules
governing the United States courts for Michigan, based on sec. 750 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States. (Harsha's Annotated Federal
Court Rules, p. 106.) Not only is an enrollment provided for by the United
States rule, but the section and rule together require that "the process,
pleadings and decree and such orders and memorandums as may be nec
essary to show the jurisdiction of the court, and the regularity of the pro
ceedings, shall be entered upon the final record." A similar practice for
merly prevailed in the state courts. (See Norvell v. McHenry, 1 Mich. 229.).
Importance of enrollment;— [The subject of enrollment is largely cov
ered by statute and its importance should not be underestimated. The
enrollment cannot take place until after thirty days from the entry of the
decree. The register of the court is not required to attend to it until
requested by one of the parties to the cause. And even the filing of a
prcecipe for enrollment does not have the effect of an enrollment. No exe
cution can issue upon the decree until enrollment. No sale under the
decree can be made before enrollment! At least, such a sale would be
irregular and would, on motion diligently made be set aside. Until the
enrollment takes place the defeated party may, during the three months
succeeding the date of the decree, and even afterwards, petition for a re
10

146

CHANCERY RULE 24

hearing; while after enrollment his only method of obtaining relief from
the decree is by bill of review, at least in a case where the defeated party
appeared in the cause. The statute providing for recording decrees affect
ing real estate requires a previous enrollment. These considerations call
for enrollment immediately after the expiration of thirty days from the
entry of a favorable decree. The better practice is to file a prcepipe for
enrollment, entitled in the court and cause, addressed to the register, and
signed by the solicitor. The following form for the body of the prcecipe
has been considered sufficient: "Please enroll the decree and other papers
in the above entitled cause in accordance with the statutes and rules."]
The statutes.— The following sections relate to this subject:
Sec. 6648. After the expiration of thirty days from the time a final de
cree shall be entered in the minutes of the court, if no appeal therefrom
shall have been entered in the minutes of the court, and no petition for a
rehearing shall have been presented, upon being required by either party,
the register, by whom such final decree shall have been entered, shall at
tach together the bill, pleadings, and such other papers filed in the cause,
as may from time to time by general rules be directed, together with the
taxed bill of costs therein, and shall annex thereto a fair engrossed copy
of the decretal order, signed by the circuit judge, and countersigned by
the register who entered the same.
Sec. 6649. The register shall then annex to the papers so attached to
gether his certificate under the seal of the court, wherein he shall certify
according to the facts, the time when the said papers were so attached for
the purpose of enrollment, and the name or names of the parties at whose
instance the same was done: and thereupon the said papers so attached,
annexed and signed, togetheT with said certificate, shall be filed by the
register, and remain a record in his office; and such certifying and filing
shall be deemed an enrollment of the decree and proceedings, for all pur
poses whatsoever.
Sec. 6650. Alter the entry and enrollment of any final decree affecting
or determining the title to real estate, a copy of such decree, duly certified
by the register in chancery of the county in which the same was entered,
under the seal of the court, may be received and recorded in the office of
the register of deeds of the proper county, and shall have the same effect
as the original decree; and if such decree shall direct the execution of a
conveyance or other instrument affecting the title to real estate, the record
of such certified copy shall have the same effect as the record of such con
veyance or other instrument affecting the title to real estate would have
if duly executed pursuant to said decree.
(See Laws 1895, page 21?, which relates to this subject.)
Sec. 7256. Any decree of the former court of chancery or of the circuit
court in chancery, that may have been duly passed and signed, and not
reversed, vacated or annulled, and which may have failed to be recorded
or enrolled, may be directed by the court having the legal custody of the
files in the case in which sucli decree was pronounced, in its discretion, to
be recorded and enrolled by the register of the court, nunc pro tunc; and
when so recorded and enrolled the same shall be as effectual as if recorded
and enrolled at the end of thirty days after its allowance.
Decisions on enrollment.— A rehearing can be granted only before en
rollment, but the same object may be obtained after the decree has been
enrolled, by a bill of review. A decree cannot be enrolled until the expira
tion of thirty days from the time it is entered in the minutes of the court,
so that, in all cases, the parties have thirty days in which to present a peti
tion for rehearing (Benedict v. .Thompson, Walk. Ch. 447; Same Case, 2
Doug. 305), and until actual enrollment has taken place. (Barnes v. Kent

CHANCERY RULE 24

' 147

Circuit Judge, 97 Mich. 213.) The enrolled decree and proceedings col
lected and attached together as provided by the statute constitute the
record of the cause. (Thayer v. McGee, 20 Mich. 195.) After enrollment
of a decree based on the default, of the defendant the case can be re-opened
only on bill of review, and the granting of a petition for a rehearing is
irregular and erroneous. (Maynard v. Pereault, 30 Mich. 160; and see
Barnes v. Kent Circuit Judge, 97 Mich. 212.) If there be an enrollment be
fore an execution is actually issued, the fact that an order was made be
fore enrollment allowing it to issue does not invalidate the execution.
Neither the rule nor the statute forbidding proceedings to enforce a decree
before enrollment has reference to orders of the court. " They relate to
proceedings in execution of the decree itself, as by sale or other ministerial
action, and the practice as to chancery sales has allowed the preliminary
steps of advertising and other preparatory measures in advance of enroll
ment, but has required the sale to be made after enrollment." (Taylor v.
Gladwin, 40 Mich. 235.) Enrollment is not invalidated by omitting bills of
costs not theretofore taxed. Such bills can be afterwards included among
th,e enrolled papers. (Mickle v. Maxfield, 42 Mich. 305.) The only distinc
tion between a petition for a rehearing and a bill of review is that one pre
cedes and the other follows the enrollment, and as to both previous leave
of the court is necessary. (Ibid.) An execution for costs was issued the
day after the decree was entered, a levy made on real estate, and a sale
had resulting in a purchase by one who clamied to ha ve had no notice of
proceedings to recall the execution. Held, that the date of the decree as
shown in the execution was notice to the purchaser of the fact of its
premature issue, and an order setting aside the sale was affirmed. (Wilkie
v. Ingham Circuit Judge, 52 Mich. 642.) The non-enrollment of a decree
does not excuse the laches of a party who seeks to obtain a rehearing.
(Long v. Long, 59 Mich. 299.) To constitute an enrollment, the papers
must be attached together and the required certificate of the register,
under the seal of the court, annexed, and filed in his office. The filing of
a written prcecipe for enrollment does not have the effect of enrollment.
(Low v. Mills, 61 Mich. 40.) In the ejectment case of Hochgraef v. Hendrie,
66 Mich. 560, it was claimed that a commissioner's deed on a foreclosure
sale was void because the sale was made and the deed executed before the
decree was enrolled. The court proceeeded to determine the effect of the
want of enrollment and held that, as there is no statute requiring enroll
ment before sale, the defect was not jurisdictional; that enrollment before
sale relates simply to the regularity of the proceedings, and that the valid
ity of the sale, for this reason, cannot be attacked in a collateral proceed
ing. Advantage can only be taken of the irregularity by an application
to the court in the suit itself.
See, also, Benedict v. Auditor-General, 62 N. W. Rep. 364.

148

CHANCERY RULE 25.

RULE 25.
f - '.
Application for Rehearing.
(a) A petition for a rehearing shall state the special matter
or cause on which such rehearing is applied for, and the par
ticular points in which the decree or order is alleged to be
erroneous, but it shall not be necessary to state the proceedings
anterior to such decree or order sought to be reversed ; and
the facts, if they do not appear from the records of the court,
shall be verified hy affidavit of the party, or of some other per
son. It shall also be accompanied by the certificate of two coun
sel that they have examined the case, and that in their opinion
the decree or order is erroneous in the particulars mentioned
in the petition. And a copy of the petition, with usual notice
ofpresenting the same, shall be served on the adverse party,
but the rehearing shall not be considered as a matter of course
in any case. [Former Kule 81.]
(b) If a rehearing is granted, the petitioner shall lose the
benefit thereof, unless he shall, within ten days thereafter, de
posit with the register fifty dollars, to answer the costs and
damages of the adverse party, if the decree or order shall not
be materially varied. [Former Rule 83.]
Upon this subject, see note to Rule 24 as to effect of enrollment of decree
on rehearing.
A rehearing will not be granted where a party by lapse of time has lost
his right to an appeal. " A different rule would vest the court with power
to reverse its own decrees after that power had ceased to exist in the ap
pellate court.". (Benedict v. Thompson, Walk. Ch. 447. See Same Case, 2
Doug. 305.) It will not be granted after the time for appeal has expired,
especially where the delay is in no manner excused or explained. (Warner
v. Juif, 38 Mich. 667. And see Bope v. Ferris, 77 Mich. at page 30&) But
Benedict v. Thompson, supra, was overruled in Barnes v. Kent Circuit
Judge, 97 Mich. 213, where it was held that a rehearing may be granted
after the time for taking an appeal has expired. (Latter rule recognized
in Lange v. Muskegon Circuit Judge, unreported, decided June term, 1896.)
After an affirmance of a decree by the supreme court, if a rehearing of
the case in the court below is desired, application should be made to the
supreme court. (Ryerson v. Eldred, 18 ,Mich. 490; Sherwood v. Savings
Bank, 104 Mich. 65.)
As to the grounds for granting a rehearing, see Harris v. Deitrich, 29

CHANCERY RULE 26.

149

Mich. 366; Sheldon v. Hawes, 15 Mich. 519; Hodges v. McDuff, 76 Mich.
303; Bope v. Ferris, 77 Mich. 304; Sherwood v. Savings Bank, 104 Mich. 65.)
Leave may be granted to add the certificate of counsel nunc pro tunc.
(Lange v. Muskegon Circuit Judge, supra.)

RULE 26.
Bills of Revivor and Supplemental Bills.
It shall not be necessary, in any bill of revivor or supple
mental bill, to set forth any of the statements in the original
suit, unless the special circumstances of the case require it.
[Former Rule 44.]
[Rule 34, and the statutes hereinafter cited, dispose of most of the neces
sity for a bill of revivor. See note to Rule 34.]
Revivor.— By the statute a chancery suit, the cause of action for which
survives, does not abate by the death of one or more of the complainants
or defendants; but on satisfactory suggestion to the court the suit pro
ceeds in favor of or against the surviving parties. (Sec. 6654.) No bill of
revivor, or supplemental bill in the nature of a bill of revivor, is necessary
to revive a suit against the representatives of a deceased defendant or
other interested party. The court maj», by order, direct the same to stand
revived upon the petition of the complainant. (Sec. 6656.) A copy of the
order is served on the representative of the deceased if a resident of this
state. If not. an order of publication may be granted. If the order is per
sonally served, the representative has sixty days after service to appear,
answer or disclaim. (Sec. 6657.) If there be no appearance, the answer of
the deceased person stands as the answer of his representative and the
cause proceeds. (Sec. 6658.) If the deceased person had filed no answer,
and his representative files none, the bill may be taken as confessed. (Sec.
6659.) If the complainant dies, his representative may, on affidavit and
motion, be made complainant and permitted to amend the bill, and the
defendant must answer the amended bill. The cause then proceeds as
usual. (Secs. 6662, 6663.) The statute also provides for other contingencies
of a like nature. (Secs. 6660 to 6668.)
In Webster v. Hitchcock, 11 Mich. 59, a bill of revivor was held necessary
to revive a suit in the name of the complainant's administrator. " The or
der substituting the administrator as complainant operated as a revivor,
and no actual amendment [of the bill] was necessary to give it that effect."
And where an order had been made substituting the administrator and
heirs of the complainant, upon his death, and amendments to the bill were
filed, consisting of statements of the complainant's death and the devolu
tion of her estate, with the prayer for relief as in the original prayer, the
amendments were treated as surplusage, being " entirely unnecessary," as
they were all implied in the order of revival, " which by dispensing with

150

CHANCERY RULE 27.

the necessity of a bill compels the court to read the record in favor of the
new parties as if all essential to such a bill was before it in another form."
(Webster v. Bailey, 31 Mich. 37.) But under the old practice a bill of re
vivor was not proper to bring in as defendants parties claiming otherwise
than by operation of law as a consequence of the death of the original
party. Any title not thus derived could only be brought in by an original bill.
And where, after the commencement of a foreclosure case, the fact devel
oped that the defendant had before the commencement of the suit deeded
the property to his wife, the deed being recorded, however, after the suit
was commenced, it was held that an original bill, or a bill of revivor, or an
original bill in the nature of a supplemental bill, was necessary. (See Barnett v. Powers, 40 Mich. 319.) In case* of the death of the mortgagor after
payment of an instalment decree, it is questionable whether the statutes
above cited apply to a subsequent proceeding for further decree on an ad
ditional instalment, and whether a bill of revivor is not necessary, although
ordinarily a petition may be used instead of a bill of revivor. (Brown v.
Thompson, 29 Mich. 75.)
The proceedings should, after the substitution of parties by order, be
properly entitled, although there is no occasion for amendments. (Stimpson v. Judge Seventh Circuit, 41 Mich. 3, a case at law.) . Revival by the
statutory method is not limited to cases where before his death the defend
ant had appeared in the suit. (Gordon v. Tyler, 53 Mich. 631; Stevenson
v. Kurtz, 98 Mich. 493.)
Supplemental bill.— Leave of court is necessary before filing a supple
mental bill. Generally it may introduce only such matters as have oc
curred since the filing of the original bill; but the court may properly
permit averments of prior matters which are necessary to the proper elu
cidation of the subsequent matters. (Graves v. Niles, Harr. Ch. 332.) See
same case as to when a supplemental answer is permitted. Facts which
have transpired since the commencement of the suit cannot be set forth
by way of amendment. It must be done by supplemental bill. (Hammond
v. Place, Harr. Ch. 438.) And it is improper to bring in by way of supple
mental bill facts which occurred before the original bill was filed, even
though not known to complainant until afterwards. They should be
brought in by amendment. But the error in bringing them in by supple
mental bill was held harmless on appeal. (Hess v. Final, 32 Mich. 516;
Wood v. Truax, 39 Mich. 628.)
For cases wherein supplemental bills were held proper or necessary, see
Fisher v. Holden, 84 Mich. 494; Ballard v. Searles, 130 U. S. 50; Mickle v.
Maxfield, 42 Mich. 305.
RULE 27.
Bills of Review.
130 39
On filing a bill of review, or other bill in the nature of a bill
of review, the complainant shall make the like deposit, or give
security to the adverse party in the same amount which is or

CHANCERY RULE 27.

151

would be required on an appeal from an order or decree com
plained of; and no such bill shall be filed, either upon the dis
covery of newmatters, or otherwise, without special leave of the
court first obtained, nor unless the same is brought within the
time allowed for bringing an appeal, except upon newly-discov
ered facts or evidence, unless upon reasons satisfactory to the
court. [Former Rule 101.]
For the history of this rule and the prior amendments thereto and the
effect thereof, see Barnes v. Kent Circuit Judge, 97 Mich. 214. A bill
which in its nature is a bill of review, whatever name is given to it, not
filed under this rule, will be dismissed. (Sanford v. Haines, 71 Mich. 117;
Dodge v. Northrop, 85 Mich. 245; Eveland v. Stephenson, 45 Mich. 394.)
An order granting leave to file a bill of review cannot be made at cham
bers nor without notice to the opposite party. (Clark v. Huron Circuit
Judge, 40 Mich. 166.)
Proceedings under this rule are the proper method of obtaining a rehear
ing after the enrollment of the decree, but the results to be attained and
the facts properly to be considered are the same as though it were a mo
tion for a new trial or a motion for a rehearing before enrollment. (Stockley v. Stockley, 93 Mich. 313. See, also, Rule 24 and note.) By filing a bill
of review the party has the same rights he would have had on a rehearing.
(Mickle v. Maxfield, 42 Mich. 312.)
On the subject of the requirement in the rule of security, see Mickle v.
Maxfield, 42 Mich. pp. 308, 309'; Thomas v. Burt, 52 Mich. 489; Clark v.
Huron Circuit Judge, 40 Mich. 166.
After appeal to the supreme court and a decree there, the lower court
cannot grant leave to file a bill of review. Application must be made to
the supreme court. (Ryerson v. Eldred, 18 Mich. 491. See, also, Sherwood
v. Savings Bank, 104 Mich. 65; Mosher v. Mosher, 66 N. W. Rep. 486.)
As to the grounds upon which leave to file a bill of review will be granted
or denied, see Johnson v. Shepard, 33 Mich. 115; Day v. Cole, 65 Mich. 154;
Stockley v. Stockley, 93 Mich. 308; Cook v. French, 96 Mich. 526: Vaugh v.
Black, 63 Mich. 217; Sanford v. Haines, 71 Mich. 117; Bank v. Quick, 71
Mich. 534; Mickle v. Maxfield, 42 Mich. 310; Gies' v. Green, 42 Mich. 107;
Clark v. Huron Circuit Judge, 40 Mich. 166; Thomas v. Burt, 52 Mich. 489.
The application is addressed to the court's discretion, which is always to be
exercised in view of the circumstances of each case so as to effectuate sub
stantial justice and protect the legal and equitable rights of the parties.
(Stockley v. Stockley, 93 Mich. 313; Vaugh v. Black, 63 Mich. at page 219.)
As to application based on newly-discovered evidence, see Ryerson v. El
dred, 23 Mich. 537; Taylor v. Boardman, 25 Mich. 526; Mosher v. Mosher, 66
N. W. Rep. 486.
Inexcusable laches will prevent leave being granted (Day v. Cole, 65
Mich. 162; Sanford v. Haines. 71 Mich. 117; Johnson v. Shepard, 35 Mich.
125; Eveland v. Stephenson, 45 Mich. 398), if the bill is sought to be filed
after the time allowed for appeal, unless satisfactory reason is shown for the
delay or unless it is based on newly-discovered evidence. (Sanford v.
Haines, supra.)

152

CHANCERY RULE 28.

112 133
"I tronTpSge.

RULE 28.

Practice Peculiar to Foreclosure Cases.

(a) In a bill for foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, it
shall not be necessary to set out at large the rights and inter
ests of the several defendants who are purchasers of, or who
have liens on, the equity of redemption in the mortgaged prem
ises, subsequent to the registry or recording of complainant's
mortgage, and who claim no right in opposition thereto ; but
it shall be sufficient for the complainant, after setting out his
own right and interest in the premises, to state generally that
such defendants have or claim some interest in the premises, as
subsequent purchasers or incumbrancers, or otherwise. [Former
Kule 91.]
(b) If a bill to foreclose a mortgage is taken as confessed, or
the right of the complainant, as stated in his bill, is admitted
by the answer, he may have an order of course, referring it to
a commissioner to compute the amount due to the complainant^
and to such of the defendants as are prior incumbrancers of the
mortgaged premises. [From former Rule 92.]
(c) If the defendant is an infant, and has put in a general an
swer by his guardian, or any of the defendants are absentees
and, have not heen personally served, the complainant may have
a similar order of course, referring it to a commissioner to take
proof of the facts and circumstances stated in the complainant's
bill, and to compute the amount due on the mortgage, prepar
atory to the hearing of the cause. But every such cause shall
be regularly brought to hearing at term after the coming in of
the commissioner's report, before a final decree is entered
therein. [From former Eule 92, with clause added.]
(d) If the bill has been taken as confessed, the complainant
shall show to the court, at the hearing, by affidavit, that the
proceedings to take the bill as confessed have been regular, ac
cording to the rules and practice of the court, and whether the
bill has been taken as confessed against all of the defendants
upon service of subpoena, or after an appearance, or whether
some of them have been proceeded against as absentees. [From
former Rule 92.]

CHANCERY RULE 28.

153

(e) Sales under decrees of foreclosure shall not be ordered
on less than six full weeks or forty-two days' notice, and publi
cation shall not commence until the time fixed by decree for
payment has expired, nor within a year after commencement
of suit. [From former Rule 92.]
(f) On the coming in and confirmation of the commissioner's
report of the sale of mortgaged premises, if it shall appear
there is any surplus money remaining in court after satisfying
the amount due the complainant, any defendant, upon tiling
an affidavit that such surplus has been paid into court, and that
he is entitled to the same, or some part thereof, may have an
order of course, referring it to a commissioner to ascertain and
report the amount due to such defendants, or to any other per
son, and which is a lien upon such surplus moneys; and to ascer
tain the priorities of the several liens thereon, to the end that
on the coming in and confirmation of the report, such further
order and decree may be made for the distribution of surplus
moneys as may be just; and every defendant Avho has ap
peared in the cause, and every person who has left a written
notice of his claim to such surplus monej's with the register,
with whom the same are deposited, shall be entitled to notice
to attend the commissioner on such reference. And any per
son making a claim to such surplus moneys, and who shall fail
to establish his claim on the hearing before the commissioner,,
may be charged with such costs as the other parties have been
subjected to by reason of such claim; and the parties succeed
ing on such reference may be allowed such costs as by the
court may be deemed reasonable ; but no costs unnecessarily
incurred on such reference, or previous thereto, by any of the
parties, shall be allowed on taxation or paid out of such sur
plus. [Former Eule 93.]
4
(a) A substantially similar rule prevails in the federal court. (Harsha's
Federal Court Rules, p. 100.) The rule applies to a bill to foreclose a me
chanic's lien which is a "statutory mortgage." (Siding Co. v. Machine
Co., 98 Mich. 617.) It does not apply to a defendant who claims the mort
gaged premises under a deed given subsequent to the mortgage but re
corded first. If the complainant claims this deed to be subject to his
mortgage he must state in his bill the facts and circumstances which
make it so. (Wurcherer v. Hewitt, 10 Mich. 452. See, also, to same effect,
Dawson v. Danbury Bank, 15 Mich. 494, and cases cited in note.) And a.
general averment under the rule is not sufficient to put in issue any right

154

CHANCERY RULE 28.

of a defendant which he holds paramount to the mortgage. If only such
general clause is inserted in the bill, a disclaimer from such defendant is
sufficient (Comstock v. Comstock, 24 Mich. 38, and cased cited in note.
Summers v. Bromley, 28 Mich. 125); or he may protect his rights by a plea.
(Shafer v. Thompson, 3 Det. Leg. News, 189, decided May 26, 1896.)
(b) The court may dispense with a reference Xo compute the amount due
and make its own computation. (Ireland v. Woolman, 15 Mich. 253.) A
decree may be made without a reference. (Vaughn v. Nims, 36 Mich. 297.)
(c) Where a defendant in foreclosure is brought in by publication, there
can be no decree without proofs and the complainant should be sworn as
to payments. (Secs. 66T5, 6676; Brown v. Thompson, 29 Mich. 72. But see
Colton t. Rupert, 60 Mich. 318.) And as against an infant the case must
always be made out by proofs. (Thayer v. Lane, Walk. Ch. £00; Chandler
v. McKinney, 6 Mich. 217. See, also, Smith v. Smith, 13 Mich. 261.)
Decree may be given for everything due at the time it is granted, al
though the suit was begun when only an instalment of the debt had ma
tured.. (Vaughn v. Nims, 36 Mich. 296; Howe v. Lemon, 37 Mich. 164;
Johnson v. Van Velsor, 43 Mich. 209; Hanford v. Robertson, 47 Mich. 100.)
But the contrary seems to have been previously decided in Smith v. Osborn, 33 Mich. 411. And see sec. 6711, providing for dismissal of bill on
payment before decree of the instalment in default at the time the bill
was filed. -(See, also, as to such payment, Tucker v. Tucker, 24 Mich. 426;
Brown v. Thompson, 29 Mich. 74.) " According to the weight of authority,
a declaration in the bill itself is sufficient [as an election to declare the
whole sum due], and formal notice of an election prior to the suit is un
necessary." (Johnson v. Van Velsor, supra.)
As to including in decree taxes paid by complainant, see Baker v. Clark,
52 Mich. 22; Macomb v. Prentiss, 78 Mich. 255; Vaughn v. Nims, 36 Mich.
297; Payne v. Avery, 21 Mich. 524; Insurance Co. v. Butts, 45 Mich. 113;
Maxfield v. Willey, 46 Mich. 252.
The securities must be produced, or their loss accounted for, and clear
proof given of their continued efficacy. (Hungerford v. Smith, 34 Mich.
300; Mickle v. Maxfield, 42 Mich. 304.) And complainant must give a bond
if the securities are negotiable and are not produced. (Sec. 7519; Yerkes
•v. Blodgett, 48 Mich. 211.)
(d) An affidavit of regularity is for the convenience of the judge only.
The affidavit cannot make irregular proceedings regular, nor does its ab
sence invalidate them. (Ireland v. Woolman, 15 Mich. 255.)
fa) This rule, first adopted in October, 1878, disposes of the practice " dis
approved " in Perrien v. Fetters, 35 Mich. 232. The requisites of a notice
of sale are governed by sec. 6747. vol. 3, as amended in 1885, and sec. 6707,
vol. 2. (See N. Y. Union v. Atwell, 95 Mich. 240.) Personal notice to de
fendants is not necessary. (Sanford v. Haines, 71 Mich. 117.)
If a new defendant is added to the bill, the sale cannot take place until
one year after that is done. (Gray v. Bank, 83 Mich. 365; Canfield v. Shear,
49 Mich. 313; Burt v. Thomas, 49 Mich. 464.) Whether or not the statute
(sec. 6701) to which this rule, subdivision (e), is supplementary, requires
the interval of a year between the service of subpoena and the sale, the
court has discretionary power, at least to postpone the sale until the ex

CHANCERY RULE 29.

155

piration of a year from the service of the subpoena; and it should bs exer
cised where the subpcenais not served for a considerable time (six months)
after the filing of the bill. (Insurance Co. v. Renz, 33 Mich. 298.) A year
and six weeks must elapse between " the commencement of the suit " and
the sale. When the subpoena is seasonably taken out in good faith and
witli the purpose of having it served as soon as service is fairly practicable,
the suit is then " commenced " within the spirit and intent of this regula
tion. (Culver v. McKeown, 43 Mich. 324 Note that the language of sec. 6701
is, "within one year after the filing of the bill.") In New York the rule is
less favorable to defendants. There the suit is deemed commenced by the
filing of the bill. (Ibid., citing 1 Barb. Ch. 1.) Where the decree is not
taken until the expiration of the year, it is the practice to allow a reason
able time for payment, to be definitely fixed in the decree. (Detroit Bank
v. Truesdail, 38 Mich. 430.)
A premature sale is illegal. (Shier v. Prentiss, 55 Mich. 175; Insurance
Co. v. Rens, 33 Mich. 298.)
As to defects in notice of sale and in proof of notice, and the necessity
of strict proof appearing in the record, see Brown v. Phillips, 40 Mich. 264;
Perrien v. Fetters, 35 Mich. 232; New York Union v. Atwell, 95 Mich. 239;
sec. 7500.
As to adjournment of sale and notice thereof, see Isbell v. Kenyon, 33
Mich. 63.
As to the right of a non-resident defendant not served to stay the sale
on payment of costs, see sec. 6685; Hardwick v. Bassett, 25 Mich. 151;
Bailey v. Murphy, Walk. Ch. 305.
For decisions on the subject of a sale in the inverse order of alienation
see Ireland v. Woolman, 15 Mich. 253; McKinney v. Miller, 19 Mich. 142;
Cooper v. Bigley, 13 Mich. 463; Mason v. Payne, Walk. Ch. 460; James v.
Brown, 11 Mich. 25; Slater v. Breese, 36 Mich. 77; Armitage v. Toll, 64 Mich.
412; Strong v. Ehle, 86 Mich. 42; Case Co. v. Mitchell, 74 Mich. 679; Quinin
v. Brown, 72 Mich. 304; Watson v. Railroad Co.. 91 Mich. 198.
(f) See secs. 6709, 6710, How. Stat. All parties to the suit are entitled to
notice before an order is made disposing of the surplus. (Smith v. Smith,
13 Mich. 258.) As to rights in surplus moneys, see Moreland v. Houghton,
96 Mich. 346; Macomb v. Livingston, 83 Mich. 486. Acceptance of surplus
operates as a waiver of irregularities in the sale. (Colton v. Rupert, 60
Mich. 318.)
RULE 29.
Practice Peculiar to Divorce Cases.
(a) All bills for the purpose of obtaining divorce, whether
the husband or wife is complainant, shall be duly verified by
oath, in the usual manner of verifying bills, where, by the
course and practice of the court, an oath is required. In a bill
for a divorce on the ground of adultery, the complainant must

156

CHANCERY RULE 29.

also positively aver that the adultery charged in the bill was
committed without the consent, connivance, privity or procure
ment of the complainant; and that the complainant has not
voluntarily cohabited with the defendant since the discovery
of such adultery. And in all such bills, and in all bills for di
vorce upon any ground, the complainant shall also positively
aver that the act done or cause charged in the bill for which
divorce is sought was committed without the consent, con
nivance, privity or procurement of the complainant, and that
such bill is not founded on or exhibited in consequence of any
collusion, agreement or understanding whatever between the
parties thereto, or between the complainant and any other per
son. [Former Rule 95.]
(b) If any such bill is taken as confessed, or the facts charged
therein are admitted by the answer, the complainant may havean order of course entered or filed for reference to a commis
sioner, to take proof of all the material facts charged in the
bill, and to report such proof to the court, with his opinion
thereon. [From former Rule 96.]
(c) If such bill is taken as confessed, the complainant shall
show to the court by affidavit whether or not the defendant was
personally served with process or order of appearance, and that
the proceedings to take the bill as confessed have been regu
lar according to the rules and practice of the court.
(d) No sentence or decree of nullity declaring void a mar
riage contract, or decree for a divorce, or for a separate or lim
ited divorce, shall be made of course by the default of the
defendant ; or in consequence of any neglect to appear at the
hearing of the cause, or by consent. And every such cause
shall be heard after the trial of the issue, or upon the coming
in of the commissioner's report, at a stated term of the court.
[Former Rule 98.]
(a) The statute requires a special clause in the verification. (Sec. 6232,
vol. 3.) And the statute is mandatory, and its absence cannot be waived
by any act of the defendant. (Ayers v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 90 Mich.
380.) But strict verification in the exact language of the statute may be
waived. (Holcomb v. Holcomb, 100 Mich. 421.) The rule requiring verifi
cation has been given the force and effect of statute law. (People v.
McCaffrey, 75 Mich. 123.) It seems that an amendment to the bill, or a
supplemental bill, filed by stipulation of the parties, need not be verified if
the original bill was properly verified. (Tackaberry v. Tackaberry, 101

CHANCERY RULE 29.

157

Mich. 104. But see Briggs v. Briggs, 20 Mich. 34, and Green v. Green, 26
Mich. 437.)
By statute, a defendant in a divorce case may answer without oath.
<Sec. 6233.) But if he incorporates in his answer a prayer for affirmative
relief in the nature of a cross-bill, it must all be verified. (Rule 11 (a) in
connection with Rule 29 (a) and sec. 6232, vol. 3; Harrison v. Harrison, 94
Mich. 559.) But it seems the objection that it is not verified comes too
late if made for the first time on appeal (Tackaberry v. Tackaberry, 101
Mich. 102); and if the verification is incomplete, the court may, on objection
being made in a petition to set aside a decree in favor of defendant, permit
the verification to be amended nunc pro tune. (Daly v. Wayne Circuit
Judge, 102 Mich. 392. See, also, Harrison v. Harrison, supra.)
In cases based on charges of adultery, a strict adherence to settled prac
tice and to prescribed forms is said to be required. (Green v. Green, 26
Mich. 437.)
• .
Collusion cannot be inferred from a stipulation striking from the bill
one of the charges therein. (Holcomb v. Holcomb, 100 Mich. 421.) If the
answer is withdrawn and the complainant permitted to take testimony
ex parte, it is said that no decree should be granted without some satis
factory evidence that the withdrawal was not collusive. (Leavitt v. Leavitt, 13 Mich. 455.) As' to the evidence of collusion, see Thompson v. Thomp
son, 70 Mich. 65; Reed v. Reed. 86 Mich. 601; Porritt v. Porritt, 18 Mich.
425; Simons v. Simons, 47 Mich. 253.
(b) [Subdivisions (b) and (c) are designed to make the practice with ref
erence to an affidavit of regularity substantially the same as in foreclosure
cases. Under the former practice in divorce cases, the order pro confesso
and the order of reference were separate, and between the entry of the
two an affidavit of regularity was supposed to be filed. Under the new
rule the order pro confesso and the order of reference may be entered as
one, and the affidavit of regularity may be filed at anytime prior to decree,
as in foreclosure cases.]
Held to be the duty of the commissioner, on a reference in a divorce case,
to examine the witnesses himself so as to guard against collusion and en
able him to give his opinion understanding^ as to the truth of every ma
terial averment in the bill, and to report not only the proofs, but his opinion
thereon. (Emmons v. Emmons, Walk. Ch. 533.)
(c) The statute permitting non-resident defendants, brought in by publi
cation, to appear and answer after default decree, on payment of costs,
excepts from its provisions decrees for divorce. (Sec. 6681.)
(d) Decrees of divorce will not be made by consent. The court must be
satisfied by evidence that a legal cause for divorce exists. (Robinson v.
Robinson, 16 Mich. 79.) Yet, held that a decree for divorce and alimony
granted by consent of defendant was binding unless impeached for fraud
or mistake. (Brick v. Brick, 65 Mich. 230.) And that a consent decree is
not absolutely void and cannot be appealed from. (Owen v. Yale, 75 Mich.
357.)

158

CHANCERY RULE 80.

RULE 30.
Practice Peculiar to Creditors' Bills.
i
(a) A creditor's bill, to reach equitable interests of a debtor,
shall show the true sum actually and equitably due the com
plainant on his judgment or decree, over and above all just
claims of the debtor by way of set-off or otherwise, and that
the debtor has equitable interests, exceeding one hundred dol
lars in value, which the complainant is unable to reach by exe
cution, which has been duly issued and returned unsatisfied,
and that the bill is not exhibited by collusion with the defend
ant, or for the purpose of protecting the property or effects of
the debtor against the claims of other creditors, but for the sole
purpose of compelling payment and satisfaction of the com
plainant's own debt. [Substitute for former Rule 102.]
(b) When the complainant in such creditor's bill shall have a
right by statute to a discovery and disclosure of facts from the
defendant, the defendant shall in his answerfully and explicitly
set forth the particularfacts calledfor. If he fail so to do, the
complainant may have his right to a further answer and dis
closure determined by the court oh special motion, and the
court may enforce its order thereon by the attachment of the
defendant, and may strike such insufficient answer from the
files.
(c) Every such creditor's bill shall be verified as provided by
rule. [From former Rule 103.]
(d) The proceedings in such a suit shall, except as otherwise
provided by rule or statute, be governed by the general chan
cery rules, and the court may appoint a receiver therein pend
ing the determination of the suit, when it shall be deemed
necessary for the protection of the rights of the complainant.
(a) [A distinction is to be noted between a "creditor's bill," strictly speak
ing, and a " bill in aid of execution." The former must be sworn to, ac
cording to subdivision (c). The latter need not be. (Moore v. Cheeseman,
23 Mich. 335.) The former must be based absolutely on the return of an
execution by the sheriff unsatisfied in whole or in part. (Sec. 6614; Will
iams v. Hubbard, Walk. Ch. 28; Smith v. Thompson, Walk. Ch. 1; Thayer
v. Swift, Harr. Ch. 430; Freeman v. Bank, Walk. Ch. 62; McCullough v.

CHANCERY RULE ».

159

Day, 45 Mich. 554; Tarbell v. Millard, 63 Mich. 250; Vanderpool v. Motley,
71 Mich. 422; Bank v. Dwight, 83 Mich. 189; Grenell v. Ferry, 68 N. W.
Rep. 145, which holds that the fact cannot be shown by a supplemental
bill.) The latter need only allege the issue of an execution, and need not
allege its return, nor even the insolvency of the judgment debtor. (Gib
bons v. Pemberton, 101 Mich. 399; Williams v. Hubbard, supra; Beach v.
White. Walk. Ch. 495; Tarbell v. Millard, supra.) The former need not
point out the particular property sought to be reached when the property
is unknown. (Dutton v. Thomas, 97 Mich. 97.) The latter is filed to reach
particular property on which a levy has been made, but which by reason
of a fraudulent conveyance cannot be sold. (Blish v. Collins, 68 Mich. 542.)
The former will reach property conveyed to a third person by another
than the debtor and in which a trust is reserved by operation of law (sec. .
5570) by reason of its being paid for by the debtor. The latter will not
reach such a case, but only a case where the legal title was once in the
debtor himself and was by him conveyed fraudulently. (Maynard v. Hoskens, 9 Mich. 485; Tyler v. Piatt, 30 Mich. 63; Fairbain v. Middlemiss, 47
Mich. 372; Spring v. Randall, 64 N. W. Rep. 1083.) This Rule 30 relates to
.'creditors' bills," as will be seen by its wording, and is not applicable to
"bills in'aid of execution."]
A bill may be filed, however, for the double purpose of reaching property
not open to execution and of aiding execution levied upon property subject
to it. (Williams v. Hubbard, Walk. Ch. 28; Beam v. Bennett, 51 Mich. 148;
Reeg v. Burnham, 55 Mich. 39.) Both kinds of bills must be based on judg
ments rendered on the strength of personal service of process, or appear
ance without such service. (Tyler v. Piatt, 30 Mich. S3; Nugent v. Nugent,
70 Mich. 52.) A bill in aid of execution must precede a sale under the ex
ecution. (Marshall v. Blass, 82 Mich. 518; Cranson v. Smith, 47 Mich. 189.
See Messmore v. Huggard, 46 Mich. 558.)
A creditor's bill will lie to reach the surplus income of a trust fund cre
ated for the benefit of the judgment debtor. (Spring v. Randall, 64 N. W.
Rep. 1063. See sec. 5575.)
Sec. 6669 provides that whenever a creditor's bill is filed for the benefit
of creditors who will come in and contribute to the expense, every order
requiring creditors to exhibit their demands shall be published once in
each week for at least three weeks.
(b) By statute a judgment creditor's bill may be filed for the purposes
of discovery and to prevent transfers by the debtor (secs. 6614, 6617), and
the court may act on the property discovered. (Sec. 6614.) In McCreary
v. Bay Circuit Judge, 93 Mich. 463, it was held that the statute making
parties competent witnesses did not repeal those statutory provisions, al
though the remedy by discovery is generally obsolete. (See cases there
cited.) The statute requires the defendant to file an answer even though
it criminate him, but the answer cannot be used as evidence against him
in a criminal prosecution. (Secs. 6617, 6618.) [The practice prescribed in
subdivision (b) takes the place of exceptions, which are indirectly held to
be obsolete in the case last cited.]
(c) See Rule 2 and note. This provision does not apply to bills in aid of

160

Chancery rule sl

execution. (Moore v. Cheeseman. 23 Mich. 335.) [The use of the words "by
statute" in the opinion in the case last cited is no doubt an inaccuracy.
There is no statute requiring verification of a creditor's bill.]
(d) This is a substitute for former obsolete Rules 104, 105.

RULE 31.
Receivers — Their Powers and Duties — Practice.
130 114
(a) Every receiver of the property and effects of the debtor,
appointed in a suit upon a creditor's bill, shall, unless restricted
by the special order of the court, have general power and au
thority to sue for and collect all the debts, demands and rents
belonging to such debtor, and to compromise and settle such
as are unsafe and of a doubtful character. He may also sue in
the name of the debtor, where it is necessary or proper for
him to do so, and he may apply for and obtain an order of
course that the tenants of any real estate belonging to the
debtor, or of which he is entitled to the rents and profits, at
torn to such receiver and pay their rents to him. He shall also
be permitted to make leases from time to time as may be nec
essary, for terms not exceeding one year. And it shall be his
duty, without unreasonable delay, to convert all the personal
estate and effects into money ; but he shall not sell any real
estate of the debtor without the special order of the court. He
is not to be allowed for the costs of any suit brought by him
against an insolvent from whom he is unable to collect his
costs, unless such suit is brought by order of the court, or by
* the consent of all persons interested in the funds in his hands.
But he may sell such desperate debts, and all other doubtful
claims to personal property, at public auction, giving at least
ten days' notice of the time and place of such sale. [Former
Rule 106.]
(b) Where several bills are filed by different creditors against
the same debtor, no more than one receiver of his property
and effects shall be appointed, unless the first appointment has(
been obtained by fraud or collusion, or unless the receiver is
an improper person to execute the trust. The receiver shall
give security sufficient to cpver the whole property and ef
fects of the debtor which may come into his hands by virtue of

CHANCERY RULE 31.

161

his office ; and he shall hold such property and effects for the
benefit of all creditors who have commenced, or shall com
mence, similar suits, during the continuance of his trust, to be
disposed of according to their legal or equitable priorities. He
shall not pay over the funds in his hands to the parties, or to
any other person, without being, specially authorized to do so
by an order or decree of the court; nor shall he be discharged
from his trust without special order, to be obtained upon a
written consent of all the parties interested in the property in
his hands, or upon notice of the application. [Former Rule
107.]
(c) "When another suit is commenced after the appointment
of a receiver the same person may be appointed receiver of
such subsequent suit, and shall give such further security as
the court shall direct. He shall keep a separate account of any
property or effects of the debtor which may have been acquired
since the commencement of the first suit, or which may be as
signed to such receiver under the appointment in the last^
cause. [Former Rule 108.]
Receivers may be appointed in pending chancery causes, " when such
appointment is allowed by law "(see Hazeltine v. Granger, 44 Mich. 504), as
well in vacation as during the sessions of the court. (Sec. 6624.) Applies
tion may be made to the circuit judge at chambers, and shall be heard ac
cording to prescribed general or special rules. (Sec. 6625.) See, upon the
subject of practice on application for receivers. Sailing v. Johnson, 25
Mich. 491; Railway Co. v. St. Clair Circuit Judge, 31 Mich. 456; Merchants'
Bank v. Kent Circuit Judge, 43 Mich. 292; Cook v. Railroad Co., 45 Mich.
433; Morey v. Grant, 48 Mich. 329. These cases condemn the praotice of
ex parte appointments.
The law specially authorizes the appointment of receivers in partition
cases (sec. 7986; Duncan v. Campau, 15 Mich. 415); and in garnishee cases
(secs. 8064, 8065, 8067); and in divorce cases involving permanent alimony
(sec. 6247; Perkins v. Perkins, 16 Mich. 168); and on judgment creditors'
bills (sec. 8111; Rule 30 d); and in proceedings against insolvent banking
corporations and the like (sec. 8158); and insolvent trust companies (Laws
of 1891; p. 155); and insolvent insurance companies (secs. 4323 h 9, 4323 b 4,
vol. 3); and in the case of a corporation against which a judgment or de
cree has been obtained and execution issued thereon returned unsatisfied
(sec. 8153; see Cook v. Railroad Co., 45 Mich. 453; Turnbull v. Lumber Co.,
55 Mich. 387; Miner v. Benefit Ass'n, 65 Mich. 88; Dutton v. Thomas, 97 .
Mich. 97; "a broad discretion is allowed in this class of cases," Riverside
"Works v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 100 Mich. 124) ; and in the case of a volun
tary dissolution of an insolvent corporation (sec. 8181; see Cady v. Center
11

162

CHANCERY RULE 33.

ville Co., 48 Mich. 136); and corporations vacated by decree (sec. 8634); anct
in mechanics' lieu proceedings (Laws of 1891, p. 235); and in assignments
for the benefit of creditors. (Secs. 87U, 8749 b, Laws 1895, p. 250; Appeal
of Geo. T. Smith, 86 Mich. 160.)
[Although the foregoing cover most of the cases wherein receivers are
appointed, the court is probably not limited in the appointment of receiv
ers to the cases specifically mentioned in the statutes.] But see Hazeltine
v. Granger, 44 Mich. 504. In Kirby v. Ingersoll, 1 Doug. 477, a receiver was
appointed in a partnership dissolution case; and in Barry v. Briggs, 22
Mich. 207, in a partnership accounting case (see, also, Simon v. Schloss, 48
Mich. 233; Morey v. Grant, 48 Mich. 327); and in Brown v. Vandermeulen,
41 Mich. 419, to take possession of securities claimed by a trustee, the right
to which was in dispute; and the court said; "The order falls within the
ordinary powers of a court to take possession of a fund in controversy.'^
In Merchants' Bank v. Kent Circuit Judge, 43 Mich. 292, the right to the
appointment of a receiver in chattel mortgage foreclosures is impliedly
recognized in proper cases.
" The appointment of receivers is governed in part by discretion and part
by rules of right." No court has unlimited discretion. In many cases re
ceivers may be appointed at a preliminary stage of the cause ; and in many
cases the appointment is entirely beyond the power of the court. (Dictum^
Barry v. Briggs, 22 Mich. 207.) It is entirely unauthorized in foreclosure
cases to divest the mortgagor of possession and rents and profits during
foreclosure (Wagar v. Stone, 36 Mich. 365; see Beecher v. Mill Co., 40 Mich.
309), even if the mortgage expressly provides for such. (Hazeltine v.
Granger, 44 Mich. 504.) It is unauthorized when no suit is pending con
cerning the property of which the receiver is put in charge (Merchants'
Bank v. Kent Circuit Judge, 43 Mich. 292); and the appointment of a re
ceiver of a corporation cannot, it seems, be made on the petition of the
corporation itself. (Kimball v. Goodburn, 32 Mich. 12.)
As to the statutory duty to account by receivers of insolvent corpora
tions in proceedings for voluntary dissolution, see secs. 8201 to 8206. For
statutory authority to sue, see sec. 8209.
* A director, trustee or other officer or stockholder of a corporation may
be appointed its receiver. (Covert v. Rogers, 38 Mich. 368; sec. 8182.) Or
a large creditor. (Gypsum Co. v. Kent Circuit Judge, 63 N. W. Rep. 518.)
But as to the appointment of an attorney for the interested parties, see
Merchants' Bank v. Kent Circuit Judge, 43 Mich. 292.

RULE 32.
Moneys in Hands of Register of Court — How Deposited and
Drawn.
(a) The accounts of the register with the banks in which the
moneys are directed to be deposited shall be kept in such a
manner that in the cash books of the banks, and in the bank

CHANCERY RULE 33.

163

books of the register, it shall appear, in what particular suit, or
on what account, the several items of money credited or charged
were deposited or paid out. [Former Rule 87.]
(b) Orders upon the banks for the payment of moneys out of
court shall be made payable to the order of the person entitled
thereto, or of his solicitor or his attorney duly authorized, and
shall specify in what particular suit, or on what account, the
money is to be paid out, and the time when the decree or order
authorizing such payment was made. [Former Rule 88.]
This rule is authorized by sec. 6606, and supplements the statutes on the
same subject. All moneys brought into the court for or by any suitor and
paid to the register shall be deposited in such banks or safely kept in such
other manner as the court shall direct. (Sec. 6598.) On the first day of
the term the register shall exhibit the account kept by him of all such
moneys, and also his bank account, if deposited in a bank. (Sec. 6599.) The
bank account shall be accompanied by the certificate of the cashier showing
that the total amount is actually in the bank to the credit of the register,
and not mingled with any other account. (Sec. 6600.) No such money
shall be paid out by such bank without the order of the court, authenti
cated by the signature of the judge. (Sec. 6601.) The judge may cause
such moneys to be invested or placed at interest, and a party bringing
money into court pursuant to any order shall in all cases be discharged
from all further liability therefor. (Secs. 6602, 6710.) All securities, when
such moneys are invested, shall be taken in the name of the register, who
shall keep just and full accounts of all such moneys, securities, payments
and investments. (Sec. 6603.)
Registers are not liable to garnishment for moneys held in their official
capacity. (Voorhies v. Sessions, 34 Mich. 99.)
In the absence of an order of the court, the payment of the amount due
on a chancery decree to the register is not binding on the party entitled
to the money, and he may ignore such payment; and he has a right to be
heard before such an order is made. (Lewis v. Kean, 102 Mich. 605.)

RULE 33.
Security by Guardian ad litem, etc.
ISTo guardian ad litem for an infant defendant, or next friend
of an infant complainant, unless he has given security to the
infant according to law, shall, as such guardian, receive any
money or property belonging to such infant, or which may be
awarded to him in the suit, except such costs and expenses as
may be allowed by the court to the guardian out of the fund

164

CHANCERY RULE 34.

or received by the infant in the suit. Neither shall the gen
eral guardian of an infant receive any part of the proceeds of
the sale of real property belonging to such infant, sold under a
decree or order of the court, until the guardian has given such
further security for the faithful discharge of his trust as the
court may direct. [Former Rule 94.]
Before the court will order money paid to a guardian it must be satis
fied that he has given sufficient security. (Westbrook v. Comstock, Walk.
Ch. 314.) The rule calls for a responsible showing, and loose oral state
ments are insufficient. (Sheahan v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 42 Mich. 69.)
See sec. 6721 as to requirement of bond by special guardian on sale of
real estate.

RULE 34.
Assignment by Complainant of Subject-matter of Suit —
Proceedings Thereon.
Whenever the complainant in a chancery suit, wherein the
right is under existing rules of law and equity assignable,
shall have transferred his interest in the subject-matter of the
litigation, either voluntarily or by process of law, the suit shall
not thereby be abated, but the transferee may present his pe
tition to the court in which said suit is pending, setting up the
fact of such transfer, and asking to be substituted as complain
ant in said suit. The facts, if they do not appear from the
records of the court, shall be verified by the affidavit of the
party or some other person. If at the hearing it appear to
the court that such transfer has been made, an order shall be
made substituting the transferee as complainant in said suit,
and said suit shall continue for the benefit of said transferee as
though no transfer had been made. A copy of the petition and
affidavits, with the usual notice ofpresenting the same, shall be
served on the defendant or his solicitor ; and in making such
order the court may, in its discretion, require the transferee to
file security for costs. [Former Eule 125.]
This rule was first adopted in March, 1893. The importance of a com
pliance with it, where there has been an assignment of the cause of action
or decree, is shown by the following decisions: Where a complainant
parted with his interest in a mortgage before the filing of the answer, it
was held a good objection to the suit. (Wallace v. Dunning, Walk. Ch.

CHANCERY RULE 34,
165
\
416.) After the publication of the notice of sale in a foreclosure by ad
vertisement, and before the day of sale, the mortgagee assigned the mort
gage to a third person, who continued the advertisement in the mortgagee's
name, instead of advertising as assignee in his own name. The sale was
held irregular and void, and not to bar. the mortgagor's equity of redemp
tion. (Niles v. Ransford, 1 Mich. 338.) Where the parties in interest to a
decree remain unchanged and no new rights have arisen, a defendant, in
terested in having the decree executed, should proceed by a petition for
that purpose ; but when a third person has acquired an interest in the de
cree, a bill is necessary to bring him before the court, that his rights may
be passed upon by the court as in other cases. (Griggs v. Railway Co., 10
Mich. 117.) Where the subject-matter of a suit in chancery is assigned by
the complainant, the suit can no longer be prosecuted in his name after
the assignment is brought to the notice of the court, and the only mode in
which the assignee can revive or get the benefit of the original suit is by
filing an original bill in the nature of a bill of revivor and supplement.
(Webster v. Hitchcock, 11 Mich. 56.) Where a complainant assigns all in
terest in a suit, the suit becomes defective, and no subsequent proceedings
can be properly had on behalf of the assignee without an original bill in
the nature of a bill of revivor and supplement. And where a decree de
clared certain alimony to be a lien upon real estate and a sale was after
wards made and confirmed, and it appeared that soon after the decree was
made the complainant assigned it, it was held that the effect of the as
signment was to render the suit as defective as if it had abated. (Perkins
v. Perkins, 16 Mich. 161.) Where it appears that the complainant in a suit
for specific performance has conveyed the premises to a third person, no
further proceedings can be had until the rights of his assignee are brought
before the court. " As soon as a complainant assigns his rights, the suit
as to him ceases and becomes as defective as if it had abated by his death."
(Brewer v. Dodge, 28 Mich. 358.) But an assignment of a note and mort
gage after commencement of foreclosure cannot affect the proceedings on
the decree, if it neither appears of record nor is brought to the knowledge
of the court. And where the case proceeded regularly to sale, it was held
that the same could not be attacked collaterally by a bill to redeem on the
ground of the assignment. (Bigelow v. Booth, 39 Mich. 622.) Where a
complainant has voluntarily assigned a decree in his favor, the assignee
must resort to the court to obtain the benefit of it. (Terry v. McClintock,
41 Mich. 492.) See, also, Moore v. Smith, 103 Mich. 389, and Hochgraef v.
Hendrie, 66 Mich. 564.
The rule applies to one who acquires title to a mortgage in process of
foreclosure by the death of the complainant and by an assignment from
his administrator. (Brand v. Smith, 99 Mich. 400.) And to the case of a
junior mortgagee who pays a senior mortgagee the amount of the decree
recovered by the latter. (Codd v. Carpenter, 67 N. W. Rep. 819.) And to
an equitable assignee as well as legal assignee. (Codd v. Wayne Circuit
Judge, 3 Det. Leg. News, 24, decided March 31, 1896.)
[This rule probably requires notice of the application to be served on de
fendants who may not have appeared in the cause, as well as upon the
solicitors for those who have appeared, at least where such service is prac
ticable.]

166

CHANCERY RULES 35, 88.

RULE 35.
General Practice of Court.
In cases where no provision is made by statute or by these
rules, the proceedings of this court shall be according to the
! customary practice as it has heretofore existed in cases not
provided for by statute or the written rules of the court.

RULE 36.
When Rules to Take Effect.
These rules shall take effect January 1st, 1897, as to all causes
commenced on or after that date, and also as to any cause com
menced previous to that date, so far as concerns proceedings
therein subsequent to the date when the same shall be at issue.
All rules not herein contained are hereby repealed, except as
above provided.

SUPREME COURT RULES

CLERK.
Rule 1. The clerk of this court shall reside and keep the
office at the city of Lansing, and he shall not practice either
as attorney or counselor in this court or in any other court
while he shall continue to be clerk of this court. He shall in
dorse on every paper the day on which the same is filed, and
shall not permit any original record or paper to be taken from
the court room or from the office without an order from the
court, or by the permission of one of the justices thereof; but .
parties interested in any such may inspect the same in his
office and take copies thereof. [See former Kule 8.]
CLERK'S FEES.
Rule 2. The clerk shall be entitled to six dollars upon en
tering any case in the supreme court, which amount shall be
in full for all fees in such case. Provided, that an additional
sum of two dollars shall be paid to the clerk upon the entry of
any motion upon the motion docket except in cases of manda
mus, where the motion fee shall be four dollars.
The foregoing fees may be taxed by the prevailing party
where costs are allowed by order of the court. The clerk shall
also be allowed the sum of fifteen cents per folio for certified
copies of any entries or papers in any suit or proceeding when
required for any other purpose than for one connected with
the progress or disposition of such suit or proceeding.
The clerk's fees for all proceedings relative to the admission
of any person to the bar, including the proper certificate, shall
be the sum of two dollars. [Former Rule 52.]
PARTIES — HOW NAMED.
Rule 3. Hereafter, in all cases brought to this court for
the purpose of reviewing or revising the judgment, order, de
cree or action of any other court, tribunal or officer, the rela

168

SUPREME COURT RULES 4-8.

tive position of the parties and their designation as plaintiffs,
petitioners, defendants or respondents, shall be the same in
this court as in the court or before the tribunal or officer whose
action is in question ; bu.t they may further be designated as
appellants and appellees. [Former Kule 60.]

WRITS OF ERROR AND CERTIORARI.
Notice of Issuance — Return Thereto — Extension of Time
for Return — Motion to Dismiss.
Amended
129 XXXIV

Rule i. "Writs of error and certiorari shall be tested of the
day when issued and shall be made returnable at the office of
the clerk of tbis court on a day certain, either in vacation or in
term, not less than ten days nor More than forty days from the
issuance thereof. [See former Rule 10.]
Rule 5. The appellant shall cause notice of the issuance
and the date and return day of the writ to be served on the
adverse party or his attorney in tbe court below within ten
days after the issuance thereof ; and an affidavit of such service
shall be filed in the clerk's office on or before the return day
thereof. [See former Rule 10.]
Rule 6. The appellant shall cause the writ of error or
certiorari with the return containing a transcript of the record
or proceedings in the court below to be filed in the clerk's
office on or before the return day mentioned in such writ.
[Former Rule 11.]
Rule 7. The time for returning a writ of error or certiorari
may be extended by one of the justices of the supreme court or
a circuit judge for good cause shown, and the order granting
such extension shall be returned with the other papers to the
clerk of this court, and the time fixed by such order for the re
turn shall be treated in all respects as if it had been the origi
nal return day. Such extension shall be had only upon proper
notice to the adverse party. [Substitute for former Rule 15.]

139 181

Rule 8. If the appellant fails to have the writ of error or
certiorari returned on or before the return day thereof, or to
assign error and serve copies of such assignments within the
time allowed for that purpose {or in cases of appeals in chanceryy

SUPREME COURT RULE 9.

1Q&

shall fail to file the record and proceedings in the court below
within forty days after the filing and approval of the appeal
bond), the appellee may move the court to have the writ of
error or certiorari dismissedfor want ofprosecution, or the ap
peal entered and dismissed for want of prosecution, as the case
may be. [See former Rules 16 and 19.]
Rule 9. When a motion is made to dismiss a'writ of error
or certiorari or to enter and dismiss an appeal for want of
prosecution, the court may grant or deny the same on such
terms and conditions as the justice of the case may require.
[Substitute for former Eule 20.]
Issue and form of writs.— Secs. 6404 and 6580 authorize the issue of
writs of error and certiorari. Sec. 6410 requires all writs of this court to
run "In the name of the People of the State of Michigan," and makes the
court seal conclusive evidence of the genuineness of the writ in all cases
where it may be lawfully issued. As to the importance of the requirement
above mentioned in respect to the style of the writ, see note to circuit
court Law Rule 1. " Writs of error in civil and criminal cases, upon any
final judgment or determination, may issue of course out of the supreme
court, in vacation as well as in term, and shall be returnable to the same
court. (Sec. 8678.)
They must be issued within one year " after the rendering of the judg
ment or final determination," but the time may, be extended on special
motion and proper showing not exceeding six months by the supreme court
or by one of its justices at chambers, " when any party has been prevented
from taking out the same by circumstances not under his control." (Sec.
8686, vol. 3.) For the construction of the quoted language in a similar
statute, see note to circuit court Law Rule 46. In the cases of infants,
insane persons, prisoners and married women, the statute allows a longer
time to take out the writ. (Secs. 8687, 8688.) Special provisions govern
also the issue of writs of error to review actions of debt and scire facias
brought on a judgment. (Sec. 8690.) The statute (sec. 8686, voL 3) limiting
to one year the time for issuing a writ of error does not prevent its issue
before the settlement of the bill of exceptions, which may be afterwards,
and where a writ was issued after the statutory period, because the bill of
exceptions was not settled sooner, the writ was dismissed and reinstate
ment refused. (Teller v. Willis, 12 Mich. 386. See, also, Brown v. Bissell,
1 Doug. 273, and McCahill v. Railway Co., 96 Mich. 156. To same effect:
Janes v. Lyon, unreported, decided June, 1896.) The statute commence*
to run from the rendition of the judgment (Borden v. Insurance Co., 14
Mich. 232), even* though there may be a motion pending and undecided tovacate the judgment. (Buckley v. Sutton, 38 Mich. 1.) The writ may
issue without any steps to revive the judgment where the appellee has
died since judgment. In such case the representative may be brought in
after the return of the writ. (Van Valkenburg v. Rogers, 17 Mich. 322.
But see Hoffman v. Harrington, 41 Mich. 223.)

170

SUPREME COURT RULE 9.

Special provisions govern the issue of writs of error and certiorari in
criminal cases. (Secs. 8686. 8687, 8689.) They are construed the same as
in civil cases. (People v. Van Wagner, 51 Mich. 171.)
A writ taken out by a plaintiff should issue against all the defendants,
even if there has been a judgment in favor of the plaintiff against one of
the defendants. (Mills v. Bunce, 26 Mich. 100.) As to issue of writs by
administrators of deceased parties, see In re McCarty, 81 Mich. 460; Hubbell v. Blandy, 87 Mich. 210.
Return day'aud return to writs.— In computing the time for return
day, the date of issue is excluded and the return day included. (Doyle v.
Mizner, 41 Mich. 549; Rule 25.) If the appellant has failed to have the re
turn filed in time and applies to the court for relief, he must explain and
excuse the delay. And, it seems, the clerk's promise relied on by the ap
pellant is not an excuse. (Lathrop v. Hicks, 2 Doug. 223. See, also, Carne
v. Hall, 7 Mich. 159.) And where the errors proposed to be assigned related
to rulings to which no exceptions were taken, leave to file the return after
the lapse of the time was refused. (Webster v. Fisk, 9 Mich. 250.) But in
proper cases the court or a circuit judge will give the appellant the bene
fit of his exceptions by extending the time for return. (Teller v. Willis, 12
Mich. 384; Grady v. Sullivan, unreported, decided June term, 1896.)
Dismissal of a writ.— It is equivalent to a nonsuit and does not prevent
the issue of a new writ within the time allowed therefor by statute. (Belle
v. Stevens, 40 Mich. 168.) A dismissal leaves the judgment of the lower
.court operative and conclusive. (Hitchcock v. Pratt, 51 Mich. 263; Cummerford v. Paulus, 66 Mich. 648.) The appellant may dismiss his writ on
payment of costs. (Burch v. Brown, 5 Mich. 31.) A motion to dismiss is
the proper method of raising the question whether a writ is barred by lapse
of time before its issue. (Teller v. Willis, 12 Mich. 267; Borden v. Insur
ance Co.. 14 Mich. 232; Buckley v. Sutton, 38 Mich. 1.) Indeed, the right to
sue out a writ of error, or its regularity, if contested at all, should be by
motion to dismiss supported by proper showing (Hagar v. Coup, 50 Mich.
54; Sick v. Michigan Ass'n, 49 Mich. 51), and entered as^oon as practicable,
and showing all objections at once. (Spencer v. Fish, 43 Mich. 228; Wat
tles v. Warren, 7 Mich. 309; Evans v. Norris, 6 Mich. 69.) For cases where
the court denied motions to dismiss writs, see Wattles v. Warren, 7 Mich.
309; Taff v. Hosmer, 14 Mich. 248; Woodmansie v. Hollon, 16 Mich. 378
(where the motion was based on the failure to file return, and the same
was filed before the motion was heard); Smith v. Mitchell, 9 Mich. 260, and
Powers v. Irish, 23 Mich. 429, and McCahill v. Railway Co., 96 Mich. 156
(where the motions were held to be made too late); Tower v. Railroad Co.,
7 Mich. 10; Hinckley v. Harriman, 45 Mich. 343. A motion to dismiss for
want of prosecution will be denied where neither party has ever noticed
the cause for hearing. (Leland v. Blair Township, 97 Mich. 612.)
A neglect to procure a return is not sufficiently excused by a showing
that counsel expected the clerk to make the return, without a showing of
a request to the clerk. (Carne v. Hall, 7 Mich. 159.)
When writ of error proper.— The province of a writ of error is to bring
up for review final judgments and determinations and not decisions or dis
cretionary orders pending litigation. (Brady v. Railroad Co., 73 Mich. 457.)
And it is limited to the review of proceedings had according to the course

SUPREME COURT RULE 10.

171

of the common law. (Holbrook v. Cook, 5 Mich. S25; Fletcher v. Clark, 39
Mich. 374.) It is not the remedy to review a denial of leave .to appeal
from justice's court after the statutory time has elapsed (Vincent v. Bowes,
78 Mich. 315); nor the appointment of an administrator (Wooley v. Crane,
86 Mich. 360); nor the denial of a motion to quash the service of a summons
(Brady v. Railroad Co., 73 Mich. 457); nor even an order sustaining a de
murrer to the declaration when the order gives the plaintiff twenty days
to amend and that time has not expired (Clark v. North Muskegon, 83 Mich.
29); nor an order dismissing a capias and discharging the defendant from
arrest (Adams v. Church, 22 Mich. 79); nor to review the taxation of costs
(Abbott v. Matthews, 26 Mich. 176; Lorman v. Insurance Co., 33 Mich. 65);
nor to review the validity of a notice of trial (Worth v. Hand, 30 Mich.
264). But it is not necessary that the judgment should be a final deter
mination of the rights of the parties to authorize a writ of error. It is
enough if it determines the particular suit. (Hicks Case, 20 Mich. 129.)
It is proper to review by writ of error a judgment on an appeal from an
administrator's accounting. (Hall v. Grovier, 26 Mich. 429; La Bar v. Nich
ols, 22 Mich. 200; Mower's Appeal, 48 Mich. 441.) And to review the decis
ion of a circuit judge in dismissing a writ of replevin and quashing all
proceedings. (Jewell v. Lamoreaux, 30 Mich. 155.) And, it seems, to re
view the dismissal of an appeal for want of prosecution. (Willis v. Gimbert, 27 Mich. 91; McCombs v. Johnson, 47 Mich. 592.)
Writs of certiorari.— They are proper to review proceedings "that are
not according to the course of the common law." (Sec. 8691.) They may
he allowed by any supreme court justice, circuit judge or circuit court
commissioner. (Sec. 8692.) They are issued out of and returnable to the
supreme court, according to its rules. (Sec. 8691.) They must be issued
within one year after the rendition of the judgment (sec. 8693, vol. 2; sec.
8686, vol. 3; Wilson v. Gifford, 42 Mich. 456); and being discretionary they
may be denied within that time (Matter of Lantis, 9 Mich. 324; Farrel v.
Taylor, 12 Mich. 113; Wilson v. Gifford, supra), on the ground of unrea
sonable delay (Detroit v. Murphy, 95 Mich. 531 ; Kimball v. Homan, 74 Mich.
699), and generally when its issue will not promote justice. (Kimball v.
Homan, supra; Matter of Lantis, supra; Roediger v. Commissioners, 40
Mich. 745; Gager v. Supervisors, 47 Mich. 167.) The prevailing party is
entitled to costs in all cases, and double costs may be awarded for a vexa
tious issue of the writ. (Sec. 8695.)
WRITS OF ERROR IN CASE OF JOINT PARTIES PRO
CEEDING SEVERALLY.
Rule 10. In cases where the writ of error shall be brought
by one or more of several parties, such party shall, at least
fifteen days before filing his praecipe for writ of error, serve
upon the other parties against whom the judgment has been
entered a notice of his intention to apply for a writ of error;
the parties upon whom such notice is served shall, within ten

172

SUPREME COURT RULES 11, 12.

days thereafter, serve notice on such party of their intention to
join in such writ of error, or, in default thereof on filing of
praecipe for the writ of error and proof of service of such no
tice, a rule may be filed granting such parties leave to prose
cute such writ of error severally. [Substitute for former Rules
35 to 41.]
See Taff v. Hosmer, 14 Mich. 249; Stewart v. Bailey, 34 Mich. 183; Spen
cer v. Fish, 43 Mich. 228; Cole v. Thayer, 25 Mich. 211; Jackson v. Hosmer,
14 Mich. 68.
ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR IN CASES WHERE NO
BILL OF EXCEPTIONS IS SETTLED.
i23 43£~~]
132 490

Rule 11. The party suing out a writ of error shall- have
^ays after the return day mentioned therein within which
to assign error in cases where no bill of exceptions is settled.
Every assignment of error on such writ shall be special, and
no judgment or proceedings shall be reversed or annulled for
any other defect or error than such as shall be thus specially
assigned. Copies of assignments of error and of all pleadings
which may be filed in the supreme court shall be served within
the time limited for filing the same. Provided, that it shall
not be necessary to file, serve or give notice of assignments of
errors already provided for by Circuit Court Rule 47. [Sub
stitute for former Rule 12.]
See note to Circuit Court Rule 47.
CERTIORARI TO REVIEW MANDAMUS PROCEEDINGS
IN LOWER COURTS.

129 270

Rule 12. "When in any case any circuit court shall allow or
deny a writ of mandamus, the party feeling himself aggrieved
by such decision may make application to one of the justices
of this court for the allowance of a writ of certiorari, and, if
the same shall be allowed, the cause when returned into this
court may be noticed for hearing as a motion by either party
on any motion day thereafter unless otherwise ordered. [For
mer Rule 65.]
See, as to notice of hearing, Miles v. Goffinet, Iff Mich. 280.

SUPREME COURT RULES 13-15.

173

PROCEEDINGS IN MANDAMUS CASES IN THIS COURT.
Rule 13. In proceedings for mandamus, where an order to
show cause has been made, the respondent must answer fully
every material allegation of the petition ; and every material
averment not so answered may be taken admitted by the re
spondent to be true as alleged. And in case no answer is made
and filed as required by such order, the court, upon due proof
of service of the order, will award a peremptory mandamus as
prayed for, or enforce obedience to the order by process for
contempt. [Former Rule 63.]
This• rule was enforced in Grand Rapids v. Judge Superior Court, 102
Mich. 322, against the objection that it ought not to he enforced in cases
of public importance.
If the framing of an issue is not requested by the relator, the answer of
the respondent must be taken as true. (Benton Harbor v. Railway Co.,
102 Mich. 386; Detroit Co. v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 75 Mich. 360; Smith v.
Auditor-General, 80 Mich. 205; Tyler v. Oceana Supervisors, 93 Mich. 448.)
As to framing an issue and reference thereon, see, also, Haines v. Saginaw
Supervisors, 87 Mich. 237; Roscommon v. Midland Supervisors, 49 Mich.
454; Miner v. Vedder, 66 Mich. 101.
As to costs in mandamus proceedings, see Rule 49. As to opening and
closing argument in mandamus cases, see note to Rule 46.

APPEALS IN CHANCERY.
Notice Thereof — Return Thereon — Extension of Time for
Return.
Rule 14. In chancery appeals the appellant shall, within
twenty days after perfecting his appeal, give notice of such ap
peal and of the time when the appeal bond was filed, which
notice shall be served on all of the other parties, whether joint
or adverse, who have appeared in such cause, by serving a copy
of such notice on such parties or their solicitors in the court
below, and a copy of such notice with proof of service thereon
shall be filed in the clerk's office within ten days after such
service. [Substitute for former Rule 14.]
Rule 15. In all cases of appeal in chancery the register shall
transmit the record and proceedings in the court below to the

174

SUPREME COURT RULES 16, 17.

clerk of the supreme court within forty days after the filing of
the appeal bond in such case. [Substitute for former Rule 19.]
Kule 16. The time for returning the record in an appeal
case may le extended by one of the justices of the supreme court
or a circuit judge for good cause shown, and the order granting .
such extension shall be returned, with the other papers, to the
clerk of this court. Such extension shall be had only upon
proper notice to the adverse party. [See former Rule 15.]
As to motions to dismiss appeals, see Rule 8 and note; also Insurance
Co. v. Whittemore, 12 Mich. 311; Railway Co. v. Judge Recorder's Court,
89 Mich. 5.
Notice of appeal.— A delay of seven days after the expiration of the
time limited by Rule 14 in serving notice of the perfection of the appeal
is not alone a reason for dismissing the appeal, where no- harm results.
(Tucker v. Stone, 92 Mich. 298.) But an appeal was dismissed where notice
of it had never been given to all the appellees. (Grand Rapids v. Railway
Co., 95 Mich. 473.) This subject was involved in Stone v. Campbell, unre
ported, decided June term, 1896.
Extension of time for settlement of testimony beyond the statutory
period.— The statute, sec. 6647, as amended by Laws of 1895, p. 349, gives a
party sixty days after decree for the settlement of testimony for appeal,
and empowers the circuit judge to grant an extension not exceeding four
months from the date of the decree. [Who has authority to extend the
time beyond the four months? The cases of Cameron v. Calkins, 43 Mich.
191, and Railway Co. v. Judge Recorder's Court, 89 Mich. 7, would seem to
authorize the circuit judge to extend the time beyond the statutory period.
But Gram v. Wasey, 45 Mich. 224; Tilden v. Wayne Circuit Judge, 44 Mich.
515, and the unreported cases of Harrison v. Van Buren Circuit Judge (de
cided October 23, 1895), and Harrison v. Smith (decided on motion Novem
ber 20, 1895), seem to establish the rule that applications of this kind may
only be granted by the supreme court.]

CASES MADE — NOTICE OF FILING.
Rule 17. Cases made shall be filed with the clerk of this
court, and the party removing the case to this court shall cause
notice of such filing to be given to the adverse party or his at
torney in the court below within ten days after such filing, and
shall file proof of such service with the clerk of this court.
[Substitute for former Rule 22.]
See circuit court Law Rule 48 and note, for the practice on case made
prior to the filing of the same in the supreme court.

SUPREME COURT RULES 18-21.

175.

QUO WARRANTO.
Rule to Plead — Plea — Replication.
Rule 18. At the time of filing an information in the nature
of a quo warranto, the attorney-general shall file with the clerk
of this court a rule requiring the respondent to plead to such
information within twenty days after service upon him of the
summons, and a copy of such information, together with a copy
of such rule. [See former Rule 44.]
Rule 19. The respondent shall plead to such information
within twenty days after service upon him of such summons
and a copy of such information, together with a copy of such
rule, and in default thereof judgment by default may be entered.
[See former Rule 46.]
Rule 20. Within fifteen days after filing and serving such
plea, replication shall be filed thereto, when such cause shall be
deemed to be at issue. [See former Rule 47.]
See secs. 8635 et. seq., -which prescribe largely the forms of pleadings and
govern proceedings of this character. (People v. Sackett, 15 Mich. 315.)
Sec. 8636 requires the issue of the summons mentioned in Rule 18. As to
pleas in these cases, see People v. Van Cleve, 1 Mich. 364; People v. Molitor,
23 Mich. 341 ; Dullam v. Wilson, 53 Mich. 393. As to replications, see Peo
ple v. Railroad Co., 12 Mich. 389; People v. Pratt, 16 Mich. 65; People v.
Plank Road Co., 31 Mich. 179; Attorney-General v. Page, 38 Mich. 286;
Dullam v. Wilson, supra; Attorney-General v. McQuade, 94 Mich. 439. As
to rules to plead, see People v. De Mill, 15 Mich. 161.

NOTICES.
Service of Papers — Computation of Time.
Rule 21. All notices shall be in writing and shall be served
on the attorney or solicitor in the cause. Where a party, who
is also an attorney of this court, shall prosecute in person, or if
the defendant shall give notice that he is an attorney and will
defend in person, all notices and other papers shall be served
on him in like manner. And where the object is to bring a
party into contempt for disobeying any rule or order of the
court, the service shall be on such party personally unless otherwise ordered by the court. [Substitute for former Rule 3.]

176

SUPREME COURT RULES 20-26.
i
Rule 22. Notices and papers may be served on an attorney
or solicitor as follows : (a) By delivering the same to him per
sonally, (b) By leaving the same in his office with his clerk
or with a person having charge thereof, (c) When no person
is to be found in his office, by leaving the same between the
hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening in some
suitable and conspicuous place in such office. (d) If the office
be not open so as to admit of service therein, then by leaving
the same at the residence of the attorney or solicitor with some
person of suitable age and discreiion. (e) By depositing the
same in a postoffice inclosed in a sealed envelope plainly ad
dressed to such attorney or solicitor at his place of business
(according to the best possible information and belief of the per
son making the service), with postage thereon fully prepaid.
[Substitute for former Rule 4.]
Rule 23. Such service by mail shall be lawful where the attor
ney or solicitor resides in the same city, village or township, as
well as where he resides in a different city, village or township.
In case of service by mail, the time of service shall be increased
one dayfor every one hundred miles distance, or fraction thereof,
between the place of deposit and the place of address.
Rule 24. "Where a party other than an attorney of this
court prosecutes or defends in person, the service of notices and
papers shall be made in the same manner as p'rovided in this
rule ; and no service of papers in the ordinary proceedings in
a case shall be necessary to be made on a defendant who has
not appeared therein. [Substitute for former Rule 5.]
Rule 25. The day on which any rule shall be filed, or order,
notice, pleading or paper served, shall be excluded in the com
putation of time for complying with the exigency of such rule,
order or notice, pleading or paper, and the day on which a
compliance therewith is required shall be included, except where
it shall fall on Sunday, in which case the party shall have the
next day to comply therewith. When, by the terms of any
order, an act is directed to be performed instanter, it shall be
done within twenty-four hours. [Former Rule 7.]
Rule 26. In all cases where service of papers cannot reason
ably be made on account of the lack of an attorney of record,

SUPREME COURT RULES 27-29.

177

or the inability to find a party, or on account of the absence
of the attorney of record from his usual place of abode, resi
dence or office, or for any other reason, this court or one of
the justices thereof, upon an ex parte application, on cause
shown, may direct in what manner and on whom service may
be made.
See notes to circuit court Law Rules 29, 31, 35 and 36. The provisions
as to the manner of service of papers are substantially ths same as in the
lower courts.- As to the time required for notices of motions served by
mail, and notices of taxation of costs, see Rules 28 and 50, and notes thereto.

MOTIONS.
Practice on — Motion Days — Motion Docket — Argument
of — Briefs on.
Rule 27. All motions to the court shall be reduced to writing and filed with the clerk, and shall contain a brief state
ment of the grounds and objects of the motion. Fifteen min
utes on each side shall be allowed for the argument of a motion
and no more, without special leave of the court granted before
the argument begins, and only one counsel shall be heard on a
side. Provided, that no oral arguments shall be allowed on
an ex parte application or on any application for extension of
time to sue out a writ of error, or to make return to a chancery
appeal. [Substitute for former Rules 9 and 34.]
Rule 28. Notice of the arguments of motions, together with
copies thereof, and the affidavits on which they are based, shall
be served on the opposite attorney at leastfour days before the
time noticed for hearing the same, unless the attorney for the
adverse party resides outside the city of Lansing, in which case
the time of service shall be increased one day for every addi
tional one hundred miles, or fraction thereof, distance between
his place of residence and the city of Lansing. [Substitute for
former Rule 26.]
Rule 29. The motion day shall be Tuesday of each week,
on which days motions shall have preference over calendar
causes, and all special motions shall be noticed for one of these
13

Amended

178-

SUPREME COURT RULES 30, 31.

days. They shall be heard on the day for which they are no
ticed, unless adjourned over to a subsequent motion day, or
unless there is not time to hear the same on the day for which
they are noticed, in which case they shall be heard on the next
succeeding day. [Former Kule 24.]
Euxe 30. In addition to oral arguments, each party shall
submit a printed or type-written brief at the time such argument
is made.
Rule 31. The clerk shall keep a motion docket and shall
enter the motions filed under this rule on said docket in the
order in which they are delivered to him, and will, on the open
ing of the court on motion days, present such docket to the
court. Motions will be called for argument in their order, and
no motions will be entertained unless brought forward as pro
vided by these rules. [Substitute for former Rule 58.]
A motion based on the irregular action of the opposite party must be
made at the earliest opportunity, and will not be entertained after the
lapse of a term unless some very satisfactory reason is shown for the delay.
(O'Flynn v. Eagle, 7 Mich. 306.) All objections to a record as it stands at
the beginning of the term should be made then, and not by separate mo
tions made on different motion days. (Spencer v. Smith, 43 Mich. 227.)
Notice of motions.— [A reasonable interpretation of Rules 28 and 23, in
the case of service by mail of a notice of motion, would seem to require the
extra time mentioned in both rules. A different interpretation would not
enable the party notified, in every case, to reach the court on the day fixed
for the argument of the motion. The same is true of Rules 50 and 23, ap
plied to service by mail of a notice of taxation of costs.]
Costs on motions.— Are allowed the prevailing party as a matter of
course unless some special reason is shown why they should not be imposed.
(O'Flynn v. Eagle, 7 Mich. 306.) Costs of the motion will be awarded against
a party who does not appear to present or who declines to call up his own
motion. (Johnson v. Insurance Co., 11 Mich. 455; Mead v. Commissioners,
15 Mich. 518.) But counsel fees are not allowed when there has been no
appearance of counsel. (Brown v. Blanchard, 40 Mich. 61.) If the ques
tion involved is novel, costs on a motion may be withheld. (Ellis v.
Fletcher, 40 Mich. 321.) And where the motion is denied by reason of
matters occurring subsequent to its entry, costs may be awarded the mov
ing party. (Woodmansie v. Hollon, 16 Mich. 378.) Counsel fee on motions
is fixed at ten dollars by Rule 49, and the clerk's fees at two dollars by
Rule 3.
As to hearing certiorari cases as motions, see Rule 12. As to motions
to dismiss writs and appeals, see Rules 8 and 9, and notes. As to motions
for extension of time to file returns, see Rules 7 and 16.

SUPREME COURT RULES 32-34

179

TIME MAT BE SHORTENED OR EXTENDED.
Rule 32. The time limited by these rules for making motions
or applications or giving any notice or taking any action may
be shortened or extended in any case by the court or any jus
tice thereof, unless such time is limited by statute. [Former
Eule 27.]
AGREEMENTS BETWEEN COUNSEL.
Rule 33. No private agreement or consent between the
parties or their attorneys in respect to the proceedings in a
cause shall be binding unless evidence thereof shall be in writ
ing, subscribed by the party or his attorney against whom the
same shall be alleged, and filed in the office of the clerk. [Sub
stitute for former Rule 6.]
See circuit court Law Rule 39, and note, for the interpretation of this rule.

NOTICE OF ARGUMENT OF CAUSE.
When May be Given — Length of Notice.
Rule 34. After the record of an appeal case has been filed,
and the time for filing the same has elapsed, and after the filing
of a case made or the return to a writ of error, or issue joined
in cases requiring a formal issue, either party may notice the
cause for hearing. Said notice shall be given at least thirty days
before the first day of the term at which the argument is desired.
[Substitute for former Rule 21.]
[The requirement of a thirty-day notice of argument was necessary in
order to frame a practicable rule on the subject of service of records and
briefs. See Rules 35 to 48. If a cause is noticed for argument as soon as
ready to be noticed, this new rule will cause but little delay in any case.]

180

SUPREME COURT RULES 35-38.
PRINTED RECORDS.

Requirements in Respect to Form and Contents — When to
be Printed, Served and Filed.
Rule 35. The party removing a cause into the supreme
court by writ of error, appeal, certiorari, case made or other
wise, shall prepare a printed record for the use of court and
counsel, which shall contain all of the testimony and so much
of the pleadings, record and proceedings (and no more) as are
necessary to present the questions raised. All records, argu
ments and briefs printed for the use of this court shall be iu
small pica type, twenty-four pica " ems " to a line, thirty-five
lines to a page, leaded with four-to-pica leads. The record
shall have a suitable cover containing the title of the court and
cause and the court from which the case is brought into this
court; the size of the pages of the records and briefs to be
nine and one-quarter by six and one-quarter inches. [From
former Rule 31.] .
Rule 36. The record shall contain a complete index of the
names of the witnesses whose testimony appears in such record,
and the pages whereon the examination, cross-examination or
re-examination is found; also the pages whereon any exhibit
appears, and in cases at law, the page of the record where any
exception relied on may be found. [From former Eule 61.]
Rule 37. Whenever any record in a case at law brought up
on writ of error or case made is so prolix as to cause vexation
by reason of the multiplicity of frivolous assignments, or by
any other abuse, it shall be within the discretion of the court
to grant such costs against the prevailing party who is respon
sible for such abuse as may offset in whole or in part the
costs to which he would otherwise be entitled. [From former
Eule 59.]
Rule 38. In all cases the appellant shall cause the record to
be printed as soon as practicable after the filing of the return
in this court; and as soon as the printing is completed, the ap
pellant shall serve on the appellee at least two copies of the
printed record, and, before the first day of the term at which
the cause shall be noticed for argument, the appellant shall file

SUPREME COURT RULE 39.

181

with the clerk of this court at least twelve printed copies thereof.
In any case the appellant shall cause the printed record to be
served upon the appellee within thirty days after the filing of
the return in this court, and within the time allowed by rule for
the service of the first brief, unless further time therefor shall
be granted. Provided, that this shall not be construed to give
to the appellant thirty days in every case, but only so much
time as is reasonably necessary after the filing of the return in
this court.
If the appellant shall fail to print and serve the record within
the time above required, or within such further time as shall
be granted on motion, the court may, on motion of the appellee,
dismiss the case and award costs to the appellee, or further
time may be granted for compliance with said requirements,
on such terms as shall be proper. If the appellant shall fail to
have the printed record filed before the first day of the term
for which the cause is regularly noticed for argument, the cause
shall be stricken from the calendar on the first day of the term,
and further dealt with as justice may require. [Substitute for
portion of former Rule 59.]
Rule 39. Two copies of the printed record and brief shall
be served on the attorney-general in all state or criminal cases
at least twenty days before the first day of the term at which
such cause is to be heard. [Substitute for former Rule 30.]
Cause stricken from docket with full costs as for a hearing, for failure
to serve the printed record in due time. (Mawich v. Elsey, 47 Mich. 10.)
Writ of error dismissed and judgment of lower affirmed, on motion, for
failure of appellant at two terms to file printed record and brief. (Beadle
v. Cedar Co., unreported, decided June term, 1896.) See Spencer v. Smith,
43 Mich. 227, mentioned in note to Rule 31.
Where the record is printed solid and in such small type as to make its
reading exceedingly difficult, the appellant will not be allowed costs.
(Davidson v. Bennett, 84 Mich. 616.)
Where the record and appellant's brief are printed and served at the
same time, it is a good method for appellant to inclose in brackets in
the printed record the clauses of the charge which are objected to, and
to refer to them in the assignments of error by the number of each
bracket in the record. " It saves printing the portions objected to in full
and also much hunting to find such portions." (Dikeman v. Arnold, 83
Mich. 222.)
Index, to record.— In Pease v. Munro, 83 Mich. 477, the case, which had
been twice tried, was dismissed in the supreme court for failure to furnish
the index. In Westfall v. Board, 93 Mich. 210, it was held that no costs

Amended
129 XXXV

182

SUPREME COURT RULES 40, 41.

will be allowed for printing the record when it contains no index. Same
held in McCelland v. Cook, 94 Mich. 533. Held, that assignments of error
mentioned in appellant's brief will not be considered where the excep
tions on which they are based are not indexed, nor the pages of the rec
ord where they may be found referred to either in the assignments or
brief. (Reeder v. Munroe, 95 Mich. 595.) If the exceptions are indexed,
the brief need not cite the page of the record. (Dake Co. v. Hurley, 99
Mich. 16.)
PRINTED BRIEFS.
What to Contain — When to be Served — When to be Filed.
Rule 40. The brief of a party bringing a cause into this
court shall contain a clear and concise statement of the facts of
the case, distinct from argument, and of the errors upon which
he relies, the questions involved, and the manner in which
they are raised. The court will consider such statement suffi
cient and accurate unless the opposite party shall point out in
his brief wherein the statement is insufficient or inaccurate.
[From former Rule 61.]
Rule 41. Two copies of the appellant's brief shall be served
upon the appellee as soon as printed and at least twenty days
before the first day of the term at which the cause is regularly
noticed for hearing. Two copies of the appellee's brief shall
be served upon the appellant as soon as printed and at least
five days before the first day of the term at which the cause is
regularly noticed for hearing. Provided, however, that if the
printed record and appellant's brief shall be served thirty days
before the first day of the term, the appellee's brief shall be
served at least fifteen days before the first day of the term.
In chancery appeals, when the complainant is also appellant,
the foregoing shall apply. In chancery appeals heard on plead
ings, or on pleadings and proofs, when the complainant is ap
pellee, his brief shall be served on the defendant at least fifteen
days before the first day of the term at which the cause is reg
ularly noticed for hearing (or within ten days after service of
the printed record by appellant, if the same is not served at
least twenty-five days before the first day of the term), and the
appellant's brief shall be served at least five days before the
first day of the term (or within ten days after the service of
complainant's brief).

SUPREME COURT RULE 42.

183

The briefs above mentioned shall fairly present the cause on
each side. Supplemental briefs may be printed and served at
any time before the cause is placed upon the call for argument,
but subsequently by special permission of the court only. If
the brief of either party is not served within the time above
required, the opposite party may, at his option, on the first
day of the term, have the cause placed at the foot of the cal
endar or continued, and the court may ia proper cases order
the payment of a counsel fee by the party in default. [Substi
tute for portion of former Rule 59.]
Rule 42. Twelve copies of all briefs shall be filed at least
forty-eight hours before the case has been placed on call ; and
no oral argument will be heard on behalf of a party failing to
comply with this provision. [From former Rule 59.]
The requirements in the appellant's original brief.— Only such points
as counsel make and rely on for reversal in their original brief will be con
sidered by the court in disposing of the case (Black v. Dawson, 82 Mich.
485; Sullivan v. Hall, 86 Mich. 7; Lynch v. Craney, 95 Mich. 200; Graves
v. Battle Creek, 95 Mich. 266), even though additional errors may be as
signed and orally argued. (Lacas v. Railway Co., 92 Mich. 417.) If appel
lant's brief contains no argument on certain assignments of error, counsel
for appellee are not called upon to argue such assignments in their brief.
And although appellant's counsel states that such other assignments are
not waived, still if not argued orally at the hearing by appellant the court
will treat them as waived. (Ashman v. Railroad Co., 90 Mich. 570.) And
where appellant's brief is devoted largely to the discussion of the main
question and simply refers, without discussion, to the remaining questions,
the court is not called upon to elaborate upon the latter. (French v. Ryan,
104 Mich. 625.) The rule above stated was applied to a brief in a man
damus case. (Feek v. Township Board, 82 Mich. 393.) The assignments of
error of one of two appellants, who presents no brief, will not be consid
ered. (Busch v. Fisher, 89 Mich. 193.)
Attention should be called in the appellant's brief to the page of the
record where an exception to the ruling on evidence appears, unless the
.exceptions are indexed under the rule. (Revised Rule 36; Dake Co. v.
Hurley, 99 Mich. 19; Zimmerman v. Dolph, 104 Mich. 282.) And the brief
should, in order to comply with the rule (Revised Rule 40), contain enough
to point out in what it is claimed the error consists. (See Mason v. Partrick,
100 Mich. 580.)
Motion by appellee to dismiss writ of error for failure of appellant to
serve brief was granted unless $10 attorney fee paid in five days, cause to
«tand for hearing at present term. Cause had been once stricken from
previous calendar for delay of appellant. (Connell v. McNett, unreported,

Amended
134 XXXII

184

SUPREME COURT RULES 43, 44

decided June term, 1896.) Motion to strike case from docket for failure of
appellant to seasonably serve copy of brief, granted in Kirt v. Kropp, un
reported, decided June term, 1896.

THE CALENDAR.
Priority of Cases on — Notes of Issue — Stipulations to
Place Lower Down.
Rule 43. Writs of error and certiorari, appeals in chancery,
cases made, bill of exceptions in criminal cases, and all other
cases which are to be heard on the merits, are calendar causes,
and to be heard at any term must be placed on the calendar
for that term. Criminal cases may be placed on the calendar
during the first two weeks of term by consent of the attorneygeneral. [Substitute for former Rule 25.]
Rule 44. The priority of causes on the calendar as first
made shall depend upon the date of filing notice of hearing
with the clerk. The party noticing a cause for hearing shall,
at least twenty days hefore the first day of the term for which
the same is noticed for hearing, give notice to the clerk to place
such cause on the calendar for the term. No cause shall be
entered on the calendar by the clerk until the return, record
on appeal, case made, or exceptions in criminal cases shall have
been filed in this court, nor without the notice to the clerk
hereinbefore mentioned. Upon filing stipulation with the clerk
on the forenoon of the first day of the term, cases may be placed
lower down on the calendar and grouped to suit the conven
ience of counsel. After such re-arrangement of causes by the
clerk, no further changes can be made by counsel, except to
continue or place at the foot of the calendar. In cases where-

SUPREME COURT RULES 45-17.

185-

ARGUMENT OF CAUSES.
Call of Cases Each Day — Time Allowed on Argument —
Submission on Briefs.
Rule 45. The court, on the first day of each term, after
motions are disposed of, will commence calling the cases for
argument in the order in which they stand on the calendar as
re-arranged, and proceed from day to day during the term in
the same order, and if the parties, or either of them, shall be
ready when the case is called, the same will be heard; and if
neither party shall be ready to proceed in the argument the
cause will go over the term, unless the court, on cause shown,
shall order otherwise. Fifteen cases only shall be considered
liable to be called on each day during the term, including the
one under argument, if the same shall not have been concluded
on the preceding day. No cause shall be taken up out of its
order, or set down for a particular day, except under special
and peculiar circumstances to be shown to the court. On mo
tion days, motions will take precedence of calendar causes.
[Former Rule 42 amended.]
Rule 46. In the argument of calendar causes two counsel
may be heard on a side. The time allowed for argument on
each side shall not exceed one hour unless by special permission,
of the court on cause shown granted before argument begins.
[Former Rule 34.]
Rule 47. Any cause may be submitted upon briefs by stip
ulation at any time. [From former Rule 59.]
Submission of causes on briefs is authorized by sec. 6423. On the hear
ing of an application for mandamus, the party showing cause is entitled
to open and close the argument. (Board v. Treasurer, 8 Mich. 392.) But,
it seems, when the relator demurs to the respondent's answer, the relator
has the affirmative and the opening and closing argument. (Harrington,
v. Wands, 23 Mich. 385.)
Rule 47 and sec. 6423 allow the submission of causes on briefs.

j

119 599

186

SUPREME COURT RULES 48-50.

COSTS.
Taxation of — Counsel Fees Allowed.
Rule 48. The necessary expense of printing the record and
brief required by these rules may be taxed as disbursements in
favor of the party prevailing in the cause. [Former Eule 33.]
Rule 49. A counsel fee shall be awarded to the prevailing
party unless otherwise ordered by the court (excepting in crim
inal cases), in addition to such other costs as such party may
be entitled to, as follows :
(a) On motions which do not finally dispose of the case, ten
dollars; (b) on mandamus and certiorari, heard as motions,
fifteen dollars ; (c) on motions which finally dispose of the case,
twenty dollars ; (d) on calendar causes, thirty dollars. [Substi
tute for former Rule 48.]
Rule 50. Costs shall be taxed by the clerk upon notice of
not less thanfour days. If the party upon whom such notice
is served shall reside outside the city of Lansing, the time of
service of such notice shall be increased one day for every addi
tional one hundred miles distance, or fraction thereof, between
his place of residence and the city of Lansing. Provided, that
no notice need be given of more than ten days. Such notice
shall be accompanied by a copy of the bill proposed to be taxed
and the affidavits to be read in support thereof. [Substitute
for former Rule 51.]
As to taxation of cost of a copy of the stenographer's minutes used in
settling bill of exceptions, see note to circuit court Law Rule 47. As to
costs on motions, see note to Rules 27-31. As to the length of a notice of
taxation, see note to Rules 27-31.
Cost of copy of record for printer.— In Inkster v. Carver, 17 Mich. 64, it
was held that the actual expense of making a transcript of the record for
the printer, where the rules require printing, is a proper charge, if made in
good faith for that purpose, even though made by some other person than
the clerk of the court. In Botsford v. Murphy, 48 Mich. 642, held, that the
charge for obtaining a copy of the record for the printer is a proper item
in taxing costs in cases at law. In Thurston v. Luce, 61 Mich. 486, the
.original bill of exceptions was prepared by a stenographer, who made three
.copies of the same, for which she was paid five cents a folio for the orig
inal and one cent a folio for each copy. Held, that the copy for the printer
should have been allowed only at one-half of one cent a folio, and not one

SUPREME COURT RULE 50.

187

tialf of five cents a folio. "The preparing of the original bill of exceptions
could not be taxed, and the copy of the same furnished to the printer must
be taxed at its cost." In Maltby v. Plummer, 73 Mich. 539, it is said to be
the duty of the appellant to make two copies of a bill of exceptions, one
for filing and one for service, and the appellee's copy having been borrowed
and used for the printer, taxation of the cost thereof was disallowed, and
the actual cost only of a copy of the balance of the record for the printer
was allowed. In Maxwell v. Bay City Co., 42 Mich. 67, taxation of the cost
of maps, etc., used in getting up the record was refused on the ground
that the affidavit was not sufficiently specific to support the items, under
S3C. 9002, How. Stat.
Cost of printing, and herein of printing unnecessary portions of the
record.— The price for printing should be limited to the customary rate,
unless the clerk is satisfied that the party, in good faith, has paid or prom
ised to pay more. " Charges throughout the state are not expected to be
uniform, and counsel has a right to have the printing done where it will
be convenient for him to look after the printer's proofs." (Dickinson v.
Seaver, 44 Mich. 633.) The price at which the record " could be printed "
controlled in Sanford v. Rowley, 93 Mich. 509. The court will not interfere
with the printing of briefs unless it is manifest that counsel has not acted
in good faith, and unnecessarily extended his brief for the purpose of add
ing to the costs, which " would be unlikely to happen in any case." (Roby
Co. v. Gray, 73 Mich. 363.) Under Rule 37 the court will, in proper cases,
disallow the appellant's expense of printing the testimony of witnesses
upon which no questions were raised in the court below, and other unnec
essary and useless portions of the record, after inquiry as to who is respon
sible therefor. (See Roby Co. v. Gray, 73 Mich. 365; Thurston v. Luce, 61
Mich. 292; Walkley v. Bostwick, 49 Mich. 374; Rice v. Rice, 50 Mich. 448;
Wilson v. Railroad Co., 57 Mich. 155.) Where there was a conflict as to
who was responsible for the unnecessarily long record, a deduction was
not ordered on reversal. (Delong v. Booming Co., 88 Mich. 282.) And where
unnecessary matter was included in the record at the request of the pre
vailing party and against the other party's objection, the expense thereof
was deducted from the costs taxed to the former. (Chadwick v. Walsh,
70 Mich. 627.) In a chancery appeal, discussions of objections to testimony
taken before a commissioner should not, it seems, be printed. A statement
of the objections and the reasons for them, in the simplest and shortest
way, is sufficient. (Hilliker v. Coleman, 73 Mich. 170.) For other cases
where the unnecessary printing of remarks of counsel and the court and
of unnecessary testimony influenced costs, see Turner v. Machine Co., 97
Mich. 177; Davison v. Shanahan, 93 Mich. 486; Sanford v. Rowley. 93 Mich.
509; Maxted v. Fowler, 94 Mich. 107; Sager v.Tupper,38 Mich. 259; Maltby
v. Plummer, 73 Mich. 539. The early case of Wilson v. Wilson, 6 Mich. 272,
is overruled by many later cases and by Rules 35 and 37.
Taxation of counsel fees.— Is improper when there has been no appear
ance of counsel. (Brown v. Blanchard, 40 Mich. 61.) But when the cause is
submitted on briefs it is not treated as an ex parte submission, and costs
as for a full hearing are taxable. (Engle v. Hall, 45 Mich. 57.) And coun
sel who have prepared for hearing are not deprived of their right to the

188

SUPREME COURT RULE 50.

full counsel fee by the mere fact that the case is disposed of on grounds
not raised in the argument. (Bates v. Desenburg, 47 Mich. 643.) Counsel
fees are not taxable if counsel has neither presented his brief to the court
nor served it in advance of the hearing on the other side, even if in fact
he has printed it. (Case v. Dewey, 55 Mich. 117.) Counsel fee allowed as
for a hearing at a term where counsel appeared for argument and the
moving party obtained a continuance. (Evans v. Sutherland, 41 Mich. 177.
See, also, Clark v. Sable, 44 Mich. 1.) Denied where the appellee filed no
brief and the decree was affirmed. (Sawtelles v. Howard, 104 Mich. 54.)
Taxation by the clerk and review thereof.— The clerk cannot pass on
the question whether the record is unduly prolix and make deductions
therefor. It rests with the court, and this is usually disposed of when the
case is decided. (Van Deusen v. Newcomer, 40 Mich. 525.) Such questions
should be raised at the hearing and not by motion for a re-taxation of the
costs. (Sanford v. Rowley, 93 Mich. 509, citing Roby Co. v. Gray, 73 Mich.
363.) The court will not review disputed matters of fact, passed on by the
clerk in taxing costs, " unless under very peculiar circumstances." Said
in a case involving an alleged exorbitant charge for printing. (Arnold v.
Bright, 41 Mich. 416.)
Costs generally.— Where the judgment of the lower court is reversed
" with costs " and a new trial ordered, the appellant's costs of the lower
court cannot be taxed. Unless otherwise specially directed, they must
abide the result of the new trial. (Lester v. Sutton, 7 Mich. 329; Jeffrey
v. Hursh, 58 Mich. 247.) If the judgment of the lower court is reversed
" with costs of both courts," it means the costs in the supreme court and
the particular trial below wherein the judgment was reversed, and does
not include a previous trial below, if more than one. (Jeffrey v. Hursh, 58
Mich. 247.)
If both parties bring error or appeal and the judgment or decree is af
firmed, no costs are allowed (Dayton v. Dayton, 68 Mich. 437; Thayer v.
Grand Rapids, 82 Mich. 298); or if the result below is in the nature of a
mistrial. (Rayl v. Hammond's Estate, 95 Mich. 22; Adams v. Champion,
31 Mich. 233; Demill v. Moffatt, 45 Mich. 410; Watts v. Boom Co., 47 Mich.
540; Wildey v. Insurance Co., 49 Mich. 264.) For cases showing that costs
in the supreme court, even in law cases, are often governed by the special
circumstances of each case, see Hall v. Insurance Co., 90 Mich. 403; Snell
v. Race, 78 Mich. 334; Bourgette v. Williams, 73 Mich. 208; Machine Co.
v. Bothane, 70 Mich. 443; Muskegon v. Martin Co., 86 Mich. 625; Wheeler
v. Meyer, 101 Mich. 465; Crittenden v. Schermerhorn, 35 Mich. 370; Singer
Co. v. Benjamin, 55 Mich. 330; Barnard v. Colwell, 39 Mich. 215; Stebbins
v. Field, 41 Mich. 373; Smith's Estate, 60 Mich. 136; Erickson v. Iron Co.,
50 Mich. 604; Clark v. Wiles, 54 Mich. 324.
And in chancery appeals, costs are discretionary. (See v. Derr, 57 Mich.
369; Kent Society v. Houseman, 81 Mich. 609; Lambert v. Weber, 83 Mich.
395, Newkirk v. Newkirk,' 56 Mich. 525; Fredenburg v. Turner, 37 Mich.
402; McCurdy v. Clark, 27 Mich. 445; Johnson v. Rose, 50 Mich. 334; Port
Huron v. Chadwick, 52 Mich. 320; Howe v. Lemon, 37 Mich. 164; McKenna
v. Kirkwood, 50 Mich. 544; Insurance Co. v. Conant, 40 Mich. 530; Newark
Church v. Clark, 41 Mich. 730.) And also in cases of partial affirmance of

SUPREME COURT RULE 51.

189

law cases. (Machine Co. v. Bothane, 70 Mich. 443.) And affirmance by
equal division of the court. (Clark v. Mitchell, 48 Mich. 200; Whiting v. ,
Butler, 29 Mich. 122; Ludington v. Melendy, 44 Mich. 560; Crookshank
•Cases, 58 Mich. 107.)|

APPLICATIONS FOR REHEARINGS.
Costs on Denial.
Kule 51. No application for rehearing will be considered
by the court unless the moving party, at as early a date as may
be practicable, shall cause any papers upon which it is based,
together with his reasons for granting the same, to be printed,
and twelve copies thereof to be tiled with the clerk of this court,
nor unless a copy thereof shall be served upon the counsel for
the opposite party. Proof of this service shall also be filed
with the clerk, and the court, after the expiration of not less
than four days from such service, will examine the papers, and
without further argument, unless specially ordered, will pass
upon the application. The party opposing will be at liberty to
file with the clerk his objections to the application, either
printed or type-written, as he may prefer, at any time before
the application is decided. In motions for rehearing, if denied,
the opposing party shall be entitled to tax a motion fee offif
teen dollars and the expense of printing a brief, if one has been
furnished. [Former Kule 62.]
Sec. 6408 seems to require a rehearing or re-argument "if the court is of
opinion that a certain point or legal proposition is involved, which is mate
rial to the decision of the case and which has not been raised or argued by
counsel on either side."
"It is questionable how far rehearing can be allowed on alleged mistakes
of judgment in an appellate court." (Thompson v. Denison, 40 Mich. 526.)
" The case must be an extraordinary one in which an appellate court can
properly revoke its decision on any other ground " than a peculiar assump
tion or defect on the first hearing. (Brown v. Brown, 64 Mich. 83.) Ques
tions disposed of on a former appeal of the cause are res adjudicata and
cannot be re-argued on a second appeal. If a re-argument was desired, a
motion for a rehearing was necessary. (McDonald v. McKinnon, 104 Mich.
429.)
For cases where the motion was based on a' showing of new facts, and
was denied, see Taylor v. Boardman, 24 Mich. 287; Case v. Case, 26 Mich.
493; Savings Bank v. Truesdail, 38 Mich. 431. See, also, note to Chancery
Rules 25 ahd 27.
For cases where the motion was based on the ground that the court mis-

190

SUPREME COURT RULE 53.

apprehended the facts, and where the motion was denied, see Vanneter v..
Crossman, 39 Mich. 611; Wood v. Truax, 39 Mich. 630; Smith v. Walked 57
Mich. 484; Johnston v. Davis, 61 Mich. 278; Rossman v. Rossman, 62 Mich.
439; Brown v. Brown, 64 Mich. 82. On such motions, affidavits explana
tory of the facts will not be considered. The record must control. (Vanneter v. Crossman, supra.) And generally arguments on the merits are
improper on a motion for rehearing, being proper only if the rehearing is
granted. (Kraft v. Raths, 45 Mich. 21.)
When a rehearing will not he granted.— It seems, it will be denied
when based on a request for opportunity to argue a question raised by the
-record but not argued before, and which, though not discussed in the opin
ion, was the subject of deliberation and investigation by the court, and the
briefs on the motion do not present the matter in any different light.
(Hutchins v. Kimmel, 31 Mich. 127. See, also, Thompson v. Denison, 40
Mich. 526, and McLean v. Scripps, 52 Mich. 256, to same effect.) And when
in deciding the case the court had considered the questions raised. (Kraft
v. Raths, 45 Mich. 21.) It will not be granted on the ground that a change
in the membership of the court has taken place or is about to take place.
(Peoples v. Evening News, 51 Mich. 21.) Nor on the ground of relationship
between one of the judges and one of the attorneys. (Maclean v. Scripps,
52 Mich. 215, 256.) Nor when a rehearing involves the consideration of
gains and losses of parties engaged in fraudulent transactions. (Reeg v.
Burnham, 55 Mich. 56.) Nor when only details are involved which may be
determined on the settlement of the decree. (Morgan v. Railroad Co., 57
Mich. 456.) It will be denied unless attention is directed either to a mis
application of the law or to something overlooked material to a proper
disposition of the case. (Smith v. Walker, 57 Mich. 457, 484.) And unless
there has been some peculiar assumption or defect on the first hearing by
which the court and parties have been misled. (Brown v. Brown, 64 Mich.
83.) And when a rehearing ought not to change the result. (Cobbs v. Fire
Ass'n, 68 Mich. 467.) And when the parties have not seen that the case
was properly presented in the printed record and briefs. (Auditor-General
v. Hill, 98 Mich. 329.) " They must generally be denied unless new evidence
has been found since the decision of the case of such a nature as to require
consideration." (Thompson v. Denison, 40 Mich. 526.) And then, it seems,
the cause will be remanded to the court below with directions for a rehear
ing there. (Adams v. Field, 25 Mich. 16; Sherwood v. Savings Bank, 104
Mich. 65.)
Costs on rehearing.— Will not be granted when the rehearing was or
dered by the court on its own motion. (Gould v. Insurance Co., 90 Mich.
308.)
FINAL PROCESS.
Rule 52. Final process to which any party may be entitled
upon a judgment or decree of this court shall be issued by the
clerk and made returnable not less than twenty nor more than
ninety days from the time of its issue. [Substitute for former
Rule 49.]

SUPREME COURT RULES 53, 54

191

Sec. 6401 confers upon the supreme court the power to issue various
enumerated writs " and all other original and remedial writs which may
be necessary for the due execution of the law and the administration of
justice and the full and perfect exercise of its jurisdiction." Sec. 6410
provides that all its writs and process shall be styled " In the name of the
People of the State of Michigan," and shall run into and be executed in
any county of the state, and that the court seal impressed on the writ or
process shall be conclusive evidence that it was issued by the court, in all
cases where it may be lawfully issued. As to the importance of the style of
the process, see note to circuit court Law Rule 1.
SUGGESTION OF DEATH.
Rule 53. When after the death of one party to a judgment
without survivors, and before his representatives have revived
the same, the adverse party sues out a writ or error from this
court, no notice need be given of such issue until the same is
returned. But the appellant or the representatives of the ad
verse party to the judgment may, at any time after such re
turn, file an affidavit of such death and of the appointment of
such representatives and thereupon suggest the same of record.
And the time for assigning errors, except as provided in circuit
court Rule 47 shall not begin to run until said appellant shall
make such suggestion, or until he is notified of such suggestion,
if made by such representative. [Former Rule 56.]
A writ of error in ejectment was dismissed because defendant was dead
when the writ issued and the heirs had been brought in instead of the ad
ministrators as representative of the deceased defendant. (Hoffman v..
Harrington, 41 Mich. 223.)
See circuit court Law Rule 44 (c) and note.

WHEN RULES TAKE EFFECT.
Repealing Clause.
Rule 54. These rules shall take effect January 1st, 1897, as
to all causes commenced on or after that date, and also as toany cause removed to this court previous to that date as far as
concerns proceedings therein subsequent to the date when the
same shall be ready to be noticed for argument. All rules not
herein contained are hereby repealed, except as above provided.

