RULES AND ORDERS IN CHHCERY.

Rl'nl 1. No person shall be permitted to practice as a Solicitor Noperao-to
pruhcc

or Counsellor in Chancery without a regular admirion and license -llhl,attt
either by the Supreme Court, or any of the Circuit Courts—snd mmto obtain such admission, and license ; the person applying must
be examined before such Court on a special order for such exami

nation previously obtained, and to entitle the applicant to an order

\

for examination as Solicitor or Counsellor, he must be an Attorney

and Counsellor of the Supreme Court of this State.
Rt- alt 2. Every Solicitor shall have an agent at the county seat Em; mu '
in each county of this State where a Circuit Court is estahlished,:::ir‘i.ll."
except in the county where such Solicitor keeps his oﬂice. The
Register, Deputy Register and practisigg Solicitors, or any other
person specially authorized by the court may be such agents; but
the agent must have an oﬂicc, or a regular and known place of
businese, within two miles of the register‘s oﬂice in the city or town

for which he is appointed agent. The appointment of an agent
ahall bein writing, signed by the solicitor, andlspccifying his place
of residence. It shall be ﬁled with the register at the place for
g which the appointment is made; who shall keep in his oﬂice a list
of such agents, with the names and residence of the solicitors ap
pointing them.

Ru: 3. When the solicitors for advelse parties do not reside in tyne. .H-s
Y
Q
the same county, service of papers may be made on an agent. lfuumthrm-Lat

the solicitor does not reside at the place where the court is holden,
Q9“

183862
-¢_

P

CHANCERY nuns.

\

H -0 ‘mm in the circuit in which the cause is pending, and has no agent there
.3‘! service of a notice or other paper may be made by putting it into
"UL
the post oﬁce at that place, directed to such solicitor at his place
of residence, tobe ascertained according to the’best inforniation
and belief of the person making the affidavit of service.

Notice

of the ﬁling of all pleadings shall be given to the adverse partyI
except when otherwise provided by these rules, within lie time
limited for ﬁling the same. But no service of notice in the ordi
nary proceedings in a cause, shall be necessasy to be made on a
defendant who has not appeared therein.

“’

mm mm Runs 4. When the service is on an agent, or by putting in the
m
'post olice for want of an agent, it must be double the time of ser
ill“

vice which would bsrequisite if the service was on the solicitor in

person. And if the solicitor resides more than one hundred miles
fromthe agent or oﬂiee where the service is made, the time of
such service shall in no case be less than ﬁﬁeen days. Notices and
other papers may, in the absence of a solicitor or agent them his
oﬁce, be served by leaving the same with his clerk or law partner
in such oﬁce, or with a person having charge thereof; and if no
person is found in the oﬂiee. by leaving are same, between the
="::i.>c-i hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a suitable

-mi

and conspicuous place in suehoﬁce; or if the oﬁce be not open
so as to admit of service therein, then by leaving the same at the
residence of the solicitor or agent, with some person of suitable

a
\

Address of

age and discretion.

Runs 5. All bills and petitions hereather to be ﬁled in any of the

:'un:uud W circuit courts shall be addressed ; " To the circuit court for the
C,“ H d " county of

W

, in chancery,"

and the caption

of decrees shall be as follows, viz: "State of Michigan, the Circuit
" Court for the county of

" court held at

, in chancery.-At a session of said

, on the

day of

" thousand eight hundred and forty'

, in the year one

-

“ Present-Hon.

" Circuit Judge."
I
The caption of orders made by injunction masters shall be as '
follows : '

" State of Michigan,

Judicial Circuit, in Chanc.ery.—

cmmcnav RULES.

Q
.

“ Sait pending in the circuit court for the county of
" chancery; at
on the
day of

, in whim of .
A. D. 184 p
D

“ It is ordered, kc."
Bra: 6.

In all cases motions shall be made, and petitions pre' Mod

M

sented, on the day for which it is noticed, if the party has an oppor' '; ':::¢ﬁ;;'I
tunity to be heard on that day, unless the court or injunction master ‘''’‘‘l' “"1
shall otherwise direct. And if there is not suﬂieient timb to ﬁnish are nout' cd
the business noticed for any regular motion day, it may be contin

ued from day to day until it is completed; or it may be adjourned
to some subsequent day.
When regular notice of an application has been given for any I-ii;-L01»
motion day, if the injunction master is unable to attend on the day Si: Emu
appointed, the case shall stand over of course, until the nest regu
ar motion day, when it may be brought on without further notice.

RULE 7. In all cases whele the complainant or complainants are
not residents of this state before process shall issue, a bond in the

penal sum of one hundred dollars shall be ﬁled with the register, to

be apploved of by him, conditioned to pay all such cost as shall be
decreed against the complainant ingsuch case.
Ru: 8. Bills in which the answer of the several defendants on Bmnobe
oath
or in iscase
not waived,shall
of his absence
be v'eriﬁed
from theby
state,
the oath
or other
of the
suﬂicient
complainsnh
cause
shown, by the oath of his agent, attorney or solicitor.

RULI: 9. In bills answers and petitions, which are to be veriﬁed “mm M .
by the odh of the party, the several matters stated, charged, aver

red', admitted, or denied, shall be stated positively, or upon infor''""' “'
mation or belief only, according to the fact.

The oath administer

ed to the party shall be in substance, that he has read the bill, an

swer, or petition. or has heard it read, and knows the contents
thereof, and that the same is true of his own lmowledgn, except as
- to the matters which are therein stated to be on his information orhe “"""" "‘
jurat.

belief. and as to those matters, he believes it to be true;

and the

'ubstance of the oath shall he stated in the jurat.
Rim! 10. All process, ilnless otherwise directed, shall be made

returnable on a day certain (except Sunday) either in vacation or in cers
term,not
not execuled
less.than before
ten daysthefrom
return
theday,
issuing
new thereof,
process and
mayifbe
prm
ta '

.

CHANCE'RY RULES.
ken out, of course, as often as may be necessary, or an alias, or
plwies may be issued.

.

.Rl..t,r. 11. The names of all the defendants in a cause shall be

"“"’I"""."inserted in the subpcena.
how served.

lt may be served by deliveiing acopy of

the, writ subscribed by the complainant, his solicitor, or the oﬂicer
or person serving the same, and inscribed“ copy," and showingthe
original,nndert.he seal of the court, at the time of stich delivery tothe

defe-udant,or in case ofhis absence to his wife or servantor some mem
ber of his family, at his dwelling'house or place ofabode.

The ser

vice may be on or before the return day mentioned in the subpuma.

,,ubPm“
Ross 12. Upon the return of the subpoena served, as directed in
;'§1;''* the preceding rule, the defendant shall cause his appearance to be
entered in twenty days from the return day of said writ, and if he
does not require a copy of the bill as hereinafter provided, he shall
answer within the same time, or in default, his appearance may be
. To appear in

'.‘;“''l:'r"r{""n':_{.' entered by the register and the bill of complaint taken as confessed;
day of ants

if a copy of the hill is required he shall answerin twenty days from
Answer in
,,,.,,,,,,,
,|_.,,, the service of such copy, or the bill may be taken as confessed.
IKIMI.

Rue 13. When the subpoena has been personally served, and
for ‘he defendant shall fail to appear and answer within the time limited
attachment.

for the same, the complainant may upon ﬁling an aﬂidavit that a dis
covery as to the matters charged in the bill is necessary, move the
court for an attachment against such defendant or defendants, with
out further notice.

Run: 14. 1f the defendant appears personally, or is brought in
A di-fix!’-at to coult by the sheriff, on the return of an attachment for not ap
IIHIII l

I

whil sv'

peering or not answeling, he shall enter his'appearance or put in
his answer, and pay the costs incurred by his contempt, instanter

pl-arlnoe.

.

.

’

P” or within suchtime as the court shall appomt, or be committed un
til he complies.

Orthe complainant may have an order that the

bill be taken as confessed, and that the defendantbe committed until
the costs are paid;

Run: 15. When the defendant has appeared,he may have an or' '
uni... ml der of course, that the complainant deliver a copy of the bill to the

:ll::I'nNl';:lIlIl,l:'l!- defendant or his solicitor in ﬁfteen days, and if such copy is not de
Liiiw um“ lived within ﬁfteen days aﬂcr the service bl notice of such order, or

within such fulther time as may be allowed for that purpose, the

CHANCERY RULES.

'

7

defondant, on filing an aﬂirlavit of the service ot such notice, and

that no copy of the bill has been served, may have a decree dis
mbingthe snit, withcosta, for want of prosecution.

Rear: 16. ll‘ the complainant requires a copy of the defcridanfs
answer, he may have an order of course, that he put in his answer, C0”, of m,

and serve a copy thereof in twenty days alter notice'of the olden :.'§.",',,§‘.’ ""
and if the defendant does not ﬁle his answer and serve a copy
thereof within the time prescribed in such order, or such fnrdmr

time as may be allowed him for that purpose, the complainant, on
ﬁling an alﬁdavit showirig the default, may have an order to take
the bill as confessed, or may move for an attachment agair-t him
withontfurther notice.
vv .1 .'a n .
Run: 17. That when a bill has been taken pro confesseo against
a defendant, even although he may have entered his appearance,it ("omplai,;;lat
-to PM

complainant to serve such defendant with any of the notices c0n';;''';'." 60*

templated by any of the rules of prsctitle of this court for any ob
ject or purpose whatever, but he may proceed ex'parte.

But: 18. .The order to take the bill as confessed against an ab'

M

sent or conchaled defendant, a'nd for a reference under the provis
Prntierldnigl
ion of chapter ninety, title tweiity'one of the revised statutes may mm.t lh'
be entered of course, on ﬁling the proof of publication or notice :;‘ll@:l;n‘:e'
and an aﬂidavit that the defendant has not appeared. But the or
der requiring the defendant to appear and designating the paper in
soul or can

which it shall be published, or a direction to the master to receive

the testimony of the complainant as ev@ence on the reference, can
only be obtained by a special application the c'ourt or injunction
master.
.
,
i
I RULI 19. Exceptions to an answer shall .not prevent the dissolu
tion of an injunction, or the -discharge of a ne exeat, unless they The cm»
are ﬁled and served within ten days after notice to the complainant §,.°':,.:',‘Th.

or his solicitor that the answer is put in. If exceptions are taken, ii‘, ;'J.,'{'.'
dilmi -mu
the defendant may give a written consent that they be forthwith re' 810:“ in' ~
ﬁtted; and unless the complainant procures the master's repolt in I
favor of the exceptions within ten days after receiving such con
sent, the exceptions shall not prevent the dissolution of the in'
junction, or the discharge of the ne exeat.

.

s

omncntr amine:

‘

Runs 80. Ifensqti_ Ielled wihhths time presaihed by
‘m“‘"".','thelastsIle, idol]->the'-otdsrto -ovebsa d'-olntion ofthe

mu
""'°'°“" injunctionor no end, - bl -I answer, until due time for pro

curing. the master's reportbss expired, unless a report against the
validity of the exceptions issooner obtained.

Hm‘

ﬁns B1. 1‘lb(>*llI'\i‘llh6It000-k]({ the answer

,:,f:‘:‘,"';:;

madam be on‘ of the deﬁodllh

-_,,,,,,,,, in in ball.

must be diinotly stated

When the answer is put in without oath, it may be ex

mq esp-d loin scandal and inpertinenco; but the ..t |plainalst shall
nos be at liberty to map lhesste ﬁr insnﬁciency; but all material
“pine in the HI, which to not amwered and admitted, may

be proved by him in the same rnanneras if they were distinctly put
‘-‘mw 'I he by ﬂte ar-ver; and if no replication is ﬁled, the matters

"""‘““""ot' deﬁance an op la the deﬁadsnfh answer, will, on the hearing,
' ‘ he enlsidered as admitted by the eonpmnant,ahhongh the answer
is not on oath.
’
Run: 22. The answer of the defendant may be sworn to before
§“;{3,Z‘: any master in chancery, or other oﬂicer authorized to administer
Z“ "M oaths and take tﬂthﬂts.

If the debndant resdes out of the state,

the answer maybe sworn to before any judge of a court of re
cord, in the state where the answer is taken, and shall be certiﬁed

,to have been sworn and subscribed before him, specifying the time
and place where taken. The gennineness of the signature of such
judge, the existence of the court, and the fact that such judge is a
member thereof, must be certiﬂed by the clerk of the court, under
the seal thereof.

'

Run: 23. When a cross bill is ﬁled, the complainants therein
mm;-tn; who are defendants in‘ the original bill, shall put in and perfect

‘Hie detemlI
I'°l'

eon

'nflhliill [IF their answer to the original bill before they shall be entitled to an
M ‘”°" order to compel an answer to the cross bill, unless the court shall
der to aa

:‘I':'“','::|’l.

otherwise specially direct.

'

mmd.
Run: 24. If the bill has not been sworn to, the complainant may
rnts of
,,,,,,,,.,,,
, amend it, at any time before the plea, answer, or demurrer put in
hill.when al

lowed,

.

of course, and without costs.

He may also unend, of course, after

answer, at any time before he replies thereto, until the time for re

plying expires, and without costs, if a new or further answer is not

(‘HA.\'(‘ER\' RULES.
thereby rendered necessary;

9

but if such amendment requiresa

new or a further answer, then it shall be on payment of coats to be
taxed. He may also amend sworn bills, except injunction bills, in
the same manner, if the amendments are merely in addition to and
not inconsistent with what is contained in the original bill;

such

amendments being veriﬁed by oath, as the bill is required to be ver
iﬁed.

But no amendment of an injunction bill shall he allowed M"md.

without a special order of the court, and upon due notice tn the :f;;';‘.‘c"i‘x’]‘l:l'1
adverse palty, if he has appeared in the suit. Amendments ofj""°'5"""“‘

purpose;
course, may
butbethe
made
registers
without
shallentering
not permit
any rule
any amendments
or order for tothat
hef'=’:{:¢‘:fd:{¢
made, unless the same appear to be duly authorized.

And in eve' ';:'“"t'J"ef'r""~'

ry case of an amendment of course, the complainant’s solicitor shall

either ﬁle a new engrossrnent of the bill with the register where ilihluliihllinﬂ
the original bill is ﬁled, or furnish him with an engrossed copy of
the amendments, containing the proper references to the folios and

to

line, in the original bill on tile, where such amendments areto be
inserted or made.

But no amendment shall be considered as made.

until the same is served upon the adverse party, if he has appeared ':,i.':,ii|" 1'
"ll Ill‘ W

in the cause.

P“

us-cessary

Rut: 25. If the defendant demurs to the bill for want of parties,

or for any other defect Which does not go to the equity of the whole 2.'.’-‘L'."hM
hill, the complainant may amend of course, on payment of costs,ii:':,i..lir:r. I
at any time before the demurrer is noticed for argument, or within
ten days after the receiving a copy of the demurrer; and in all

cases of demurrer for causes not within the former part of this rule.
the complainant's right to amend, and the terms on which amend.
rnents may be permitted, shall be in thc discretion of the coult.
Rru: 26. \Vhere the answer is excepted to as insuﬂicient, and Am,.,,¢.

the defendant submits to atiswer further, or the answer on reference .'''l'1"'.'i‘r':r"i‘i,'.
is found lnsuﬂicient, the complainant may amend the hill of c(,n'se,:":.'mm

and Without costs. at any time within ten days after the defendants,
submits to answer any of the exceptions. or allr-r conﬁrmation of
the master's report, if the defendant docs not submit to answer any
of the exceptions; and the defendant shall answer the amendment

and exceptions together. ll' a plea or dcmurrer to the hill he orer' (‘nmplsin
ruled, the complainant may within ten days thereafter amend his bilI :‘I‘‘;nl.r‘.‘\ca

anl may -

10

(‘HANCERY RVLES.

fn':'":'rd"'

of course, and without costs; and in all cases where the complain

""""“""‘' ant is permitted to amend his bill, if the answer has not been put
in, or a further answer is necessary, the defendant shall have the
same time to answer, after such amendment as he originally had.
But no amend-eds of course of injunction hills, are to be allowed

underthis or the preceding rule, nor any amendments which are
inconsistent with the original sworn bill.
Run: 27. Orders to which a party, by the rules and practice of
'l','.’,",,,°" the court, is entitled of course without showing special cause, shall

immml-

be denominated common orders; and orders made on special ap
plication to the court, or injunction master shall be denominated

special orders.

All common orders and orders by consent of the

parties, such consent being in writing and signed by such parties or
their solicitors or counsel and ﬁled, may be entered with the regis
ter, or assistant register. in the common rule book kept in his oﬂice,

at the instance of the party or his solicitor, at the peril of the par
ty taking such order; and the day on which the order is made shall

be noted in the entry thereof, and all special orders made by the
special direction of the court, or injunction master shall be entered
in the record of the proceedings of the court as heretofore has been
usual.

.
Run: 28. \\'hen the defendant pleads or demurs toa bill, the
;'.'.'“.‘.‘.‘J3 complainant shall have twenty days to ﬁle a replication to his plea,
" U" 6' or amend his bill, and if he does not take issue on the plea or amend
murrer for

"Fun the bill within that time,either party may note the plea ordemurrer
for argument, at the next or subsequent term. if the plea is al
lowed, the complainant may within ten days after notice of such

allowance, take issue on the plea, upon payment of the costs of
hearing thereon.

ﬂea of for

Runs 29. A plea of another suit pending, or of a former recove
ry, judgment or decree had in any suit between the same parties

Ibrlzirnmm
touchmg
the same subject
matter, may be also set down for argu
he 4
.
.
mm l.

ment in the same manner, and if
. allowed, the same may within
. .

. of such allowance be referred to a master to
:,',ii‘.",':i.',a ten days after notice
ml lo mas

,,.,,

"_ “km|

inquire into the truth of such plea.

lluu: 30. If a plea or demurrer is overruled as frivolous, or a

;;‘nl'“o','f'§,'f plea upon issue thereon is found to be untrue, the complainant

CH ANCERY RULES.

11

may have anordertotake the bill as confessed, or he may colnpel:;:;::lP£:°'
the defendant to answer the bill, at his election.

In all other cases,

if the plea or demurrer be ovelruled, neither a further plea or de'°°'“""“"
murrer shall be received;

and the defendant shall answer the bill “W I NM
or drum rrrr

and pay the costs of the hearing, within twenty days aﬂq» I'lOIicQ ol':l“.'l'.".:,"‘;:“""l"":;
Misls ‘'!
the order overruling the plea or demurrer, or such other time as,,.,,|,,,,,,,,.,,.

may be prnscnbed by the court in such order.

If he ﬂtils to put in U Mi"

his answer and pay the costs within the time prescribed,the bill may
be taken as confessed, and the matter thereof decreed accordingly;
or the cotnplainant may have an attachment to compel an answer.
Run 31 . When the answer is to the whole bill, the complainant ,.m.pmn.

shall have twenty days, aher notice that such answer is put in, t(r.'.f.’.',I,,"

in

except to the same, or if the answer is to part of the bill only, he
shall have twenty days alter the plea or demurrer to the residue of
the bill has been allowed or overruled, to except to such answer;
at the expiration of which time, if no exceptions are taken, and no

order for further time has been granted, the answer shall be deem
ed suﬂicient. If the complainantsxcepts to the answer for insuﬂi
ciency, the defendant may within eight dqs after service of a copy Th-' .|.',.'ns.
anlmay Iltl,.
of the exceptions, give a written notice of his submission to answermir w an
swcr my of

any or all of such exceptions; and he shall be liable ibr the costs of""' """Plions.

the exceptions which he submits to answer.

Runs 32. When exceptions to an answer for insuﬂiciem'y srcmm.l,1.,..F.
an! to re or

not submitted to within the time prescribed by the preceding rule, :'h-' --rr--It
runs ln ts-ll

the complainant at any time within ten days thereafter, may have JV‘

an order of course to refer the exceptions not submitted to by the
defendant, to a master.

If the exceptions not submitted to are not

referred within the time speciﬁed, they shall be considered as aban
doned, and the answer as to such exceptions shall be deemed
suﬂicient.

Runs 33. If a complainant refers a second or third answer foron rs‘:';.\r'H
ﬂirl-t

L

insufficiency on the old exceptions, the particular exceptions !0ur3‘lan
swnr.tln' Pl'

which he requires a further answer shall be stated on the order of ;;:t*"::.I;-‘"‘

reference.

And if he does not refer such second or third answer

for insuﬂiciency within ten days aﬂer the same is put in, such an

swer shall be deemed sufl'n:icnt.

12
goalie:

CHANCERY RULES.
RH'; 34. Exceptions to any pleading, or other matter pending

before the court for scandal and impertinence, shall be taken in the
W L‘ “ML same manner as exceptions to an answer for insuﬁciency; and may
he submitted to in like manner, and within the same time.

Ifthey

are not submitted to, the party excepting shall refer them in the
same manner, or they shall he considered as abandoned; and if such
exceptions are to an answer, the answer thenceforth shall be deem
ed suﬂicient.
m um

RUnI 36. Whenever an answer or other pleading or proceedings

reporl on e

m,,,,,_ u,‘ is referred for insuﬁciency, scandal or impertinence, the exceptions
be obtained
‘mu 1;, shall be oorrsidced as abandoned, if the party obtaining the refe

“""

rnnee thall not procure and ﬁle the master's report within ﬁfteen
days from the date of the order of reference; unless' the master

shall, within that time, certify that the party obtaining such refe
rence has not been guilty of an unreasonable delay,and *0 further
time, to be speciﬁed in the certiﬁcate, is necessary to enable the
master to make a satisfactory report; in which case the exceptions

shall be considered as abandoned, if the report be not obtained
within the further_' time lo stated. And if the exceptions were to
an answer, it shall tlsenoeforth be deemed suﬂicient.
Rru»: 36. If on a reference of exceptions to an answer, or the

1:x";"';'e" reference of a second answer on the old exceptions, the master

shall ﬁnd the answer insuﬂiciont, he shall ﬁx a time for putting in a

“""
Irpnrttn

further answer, and specify the same in his report.
RUnE 37. The master's report on exceptions, shall be delivered

,::,',"T,,‘:' to the party obtaining the reﬂarcnce, who shall folthwith ﬁle the
""
same in the proper oﬂice; and if he does not except to the report
within eight days thereafter, it shall become absolute as against him.
But the adverse palty shall have eight days after service of notice
of ﬁling the report to except to the same; and if he does not ex
cept within that time, it shall become absolute as against him, without

any order for that purpose. If none of the exceptions to an an‘
swer are submitted to by the defendant, or allowed by the master,
the answer shall be deemed auﬂicient from thetime such report he
comes absolute as against the complainant.
Run: 38. If the master reports that any thing contained in any

CHANCERY RULES.
pleading or proceeding is scandalous or impertinent, the party ex.

13
$3;

ccptmg on ﬁlmg proo f that the report hes become abeolute against ““’“"“"“‘"

the adverse perty, may have en order of course, thet the master
making the report, expunge the scendelous or impertinent matter ;

end thet the adverse perty pay the coets of the exceptions and the
proceedings thereon, within twenty is eﬁer the service of a copy
of such order end of the taxed bill on him or his solicitor. When
the adverse party submits to the exceptions, the same order may
be obteined on ﬁling the notice of submiesion. If the msster dis
allows an exception for scandal end impertinenoe, his report shall "“‘3lh"

be line], and no exceptions to the report in that respect shell be el'::r6‘=I::';I
lowed; but it shell not preclude the party upon the hearing of the :'E":::L'°'
cause, or upon the taxation of the generel costs in the suit, from in
sisting thet the matter excepted to was in fact impertinent.

Run 39. On exceptions to never for insuﬁciency, if ell the(h),',',l§:,f".','
exceptions are submitted to by the defendant, or a part ere subsnit- ""
ted to, end the rest sbendoned, or ere disallowed on reference, the

complainant may have en order, of course, that the defendant put
inafurther answer end eenie a copy thereof withn twenty days
after notice of the order, end pay the coets of tlm exceptions.
Run 40. If, on a reference of exceptione, or the reference of af“)l'dnL'_"‘:;.
second answer epon the old exceptions, the enawer is found in-;:,::::;'

wﬂiicent and the master's report has become absolute ageinstthe
defendant, the complainant may heve e aimiler order of course, to

pot in a further enswer, end pay the costs, within the time speci
ﬁed in the master's report.
Rome 41. ln the cases speciﬁed in the two preceding rules, the 2f:!:dm"'nw

defendant
leest ten deye
shellbefore
be entitled
the time
to for
I copy
putting
of the
in the
taxed
further
bill enswer
of costsexet
pires, or he may put in such answer without paying the costs. But
the conpleinent may eftei‘wards proceed by execution or ettech
melt to compel payment thereof, if they are not peid within twen
ty days after service of e copy of the taxed bill on the defendant or M" WM
his solicitor.

And if the complaint has amended his bill, so In t0::';“..‘::rm‘.‘°

require w ‘newer m the amendments as well es the exceptiona, the :3‘ ‘° “"
, defendent shall have the same time to answer the ernendmente and

ts

OKAXGIERY RULES.
exceptions together, as he originally had to answer the bill; and
theorderte answer shall he varied accordingly.

OHIIHOI-h ' Ron 4!. If the defendant does not put in a further answer and

bi||uc~n- ' pay the costs within the time prescrihed,or within such further time
lensed for

as may be allowed by the

"‘”''

onﬁling an aﬁdaVit-shcwing

rt for that purpose, the complainant.

ch deﬁult, may have an order of

coulse, to take the bill as conthued, or may move for an attachment

against the Mndam, without fulther notice.

'5

_
RtJl.B‘43. The argument of exceptions to" a master's
on
,',‘,’‘,‘',Q,,,'‘' exceptions shall be heard as a spdcial motion. Either party
23.7.1.2“ maynotice the same forhearing, and the party excepting to the
m

report shall ﬁrrnish the necessary papers for the court; hand if he

neglect to do so, the report may be conﬁrmed. But if both parties
have excepted :6 the report, each shall furnish copies of his own
exceptions, and the party obtaining the reference shall furnish such
C0,.’ or motherpapecsas may he necessary.

The costs of the hearing on

exeeptie-to a report apen exceptions shall be in the discretion of
3''"”°",|.s court: but neither party shall be entitled tocosts asagainst
tlm other, unless he succeeds as to themajor part of the exceptions

to the report. And where the party succeeding as to the major part
does not succeed as to all the exceptions to the repolt, his costs of

thi bearing, to be allowed against the adverse party, shall not be
taned at a sac exceeding ten dollars.
",‘m3""-

Runs 44. When exceptions are taken to an answer for inaudi

:,"',‘,‘,|‘:"m' cieney, or to any pleading or proceeding for scandal or importi
Wd-

nence, the party excepting shall be entitled to the costs of the ca
captions which are submitted to, and those which are ﬁnally allow

ed after reference to a master; but neither party shall be entitled
to costs upon the reference of exceptions unless he ﬁnally succeeds
as to all the eaceptions which are referred. The costs on excep

,‘,iQ",',,';',,',’," tions shall not be taxed until all exceptions are submitted to, absu

wl; "um doned, allowed, or ﬁnally disposed of; and then the whole cost to
which the eaoeptant is entitled shall be included in one bill,and. the
adverse party may ofﬁet any costs to which he is entitled.

Rrur 46. No demurrer or plea shall be held bad, and overruled
mum’. in upon argument only because such demurrer orplea shall not cover .
Demurrerlt
vcrrul d

CHANCERY RULES.

15

so reach of the bill as it might by law have extended to.—(Rule §’,f::;‘::l".t

86 U.S. Oir. Co.)

;;{;l":lhl.>-lllae

Rn: 46r No demurrer or plea shall be held had and overruled l)]t;I-1‘,:.I(',l':l"o&.
upon argument only because the answer of the defendant may ex
tend to some part of the same matter, as may be covered by such

demurler or plea.—(Rale 87 U. S. C.‘ 8.)

r'l;f;:’e‘:‘:;d
Run 47. instead of the words of the bill now in use preceding di'murrer.
Pom "Hm

the interrogating part thereof, and beginning with the words, " To ;,‘i,',',°,§,‘“'|,{|f.
" the end thereof," there shall hereeﬂer be used the words in the

form or the effect following, “to the end therefore that the said de
fendants, ifthey can show why your orator should not have the re
lief hereby prayed, and may upon their several and respective cor
poral oaths, nnd according to the best and utmost of their several
and respective knowledge, remembrance, information and helieﬂ
full, tme, direct and perfect answer make to such of the several

interrogatories hereafter numbered and set forth as by the note
hereunder written. they are rmpetfally requested to answer, that
is to say, lst, whether, &c.,

.

2d, whether, dtc."-(Rule

43 U. 8. Cir. Co.)

Runs: 48. A defendant shall be at liberty, by answer to decline {.:;':d:',"
answering any interrogatory, from answering which he might have

protected hielf by demurrer, and he shall be at liberty so to de' 2:311?“
cline, notwithstanding. he shall answer other parts of the bill from
which he might have protected himself by demurrer.—(Rule 44
1'. S.Cir. C0.

‘

s

Rut: 49. It shall not be necessary on any bill of revivor efsup' £'g,"g:;

plemental bill to set forth any of the statements in the original suit

unless the special
. circumstances
.
of the case require
. tt.—(Rule
.
58 "M"
. |:1|
" '
l.'. 3. Cir. Co.)
Run 50. Every cause shall be deemed at issue on ﬁling a gen' FMm.H..
eral replication to the answer, and nospccial replication shall be ﬁled
but by leave on cause shown.

(-ause to

If the complainant does not reply ,,,,n,l M
hearlnlofno

tn the defendant's answer within twenty days after it is deemed to gvﬁig-'Tg.:ni.
be suﬂicicnt, he shall be precluded from replying, and the cause dun

shall stand for hearing on bill and answer; and either party may
notice it for hearing as soon as it is in readiness for hearing against
the other defendants, if any there are.

16

1%

CHANCERY RULES.

Runs 61. In any suit against several defendants, if the complain
ant does not use due diligence in prosecuting such suit, any ofsaid

:,',',,': M ddendants may apply to dismiss the bill for want of prosecution,
and on such application, further time shall not be allowed to com
plainant unleas on good cause shown for the delay.
Rune 52. When a cause‘ts. at issue, if neither party ha girea

gm notice as contemplated by law, of his intention to claim the right of
many.

an eaaination of witne-ea in open court, either party desirous of
taking testimony, may atany time within thirty days after the expi

ration of the time of claiming the right to such examination in
open court, enter an order of course, and give notice thereof to

m,:.,,,,, 0 the opposite party for the taking of testimony within sixty days
Pm’ from the service of notice of such order, and either party under
such order, may at any time within the said sixty days take the
testinvny I his winesses, upon giving ten day's notice to the op—
poaite party, of the names and places of abode of the witnesses to
be’exsrnined, and of the time and place of such examination, and

the person before Whom the same will be taken.
Pmoh w be

At the end of sixty days from the date of such older to take too

§';,":1,,,“,‘,nm timony, either party may enter an order of course, that the prooﬁ
“'3 oruﬁw be closed.

£7“ '°'r.

If neither party shall obtain an order hr taking testimony as
aforesaid, or giving notice of his intention of claiming an examina
|,"',,,",.‘|',,:"',,,, tion of witnesses in open court, the cause shall stand for hearing
Nun“ on pleadings, and may be noticed by either party.
00‘

M

mmt

""''

Run: 53. If a party wishes to examine witnesses residing out of

the state, or more than than thilty miles from the residence of a
master, or when all the masters are interested, living within that
distance, as counsel or otherwise, either party may, at any time af

ter issue is joined, and before proofs are closed, as prescribed in
the preceding rule, present a petition to the register where the suit

is pending stating the names and residences of the witnesses and of
the person or persons proposed as commissioners, and praying that
a commission may he issued to take the examination of such wit
noses;

and ten day's notice of the application shall be given to

the adverse party

lf the adverse party does not appear anl join

in the commission, or object to the persons named as commission‘

(‘HANOERY RULES.

17

era, a commission shall be i-tied agreeably to the prayer of the pe
tition.

Run: 54. if the adverse party wishes to join in commission, he
must, at the time of presenting the petition, furnish the names and

fur

residence of the witneeees on his Pm, and they shall be inserted in 3l"i'~'i't‘n'1'1-'-'=
the commission.

If he is not satisﬁed with the commissioners

named in the petition. he may name commissioners on his part;

and the register to whom the petition is preeented, after hearing
the allegations of the parties, shall designate a suitable person or
persona, to execute the commission, and issue the same accordingly;

but any of the commissioners named in the commission'may exe
cute the same, in case the other neglect or refuse to join in the ex
ecution thereof, or they are, from any cause, prevented.
Rru: 55. ‘Vitnesses to be examined out of the state in written,
direct and cross interrogations, to be allowed by
'..' i V

‘J 1

injunction

- ,.

masﬁir answered iii the commission.

Run: 56. If it shall be necessary to have a commission to take the

examination of witnesses in any case not provided in the preceding
ruiea, the party may present a petition to the circuit judge or an in' ,'lI§',,',:,:""
junction master for that purpose, setting outthe facts which entitle M
him to aspecial commission, and the usual notice of the application

shall be given to the adverse party.
Run: 57. To every commission,for the examination of witnesses’
(-omnis

out of the state, a copy of this rule shall be annexed as instructions .ion,.230.‘
E‘l'l‘ll
to the commissioner on the execution of the commission.
rrmvd
lst. Any one of the commissioners may execute the commission:

2d. The witness before he is examined, mus'ake an oath or af
ﬁrmation to be administered by the commissioner, that the answers

tobe given by him to the interrogations annexed to the commis
sion, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

3d. The examination of the witness must be reduced to writing
by the commissioner or by some one in his presence, and under his
direction, and must be signed by the witness, and celtiﬁed by the
commissioner, as follows :
"Examination taken, reduced to writing, and sworn to (or af
“ﬁrmed) this
day of
, A. D. 181 , before A. B.,
“ cominisaioner."
.

'\

2

18

CHANCERY RULES.
tth. Exhibits must be annexed to the deposition of the witness
and be signed by him, and the commissionels:
5th. The commissioners must subscribe each sheet of the deposi

tion, annex the deposition and exhibits to the commission, and en
dorse his return on the back of the commission:

" The execution of this commission appears in ccl1ain schedules
hereunto annexed:

A. B. Commissioner.

6th. The commissioner must enclose the commission, interroga
tions, depositions and exhibits in a packet, and bind it with tape,
and set his seal at the several meetings or crossings of the tape,

and direct it "To the register of the circuit court for the county
“ of

, in chancery, at

, state of Michigan."

7th. He must then deposit the commision in the post oﬂicc, unless
there are written directions on the commission to netum the same

‘.m“‘“. in another way.
,iua,mbs
Rut: 58. The register, on the commission being returned shall
il -nwl and

''‘.'-‘l "I ~' open it, and endorse thereon the time and manner of receiving it,
gutcr,

-

and then ﬁle ll’.
neptﬂ:.0I
Rrns 59. No deposition will be suppressed in the hearing of a
I10! 10
Zuniprrzzd cause for irregularity or informality in the taking of the same, but
(II

I.

“"f°‘*“°"'
the question must be brought before the court on a special motion
to -esup
"""'°"
""
special mo for that purpose, before the cause is brought to a hearing.
:',‘:;l.r Mm, Rrl.s 60. When a party wishes to-examine a defendant as a wit
:f,',,f,',‘,'f,'P_ nesa against it co'defendant, or against the complainant, he may, at
any time within twenty days after he has received or served a no
tice of the rule to produce witnesses, on ﬁling an aﬂidavitthat such
defendant is a matarial witness, and is not interested in a matter to
which he isto be examined, have an order of course, for the exam
Plvuknrr

.""Y "" "“ ination of such defendant as a witness, as to any matter in which
I'rted at lhe

'“""“‘

heis notintcrested,suh.iect to all just exceptions.

And such de

fendant shall thereupon be examincd to such matters, in the same
manner as other witnesses; but the adverse party, at the hearing,

may object to the competency of his testimony.
"°;'d'-‘H;
‘D

Run 61. Documents which are of themselves evidence without

! "III I'

further proof, shall not be read on the hearing, unless they have
"°“"""
been made exhibits, before the master or commissioner; Ind "0
iﬂﬁl On

‘"|,,",,",',';“,','..':I deed or other writing shall be proved at the hearing except on an
nMw'

order previously obtained after due notice to the adverse party.

.

CHANOERY RULES.

19

Run 62. Process of ‘pens to compel the attendance of wit' §(‘)‘l;"\lj,‘f_'|"",..'°
neases before a master or commissioner shall issue of couree, and :,":,:",f:l°(

the time and place of attendance shall be speciﬁed in the writ;
and such witnesses may be punished if they fail to attend and submit
to an examination. But no witness shall be compelled to appear be
fore the master or commissioner more than forty miles from his
place of residence, unlehs by special order of the court.
Reta 63. Within ten days alter notice of the order to close the ,.“m|m.r_
proofs, the master or commissioner, on being applied to for that “’ m“ ‘'''P'’'
nttona wilh

purpose by either party, shall cause the depositions and exhibits, "_",,§:;",;’,,'t-j;,.

taken or produced before him, to be returned and ﬁled with the }.‘,',',‘,i';|’.“
register.

And he shall not be entitled to receive pay for taking

any depositions, or making any exhibits, which are not returned

and ﬁled with the proper oﬂicer, within ten days aﬁor service of a
notice of such order. Neither shall a copy of any deposition or
exhibit be read on the hearing, unless the original has been leturn
ed and ﬁled in the proper oﬂice.
Run: 64. An order to enlarge the time for the examination of(,,,l,,, m

nritnesses may be granted, on suﬂicient cause shown, without notice iiiiiifiii
to the adverse party; but an ex parte order shall not be granted
Mm"
aﬂer the time for the examination of witnesses has actually ex‘

pired, nor shall a second order be granted to the same party, ex
cept on the usual notice of the application to the adverse party, and

upon such terms as the court may presclibe.
Run 65. Aﬂer the proofs are closed, either party may notice Fill-"P9"!
may nutler

the cause for hearing at the next or some subsequent tenn.

lt:,':.';,:"'|"L'*°f°'

shall not be necessary in any case to obtain an order to set a cause
down for hearing; but when a cause is in readiness for hearing, on
plea or demurrer, bill and answer, pleading and proofs, exceptions
to a master's report, or on the equity reserved, either party may

notice the same for hearing and have the cause entered’on the cal
endar of causes for the term.
RULE 66. All notice of hearing, or of special motions, or of the Nmim Md

presenting of petitions, when required, shall be notices of at least ','£,l""“°""

eight days, if the solicitor of the adverse party resides over one
hundred miles from the place where the coult is to be held; ifover

ﬁﬂy and not exceeding, one hundred, six. days notice shall be giv

2°

CHANCERY RULES.
es; and is all other cases, at least. tour days. And a copy of the
petition, aﬂidavit or certiﬁcate, on Which any special applicatiom
ie founded, shall be served on the adverse party the same length of
time previous to making the application to the court.

:"':f",'"':"l':f“'l';i

P'°"""5''

RULI 67. when a cause is submitted or heard, on bill, answer

and replication, or on the pleadings and proofs, if the parties do not
agree upon a case to besig-ned by them, containing, with all requi
site hrevity,a statement of the pleadings and prooﬁs, the complain
ant

shall furnish the court with a case, stating the time of ﬁling

the bill, and of the answer and other pleadings respectively, the
names of the original parties in full, the change of palties, if any
has taken place pending the suit, and a very brief history of the

proceedings in the cause; and containing an abbreviation of the
pleadings, not exceeding one'sixth of the number of ﬁalios con
tained in the original pleadings respectively.
Fnlﬂsrinr a

Run: 68. In making up a calendar, causes to be heard on bills

!"'i.'t°i"!.'l.''" taken as confessed, shall have a prefelence, and shall be entered

mu according to priority, from the date of the order to take the bill as
confessed. Pleaaand demurrers shall constitute the second clan
of causes, and have priority from the time when the plea or demur

I--um on rer was ﬁled. Causes to be heard on bill and answer, shall occupy
hill and an'

'

.

.

.

In7l:fmlI;ll;Il' the third place on the calendar, and have prlorlty from the tune

M ell- vvhelrthe answer vras put in.

Those which are to be heard on the

pleadings, or on pleadings and prooﬁ, shall form the fourth class,

and have priority from the time when the replication was ﬁled,
Causes to be heard on exceptions, or upon the equity reserved in a
decretal order, shall be placed in the class to which they belong

before the decretal order or reference, and according to the priori
ty as it then existed ; and causes for rehearing shall be arranged in

the same manner.

But the court, in the hearing of calendar cau

ses, may, iliits discretion, give a preference to any particular cause

or description of causes, over others in the calendar.

And molt

gage cues of the fourth class shall be entitled to a preference over
any other causes of the same class, unless the defendant, before the
cause is heard, shall ﬁle with the register, or assistant register, at
the place where the court is held, an aﬂidavit that he has a good
and lnertitorious defence, and that his answer was not put in for the

OHANCEIY noses.

*1

pip”
; lb ﬁling of which aﬁdavit he shall have
-on theulendar. I‘ u ' ' 0
J2-.

-

Ruu:.69. Causes shall be noticed for hearing for the ﬁrst d'sy orC,,,,,,,|,_||
the term, or For as early a day in term as practicable. -The atitice :}'i§,d'|°;'.,
to the register spedfying the class to which the cause belongs, and due‘ km'
the time from which it is entitled to priority, shall be delivered to the
register, who is to make the calendar four days ptetvious to the com
monument of the term. But if the cause is not in readiness
for hearing in time to notice it for the ﬁrst day in term, it may he
plied at the foot of the calendar; and if the bill has been taken

ssconfsssed, may be heard out of its regular order.

‘ 3

RULI 70. When a cause is heard or submitted on plea or de‘ §’u'rl:;:;:;l'°

sooner, or on bill and answer, except in mortgage or petition catt' :?"",g‘l‘” 5"see, where the complainant's rights are not contested, the court shall

be furnished with copies of the 'pleadings, and an abbreviation
thereof not exceeding one sixth of the number of folios contained
in the originals.tI lf it is heardon bill, answer and replication, or on

pleadings and proofs in addition to the'case reqnied by the sixty
fourth rule, the court shall be furnished with copies of the plead

ings and of the depositions, if any, and with sholt abstracts of the
exhibits.

On a rehearing, a copy of a decree or order relleartlmnnmhﬂb

shall be furnished, and copies of the pleadings, abstracts, case, de' M
positions, &c., on which the same was founded.

Ypon exheptiona

to a master’: report, copies of the order of refcrcnce, report and
exceptions, and of such part of the evidence before the master, and

of the pleadings as are material for the dccision of the exceptions.
shall be furnished. And in all cases the necessary papers shall he

delivered to the court, when the hearing of the cause shall com
racace.
Rtmz 71. If the cause is heard or submitted on plea or demur'€é,'.f',.':‘,’.',l:.,,,
lundlln.-d

rer, oron exception to a master's report, or on a rehearing, the ne
cessary papers shall be furnished by the party pleading, demurring,
or excepting, or who obtained the rehearing.

In all other cases

the papers shall be furnished by the complainant; except that on an
original bearing upon pleading and proofs, each party shall furnish

copies of the testimony and abstracts of the exhibits on his part
only. And each Party shall deliver to the court and to the adverse

22

CHANCERY RULES.

party, a copy of the

on which be relies; and may also de

liver to the court and to the adverse party, a draft of the minutes

of the decree to which he conceives himself entitled.
M

Run 72. All bills, answers and other proceedings, and copies

‘:,|'f,‘:|;_,,,| thereof, shall he fairly and legibly written, and if not so written,
,,".",:',,.',’l:'i:'u the register and assistant register shall not ﬁle such as may be of

fered to them for that purpose; and in the entitling an endorse
wdonh" ment of papers by either party, the complainant's name shall be
placed ﬁrst.

IMMW
Runs 73. If the cause is noticed for the hearing on the part of
the Iv:srhIs' the defendant, and the complainant does not appear to agree on his
part, or does not furnish the necessary papers, agreeably to the
preceding rules. the bill may be dismissed with costs. If noticed
on the part of the complainant, and the defendant does not appear
at the hearing. and furnish the necessary papers on his part, the
complainant may have such decree as he is entitled to by the de
fendant's default, according to the usual course and practice of the
COD".
(

11¢ manner

Run 74. All submission shall be in writing, signed by the ne

dsnbmit'

Ingeases.

.

.

. I

.

cessary partlca or thelr solIcttors or counsel, and shall be delivered

to the register where the court is held, with the necessary copies
and papers. On special motions and petitions, as well as in calen
dar causes, he shall mark the papels and note them in his minutu,
as on a hearing; and he shall not entr-r the submission until all the

necessary copies and papers are furnished, as required by the rules
of the court.
Run 75. \Vhcn a matter is referred to a master, to examine and
Its'.

lations

of

.

.

.

.

pro report thereon, on bnnglng the decree or order tnto his office, he

used!

sin

.

.

‘If:'’n'l':-ti»-r'I shall assign a day and place for hearlng tho partles, and give to the
OO

party bringing in such decree or order, a summons for the arlvc-rse
'I‘,m,,l_,.,. party to attend at the day and place an appointed. The summons
shall be served on the adveIse party or his solirilor, such time, pre
vious to the day appointed for hearing as the master may dt.-uIn res.
sonablc and dirc-ct,taking into consideration the nut|Iro of the mat
,

ter to be examined, and the residence of the parties.

But the

time of service, unless otherwise ordered by the court, shall notbe
I

CHANCERY RULES.

23

less than two days, when the solicitor of the adverse party resides
in the city or town where the hearing is to take place; and not less
than four days, when he resides elsewhere not exceeding titty miles
from the place of hearing; not less than six days, if over ﬁfty and
not exceeding one hundred miles; and not less than eight days.
when he resides more than one hundred miles from the place of
hearing.

Runs 76. If the party who is entitled to prosecute such decree, :::!;I:-,
or order of leference, does not procure and serve such summons 2%‘;
within thirty. days after the decree or order is entered, any otherﬂmfg §,'f.
party or person interested in the matter of reference shall be at lib- "1""
erty to apply to the courtI by motion or petition, to expedite the
prosecution of the decree or order; and after the proceedings have
been commenced, by the service of a summons to attend before the
master, if the party entitled to prosecute such decree or order does
not proceed with due diligence, the master shall be at liberty, upon
the application of any other person interested, either as a- party to
the suit, or as coming in to prove his debt, or establish a claim un
der the decree or order, to commit to him the prosecution of the

reference.
Runs 77. At the time and place appointed in the summons forhmmm
the hearing the parties, the master shall proceed to legulate, as far 5:32,’:
necessary'notices,and
as
what
maypalties
be, theare
manner
entitled
toofpoint
toitsattend
execution;
out which
futureof
as,
proceedings,
the
forseveral
example,
proceedings
to direct
to state
the

may properly be going on pari passu;

and as to what particular

II'ﬁlter‘ interrogatories for the examination of the parties appearto
be necessary‘; and whether the matters requiring evidence shall be

proved by aﬁdavit or by the examination of witnesses; and if
the master shall think it expedient so to do, he may then, or upon
any suhsequent attendance, and from time tb time, as circumstances $238332!

may require, ﬁx the time within or at which any proceedings be''*'" “I -|“.'II
fbrehim shall be had ; and he may proceed de die in diam, or by
adjournment from time to time, as he may think proper.
Hrs: 78. \Vhcrc, by any decree or order of the court, books, Mmmm,
papers or writings, are directed to be produced before the master

2’

for the purpose of such decree or order, it shall be in the discretion :;°'§.T,..i§b'

B4

(‘HANCERY RULES.
of the master to detem-U'Be what books, papers or writings, are to
be produced, and when and for how long they are to be left in his
office; or, in case he should not deem it necessary that they should

be left or deposited in his oﬂico. then he may give directions for
the inspection thereof by the parties requiring the same, at such
time and in such manner as he may deem expedient.
H mm, of

Run 79. “here some, or one, but not all, of the parties do at

.':..;".'.‘.’,°.'., tend the master at the time and place appointed, the master shall
be at libelty to proceed ex parte,if he thinks it expedient so to do,
mu H considering the nature of the case; and if he has proceeded ex

partc, such proceeding shall not in any manner be reviewed by him,
unless, upon special application to him for that purpose, by the
party who was absent, the master shall be satisﬁed such party was

not guilty of wilful delay or negligence, and then only upon pay
ment of all costs occasioned by his non'attendance; and such costs

to be certiﬁed by the master at the time and paid by the parly or his
solicitor, before he shall be permitted to proceed on the warrant
to review; and every summons to attend before a master shall he

considered peremptory.
Run: 80. The master shall be at liberty to examine any witness
or party, or any creditor or other person coming in to claim bdrm

M“. :‘'''0''' him, either upon written interrogatories or viva voce, or in both
‘£:cn,.’,;,§::l' modes, as the nature of the case may appear to him to require; the
examination or evidence being taken down at the time by the mas
ter, or by his clerk in his presence, and preserved, in ordew that

the same may be used by the court if necessary.
Amasler

'

Runs 81. lfa party wishes to complain of any matterintrodnced

t::,s1c,ii:;:i\i into any state of facts, aﬂidavit, or other proceeding before the

C‘lit’ W

to.

master, on the ground that it is scandalous or impertinent, or that
any examination of a party before him is insuﬂicient, such party

shall be at liberty to ﬁle exceptions thereto with the master; and

the master shall have auhonty to expunge any such matter which
:;f;,',l'l’:,',,',‘,‘,.',. he shall ﬁnd to he scandalous or lmpertment.
captions, his

.

.

-

And where the mat
-

.

dee,.mn mu ter is excepted to as scandalous or impertinent. if the master dla
be hnal as lo

.

.

. .

.

thecxcry allows the exceptions, lns decision thereon shall be ﬁnal as to the
exceptions which are disallowed; but this shall not preclude the

party from insisting upon the impertinence at the hearing of the

CHANG ERY RULES.

25

cause, or apoa aay auhaequent proceeding founded on the master's
report upon the reference, or upon the taxation of the general
M of.the mm, or of the reference.

And in deciding on

auﬁcieucy or insuﬂicieuq of the examination of a party, or of an “"‘°
""""
mlo ruIlaldl'
answer to ahill, the mater shall always take into consideration "‘°°"the relevancy or materiality of the statement or question referred
to in the exception. On exceptions to the master's report, or to :;',*,f'm§°,o"°
his certiﬁcate of the suﬁciency or inauﬂiciency, of the examination, i',ii,’§f,u|,','.';,',,,.
the parties shall be conﬁned to the objections taken before the mas' mt mm"
‘GI.

RULI 82: All parties accounting before a master, shall bring in
their accounts in the form of debtor and creditor; and any of the Acfwlilbc
l'l'th£l',lll

other parties who shall not be satisﬁed with the accounts so brought "" "1"" "I
lhe Iorrn uf

in, shall be at liberty to examine the accounting party upon inter' :.l;’:.:§'i’[:‘r'.""
ro

' riel

as the master ma y direct.

On an y reference to take or

Master may

state be account,
shall
just andthe
equitable,
master shall
without
be at any
liberty
special
to allow
direction
interest for ;',':1c"ti,'::l

that purpose, unless a contrary directioﬁ is contained in the order of
reference.

And every charge, discharge. or state of facts, brought Chnm. dim

in before a master, shall be veriﬁed, by oath, as true, either posi':l',‘{‘;,“'§:;i‘,m.fi
lively, or upon information and belief.
.
.
by °""'
Rxu: 83. in all matters referred to a master, he shall he at lib
erty, upon the application of any party interested, to make a sepe- A ,,,,,,,,,.
rate report or reports, from time to time, as he shall deem expedi' i':1'k”,.:|',',,"r',*.
eat; the coats of such separate reports to be in the discretion of

the court.

And where the master shall make a separate report of

debts or legacies, he shall be at liberty to make such certiﬁcate as
he thinks ﬁt, with respect to the state of assets; and any person in

terested she'll thereupon be at liberty to apply to the court as he
shall be advised.

'

Run: 84. Aﬁer the report is ﬁled, either party may have an or
der of course to conﬁrm the same, unleaa cause to the contraryUnMwﬂm.
thereof be shown in eight days; and if no exceptions are ﬁled and ""‘ "W"
served within that time, the order shall become tabsolulu of course,

without notice or further order; or either party may ﬁle exceptions,
and have an order of course, to conﬁrm the report, so far as the
same is not excepted to, and with the like eﬂ'ect.

26

CHANCERY RULES.

N"dP"""‘'"

Run 85. No process shall he issued, or other proceeding had,

on ecna-In

:::“f''''''' on any ﬁnal decree, until the same is duly enrolled.

And such pro

cess, unless otherwise specially directed by the court shall be sealed
and issued by the register or assistant register, who shall not suﬁ'er

any process to pass his seal, if it does not appear to be duly war
ranted. If a master is directed to sell real estate under such de
I' roe:.ss lobe
ll;;'fln:°m cree, he may give the requisite notice of sale previous to enrollment;

;':_°:.a"u. but to protect the title of the purchaser, the party for whose bene
"’“°"'
ﬁt the sale is made shall cause the decree to be enrolled, and pro
duce a celtiﬁcate thereof, before any conveyance shall be executed

Dumwr by the master.

And where any previous decree or decretal order

"-'"“"l he-disposes of any part of the merits of the cause, or is necessary to
fore lhe‘can

.

.

""‘“" °' explain
the ﬁnal decree,
shall
be recited
wnwiwim
rolled therewith,
as a partitof
the either
ﬁnal decree
in the therein,
cause. or en
“mm of
Run: 86. A petition for a rehearing shall state the special matter
_
or cause, on which such rehearing is applied for and the particular

points in which the decree pr order is alleged to be erroneous, but
it shall not be necessary to state the proceedings anterior to such
decree or order sought to be reversed; and the facts, if they do not
appear from the records of the court, shall be veriﬁed by aﬁdavit
of the party, or of some other person. It shall also be accompani

ed by the certiﬁcate of two counsel, that they have examined the
'“"“"""

case, and that in their opinion the decree or order is erroneous in
the particulars mentioned in the petition. And a copy of the peti
tion, with thc usual notice of presenting the same, shall be served

on the adverse party, but the rehealing shall not be considered as
a matter of course in any case.

Jinn how

Rl'l.|: 87. Where a party is entitled to an order to stay proceed
ngs,
or for temporary relief until he has time to give regular notice
1

0bi.i'M'

of a motion, or of presenting a petition for a rcheaﬁng, or for any

(mh'rs tn

Ih,.‘' lIl'nl'l',-' l

other purpose, he may make an ex parte application to the court
or injunction master, for an order that the adverse party show cause

why the motion, or the prayer of the petition, should not be grant
ed, and to stay proceedings, or for other temporary relief in the

I._'_.,_,,, he mean time. And the adverse party shall be served with a copy of
""“""
uh'erse “"
PI!- the order, and of the petition, aﬂidavit or celtiﬁcate on which it

""

is founded, the same lenglh of time before the day for showing

CHANCERY RULES.

27

ewe, as 'I required in the ordinary caseef special motions, unless

the court or injunction master shall specially direct a shorter notice
to be given.
Runs 88. If a rehearing is granted, the petitioner shall lose the Wpmm re
beneﬁt thereof, unlen he shall within ten days thereafter, deposite ‘r1:|‘1'v"_";:2.'
with the register ﬁﬁy
to answer the costs and damages of

the adverse
ried.

'

If the can

if thldecree or order shall not be materially va
ireheard, the party obtaining the rehearing

shall have the light tliopen and close the argument.
Runs 89. No private agreement or consent between the parties, ,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,

in respect to the proceedings in a- cause, shall be alleged or sug' :::ti,ii';,pii,ui
cause lo be

gested by either of them against the other, unless the same shallln -new
have been induced to the form of an order, by consent, and en' 1
tered in the book of common orders; or, unless the evidence there

of shall he in writing, subscribed by the party against whom it is
alleged or suggested, or by his solicitor or counsel.
Runs 90. All rules to take eifect nisi, &c., unless otherwise spe' Timmﬂ
rules under

cially directed, shall be Jules of eight days ; and the time on all‘‘‘--'‘'rules, orders, notices and proceedings, where a time is given or
stated, shall, unless otherwise expressly provided, be deemed and
taken tohe, one day inclusive and one day exclusive; but if the
time expires on Sunday, the whole of the succeeding day sh all be
included.
Runs 91. The court or injunction master, upon special cause 1\II"'l'M
l,eeXll'r, Pd,

shown, may extend the time for putting in or serving any pleading, ",']'.“l“‘g"_‘;':
or exceptions, or for any other proceeding which is required by the ""-""
"“
U'l'lIll.
rules of the court, to be done within a limited time; and may set
aside any order or decree, obtained by default or otherwise, upon

such terms as may be deemed just and proper.
Runs. 92. The accounts of the register with the banks in which “
l

.
Hl’llN-Y' In

the moneys are dircc ted to be deposited, shall be kept in such n “"'"l' w
munn ni

manner, that in the cash books of the banks, and in the bank books :‘,"’""Y'l"“"
Nu |-1,1!
of the register, it shall appear in what particular suit, or on what """"“" “""‘
account, the several items of money, credited or charged, were de

posited or paid out.
Run 93. Orders upon the banks for the payment of moneys out

of court, shall be made payable to the order of the person entitled .i-‘:rr,"ili’r[,'l'l'.'r
up to be

28

CHANCERY BULBS.

:f':“‘°' thereto, or of his solidt0r,'or his attorney, duly authorized, and

shall specify in what particular sui, or on what account, the money
is to be paid out, and the time when the decree or order autlmri

zing such payment, was made.

Tm“ mu-

Run 94. The injunction master and registers of each circuit

=3"-:1

shall have power to tax costs, and where costs have been taxed,
upon hearing of the parties an application for u re'taxation may be
made directly to the court.
M| M m,,, Rrrr: 95. If a bill of costs offered for taxation, by or on behalf of

i‘,',i,‘,:1"fy any solicitor, or of any party who prosecutes anddefendsby a soli
citor, or by or on behalf of any oﬂicer of this court, who prosecutes
and defends in person, the several items of disbursements, and of

the fees of officers of the court, shall be particularly speciﬁed there
in, and not charged in gross, or they shall be disallowed on taxa
tion; and when witnesses‘ fees are charged, the names of the wi

nesses shall be speciﬁed, and the number of days, travel and attend
ance of each.

The aiﬁdavit of the solicitor, or the oﬂicer who

/"I4-"H0 prosecutes or defends in person, shall also be annexed to the hill
. ar,rn-and

i:b"""""" before it is taxed,stating, according to the best ofhis knowledge and
pn'vluul lo

:,’;1::‘um'°- belief, that the several disbursements charged in the bill have been
actually and necessarily incurred, or paid; and before any officer
'°"

or party shall be entitled to demand payment thereof such costs or

C°"""b' fees shall be taxed by a taxing oﬂicer of this court, but no oﬂicer
tarredbl'furs

,

km“ whatever shall tax his own costs or fees;

sunqr U1

and the same notice of

taxation shall be given to the party to be charged therewith, ifsuch
W party has appeared in the cause or proceedings, as is required by

/

MHUMN

the rules of this court.

Runs 96. In a bill for foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage,

:l‘°“.“'_':,':,""m it shall not be necessary to set out at large the rights and interestsof
the several defendants who are purchasers of, or who have liens on,

the equity of redemption in the mortgaged premises, subsequent
to the registry or recording of complainant's mortgage, and who

claim no right in opposition thoreto; but it shall be suﬂicient for
the complainant, after setting out his own right and interest in the
premises, to state generally, that such defendants have, or claim,
some interest in the premises, as subsequent purchasers, or incum

brancers, or otherwise.

CHANCEIY RI rLES.

29

Run: 97. ll' a bill to breslose a mortgage is taken as confessed, A """“’°
okourse to
compute
or the right of the complainant, as stated in his bill, is admitted by ,,,,,,,,,,,,
d,,,,

the ansvver,he may have an order ofcourse,r‘eferring it to a master to 52,?” mm
compute the amount due to the complainant and to such of the
defendants as are prior incurnbrancers of the mortgaged premises;
and if the defendant is an infant,and has put in a general answer by |',‘,'',,'f,,!:,':‘'',|,,
his guardian, or any of the defendants are absentees, the complain

ant may have a similar order of course, referring it to a master to i.ii|'f'J in we
take proof of the facts and circumstances stated in the complain
ant's bill, and to compute the amount due on the mortgage, prepara
tory to the'hearing of the cause. But every such cause shall be
regularly brought to hearing at term, after the coming in of the
master‘s report, before aﬁnal decree is entered therein; and if the
bill has been taken as confessed, the complainant shall show to the

court, at the hearing, by aﬂidavit orothervvise,that the proceedings
to take the bill as confessed have been regular, according to the

rules and practice of the court. He shall also show whether the
bill has been taken as confessed against all of the defendants, upon
service of subprnna, or alter an appearance, or whether some of
them have been proceeded against as absentees.

Run: 98. On the coming in and conﬁrmation of the master's re' lfll|ercis I
port of the sale of mortgaged premises, if it shall appear there is i'ifi'riii?1l'»;:'..:/1.',;
any surplus moneys remaining in court, aﬁer satisfying the amount
due the complainant, any defendant, upon ﬁling an sﬂidavit that "'°"'""""
f('I'I "II
bnvc n' er
such surplus has been paid into court, and that he’ is entitled to the FIICG
I0\!('l!I'
same, or somb part thereof, may have an order of coulse, leferring :§,i,'|',,',}.'°\'

it to a master to ascertain and report the amount due to such de
fendants, or to any other person, and which is a lien upon such sur
plus monies, and to ascertain the priorities of the several liens there

on; to the end, that on coming in and conﬁrmation of the report,
such further order and decree may be made for the distribution.of
surplus moneys, as may be just; and every defendant who has
appeared in the cause, and every person who has left a written no
tice of his claim to such surplus tnoueys with the legister ol assist
ant regider, where the same are deposited, shall be entitled to no
tice to attend the master on such reference.’ And any person ma' l-@r»m mn
hlnu unfoun
hing aclaim to such surplus moneys, and who shall fail to estab-iitfll,lfl'I\]il':1':

30

CHANCERY RULES.

mnncyl lia
b,e,°"°"-.
lish his claim, on the healing before the master, may be charged

with such costs as the other parties have been subjected to, by rea
son of such claim; and the parties succeeding on such reference

may be allowed such costs as the court or injunction master may
deem reasonable; but no costs unnecessarily incurred on such re
ference, or previous thereto, by any of the parties, shall be allow
ed on taxation, or paid out of such surplus..

Run 99. The petition for the appointment of a guardian ad li

appioin tem shall be by the infant in pelson, if he is of the age of fourteen
and upwards; but if he is under fourteen, it shall be presented by
“man ‘Pg his next kin, or some other friend of the infant. But if an infant
P°l""'d on defendant, or some disinterested relative or friend, in his behalf,
does not procure the appointment of a guardian ad litem, within

the usual time for appearance, as prescribed by the rules of this
court. the adverse party may apply tothe court or injunction mas

ter to appoint a suitable person as the guardian for such infant; and
such party in his petition, shall brieﬂy state the age and residence
of such infant, and the pendency of the suit against them.
Run 100. No guardian ad litem, for an infant defendant, or next
2]; friend of an infant complainant, unless he has given security to the

infant according to law, shall, as such guardian, receive any money
or property belonging to such infant, or which may be awarded to

him in the suit, except such costs and expenses as may be allowed

by the court to the guardian, out of the fund, or received by the
infant in the suit. Neither shall the general guardian of an infant
receive any part of the proceeds of the sale of real property be
longing to such infant, sold under a decree or order of the court,

until the guardian has given such fulther security for the faithful dis
charge of his trust, as the court may direct.
RIJnI: 101. All bills for the purpose of obtaining divorce, wheth

er the husband or wife is complainant, shall be duly veriﬁed by
ﬂediinolimoath, in the usual manner of verifying bills, where by the coulse
and practice of the court an oath is lequired.

In a bill for a di

vorce on the ground of adultery, the complainant must also posi
tively aver, that the adultery charged in the bill, was committed
without his consent, connivance, privity or procurement ; and that

he has not voluntarily cohabited with the defendant since the dis.
covery of such adultery.

CHANCERY RULES.

31

Run 102. if any such bill is taken as confessed, or the facts mfgmz

charged therein are admitted by the answer, the complainant may, K“ “""'
M, upon due proof of the regularity of the ploceedings to
take the bill as confessed, or upon the bill and answer, have a ref
em to a master to take proof of all the material facts charged
in the bill, and to report such proof to the court, with his opinion
‘Q

thereon.

Run 103. The defendant in the answer may set up the adultery Muhny of
of the complainant, or any other matter which would be a bar to a"f'_‘:"’:°""£‘“'
divorce, seperation, or the annulling of a marriage contract; and :‘|,'‘{,,''fI’,,':,‘,,

if an issue it taken thereon, it shall be tried at the same time and "er"
in the same manner as other isaues of fact in the cause.

Run: 104. No sentence or decree of nullity, declaring void asp Qlnmme
0

ll“

OI’

marriage certiﬁcate, or decree for a divorce, or for a separate or gr‘m or
W or I

limited divorce, shall be made of course, by the default of the <le'‘-:;pce:I-11.13',

fondant; or in consequence of any neglect to appear at the healing "ht "°“‘;"
of the cause or by consent. And every such cause shall be heard
aﬁer the trial of the feigned issue, or upon the coming in of the
maater's report, at a stated term of the court.

Run 106. Wheri a party is ordered to pay the costs of any in
terlocutory proceedings, and no time of payment is speciﬁed in the

order, he shall pay them within twenty days after the ﬁling of the
taxed bill, and aﬂidavit and service of a copy of the order of such

taxed bill; or if a gross sum is speciﬁed in the order, within twenty
days of service ofa certiﬁed copy of the order. And if he neglects
or refuses to pay such costs within the time prescribed as aforesaid,
or speciﬁed in the order, the adverse party, on an aﬂidavit oftheper
aonal service of such copies, and a demand of payment, and that

auch costa have not been paid, may have an execution therefor,’ or

move for an attachment against the delinquent.
Runs: 106. ()n ﬂling a bill of review, or other bill in the nature mnomvh
of a bill of review, the complainant shall make the like deposite or nol tube mu
wilhdtleavc

give security to the adverse party in the same amount which is or aiv,dad;°po
s to to
would be required on an appeal from an order or decree complained made.
of; and no such bill shall be ﬁled, either upon the discovery of nevv
mattera, or otherwise, without special leave of the court ﬁrst ob

tioed, nor unless the same is brought within the time allowed for

briﬂg an appeal,

32

CHANCERY RULES.

L'|'|‘|”,d"'n'“r:,:ch Runs 107. \\'here a creditor, by judgment or decree, ﬁles a bill
f,‘.':.if:";',,',':, in this court against his debtor, to obtain satisfaction out of the equi

,',','.',',,",,',h,‘{.,':. table interests, things in action, or other property of the latter, af
ter the retum of an execution unsatisﬁed, he shall state in such bill,

either positively or according to his belief, the true sum_aﬂﬂb_
and equitably due on such judgment or decree, over and above- all
Andm m|just claims of the defendant, by way of offset, or otherwise.

He

“,(,",,f}f.ff}‘-',‘1"'shsll also state that he kn0ws,or has reason to believe, the defend

§{y‘,’,':f,',', 0' ant has equitable interests, things in action, or other property, ex
ceeding one hundred dollars in value, exclusive of all prior claims
thereon, which the complainant has been unable to discover and

reach by execution on such judgment or decree.

The bill shall

likewise contain an allegation that the same is not exhibited by col
lusion with the defendant, or for the purpose of protecting the pro
perty or effects of the debtor against the claims of other creditors;

but for the sole purpose of compelling payment and satisfaction of
the complainant’s own debt.

'
Such mm

R|.'nt: 108. Every such creditor's bill shall be veriﬁed by the oath
of the complainant, or in case of his absence from the state, or oth

::f,::;:lb,§er suﬂicient cause shown, by the oath of his agent or attorney.
mum
Such bills maybe amended of course, in the same manner as bills
not sworn to, if the amendments are merely in addition to, and not
inconsistent with what is contained in the original bill.

But all

such amendments shall be veriﬁed by oath in the same manner as
the bill is required to be veriﬁed.
Judnmnl

Rum. 109. In suit by judgment creditor's bills, in case the de

:,',.‘,‘,c'Ii,.",‘.’,§"':.';,’. fendant has been'duly served with process, and he is in default for
,"l,,"f-','|:,'?lf.'.' want of answer, the complainant shall be entitled to the like ordels

r at
W.:IIll‘),frlln'
and proceedmgs
.
In
. regard to receive
. as he would be, .in case he
l"L','.

should take the bill as copfessed by the defendant.
I b

d

Run 110. The debtor against whom a creditor's bill is ﬁled,

Io lor nee

wt-W-Wl'r shall not be subject to the expense of putting in an answer thereto
'50 bill. but

7

""Y""'“"" in the hhual manner, if he shall cause his appearance to be entered
that it he ts
:£' within twenty days after the return day of the subpo:na, and shall
thsta recei
VI'I'JJQ hp

within the time allowed for an answer, deliver to the complainant,

pointed.

or his solicitor, a written consent that an order may be entered ta

king the bill as confessed; and for the appointment of a receiver,

Cl'IANCERY RULES.

)

33

and for a reference to take the examination of the defendant, ‘in

couformityto this rule.

Upon presenting such written consent to

the court, the complainant may have a special order, founded there

on, directing the bill to be taken as confessed against the debtor,
and referring it to such master as the court may designate in such
order, to appoint a receiver, with the usual powers, and to take
from him the requisite security. The order shall also direct the de
.

.

\\'hnl lhe or

fendant to assign, transfer and delircr over to the recewcr on oath, "°"" MI

under the direction of the master, all his property, equitable in':;','l"'lil":“
tarests, and in action, and effects; and that ho appear before the

master, fromitima to time, and produce such books and papeni and
submit to such examination as the master shall direct, in relation
to any matter which he might have been legally required to dis
close, if hebadanswered the bill in the usual manner. The ex
pense of taking down such examination by the master, shall be paid
by the complainant, in the ﬁrst instance, and may be taxed and al

lowed to the latter as a part of hisneceasary costs in the suit. The
bbmplainant shall also be at liberty to examine witnesses before the
master, as to the property of the defendant, or as to any othermat

ter charged in the bill, and not admitted by the dc-fonduntron such
examination. And the complainant shall causc|a wlitten orprinted (‘Q ,.v ufrulc
am nr-tire to

copy of this rule to be served on the defendant at the time of the be-1-rvmiou
the delenti

servicc of the subpoena, with a notice to the defendant that an entry :::‘'::_\:n.

of his appearance and an answer on oath is required; or such de- "“"'“t
fondant shall not be answerable to the complainant for the costs of
the proceedings to compel an appearance and ansmr.

R,l'nBlll.. Every receiver of the propelty and effects of the
debtor, appointed in a suit upon a creditor's bill, shall, unless re
stricted by the 'special order of the coult, or injunction master, have ‘mi ‘MM
general power and authority to sue for and collect all the debts, de

mands and rents belonging to such debtor, and to compromise and
settle such as are unsafe and of a doubtful character.

He may al

so sue in the name of the debtor, where it is necessary or proper
for him to do so, and he may apply for and obtain an order of
course, that the tenants of any real estate belonging to the debtor,
or of which he is entitle:l,to the rents and proﬁts, attom to such

receiver and pay their rents tohim.
I-

He shall also be permitted to

“

CHANCERY RULES.
I
make leases from time to time,as may be necessary, for terms not
'exceeding one year. And it shall be his duty without unreasonable

dc‘lay,to convelt all the personal estate and effects into money; but
he shall not sell any real estate of the debtor, without the special

Rm'vivernot order of the court or injunction master. He is not to be allowed
allow'd costs
ln¢‘'rh,il‘'l> for the costs of any suit brought by him against an insolvent from
"I

whom he is unable to collect his costs, unless such suit is brought by

order of the court, or by the consent of all persons interested in
the funds in his hands. But he may sell such desperate debts, and all

R,.,.,.i-.~.

iii‘.-.l]:lf§i other doubtful claims to personal property, at public auction, giving
Hun.

at least ten days’ notice of the time and place of such sale.
1'|,,,,.,..,,.
Run 112. Where several bills are ﬁled by different creditors
“"'|','_,‘,',‘.",':..,.,.agsinst the same debtor, no more than one receiver of his proper
;iLi':“'"“ ty and elfects shall be appointed, unless the ﬁrst appointment has
been obtained by fraud or collusion, or unless the receiver is an im
proper person to execute the trust. The receiver shall give secu

rity suﬂicient to cover the whole property and effects of the debtor,
which may come in hislhands by virtue of his oﬂice; and he shall
hold such propelty and eﬂ'ects for the beneﬁt of all creditols who
have corqmenced, or shall commence similar suits during the con

tinuance of his trust, to be disposed of according to their legal or
fleteivrrnnt equitable priorities. He shall not pay over the funds in his hands
to pay over

NM‘. or in to the parties, or to any other person, without being specially au
he discharg

"" :i'.‘l“"""c thorized to do so by an order or decree of the court; nor shall he
Ipa'

on

I’

'

be discharged from his trust withouta special order, to be obtamed
upon a written consent of allthe parties interested in the property
in his hands, or upon the notice of the application.

1'i...,.,‘¢.c,.
tnkwp ,op

Run: 113. When another suit is commenced after the appoint
,

.

. v

f

cu -wu. ment of a receiver, the same person may be appomted recen er 0

such subsequent suit, and shall give such further security as the
court shall direct.

He shall keep a separate 'account of any pro

perty or effects ofthe debtor, which may have been acquired since
the commencement of the ﬁrst suit, or which may be assigned to
such receiver under the appointment in the last cause.
:tt;.ortgfu\I

Ill‘

Rl'l.r. 114. No injunction issued upon any such creditor's bill,

llll

:'Pf"'M°l'l'"l"' shall be construed to prevent the debtor from receiving and apply

CHANCERY RULES.

35

ing the proceeds of his subsequent earnings to the support of him
self or of his family, or to defray the expenses of the suit, or to
plevent him ﬁom complying with any order of this court. made in
any other cause, to assign and deliver his property and effects to a

receiver; or to restrain him from making the necessary assignment
to obtain his discharge under the insolvent laws, unless an express

provision to that elfect is contained in the injunction.
Run 116. When tv'vo or more special motions, or applications llrdﬂlupon
apemnl Illu‘

in the same suit are decided at the same time, or on the same day, tiuns,lccld'd
.

allbe same

or several directions are given by the court in relation to the suit, am. In be
.

‘-nu'red lo

the whole shall be entered together as one order, unless the court ¢"h"

shall otherwise direct. And When a party is entitledto enter two ']-woorn.sore
.
.
orders of
or more orders of course, in a suit at the same t1me,0r on the same course in m

day, they shall be entered together as one order.

:';'zrdm
as one order.

Q

Run: 116. In cases whele no provision is made by statute, or by Cumm

these rules, the proceedings of this court shall be according to the g:‘“°°°
court
customary practice, as it has heretofore existed in cases not prori' 5:22;
ded for by statute or the written rules of the court.

These rules shall take eﬂ'ect on the ﬁrst Monday in September
next
Adopted and allowed by the Supreme Court, Jackson, '8th July,
1847.

W. W. LAWRENCE, Chris.

to

\

CIRCUIT COURT RULES.
»%%~»»~“%»..~

Run: 1. Every attorney shall have an agent in each place where |'7w'L~gﬂr
thde is a circuit court held in this state, except in the city or town gills‘!
where such attorney keeps his oﬂice. No person shall he an
i
agent

unlel he he an attorney of the coun, clerk of the court, or deputy
clerk.

The appointment of agents shall he made in writing, signed ;P5*;":‘;',

51 l-59 l"°l‘ll¢Y- and ﬁled in the clerk-s oﬂice; and the clerk shall ‘(‘.‘]‘L§r-Wk.’

keep I. cahlogue of the appointments aha in the oﬂice, with the “" "‘"""'
attorneys’ names, alphabetically arranged.
RUnI 2. Where the attorney for the adverse party resides more ;T.°,‘,.‘.-;°,'..‘if

from the place of holding
court, service of papers :l:l:nmdQ.
th an two nules
'
'
contemplated by these rules may he made on an agent; but if he
has no such agent, such service may he made by putting the notice
ls
or papers in the post olice, directed to the attorney, at his place of
residence, to he ascertained according to the best information and

halid‘ of the person making such service.

i

Rt'nE 3. All notices shall he in writing, and shall he served on am-0?
the attorney in the cause, or his agent; and where a party, who is 2;" -“~°°"'Y

also an attorney of this court, shall prosecute in person, or, is a de
fendant, shall give notice that l|_e is an' attorney, and will defend in '°"‘_“_"»

person, all notices and other papers shall be served on him in like

..Y" "’

manner; and when the object is to bring the party into contempt ?-,::,°,,';i°,i’,'
for disobeying any rule or order of the court, the service shall be ..Z£“.2."..“""

on such party personally, unless otherwise specially ordered by the
0007!.
S(1)\,

139860

4

CIRCIYITCOURT RULES.

:$j'r‘;""-n-:y

ltru: 4. Notices and papers may be served on an attornr-y or his

agent, by leaving the same with him or his agent, or with his clerk
:-:r-,‘''_]_’"‘h_‘(,‘ in his oﬂice, or with a person having charge thereof; or when no

-,§-,fI,,",-,--,‘f-§,-,f‘ person is to be found in the oﬂicc, by leaving the same, between the
hours of six in the morning and-nine in the evening, in some suita
i.-ii.lei;_lr“ ble and conspicuous place in such oflice; or if the oﬂiice he not

W|“ _‘ m_ open so as to.admit_' of service then.-in, then by leaving the same
at the attorney-s residence,with some person of suitable age and dis
cretion.
RI‘l.B 5. When a patty, other than an attorney of this court, pro

::,im:”i.-" secutea or defends in person, the service of papers may be on such
party personally, or by putting the same into the post oﬂice, di
rected to him at his place of residence.

And no service of notice

:12: or papers in the ordinary proceedingsin a cause shall be necessary
L111 to be made on a defendant who has not appeared therein and given

notice to the plaintiﬂ"s attorney of his intention to defend the suit,
except where the defendant is retnmed imprisoned for want of
bail, in which case a copy of the declaration shall be delivered to
hivn, ortothe sheriff or jailer in whose custody he shall be;

and

when an exception is entered to bail, and no notice oi retainer of
an attorney to defend is given, notice of snch exception shall be

delivered to be sheriff or one of his deputies.
RIJnI 6. No private agreement or consent between the parties or
4,".-M,“ their attorneys, in respect to the proceedings in a cause, shall be
binding nnleas the same shall have been reduced to the form of a
'
.
enlered. er. rule by consent, and entered accordingly ll'l the book of common

dlg,,sl¢ned.

rules; or unless evidence thereof shall be in writing, subscribed by

the party or his attorney, against whom the same sball be alleged.
Run 7. Original writs may be issued in vacation or terni time,
°"V""'"" and made returnable on the ﬁrst and third Mondays of every month,
when may

and also on any day in term, and writs of execution may be issued.
'|l.-‘:1;-,,_ in vacation or tenn time, and made returnable on the second Tues

Qm days of May, August and February and the third Tuesday of No
H‘
mi?

vernber in each year.
Rrnz 8. Every rule to which a party would, according to the

practice of the court, be entitled of course, without showing spe

CIRCUIT COURT RULES.

5

cial cause, shall be denominated a common rule; and every other _

rule shall be denominated a special rule. All common rules, and
all
oﬂice,
rules
in by
a book
consent
to be
of parties,
providedshall
by him
be entered
for thatwith
purpose,
the clerk
to beatcall-'"'"=¢
his

ed the " common rule book," and may be entered at any time, as
well in vacation as during term; and the day when the rule shall
be entered, shall be noted therein, and the party may enter such rule
as he may conceive himself entitled to, of course, but at his peril.

R.l7I.E 9. The day on which any rule shall be entered, or order, -1~-,,,,,,'|,,,,,

notice, pleading or paper served, shall he excluded in the computa- f.‘-’ll?l£1"?.‘.’.""
tioa of the time for complying with the cxigency of such rule, or
der or notice, pleading or paper, and the day on which a compli
anoe therewith is requi_red shall be included, except where it shall

fallen a Sunday, in which case the party shall have the neitt day
to comply therewith. \Vhen by the terms of any order an act is
directed to be performed instanter, it shall be done in twenty-‘four
hours.

RL'nt-: 10. In all suits commenced by original writ the defeudantn‘_moW_d
shall plead to the declaration within twenty days from the time of
ﬁling same and serving a copy thereof on the defendant or his at- :_-:i"";fl“{;;!
torney if the defendant has appeared, and if he has not appeared,
then from the time of ﬁling such declaration: And all subsequent "'"" °'°"|'7

pleadings or notices in suit so commenced as well as those com-SL-:m:'n'menced by the service of declaration, shall respectively be ﬁled min who
within ten days each aﬂer the other, until issue in fact or in law be

joined.

.

Rum: ll. In suits where specialpleadingshas been heretofore re
quisite or allowed by law, notice of the special mattens upon which
"""r";“)*.f"
either party may rely as well in the prosecution 8:1 in the defence of.I:"f:l,'';""

any such suit, shall be substituted in lieu of such special pleading:wd“"-"""‘
And it shall be as competent to demur to any such no|ice as to any

$1»: pleading: Every such notice shall brieﬂy state the precise
nature of the matter relied on.
Reta 12. The general issue may be made in the following form znﬂml "
" The defendant comes and demands a trial of the matters set forth '“°'°-i"‘ °"
in the plaintiff-s declaration ;" and the form of a demrrer may be

°

c IICUIT COURT spurs.

$.12" ll stout - rt» said ssasam says um the “ta declaration,
(or aotiea, ke.,) is not snﬁiciaat in law," showing the special cause
of demurrer if any, and ajoiaderhadsmmver may be made as

ff_‘:f'f,"‘ follows: " The plaintil (or defendant) says that the said declara
“"“ "" tien (w notice. ks.) is saieiaat ia law."
‘mm

Ivan 13. The ﬁst of declarations adopted under the new En

zlxﬁ-;u glish rules, so ﬁr asthey are not inconsistent with either the stat
'"""*"""utes or the peculiar organisation of said circuit court, may beused.
or the same may be drawn according to the forms heretofore in use,

.

in said court.

2%‘

Runh 14. ln all cases not otherwise provided for by law and

it-,':?ii.‘y'ii‘. these rules, writs of execution may be issued at any time, and
Z-Zn‘? made returnable on the ﬁrst day of the ensuing terrn of the court.
,,,|,,, ,,,,

Run! 16- All exceptions to the report of lhe clerk of the court

=',':i‘,:-:,, in assessing damages nlustbe ﬁled on the day succeeding that on
pmhlﬂh which such report is ﬁled unlessithe court shall otherwise direct.
'

Runs 16. When an attorney is retained to defend it cause, no

:10:-C-Ciii‘: tice of retainer shall be served on the plaintiF."s attorney withii
twenty ﬁys ﬁoln the day to which the writ is made returnable.
Runs 17. When the plaiatiﬂ"s sttonicy receives notice of retain

J vrﬂ-

er, as is provided in the preceding rule, he shall, at or before the

time limited for ﬁling declaration, serve a copy thereof on the de
fendant's attorney; andif such notice of retainer be not received

until sﬁer the time above stated, then a copy of such declaration
shall be served within ten days after receiving such notice.

.
'.

Rri.u lit. Alter‘ thc service of a copy of such declaration, the

any olnlaa

31,3,“

_

'

'

party ﬁling any pleading, whether plain|iff or delendant, shall, on

'” or before the day limited for ﬁling any such, serve a copy of such
pleading on the attorney of the opposite party.

,I,n' ,,,,.,Uwho nol

li.rl.I I9. When a defendant has been taken upon a capias ad re
.

.

.

.

lhd how ll) sponrleildum and has given satisfactory appearance bail, the plain
rumdi tiff may proceed to ﬁnal judgment, which proceeding shall not re‘

letute the appearance bail.

l-ntil the defendant has appeared and

pl‘l’l’l,'Cl(‘(l special hail, he ls not entilled to il copy of the declara
tion, nor can he plead thereto, nor take any default against the plain

tiff; and where the defendant in any original writ accepts service,

his appearance may be entered, and he will be considered in court

-

i.

CIRCUIT COURT IULB8.

7

"tea
Run
the 20.
defendant,
Iftlntheplaintilahall
or ifither partythe
shall dﬁelt
laakedefadhh
in
aa-*°""*'"'i
swering, then the
party, may have tln default ealaredin
the common ruleboolt; btttitahall not becompetaInttnesshranch
default unless, on receiving notice of retainer as aforesaid, copies
of the pleadings in the cause have been served, as provided by
theaerules. '
.
ii .
v..
. ,'_.. .|.,,

-

Roma 21. The defendants default being dely entered, the pldl-n -.,,;“,;
tiﬂ' shall not be bound aflerwards to accept a plea, nalel the dq ~Ffendant, as soon as he shall know that the default has been entered, \.=:"\e:- :2

shall serve an aﬂidavit of merita, plead isauably, and pq or tender "'1"gél=c1=:
the coetsof the default. ,
. .-..
\ -, ,
"‘ ‘Y
Ruaa 82. The party in whose fivor default may have been ‘en- Dem" in
tered in‘ term or in vacation, may at any tine,'aﬁIﬁIi days invu---erg:
time
term,aller
shalltlle
have
expiration
intervened,
of or
four
if entered
days thereafter,
in term the,
Ir inthen
bahatother:
any ‘dI:;:‘{:"..‘
time as may be ordered by the court, have a'rule

in the

common rule book, to make such default absolute, and for such Remain

judgment as the party is entitled to by reason of the deﬁult. .' Ift£r¢_\'‘s|n=f::
such default be taken by plaintif for want of
he shall, by said "I"w"P1@§
rule, in cases where it is competent, make reference to the clerk
to assess the damages;

and in cases where they must be assessed affix’,

by a jury, stid rule shall direct llpt such jury be called to make _
the assasment.

-

RULI 231 Pldas in abatement, or to the jurisdiction, and all otberum
dllatory pleas: may be ﬁled without any rule.for a special or a genEn
era] special imparlance within the time limited by the tenth rule. arse "J go
Rrna 24. The court will not entertain a motion to set aside the "Mom"?
proceedingsdn a cause, on the ground of misnomer of the party ,'1,",’,°,°,°,‘,ﬁarrested, but will leave him to his remedy by a plea in abatement.
,
Runs: 25. The plaintiff may at any time, upon notice tp the de-m‘j"*"'f*,:‘rI:,
fondant oir his attorney, and on the payment of all the costs taxed in fa“ """

the cause, discontinue his suit in the common rule book.
t Run: 26. All motions to set aside a default shall be made within Ddmumu

the ﬁrst four days of term next aﬂer the default shall have been en- ma
tered, and in all cases of special motions, except a motion for a con- ‘° """""
'

O

3

CIRCUIT BOUT! BULBS. >

am: tinuance, the aﬂiduvin and aha‘: papers on whichtbe same maybe
,,,,,,u""'“",,,,, founded, shall be ﬁled at the tin? of making the motion, and cep
gnaw

ies thereof shall be served on

duos-ney of the oppoeite pm’

on orbeforethe dayof rualiﬂgsnehmonon. a-§‘.u-is
'l‘llI!.s

All motionﬁshall be inlwriting, shall have endorsed

" °°"°‘. ‘°'l thdreoli the names of rye ‘arties ’and their respective attoi-neys;
W.-D hand no motion which ll resisted shall be argued on the day it is
swat
nsb,,\sisloutlbseome'atefpar:iss,anlssstlsscsart,oegoodcaue

D_-mm , Rvtli 28. wdsen either party shall demurto any pleading or no
*"I""1 ice of speclahnatter, he shall brieﬂy but plainly specify the ob
jections, in matters of substance, as well as those of form, upon

wicbbe intends to reply on the argument; and if the pie ading or

M560 Illll-l ll llljlldgtd bad for any cause not so speciﬁed, the par
ty pleading, when allowed to amend on terms, will be permitted to
do -so without coda.
_u

Runa 29.-'l'he plaintiff may at any time before the default for
not replying, shall be entered to any plea or notice, or within ten

"° ‘"'*'~- day ~ aﬁier service of a copy of the plea, if it shall be-the general
\\¢bsmeitherlQ\l8, amend his declc-ation. ’ Aﬁer plea, either party may, before
ma?’ default for not answering shall be entered, amend the pleading to
"

be answered ; and where there shall be a demurrerto a declaration
or other pleading or notice,such pleading or notice may lp amended

at any time before the default for not joiningin demurrer, shall be
wI,,,,, ,.,,¢,. entered. The rupective parties may amend under thii rule',of course,

°""°""

and without costs, but shall not be entitled so to amend more than
once.

Amended

Under this rule new counts, pleas or notices may be added.

RULE 30. _\'o rule to amend shall be required, but a copy of the

L\':1‘l:s-“I3 amended pleading or n0tice,endorsed, “amended narr,”,_"plea""no
:;m'fr-''*‘“ tice," kc’, (as the case may be,) shall be ﬁled and served, with a
notice that the same is a copy of the pleading or notice as amend
,|,"m.m|r,d ed. And ihe time to plead or answer, if notice thereof has been
:»"'.‘:“‘* given, shall he from the day of service of such copy of the amen
ded pleading or notice.

R: LB 31. In cases in which the defendant is entitled to demand
a bill of particulars, the plaintiﬁ shall furnish such on being served

i

ClRCl'lT COURT RULES.

9

with a notice requiring the same by the defendant or his attorney,"“,1-'’“"’'‘| 5‘"
and if such hill ho demanded before the expiration of the time for1'fff''‘f‘{“‘“ﬁling plea, the defendant shall have like time to plead after receiv
ing the bill of particulars tn which he was entitled at the time of
serving such notice.
Rona 32. If the

shall unreasonably neglect to furnish am Mw

bill of particulars, or if the hill of particulars delivered be insuﬁ- giliiiiiiiniin
cient. the court may in its discretion non-suit the plaintiff, allow fur
ther time to furnish it, or require a more particular bill to ho deliv
ered.

Rrnr: I13. ln cases where it is competent for the plaintilfto call Bmnfw

upon thedefeadsat for a bill of the particulars of his set off, thede
lendant shall furnish suoh on the written request of the plaintiﬂ' or
his attorney; and in case it be not furnished within thirtydaysafter -r,.,,,,,,,,,“.
such request, tb court may exclude all testimony touching it from §’,-.'‘,";,-.',‘,,',’I"

going to the jury. \Vhere the bill of particulate at demanded and
fumished in cases where a replication is necessary, the plaintiff shall l“v',""‘'"lI“l"f*‘;§

have the aatna time to reply that was unexpired of the rule at the i',-;f,,-f‘;’,‘
time of demanding such bill.
Rune 84. Application may be made by petition to any circuit p,,,,,,,,,,,,I
court, in term time, or to the presiding judge thereof, in vacation, l-’:l-71;‘ .iiri'-’

to compel the production and discovery of books, papers and doc- kw "wk
uments, rehtingto the merits of any suit pending in such court, or

of any defence to such suit, in the following C8805;
Firil. By the plaintiff, to compel the discovery of papers or doc- ,,, ,,.|,,,,,_,,_

unems in the possession or under the control of the defendant, H by l’' "Y
which may he necessary to enable the plaintiff to dl-~-larc or answer

to any pleading of the defendant :
Srconrl. The plsintifl‘ maybe compelled to make the discovery In whines

of papers or documents, where the same shall be necessary to ena.- H by M T
ble the defendant to answer any pleading of the pe|itioner:
T/unl. The plaintifl' may lie compelled, after declaring. and the ''MnM.n_r
defendant, alter pleading, to produce and discover all papers or doc- ::Fll~:;~‘-'_=r
urnents on which the action or defunct: is founded :

H:-“‘;'L-_-or¢:""'

Fourth. After issue joined in any action, either party may he ‘l_-;":_';-r‘,:‘L;"‘::'
compelled to produce and discover all such books, papers and doc- gym, pm,

10

CIRCUIT COFRT RULES.

:1;mm" uments,as may he necessary to enable the party applying for such
discovery to prepare for the trial of the cause.
Pwcm for

Rl nv. 35. The petition for such discovery shall state the facts and

circumstances on which the same is claimed, and shall he veriﬁed
by aﬂidavit, stating that the books, papers and documents, where

of discovery is sought, are not in the possession nor under the con
trol of the party applying therefor, and that the patty making such
aﬂidavit is advised by his counsel, and verily believes that the disco
very of the books, papers or documents mentioned in such petition
is necessary to enable him to declare, or answer, or to prepare for
trial, as the case may be.

in--e.~r-‘~"r~.r~yh._I Rl'r.r. 36. The rule granting the discovery shall specify the mode
\v'w'\I!- in which the same is to be made, which may be either by requiring
the party to deliver sworn copies of matters to be discovered, orby
requiring him in produce and deposite the same with the clerk of
nu|» for lo the court in which the trial is to be had.

The order shall also spe

cify the time wi|hin which the discovery is to be made; and when

the papers are required to be deposited, the order shall specify the
time for which the deposite shall continue.
_
Run: 37. The court or presiding judge thereof, in grantingsuch
"Eta, order, shall be governed by the principles and practice ofthe court
;:;-I1‘-.i;I'»‘-_l‘ "(of chancery in compelling discoveries,except that the costs of such
'

:;'"""‘:.;-;)_“ proceedings shall always he awarded in the discretion of the court_
,,.m'm_m_

‘,1‘|‘,‘,-_',f
M’

Rims 88. Every such order may be vacated by the court, or the

judge grantingthe same:
First. Upon satisfactory evidence that it ought not to have been
granted :

S‘:-rmul. l'pon the discovery sought being obtained:
T/rirrl. l'pon the party required to make the discovery denying
on oath, the possession or control of the hooks, papers or documenta
ordered so to be produced.

,,,,,.,,,,,).'
Rrrr. Ilfl. The order directing the discovery of books, papers or
:-,,‘§,‘.’,f‘,‘.",‘,,,‘_° documents shall operate as a stay of all other proceedings in the

:,’,’,'|,,'.',i.f""’ cause, until such order shall have been complied with, or vacated;
and the party obtaining such order after the same shall have been
complied with or vacated, shall have the like time to declare, plead,

CIRCUIT COURT RULES.

11

or answer, to which he was entitled at the time of the making the
order.
Rru: 40. In case ofthe part y reftliagar neglecting to obey such mafgfrff, 9|
.
.
1‘
|'
order for a discovery, wlthtn such time as the court shall deem rea- Z1"; Iii-fu
sin g lo rl-m~
sonahle, the court may nonsuit hi
HI may stnke out any plea or
notice he may have given,or maym,debar
him from any particular
D

defence in relation to which such discovery was sought; and the
power of the court to compel such discovery shall be conﬁned to
t he remedies herein provided, and shall not extend to authorize any
other proceedings against the person or property of the party so
refusing or neglecting.
Rune 4-1. The books, papers and documents - or sworn co P les
thereof, produced under any order made in pursuance of the pre- "1>‘-i-- P.‘
in I ‘C: o~
ceding rules, shall have the same effect, when used by the art re- 5"?“
P

y

derof. e|feel

qumng them, as if produced upon notice, according to the practice "L
of the court.

Rune 42. The party filing a demurrer to a part of any pleading,
shall, before procee d'mg to the argument,furmsh
' the court wllll
' a

copy of the part demurrod to, and also of the special causes of de- i),:|-‘i;"1itilig
murrer, if any, ﬁled; and if it be a general demurrer, a copy of:i,,iii"-hit?

the whole pleading demurred lo shall be furnished, in default ¢,r""" ' which the demurrer alplll be overruled.
Rum: 43. Depositions of any witness taken within this State in
all cases provided for in the Revised Statutes, shall be received, |>qm|;.ms,
opened, endorsed and ﬁled by the clerk, in the same manner as de-iii;-vi‘-ga(‘II

positions taken under a commission.

DIX

ﬁlm

RUl.lt»i<i. All ol»_jl-c|iom of form as to the taking of deposi|ions,
shall be ﬁled in writing at least one day before the cause is called 1, P, ‘_ ,,,

rut mu.

;.-!;";;,"‘.i.?‘tf',‘,‘.’

Rum: 45. When a deposition has been taken by either party, italilﬁizdimw
may at any time be read by the other party on the |lial.
‘l\\;-:(i:llI:.i;‘I~s,
Runt; 40. \\'henever it shall be necessary in any affidavit to swear
Iiiiiiir
to the advice of counsel, the party shall, in addition to what has Am-ml, on
usually been inso'1cd, swear that he has fully and fairly stated his
case to his counsel, sud shall give the name of such counsel.
mm

i2

cmcmr COURT RULES.

:(',""-:*-,-,“c"';_‘.'i RCnI 47. When a party applies for the continuance of a cause a
‘_‘,-,-,-,'I"_§',:"‘ second time. the sﬂidavit must state, in addition to the usual re

"""‘ ""”‘ qairenieats, the facts which the party expects to prove by the ab
sent witness, and the diligence he has used to procure his attend
ance; but it shall be optional with the opposite party to proceed to

trial if he admit the facts expected to be proved.
Rual 48. When a rule, orderyor continuance is granted upon
payment of coats, such costs, on being taxed, shall be paid on de

'° "' "M" mand of the party, his agentorataorney, and if not so paid, on alli
davit of that fact, such rule, order or continuance mhy be vacated,

or the court may grant an attachment therefor with the accruing
costs.

Run: 49. it shall he the duty of the clerk of each of the circuit
Ilodeulwa
lo QM.

courts, previous to each term, to make out a docket of the causes

at issue, arranging them according to the date of their issues, which
docket shall be denominated, “issues of fact;" also, a seperate

docket of causes which niay not be at issue, or which may be for
assessment of damages, either by the clerk, court or jury, arrang
ing them according to the time of commencing the suits, which
docket shall be denominated " imp1irlances;" also, nnotlier docket

in which an issue at law is joined, arranging them according to the
date of such issues, which shall be denominated "the law dockot;"

and also, a docket of all original appearances to the term.
mm" m’

Rru-2 50. The clerk of each circuit court shall make two copies

eoyk-s -il|

=30? M of each of said dockets, one for the court, and the other for the bar.
'A;-y-3--i-Jo
I'|l~."l

ll|I.r. 51. All appeals shall he placed on the docket of issues of

(WI

lllllr of fael. fa(;['

""""--I"‘

.

lti i.i: 52. Causes shall be heard according to their standing on

(-I-l_-- Il,

"""“-|"- the ilockets, unless otherwise ordered by the court.
slnmlilig am
ll I i.
' of causes, one counsel on each side
_
1-:.»,e.,(¢..,
RiI.E 53. Un the trial
only
uen. l Ilillll

,

.

.

-i lurxani shall examine or cross-examine a witness, and two counsel only on
.-»’-iii?-"int, each side niny sum up the cause to the jury, lIIll('~‘8 the court shall

"mu"

otherwise order.

i

.,.m,'‘'“,m

Ri l.F. 54. The plainliff shall in all cases except otherwise order_
ed by the court, commence the evidence, and counsel may in all
,‘_",,',-,-;I,'.,"f1‘,',,, cases, previously to the opening of the evidence, make a statement
I‘§l\.‘ 93%

'

:

CIRCUIT COURT RULES.

13

oi their case ; the defendant making his statement immediately af

ter the statement of the plaintif, and before the evidence of the """"
plaintil' shall have been given, and before his own evidence is giv
en, at his election.

Rona 55. Not more than two counsel on each side shall be heard
on the argument of any motion, the mover being entitled to open ;‘,i-,§',i,,“',-,‘,',,:°‘
the argument and to reply to the argument ofthe opposite attorney. izisuiii-:1'
Only one counsel can be heard on any reply.
ml‘
RUnE 65. The clerk of every circuit court shall provide s book, 5_,,,,,,t no

to be denominated "the special motion book,” in which the IIIOT-glﬁkblllnoiproi
Vldﬂ 1 Ino

neys shall enter all special motions tobe made to the court.
I

um" lo bl‘
rnleredin.

RunI 75. The motions so made shall be heard by the court ac- E8722‘-liaio"
cording to the order in which they stand in the special motion book, ‘°b';l*"4
Q

unless otherwise ordered by the court.
Rune 58. Motions for new trials shall he made and entered, with “mm, ,‘0,
two
the reasons
days aﬁer
andthe
grounds
rendition
on which
of the verdict.
such motions are made, wit.liin how -mi"

Runs: 59. Motions in arrest of judgment, with the reasons and ‘mun,
grounds on which they are founded, shall be made and enteredi,:f',fI‘:'é;'
within two days after the rendition of the verdict; or if a motion ,-:,h§,“,$-'4'

for a new trial has been interposed and overruled, then within two
days after the overruling of such motion.
Run: 00. The time limited for moving to set aside defaults, or -“,,,,,' rom
for making defaults absolute, or for ﬁling motions and reasons for
new trial, or in arrest of judgment, may be shortened or extended ::(I’:llo:f‘J'u::
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

Ilwntmtr.

by the circuit courts respectively, in their discretion.
Runa 61. On the argument of motions for new trial, or in arrest N" mm"
of judgment, the party making such motion shall furnish the court p',:-,,';-.‘,n
delii
I1
with a copy of the reasons on which such motion is founded, and ¢.,|,,:'.,‘f,-I_.".
also a brief.

'0“

Rum; 62. \Vhenever a stay of proceedings may be necessary in My “pm
orderto make a special motion, the presiding judge may grant an °_‘_.",f,','c":"gc_
order for that purpose; and service of such order, with copies of

the aﬂidavits on which it is grounded, and the notice of the motion,
shall operate as a stay of proceedings until the order of the court

14

ClRCL'IT COURT RULES.
is had in the premises, unless the judge should in the mean time su
peraede or set aside such order. But the proceedings shall not b¢
stayed for a longer time than to nahle the party to make his motion ,
according to the practice of the court, and if made, until the dc‘
cision of the court thereon.

P

H‘

Russ 63. The clerk shall endorse on every paper the day on

signing]-ig wlich the same is ﬁled.
Iw

Parties must take notice of the ﬁling of

papers at their peril ; and the clerk shall not sulfer or permit any

idiiriiiizit writ, pleading, aﬂidavit, deposition, or other paper whatever, on
hem Illl!

'

,

,

'

zilhuulol" tile ln his oﬂice, to be taken therefrom without the order of the
I’.
court, or a judge thereof; but parties interested in any such, may
inspect the same in his oﬂice, and take copies thereof.

wad Russ 64. All cases not disposed of at any term shall stand con
mf tinned to the next term, and shall be considered as continued from
‘“‘“”"
term to term, until ﬁnally disposed of, without any special entry of
a continuance.
,.mun“.“'

Run: 65. No motion for a continuance shall he made after the

‘,',’,-,",‘l,',’,"|,',-3‘ ﬁrst clay of the term, unless good cause be shown for the delay.
made on lst

'

uYu-:':d"" Rosa 66. The practice and rules of this court shall be applica
Q ble to and govern proceedings under the act to provide for the col
‘,’,‘,°:°w,‘;l°' lection of demands against boats and vessels.
Russ 67. Whenever exceptions are taken on the trial of a cause
&"|p:ﬁ:"ipto any decision of the court, or when the decision of any motion

for a new trial is to be reviewed by the supreme court, when the
sole grounds for such motion are not contained in aﬂidavits, the

party excepting or wishing to review the decision of such motion,
shall prepare a brief statement of so many of the facts as may be
necessary to show the grounds of such exception or motion to ena
ble the court shove rightly to understand the point so reserved, and
shall give the opposite party notice when and where such statement
of facts will be settled and signed, which notice shall be for some

'
Opposile '

day daring the lerm at which such trial was had.
Rru: 68. At the time and place speciﬁed, the party giving such

Ez'ivasiidiid notice shall deliver to the opposite party for his inspection such
statement or a copy thereof who shall be at liberty to prepare

amendments thereto and when the same is settled and signed, it

CIRCUIT COURT RULES.

15

shall be the only evidence of the facts upon which such excep
tions or points received shall be argued or such motion for a new

trial heard.
Run 69. If the parly receiving such notice of trial shall se. /e a Conan“-te
.
.
/
notice on the’ opQT pa
rty that he will move at such term for a :"Y.~;“,‘f°“-§,
_ C. Eekinuanceioﬂth Muse, together with a copy of the aﬂidavi1s‘,,’:j“|‘,:,,-:“°“
upon whic héintends to found such molion, he shall not be liable mm‘ Mi
to spch.
aﬁer th

anee is grant‘ed

r%y cats of preparing to try such cause accluing

of

such 'II0l.lC8
" and aﬂida\Its in case such con'.7nu

tlye papers so served.

‘

R.Unl‘70.\All rules amsru of rules coming within the pui 1iBW Rum u_
of these rules, be. and the same are hereby rescinded and repealed.
"
These rules shall be in force from and agler the ﬁrst Monday of f',;‘:21°"*°
September, A. D. 1847.

Adopted by the Supreme Court, at Jackson, July 8th, 1847.

W. W. LAWRENCE, Clerk.

