THE FORMS OF ACTIONS AT LAW.

[Chapter 70, Revised Statutes ]

SEC. 1. The distinction between the forms of actions at law, heretofore existing, are abolished; and there shall be in this territory hereafter,
but one form of action at law, to be called a civil action, for the enforcementor protection of private rights, and the redress of private wrongs;
except as otherwise expressly provided by statute.

SEC. 2. In such action, the party complaining shall be known as
the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 3. Actions can only be commenced within the periods
prescribed. in this chapter, after the cause of action shall have accrued,
except where in special cases a different limitation is prescribed by
statute.

SEC. 4. No action for the recovery of real property, or for the

recovery of the possession thereof shall be maintained unless it appear C

that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor, was seized or possessed of the premises in question, within twenty years before the commencement of the suit. The periods prescribed in the preceding section
for the commencement of actions, are as follows:

SEC. 5. Within ten years:

1. An action upon a judgment or decree of a court of the United
States, or of any state or territory of the United States.

SEC. 6. VVithin six years: ,

1. An action upon a contract. or other obligation, expressed or implied,
excepting those mentioned in the last preceding section;

2. An action upon a liability created by statutes, other than those upon
a penalty or forfeiture ;

3. An action for trespass upon real property;

4. An action for taking, detaining, and injuring personal property,
including actions for the specific recovery thereof;

5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury to the

person or rights of another, not arising on obligation, and not hereinafter
enumerated.

6. An action for relief, on the ground of fraud; the cause of action in
such case not to be deemed to have accrued, until the discovery by the
aggrieved party of the facts constituting the fraud.

SEC. 7. Within three years:

1 An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable, upon the liability
by the doing of an act in his otiicial capacity, and in virtue of his office,
or by omission of an ofiicial duty, including the failure to pay money collected upon an execution; but this section does not apply to an action for
an escape.

2. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, where the

action is given to the party aggrieved, except as otherwise provided by
law.

SEC. 8. Within two years:

1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false imprisonment;

2. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty to the territory.

SEC. 9. Within one year:

1. An action against a sheriff, or other ofiicer, for the escape of a person arrested or imprisoned by a civil process.

SEC. 10. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon
a mutual, open, and current account, when there have been reciprocal
demands between the parties, the cause of action is deemed to have
accrued from the time of the last item proved in the account, claimed
or proved to be chargeable on the adverse side.

SEC. 11. All action upon a statute for a penalty given in the
whole or in part, to the person who prosccutes for the same, must be commenced within one year after the commission of the offense; and if the
action be not commenced within one year by a private party, it may be
commenced within two years thereafter in behalf of the United States,
by the attorney general, or the district attorney of the county where the
offense was committed. ,

SEC. 12. An action for relief not being before provided for,

must be commenced within ten years after the cause of action shall have

accrued. ‘

SEC. 13. The limitations prescribed in this chapter, apply to
actions brought in the name of the United States, in the same manner as
to actions by private parties.

SEC. 14. An action is commenced as to each defendant, when
the summons is served on him, or on adefendant who is a joint contractor,
or otherwise united in interest with him. '

SEC. 15. An attempt to commence an action is deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this chapter,
when the summons is delivered, with the intent that it shall be actually
served, to the sheriff or other oflicer of the county, in which the defendants, or one of them usually or last resided; or if a corporation be a defendant, to the sheriff or other officer of the county in which such corporation was established by law, or where its general business was transacted,
or where it kept an ofiice for the transaction of business; but such an
attempt must be followed by the first publication of the summons, or the
service thereof, within sixty days.

SEC. 16. If, when the cause of action accrue against a person,
he be out of the territory, the action may be commenced within the term
herein limited after his return to the territory; and if, after the cause of
action accrues, he depart from the territory, the time of his absence is not

of the limited time for the commencement of the action.

SEC. 17. If a person, entitled to bring an action mentioned
in this chapter, except for a penalty, or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or

other otiicer for an escape, be, at the time the cause of action accrued,
either
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or

2. Insane; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the sentence of a criminal, for a time less than his natural life; or

4. A married woman.
The time. of such disability is not a part of the time limited for the

commencement of the action, except that the period within which the
action must be brought, cannot be extended more than five years by any
such disability, except infancy, nor can it be so extended in any case,
longer than one year after the disability ceases.

SEC. 18. If a person entitled to bring an action, die before
the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the
cause of action survives, an action may be commenced by his personal
representatives after the expiration of that time, and within one year from
his death. If a person against whom an action may be brought, die before
the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the
cause of action survives, an action may be commenced against his representatives, after the expiration, and within one year after the issuing of
letters testamentary or of administration.

SEC. 19. When a person is an alien, subject, or citizen of a
country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of the
war is not part of the period limited for the commencement of the action.

SEC. 20. When the commencement of an action is stayed by
injunction, or a statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the
injunction or prohibition, is not part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.

SEC. 21. No person can avail himself of a disability, unless
it exist.cd at the time his right of action accrued. '

SEC. 22. VVhen two or more disabilities co-exist at the time
the right of action accrues, the limitation does not attach untilthey are all
removed.

SEC. 23. No acknowledgment or promise is sufiicient evidence of a new or continuing contract, by which to take the case out of
the operation of this chapter, unless the same is contained in some writing,
signed by the party to be charged thereby.

SEC. 24. Whenever any payment of principal or interest
has been or shall be made upon an existing contract, whether it be bill of
exchange, bond, promissory note, or other evidence of indebtedness, if
such payment be made after the same becomes due, the limitation shall
commence from the time the last payment was made.

SEC. 25. If any action" be commenced within the time prescribed therefor, and judgment be given therein for the plaintiff, and the
same be arrested or reversed on error or appeal, the plaintiff may commence a new action within one year after such reversal or arrest.

SEC. 26. This chapter (lees not extend to actions already
commenced, but the statutes now in force are applicable to such cases
according to the subject of the action, and without regard to the form.

SEC. 27. Every action must be prosecuted in the name
of the real party in interest, except as hereinafter provided; but this section shall not be construed to authorize the assignment of a thing in action
not arising out of contract. _

SEC. 28. In the case of an assignment of a thing in 1
action, the action by the assignee is without prejudice to any set-off, or 
other defense existing at the time of, or before notice of the assignment;
but this section does not apply to a negotiable promissory note, or bill of .

exchange, transferred in good faith and upon good considerations, before
due.

SEC. 29. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an 1
expressed trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue with- '
out joining with him the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted.
A person with whom, or in whose name a contract is made for the benefit
of another, is a trustee of an express trust within the meaning of this section. ‘

SEC. 30. When a married woman is a party, her husband 
must be joined with her, except that when the action concerns her sepa- I
rate property, she may sue alone; and when the action is between herself
and her husband, she may sue or be sued alone. But when her husband
shall not be joined with her, she shall prosecute or defend by her next
friend or guardian except in actions between herself and husband.

SEC. 31. “Then an infant is a party, he must appear by his ‘
guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which the action is brought, X
or by a judge thereof. 

SEC. 32. The guardian must be appointed as follows:

1. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the infant, if
he be of the age of fourteen; or if under that age, upon the application
of a relation or friend of the infant;

2. When the infant is defendant, upon an application of the infant, if '
he be the age of fourteen years, and apply within twenty days after the
service of the summons, if he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so

to apply, then, upon the application of any other party to the action, or of
a relation or friend of the infant.

SEC. 33. A father, or in case of his death, or desertion
of his family, the mother may prosecute as plaintiff for the seduction of
the daughter, and the guardian for the seduction of the ward, though the
daughter or ward be not living with, or in the service of the plaintiff at
the time of the seduction, or afterwards, and there be no loss of service.

SEC. 34. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of
his family, the mother may maintain an action for the injury of the child,
and the_guardian for the injury of a ward.

SEC. 35. When a husband and father has deserted his
family, the wife and mother may prosecute or defend in his name, any
action which he might have prosecuted or defended, and shall have the
same powers and rights therein as he might. have had. _

SEC. 36. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and sureties on the same instrument, may all or any of them,
be included in the same action at the option of the plaintiff.

SEC. 37. An action does not abate by the death, marriage, or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest, if
the cause of action survive or continue. In case of the death, marriage
or other disability of a party, the court on motion may allow the action to
be continued by his representative or successor in interest. In case of any
other transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the
original party, or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is

made, to be added or substituted as a party to the action.

SEC. 38. When two or more persons associated in any
business, transact such business under a common name, whether it comprises the namcs of such persons or not, the associates may be sued by
such common name; the process in such case being served on one or
more of the associates, and the judgment in the action shall bind the joint
property of all the associates in the same manner as if all had been named
defendants, and had been sued upon their joint liability. Any one of the
joint associates may also be sued for the obligations of all.

SEC. 39. Actions for the following causes must be tried

' in the county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof is

situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place of trial as
hereinafter provided: 1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein,
or for the determination in any form of such right or interest and for
injuries to real property ;

2. For the partition of real property;

3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property;

4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any cause.

SEC. 40. Actions for the following causes must be tried in the
county where the cause or some part thereof arose, subject to the like
power of the court to change the place of trial, as in section forty-three:

1. ‘For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute,
except that where it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake, river,
or other stream of water situated in two or more counties, the action may
be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river or stream;

2. Against a public officer or person especially appointed to execute
his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his otiice, or against a person
who by his command or aid does anything touching the duties of such
otlicer.

SEC. 41. In all other cases except as provided in the next section, the action must be tried in the county in which the parties or one
of them, reside at the commencement of the action, or if none of the
parties reside in this territory, the same may be tried in any county which
the plaintiff may designate in his complaint, subject however to the power
of the court to change the place of trial as provided in section forty-three.

SEC. 42. If the defendant is a non-resident of this territory,
and the plaintiff proceeds against him, by attaching his property, such
action may be brought in any county where the defendant has property
liable to attachment. .

SEC. 43. The court may change the place of trial on the
application of all the defendants who answer in the following cases:

1. VVhen the county designated for that purpose in the complaint is

not the proper county;
2. “Then there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be

had therein;
3. When the convenience of witnesses, and the ends of justice would

be promoted by the change.

Sec. 44. Be it enacted by the legislative assembly of the.

territory of Illinnesota : That if either party in any civil cause at law, or
in equity, after issue joined therein, which is or may be depending in any

district court within the territory, shall fear that he will not receive a fair ‘

trial or hearing, in the court in which the cause is pending, on account that
the judge of such court is interested, or prejudiced therein, or is related to,
or shall have been counsel for either party; or that the inhabitants of such
county are prejudiced against the applicant, or for any other good reason
he fears he will not receive a fair and impartial trial or hearing, such
party may apply to the court in term, or to the judge thereof, in vacation,
by petition, setting forth the cause of the application, and praying a change
of venue, accompanied by an affidavit verifying the facts stated in the
petition. ,

SEC. 45. In all cases, as is specified in the foregoing section,
reasonable notice of the application having been given to the opposite
party or his attorney, the court or judge shall award a change of venue, to
some county in another judicial district, where the causes complained of do
not exist: provided, that neither party shall have more than one change of
venue.

SEC. 46. A change of venue may, in all civil cases, be made,
upon the consent in writing of the parties or their attorneys.

SEC. 47. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
its passage.


SEC. 48. Civil actions in the several district courts of this
territory, must be commenced by the service of a summons, as hereinafter
provided.

SEC. 49. The summons must be subscribed by the plaintiff or
his attorney and directed to the defendant, requiring him to answer the
complaint, and serve a copy of his answer on the person whose name is
subscribed to the summons. at a place within the territory therein specified,
in which there is a post oflice, within twenty days after the service of the
summons, exclusive of the day of service.

SEC. 50. The summons must also contain a notice in substance as follows:

1. In an action arising on obligation for the payment of money
only. that he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint; in other actions for the recovery of
money only, that he will, upon such failure, have his damages assessed by
ajury, or the amount he is entitled to recover, ascertained by the court, or
under its direction, and take judgment for the amount so assessed or
ascertained.

2. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the complaint,
the plaintiff will apply to the court. for the relief demanded therein.

SEC. 51. A copy of the complaint must be served upon the
defendant with the summons, unless the complaint itself be filed in the
oflice of the clerk of the court, in which case the service of the copy may be

omitted; but the summons in such case, must notify the defendant that
the complaint has been tiled with the clerk of the court; and if the defendant appear within ten days after the service of the summons, the plaintiff
must serve a copy of the complaint on the defendant or his attorney,
within three days after the notice of such appearance, and the defendant
shall have at least ten days thereafter to answer the same; and no judgment
shall be entered against him for want of an answer in such case till the
expiration of that time.

SEC. 52. The summons may be served by the sheriif of
the county where the defendant is found, or by any other person not a
party to the action ; the service must be made and the summons returned
to the person whose name is subscribed thereto, with all reasonable dilience.
SEC. 53. The summons must be served by delivering a
copy thereof, as follows:

1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president, or other head
of the corporation, secretary, or managing agent thereof; '

2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such minor
personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian, or if there be
none within this territory, then to any person having the care or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or by whom he is emlo ed; _
P  If against a person for whom a guardian has been appointed for
any cause, to such guardian, and to the defendant personally;
4. In all other cases to the defendant personally, or by leaving a copy
of the summons at his usual last place of abode.

SEC. 54. When the defendant after due diligence, cannot be‘

found within the territory, and when that fact appears by afiidavit, to the
satisfaction of the court, or judge, and it in like manner appears that a
cause of action exists against the defendant, or that he is a proper party
to the action relating to real property in this territory, such court, or judge,
may grant an order that the service be made by the publication of a summons in either of the following cases:

1. \Vhen the defendant is a foreign corporation ;

2. \Vhen the defendant being a resident of this territory, has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or shall keep himself concealed therein with the like
intent;

3. When the defendant is not a resident of the territory, but has
property therein, and the action arises on obligation, and the court has
jurisdiction of the subject of the action;

4. VVhen the action is for divorce in the cases prescribed by law;

5. [Added by laws of 1856, page 11.] When the subject of the action is real or personal property in this territory, and the defendant has or
claims a lien, actual or contingent therein, or the relief demanded consists
wholly or partly in excluding the defendant from any interest or lien

therein.
SEC. 55. The order must direct the publication to be made

in a newspaper published in the county where the action is brought, and
if there is no newspaper published in the county, then in a newspaper
published at the seat of government. of the territory, and for such length
of time as may be deemed reasonable, not less than once a week for six
weeks. In case of publication the court or judge must also direct a copy

of the summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post-office,
directed to the defendant at his place of residence, unless it shall appear
that such residence is not known to the party making the application,
when the publication is ordered, personal- service of a copy of the summons and complaint out of the territory, is equivalent to publication and
deposit in the post-otlice; in either case, the service of the summons is to
be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed in the order
for publication. ‘

SEC. 56. If the summons be not personally served on the
defendant, nor received by him through the post-oliice, in the cases provided in the last two sections, he or his representatives, on application and
sufficient cause shown, at any time before judgment, must be allowed to
defend the action; and except in an action for divorce, the defendant or
his representatives may in like manner be allowed to defend after judgment, and within one year after the rendition of such judgment, on such
terms as may be just; and if the defense be successful, _and the judgment,‘
or any part thereof, has been collected, or otherwise enforced, such restitution may therefore be compelled as the court directs.

SEC. 57. When the action is against two or more defendants,
and the summons is served on one or more, but not all of them, the plain_ti1T may proceed as follows:

1. If the action be against the defendants jointly indebted upon an
obligation, he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the court
otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against
all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be
enforced against the joint property of - all, and the separate property of
the defendants served, and if they are subject to arrest, against their
persons; or,

2. If the action be against the defendants severally liable, he may proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as if they were
the only defendants.

SEC. 58. Proof of the service of the summons, and of the
complaint or notice, if any accompanying the same, must be as follows:

1. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof; or,

2. If by another person, his aflidavit thereof; or,

3. In case of publication, the alfidavit of the printer or his foreman,
showing the same, and an aflidavit of the deposit of a copy of the summons in the post-ofiice, if the same shall be deposited; or,

4. The written admission of the defendant.

In case of service, otherwise than by publication, the certificate, ailidavit, or admission must state the time and place of service.

SEC. 59. From the time of the service of the summons in a
civil action, the court is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have
control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of
a defendant is equivalent to a personal service of the summons upon

him.

SEC. 60. The pleadings are the formal allegations. by the
parties, of their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment of the
court.

SEC. 61. All the forms of pleadings in actions at law, heretofore existing, are abolished, and hereafter the forms of pleadings in
civil actions, and the rules by which the sutliciency of pleadings is to be
determined, shall be regulated by the statute.

SEC. 62. The only pleadings allowed on the part of
the plaintiff are:

1. The complaint;

2. The reply or demurrer.

And on the part of the defendant:

1. Demurrer;

2. The answer.

THE COMPLAINT.

SEC. 63. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff, is the
complaint.

SEC. 64. The complaint must contain: ,
. 1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in which
the action is brought, the name of the county where the action is brought,
and the names of the parties to the action, plaintiff and defendant;

2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a manner as to
enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended;

3. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff supposes himself en- titled. If the recovery of money he demanded, the amount thereof must
be stated.

SEC. 65. The defendant may demur to the complaint within
twenty days after the service of a copy thereof, when it appears upon the

face thereof, either:
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant

on the subject of the action ;

2. That the plaintiff has no legal capacity to sue;

3. That there is another action pending between the same parties for
the same cause;

4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant;

5. That several causes of action have been improperly united;

6. That the complaint does not state facts sutiicient to constitute a.
cause of action.

SEC. 66. The demurrer must distinctly specify the grounds
upon which any of the objections to the complaint are taken; unless it do
so, it may be disregarded, and treated as a nullity. It may be taken to
the whole complaint, or to any of the causes of action mentioned therein.

SEC. 67. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof must
be served upon the defendant, who must answer it within twenty days
after service, or the plaintid‘, upon filing with the clerk proof of the service, and of the defendant’s omission, may proceed to obtain judgment, as
in other cases of failure to answer; but where an application to the court
for judgment is necessary, eight days’ notice thereof must be given to the
defendant.

SEC. 68. When any of the matters enumerated in section
sixty-one, do not appear in the face of the complaint, the objection may be
taken by answer.

SEC. 69. If no objection be taken, either by demurrer or
answer, the defendant must be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection

that the complaint does not state facts sudicient to constitutea cause of
action.

SEC. 70. The answer of the defendant must contain:

1. A denial of each allegation of the complaint, controverted by the
defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof suflicient to form a
belief;

2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or counter
claim, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a
manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is
intended.

SEC, 71. The counter claim, mentioned in the last section,
must be an existing one in favor of the defendant, and against the plaintiff, between whom a separate judgment might be had in the action, and
arising out of the following causes of action:

1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction, set forth
in the complaint, as the foundation of the plaintiffs claim, or connected
with the subject of the action ;

2. In an action arising on obligation, any other cause of action arising
also on obligation, and existing at the commencement of the suit.

SEC. 72. If the defendant omit to set up a counter claim
in the case mentioned in the first subdivision of the last section, he cannot
afterwards maintain an action against the plaintiff thereon.

SEC. 73. The defendant may set forth by answer as many
defenses as he shall have; they shall each be separately stated, and refer
to the causes of action which they are intended to answer, in any manner
by which they may be intelligibly distinguished; the defendant may also
answer one or more of the several allegations in the complaint, and demur
to the residue.

SEC. 74. Sham answers and defenses and frivolous demurrers may be stricken out, or judgment rendered notwithstanding the same,
on motion, as for want of an answer.

SEC. 7. When the answer contains new matter set
up as a defense, or counter claim, or both, the plaintiff may, within twenty days, reply to such new matter, denying each allegation controverted
by him, or any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief;
and he may allege in ordinary and concise language without repetition, and
in such a manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know
what is intended, any new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to the counter claim, or other new matter in the answer;
or he may demur to the same, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof;
and the plaintiff may den1ur to one or more of several defenses or coun-‘
ter claims, and reply to the residue.

If the answer contains a statement of new matter constituting a defense
or counter claim, and the plaintiff’ fail to reply or demur thereto within
the time allowed by law, the defendant may move on a notice of not less
than eight days, for such judgment as he may be entitled to upon such
statement, and the court may thereupon order a reference or assessment
of damages by a jury in its discretion.

If a reply of the plaintiff to any defense or counter claim set up by the
answer of the defendant be insuflicient, the defendant may demur thereto,
and shall state the grounds thereof’.


SEC. 76. No other pleading shall _be allowed than the complaint, answer, reply, and demurrer.
SEC. 77. Every pleading in a court of record must be subscribed by the party or
his attorney, and when any pleading in a case shall be verified by atIidavit, all subsequent pleadings, except demurrers, shall be verified also, and
in all cases of the verification of a pleading, the affidavit of the party shall
state that the same is true of his own knowledge, except as to matters
which are therein stated on his information or belief, and as to those matters, that he believes it to be true, and when a pleading is verified, it shall
be by the affidavit of the party, unless he be absent from the county where
the attorney resides, or from some cause unable to verify it, or the facts
are within the knowledge of his attorney,'or other person verifying the
same. When the pleading is verilied by the attorney or any other person
except the party, he shall set forth in the affidavit his knowledge or the
grounds of his belief on the subject, and the reason why it is not made by
the party. But when the action or defense is founded upon a written instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument is in possession of the agent or attorney, the affidavit of the agent or attorney to
the fact of such a possession shall be a suflicient verification. When a
corporation is a party, the verification may be made by any otlicer thereof; and when the United States, or any officer thereof in its behalf is a
party, the verification may be made by any person acquainted with the
facts, except that in actions prosecuted by the attorney general in behalf
of the territory, for the recovery of real property, the pleadings need not
be verified.

SEC. 78. It shall not be -necessary for a party to set forth
in a pleading, the items of an account therein alleged, but he shall deliver
to the adverse party, within ten days after a demand thereof, in writing,
a copy of the account verified by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, to the fact that he believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or judge thereof, may order a further
or more particular bill.

SEC. 79. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose
of determining its effects, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with
a view to substantial justice between the parties.

SEC. 80. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it may be stricken out on motion, and when a pleading is double, or does not conform to the statute, or when the allegations
of a pleading; are so indefinite or uncertain, that the precise nature of the
charge or defense, is not apparent, the court may. strike it out on motion,
or require it to be amended.

SEC. 81. In pleading a judgment, or other determination of a Court, or otiicer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary
to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly given or made. If such allegation
be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial,
the facts conferring the jurisdiction.

SEC. 82. In pleading the performance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing
such performance, but it may be stated generally, that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part, and if such allegation be controverted,

the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial, the facts showing such performance.

SEC. 83. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title, and the
day of its approval, and the court shall thereon take judicial notice thereof.

SEC. 84. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be
necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of
showing the application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter, out of
which the cause of action arose; but it shall be sufiicient to state generally, that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintiff ; and
if such allegation be controverted, the plaintiff shall be bound to establish
on trial, that it was so published or spoken.

SEC. 85. In the action mentioned in the last section, the
defendant may in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged
as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of
damages; and whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in
evidence the mitigating circumstances.

SEC. 86. In an action to recover the possession of property distrained doing damage, an answer that the defendant or person, by
whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property upon
which the distress was made, and that the property distrained was, at the
time doing damage thereon, shall be good without setting forth the title to
such real property.

SEC. 87. The plaintiff may unite several causes of action in the same complaint, whether lega.l or equitable, when they are included in either of the
following classes:

1. The same transaction or transactions connected with the same subject of action.

2. Contracts expressed or implied ;

3. Injuries with or without force to person and property, or either;

5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same; or

6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages for
the withholding thereof; or

7. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or by operations of
law. But the causes of action so united, must belong to one only of these
classes, and must affect all the parties to the action, and not require different places of trial, and must be separately stated.

SEC. 88. Every material allegation of the complaint
not specifically controverted by the answer as prescribed, and every material. allegation of new matter in the answer not specifically controverted
by the reply as prescribed, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken
as true; but the allegation of new matter in a reply, shall not in any respect conclude the defendant, who may, on the trial, countervail it by proofs,
either in direct denial, or by way of avoidance.

SEC. 89. A material allegation is one essential to the
claim or defense, and which could not be stricken fromtlte pleading, without leaving it insuliicient.

SEC. 90. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof, is to be deemed material, unless it have actually misled
the adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defense

upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has been so misled,
that fact must be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and it must be
shown in what respect he has been misled; and thereupon the court may
order the pleading to be amended upon such terms as may be just.

SEC. 91. When the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment, without costs.

SEC. 92. When, however, the allegation of the claim,
or defense to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some particulars only, but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be deemed a
case of variance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

SEC. 93. Any pleading may be once amended by
the party of course, without costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings already had, at any time before the period for answering it expires;
or if it do not delay the trial, it may be so amended at any time within
twenty days after service of the answer or demurrer to such pleading; in
such case a copy of the amended pleading must be served on the adverse
party, who shall have twenty days to answer the same. After the decision of a demurrer, either at a term or in vacation, the court may, in its
discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was interposed in good faith,
allow the party demurring, to withdraw the same, and plead over, or if
the demurrer is sustained, may allow the pleading demurred to, to be
amended or withdrawn, and a new pleading substituted, on such terms as
may be just. _

SEC. 94. The court may, at any time in furtherance of justice,
and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceeding
by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect, or by
inserting other allegations material to the case, or when the amendment
does not change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the
pleading or proceeding to the fact proved; the court may likewise, in its
discretion, allow an answer or reply to be made after the time limited by
this chapter, or by an order enlarging such time; and may also, at any
time within one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment,
order, or other proceeding taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect., and may supply an omission in
any proceeding. And whenever any proceeding faken by a party, fails
to conform in any respect to the provisions of the statutes, the court may
permit an amendment of such proceedings, so as to make it conformable
thereto.

SEC. 9. When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a
defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or
proceedings may be amended accordingly.

SEC. 96. The court must. in every stage of an action disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which does not
affect the substantial rights of the adverse party, and no judgment can be
reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.

SEC. 97. The plaintiff and defendant respectively may be
allowed on motion to make a supplemental complaint, answer or reply,
alleging facts material to the case occurring after the former complaint,
answer or reply.


SEC. 98. No person can be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed by this chapter; but this provision does not apply to
proceedings for contempt. .

SEC. 99. The defendant may be arrested as hereinafter prescribed in the following cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of damages, or a cause of action

arising on an obligation where the defendant is not a resident of the
territory, or is about to remove therefrom, or where the action is for a
willful injury to person or to property, knowing the property to belong to
another;
- 2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or on a promise to marry, or
for money or property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied, or converted
to his own use by a public officer, or an officer of a corporation, or an
attorney, factor, broker, agent, or clerk, in the course of his employment
as such, or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professional employment;

3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property unjustly detained, where the property or any part thereof has been concealed, removed, or disposed of so that it cannot be found or taken by the
sheriff‘ ; '

4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the
debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought, or in
concealing or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention or conversion of which the action is brought;

5. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or disposed of his property, or is about to do so with intent to defraud his creditors;

6. When the arrest of the defendant is expressly authorized by special
statutes in an action for a fine or penalty, or for a willful violation of duty.
But no female can be arrested in any action, except for a willful injury to
person, character or property.

SEC. 100. An order for the arrest of the defendant must be
obtained from a judge of the court in which the action is brought.

SEC. 101. The order may be made whenever it appears
to the judge by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or of any other person, that a
sufficient cause of action exists, and that the case is one of those mentioned
in section ninety-five.

SEC. 102. Before making the order, the judge must require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with or without
sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintiff‘
will pay all costs and charges that may be awarded to the defendant, and
all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding
the sum specified in the undertaking, which must be at least one hundred
dollars. If the undertaking be executed by the plaintiff‘ without sureties,
he must annex thereto an affidavit that he is a resident and householder
or freeholder, within the territory, and worth double the sum specified in
the undertaking over all his debts and liabilities.

SEC. 103. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or at any time afterwards before payment. It must require the
sheriff’ of the county where the defendant may be found, forthwith to
arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order

at a time and place therein mentioned to the plaintiff or attorney by whom
it is subscribed or indorsed.

SEC. 104. The affidavit and order of arrest must be delivered to
the sheriff, who upon arresting the defendant must deliver to him a copy
thereof‘.

SEC. 105. The sheriff must execute the order by arresting the
defendant and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.

SEC. 106. The defendant at any time before execution may
be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail or upon deposit»
ing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 107. The defendant may give bail by causing a written
undertaking to be executed by two or more suflicient bail, stating their
places of residence and occupations, to the effect that the defendant shall
at all times render himself amenable to the process of the court during the
pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein; or if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section ninety-five, an undertaking to the same effect as that
provided by section one hundred and twenty-seven.

SEC. 108. At any time before a failure to comply with their
undertaking, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration;
or he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he was
arrested, in the following manner:

1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail must be delivered
to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his custody, thereon, as
upon an order of arrest, and by a certiiicate in writing acknowledge the
surrender ;

2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and sherifi"s certificate, a judge of the district court may upon a notice to the plaintiff of
eight days, with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated,
and on tiling the order and the papers used on such application they shall
be exonerated accordingly; but this section does not apply to an arrest for
the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section ninety-five.

SEC. 109. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the
bail, at any time or place before they are finally discharged, may themselves arrest him, or by a written authority indorsed on a certified copy of

the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion
to do so.

SEC. 110. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking,
the bail can he proceeded against by action only.

SEC. 111. The bail may be exonerated, either by the death
of the defendant or his imprisonment in a penitentiary, or by his legal
discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process,
or by his surrendering to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested
in execution thereof within twenty days after the commencement of the
action against the bail, or within such further time as may be granted by
the court.

SEC. 112. Within the time limited for that purpose the
sheriff must deliver the order of arrest to the plaintiff or attorney by whom
it is subscribed, with his return indorsed, and the undertaking of the bail,
or a copy thereof; the plaintiff within ten days thereof may serve upon
the sheriff a notice that he does not accept the bail, or he must be deemed
to have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability.

SEC. 113. On the receipt of the undertaking, or copy and

, notice, the sheriff or defendant may within ten days thereafter give to the

plaintiff or attorney by whom the order of arrest is subscribed, notice of

the justification of the same or other bail, (specifying the places of residence and occupations of the latter) before a judge of the court, or justice
of the peace at a specified time and place, the time to be not less than
five, nor more than ten days thereafter; in case other bail be given there
must be a new undertaking in the form prescribed in section one hundred
and three. ,

SEC. 114. The qualification of bail must be as follows:

1. Each of them must be a resident of the territory;

2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the judge or justice of the peace on justification, may allow more than two ‘bail, to justify
severally in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the whole
justification be equivalent to that of two sutlieient bail.

SEC. 115. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail
must attend before the judge or a justice of the peace, at the time and
place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part
of the plaintiff touching his sufficiency in such manner as the judge or justice of the peace in his discretion may think proper; the examination
must be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the bail if required by the
plaintiff.

SEC. 116. If the judge or justice find the bail sufiicient, he
must annex the examination to’ the undertaking, indorse his allowance
thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk; and the sheriff shall
thereupon be exonerated from liability. ’

SEC. 11. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest,
instead of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the
order; the sheriff must thereupon give the defendant a certificate of the
deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

SEC. 118. The sheriff must within four days after the deposit, pay the same into court, and take from the officer receiving the same
two certificates of such payment, the one of which he must deliver to the
plaintiff, and the other to the defendant; for any default in making such
payment, the same proceedings may be had on the otlicial bond of the
sheriff, to collect the sumdeposited, as in other.ca.<es of delinquency.

SEC. 119. If money be deposited asprovided in the last two sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice, as provided in section
one hundred and ten, at any time before judgment, and thereupon the judge
before whom the justification is had, must direct in the order of allowance,
that the money deposited be refunded by the sheriff to the defendant, and
it must be refunded accordingly.

SEC. 120. When money shall have been so deposited, if it
remain on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment
of money to the plaintiff, the clerk must, under the direction of the court
apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment,
refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant; if the judgment be in favor
of the defendant, the clerk must refund to him the whole sum deposited
and remaining unapplied.

SEC. 121. If after being arrested the defendant escape, or
be rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not made instead thereof the sheriff shall himself be liable as bail, but he may discharge himself from such liability, by the giving and justification of bail as
provided in section one hundred and nine, one hundred and ten, and one
hundred and eleven, and one hundred and twelve, at any time before process against the person of the defendant to enforce an order or judgment
in the action.

SEC. 122. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff

upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied
in whole or in part, the proceedings may be had on the official bond of the
sheriff to collect the deficiency as in other cases of delinqency.

SEC. 123. The bail taken on the arrest, shall unless they
justify, or other bail be given, or justified, be liable to the sheriff by action
for the damages which he may sustain by reason of such emission.

SEC. 124. A defendant arrested may at any time before the
justification of bail, apply on motion to vacate the order of arrest, or to
reduce the amount of bail.

SEC. 125. If the motion be made upon atiidavits on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same

by atiidavits or other proofs in addition to those on which the order of arrest was made.

SEC. 126. Be it enacted by the legislative assembly of the tern'to1-y
of ]lIt'nnesota.- That from and after the passage of this act, no person in
this territory shall be subject to imprisonment for debt or arrest, under or
by virtue of any process issuing from any court, tribunal, or functionary
therein, on account of any debt, judgment, pecuniary liability, or demand,
due or claimed to be due by any citizen or citizens of this territory, or to
any citizen or citizens of any state or territory of the United States; or
of any citizen or citizens, subject or subjects of any foreign state, principality, kingdom, or empire, unless the same shall be for a fine imposed by
a court or jury having jurisdiction, of the offense or offender for the commission of a specified crime or misdemeanor, whereof the delinquent shall
have been previously convicted after a trial before some competent tribunal: provided, that nothing contained in this act. shall be construed so as to
deprive any court or judge thereof, of the right to punish summarily for
contempt, without the intervention of a jury, by fine or imprisonment, or
both, in the discretion of said court or judge.

SEC. 127. Be it further enacted, that in all cases where the plaintiff or complainant shall seek to charge the defendant with fraud, the concealment of goods, property, or money, or with bad faith, touching any
pecuniary or business transaction, such plaintiff or complainant shall in all
such cases, be left to his suit against the defendant in and by which, in his
pleadings, he shall charge the defendant with such fraud, conceahnent, &c.,
&c., in as clear and distinct a manner as the case shall permit, to which
the defendant shall answer or plead, and the facts arising or elicited upon
such pleadings, and the accompanying evidence shall be submitted to the
jury as in criminal cases.

SEC. 128. And be it further enacted, that all laws now in force
in this territory, passed by the legislative assembly thereof, authorizing the
imprisonment or arrest of any debtor, or the issuance of any writ of capias
ad satis/‘acz'endum, or execution against the body, together with all laws in
conflict with this act, be and the same are hereby repealed.

SEC. 129. And be it further enacted, that this act shall take
effect from and after its passage.


SEC. 130. The plaintiff in an action to recover the possession of personal property, may at the time of issuing the summons, or at
any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property, as
provided in this chapter.

SEC. 131. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must
be made by the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:

1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed, (particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by
virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which must be
set forth;

2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant;

3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best
knowledge, information, and belief;

4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine
pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution, or attachment against
the property of the plaintiff, or if so seized, that it is by statute exempt
from such seizure; and,

5. The actual value of the property.

SEC. 132. The plaintiff may thereupon by indorsement
in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county where the
property claimed may be, to take the same from the defendant and deliver
it to the plaintiff.

SEC. 133. Upon the ‘receipt of the affidavit and notice with
a written undertaking, executed by one or more securities approved by the
sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the property as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action for the
return of the property to the defendant, if return be adjudged, and for the
payment to him of such sum as may for any cause he recovered against
the plaintiff, the sheriff must forthwith take the property described in the
affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain
it in his custody: he must also without delay serve on the defendant a
copy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking, by delivering the same to
him personally, if he can be found, or to his agent from whose possession
the property is taken, or if neither can be found, by leaving them at the
usual place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

SEC. 134. The defendant may within three days after the
service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff
that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties- if he fail to do so, he
must be deemed to have waived all objections to t em; when the defendant excepts, the sureties must justify on notice in like ‘manner as upon bail
on arrest, and the sheriff shall be responsible for the sudiciency of the
sureties, until the objections to them are either waived as above provided,
or until they justify; if the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot
reclaim the property as provided in the next section.

SEC. 135. At any time before’ the delivery of the property to the plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties
of the plaintiff, require the return thereof, upon giving the sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect
that they are bound in double the value of the property as stated in the
affidavit of the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if such
delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for
any cause be recovered against the defendant; if a return of the property
be not so required within three days after the taking and service of notice
to the defendant, it must be delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided
in section one hundred and thirty-two.

SEC. 136. The defendant’s sureties upon notice to the

plaintiff of not less than two nor more than six days, must justify before a
judge or justice of the peace in the same manner as upon bail on arrest;
and upon such justiiication, the sheriff must deliver the property to the
defendant; the sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant’s sureties,
until they justify, or until the justification is completed, or expressly waived,
and may retain the property until that time,'but if they or others in their
places fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he must deliver the
property to the plaintiff.

SEC. 137. The qualifications of sureties, and their justification, must be such as are prescribed by sections one hundred and ten and
one hundred and eleven, in respect to bail upon an order of arrest.

SEC. 138. If the property or any part thereof be concealed
in a building or inclosure, the sheriff must publicly demand its delivery;
if it be not delivered, he must cause the building or inclosure to be broken
open, and take the property into his possession, and if necessary he may
call to his aid the power of his county.

SEC. 139. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as
in this chapter provided, he must keep it in a secure place, and deliver it
to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and
his necessary expenses for keeping the same.

SEC. 140. If the property taken be claimed by any other
person than the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of
his title thereto, or right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of
such title or right, and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall
not be bound to keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the
plaintiff on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the sheriff against such
claim, by an undertaking executed by two sutiicient sureties, accompanied
by their aflidavits, that they are each worth double the value of the property as specitied in the atlidavit of the plaintiff, and are freeholders and
householders of the county; and no claim to such property by any other
person than the defendant, or his agent, shall be valid against the sheriff,
unless so made, and notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may
retain the property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.

SEC. 141. The sheriff must file the notice and affidavit
with his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the
action is pending, within twenty days after taking the property mentioned
therein.


SEC. 142. In an action for the recovery of money, the
plaintiff at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards,
may have the property of the defendant attached in the manner hereinafter prescribed, as security for the satisfaction of such judgment as the
plaintiff may recover.

SEC. 143. A warrant of attachment must be obtained
from a judge of the court, or from the clerk thereof, in which the action is
brought.

SEC. 144. The warrant may be issued whenever it
shall appear by atiidavit that a cause of action exists against such defendant, specifying the amount of the claim, and the ground thereof ; and that
the defemlant is either a foreign corporation. or not a resident of this ten
ritory, or has departed therefrom with intent to defraud or delay his creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed

therein with the like intent, or that he has assigned, secreted, or disposed,
or is about to assign, secrete or dispose of his property with intent to delay or defraud his creditors, or that the plaintiff’s debt was fraudulently
contracted, or for any other good and suflicient reason, he will be in danger
of losing the same unless an attachment issue.

Nothing in this act contained shall in any wise affect or invalidate any
attachment already issued, or any proceedings had, or to be had thereupon
or thereunder or in relation thereto.

SEC. 145. Before issuing the warrant, the judge or
clerk shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with
sufficient surety to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the
plaintiff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding
the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least two hundred
and fifty dollars.

SEC. 146. The warrant must be directed to thesherif
of any county in which the property of such defendant may be, and require him to attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant
within his county, and not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as
may be sutlicient to satisfy the plaintiffs demand, the amount of which
must be stated in conformity with the complaint. Several warrants may
be issued at the same time to the sheriffs of different counties.

SEC. 147. The rights or shares which the defendants
may have in the stock of any corporation, together with the interests and
profits thereon, and all other property in this territory, of such defendants,
may be attached and sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

SEC. 148. The sheriff to whom the warrant is directed and
delivered, must execute the same without delay, as follows : /

1. Real property must be attached by leaving with the occupant
thereof, or if there be no occupant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a copy
of the warrant certified by the sheriff ;

2. Personal property capable of manual delivery to the sheriff, must
be attached by taking it into his custody ;

3. Other personal property must be attached by leaving a certified
copy of the warrant and a notice specifying the property attached, with a
person holding the same, or as to a debt, with the debtor, or as to stock or
interest in stock of a corporation, with the president or other head of the
same, or the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof; the sheriff
must make a full inventory of the property attached, and return the same
with the order of attachment.

4. [Added by laws of 1856, page 11.] The sheriff shall serve a copy
of the warrants of attachments and inventory certified by him upon the
defendant, if he can be found within the county, and he is a resident
thereof, the said sheriff shall leave such copy at the usual place of abode
of the said defendant.

SEC. 149. If real estate is attached by virtue of any warrant of attachment, the officer, on service thereof, shall make a certified
copy of said warrant and of his return thereon, which shall be filed and
recorded in the book of mortgages‘ in the register’s office of the county in
which such real estate is situated, and from the time of filing as aforesaid.
the same shall be and continue a lien on all real estate mentioned or
described in the return of the officer in such county, until the same shall
be discharged, and when said lien shall be discharged by the order of said
court, or by satisfaction of the judgment rendered in the suit, it shall be
the duty of the said register, when requested, to record the satisfaction
piece or transcript of the record of such order, in the book of mortgages,

and to enter on the margin of the page or pages where the said warrant
and return are so recorded, a minute of such discharge or satisfaction.

SEC. 150. Whenever the sheriff, with a warrant of attachment or an execution against the defendant, applies to any person mentioned in the third subdivision of section one hundred and forty, for the
purpose of attaching or levying, upon the property mentioned therein,
such person must furnish him with a certificate designating the number of
rights or shares of the defendant, in the stock of the corporation, with any
dividend or incumbrance thereon on the amount and description of the
property, held by such corporation or person for the defendant, or the debt
owing to the defendant; if such person refuse to do so, he may be required
by the court or judge, to attend before him and be examined on oath
concerning the same, and disobedience to the order may be punished as a
contempt. .

SEC. 151. If any of the property attached be perishable,
the sheriff must sell the same in the manner in which property is sold on
execution, and immediately deposit the proceeds with the clerk of the
court. He must also collect, and if necessary, in his name of oilice
sue for the debts and credits attached, and deposit the amount collected
with the clerk. Other property attached by him, must be retained by him,
to answer any judgment that may be recovered in the action, unless sooner
subjected to execution upon another judgment.

SEC. 152. The sheriff may deliver any of the property
attached to the defendant, or to any other person claiming it, upon his
giving a written undertaking therefor, executed by one or more sufficient
sureties engaging to redeliver it, or pay the value thereof to the sheriff to
whom execution upon a judgment obtained by the plaintiff in that action,
may be issued.

SEC. 153. If an action be brought upon such undertaking,
against the principal or his sureties, it shall be a defense that the property
for which the undertaking was given, did not at the execution of the
warrant of attachment, belong to the defendant against whom it was issued.

SEC. 154. If the property attached be claimed by a third
person as his property, the sheriff may summon a jury to try the validity
of such claim, and proceedings must be had thereon, with the like effect
as in case of seizure upon execution.

SEC. 155. The defendant or claimant may be required to
attend before the court or judge for the purpose of giving any necessary
information respecting the property‘ attached, and may be thereupon examined on oath concerning the same.

SEC. 156. If judgment be recovered by the plaintiff in
such action, the sheriff must satisfy the same out of the property attached
by him, if it be suflicient for that purpose :

1. By paying to the plaintiff the proceeds of all sales of perishable
property, and of any vessel, or share or interest therein, sold by him, or of
any debts or credits collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary to
satisfy the judgment;

2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been issued
on the judgment, he must sell under theexecution, so much of the attached
property, real or personal, except as provided in subdivision four of this section, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose remain in his hands; and in case of the sale of any rights or shares
in the stock of a corporation, the sheriff must execute to the purchaser a
certificate of the sale, and the purchaser shall thereupon have all the rights
and privileges in respect thereto, which were bad by the defendant;

3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant shall

have passed out of the hands of the sheriff without having been sold or
converted into money, the sheriff must repossess himself of the same, and
for that purpose shall have all the authority which he had to seize the
same under the attachment, and any person who shall willfully conceal or
withhold such property from the sheriff, shall be liable to double damages
at the suit of the party injured;

4. Until the judgment against the defendant be paid, the sheriff may
collect the notes, other evidences of debt, and debts that may have been
attached, and prosecute any bond he may have taken in the course of such
proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the payment of the judgment, or upon the order of the court, he may sell such notes, evidences
and debts, and apply the proceeds in like manner; when the judgment and
costs shall have been paid, the sheriff upon reasonable demand, must
deliver over to the defendant the residue of the attached property or the
proceeds thereof.

SEC. 157. The actions authorized by this chapter to be
brought by the sheriff, may be prosecuted by the plaintiff or under his
direction, upon the delivery by him to the sheriff, of an undertaking executed by two sufiicient sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff will indemnify the sheriff from all damages or costs on account thereof, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars in any one action; such sureties shall
in all cases, when required by the sheriff, justify by making an affidavit
that each is worth double the amount of the penalty of the bond, over and
above all debts and liabilities, and property exempt from execution.

SEC. 158. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintiff in such action, any undertaking received by the sheriff, except such as
is mentioned in the last section, all the proceeds of sales, and money collected by him, and all the property attached, remaining in his hands, must
be delivered by him to the defendant or his agent on request; the warrant
of attachment must be discharged and the property released therefrom.

SEC. 159. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared
in the action, he may apply to the judge, or to the court, for an
order to discharge the same, upon the execution of the undertaking mentioned in the next section, and if the application be granted, all the proceeds of sales and moneys collected by the sheriff, and all the property
attached remaining in his hands, must be released from the attachment,
and delivered to the defendant.

SEC. 160. Upon such application the defendant must deliver
to the court or judge, an undertaking executed by at least two sureties, ‘
approved by such court or judge, to the effect that the sureties will, on a
demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of the judgment that may be
recovered against’ the defendant in the action, not exceeding the sum
specified in the undertaking, which must be at least double the amount
claimed by the plaintiff in his complaint.

SEC. 161. The defendant may also at any time before the 3
time for answering expires, apply, on motion, to vacate the warrant of 1
attachment.

SEC. 162. If the motion be made upon aflidavits on the part .
of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by :
adidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which the warrant of ‘
attachment was made.

SEC. 163. When the warrant of attachment is fully executed :
or discharged, the sheriff must return the same, with his proceedings
thereon, to the court in which the action was brought.

SEC. 164. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a party, that he basin his possession, or under his control, any 

money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the
litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or
is due to another party, the court may order the same to be deposited in

court, or delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to the
further direction of the court.

SEC. 165. Whenever in the exercise of its authority, a
court shall have ordered the deposit, or delivery, of money or other thing,
and the order is disobeyed, the court besides punishing the disobedience,
may make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money or thing, and
deposit or deliver it in conformity with the direction of the court.

SEC. 166. A judgment is the final determination of the
rights of the parties in the action.

SEC. 167. Judgment may be given for or against one or
more of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several
defendants, and it may, when the justice of the case requires it, determine
the ultimate rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves.

SEC. 168. In an action against several defendants, the court
may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment
is proper.

SEC. 169. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no
answer, cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint,
but in any other case, the court may grant him any relief consistent with
the case‘made by the complaint, and embraced within the issue.

SEC. 170. The action may
be dismissed without a final determination of its merits, in the following
cases:

1. By the plaintiff himself at any time before trial, if a provisional
remedy has not been allowed, or counter claim made;

2. By either party with the written consent of the other; or by the
court upon the application of either party, after notice to the other, and
sufficient cause shown at any time before the trial;

3. By the court, where, upon the trial and before the final submission
of the case, the plaintiff abandons it, or fails to substantiate or establish
his claim, or cause of action, or right to recover ;

4. By the court, when the plaintiff fails to appear on the trial, and the
defendant appears and asks for the dismissal;

5. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants, when
there are others whom the plaintiff fails to prosecute with diligence. All
other modes of dismissing an action, by nonsuit or otherwise, are abolished. The dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions, is made by
an entry in the clerk’s register, and a notice served on the adverse party;
judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly.

SEC. 171. In every case, other than those mentioned in
the last section, the judgment must be rendered on the merits.

SEC. 172. Though all the defendants have been served
with the summons, judgment may be taken against any of them severally,

when the plaintiff would be entitled to judgment against such defendants
if the action had been against them alone. ‘

SEC. 173. Judgment may be had if the defendant fail to
answer t.he complaint as follows:

1. In an action arising on obligation for the payment of money
only, the plaintiff may file with the clerk proof of the personal service of
the summons, and that no answer has been received within twenty days
after the service of the summons, or if further time is allowed, then that
none has been received within such further time; the clerk must, thereupon, enter judgment for the amount mentioned in the summons against

the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants, in the cases ‘

provided for in this chapter. In other actions for the recovery of money
only, on filing the like proof, the plaintiff may have an order entered of
course by the clerk, that a writ of inquiry of damages issue, and on the
return of the sheriti"s inquest, judgment may be entered for the amount
assessed without further application to the court; or he may apply to the
murt to have his damages assessed, or the amount he is entitled to recover,
ascertained in any other manner and for judgment.

2. In other actions, the plaintiff may upon the like proof apply to the
court after the expiration of the time for answering, for the relief demanded in the complaint; if the taking of an account or the proof of any fact
be necessary to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may take the account or hear the proof, or may
in its discretion order a reference for that purpose; and where the action
is for the recovery of money only, or of specified real or personal property,
with damages for the withholding thereof, the court may order the damages
to be assessed by a jury, or if the examination of a long account be
involved, by a reference as above provided.

3. When the service of the

summons was by publication, or by leaving a copy of the same at the last ,

usual place of abode of the defendant, in actions arising upon contract for
the payment of money only, the plaintiff on filing with the clerk, proof of
such service, and that no answer has been received within twenty days
after such service, together with the security hereinafter mentioned, to be
approved by clerk, shall be entitled to judgment in the same manner as if
the summons had been served upon the defendant personally; in actions
other than those arising upon contract for the payment of money only,
upon filing the like proof, the plaintiff may apply to the court, shall thereupon require proof to be made of the fact stated in the complaint, and
may thereupon render judgment for the plaintiff for such sum, or other
relief, as he is entitled to recover or receive in the action. "In all cases
where the summons has not been served upon the defendant personally, the
plaintiff, before judgment is entered,” must file, or cause to be filed, satisfactory security to abide the order of the court touching the restitution of
any property or money collected or received under or by virtue of the
judgment; in case the defendant or his representatives shall thereafter
apply and be admitted to defend the action and shall succeed in the
defense.

SEC. 1. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party and controverted by the other;
they are of two kinds:

1. Of law; and,

2. Of fact.

SEC. 2. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the
complaint, answer or reply.

SEC. 3. An issue of fact arises:

1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the
answer; or,

'2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the reply; or,

3. Upon new matter in the reply, except when an issue of law is
joined thereon; issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different
and distinct parts of the pleadings, or of the same pleading in the same
action.

SEC. 4. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.

SEC. 5. An issue of law must be tried by the court, unless it be
referred as provided by the statute relating to referees.

SEC. 6. An issue of fact, in an action for the recovery of money
only, or of specific, real or personal property, or for a divorce from the
marriage contract on the ground of adultery, must be tried by a jury,
unless a jury trial be waived, as provided by law, or a reference be
ordered, as provided by statute relating to referees.

SEC. 7. Every other issue of fact must be tried by the court,
subject, however, to the right of the parties to consent, or of the court to
order, that the whole issue, or any specific question of fact involved
therein, be tried by a jury, or be referred, as provided by statute.

SEC. 8. At any. time after issue, and at least ten days before

i' the court, either party may give notice of trial; the party giving the

notice must furnish the clerk, at least four days before the court, with a
note of the issue, containing the title of the action, the names of the attorneys, and the time when the last pleading was served; and the clerk must
thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar, according to the date of the
issue. The issues once placed upon the calendar of a term, if not tried at
the term for which the notice was given, need not be noticed for a subsequent term, but must remain upon the calendar from court to court, until
finally disposed of ; but when an issue of law is to be tried before a judge
out of court, no calendar need be made or note of issue furnished.

SEC. 9. The issues on the calendar must be disposed of in the

, following order, unless for the convenience of parties, or the dispatch of

business, the court otherwise direct:

1. Issues of fact, to be tried by a jury;

2. Issues of fact, to be tried by the court;

3. Issues of law.

SEC. 10. Either party, after the notice of trial, whether given
by himself or by the adverse party, may bring the issue to trial, and in
the absence of the adverse party, unless the court for good cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his case and take a dismissal of the action,
or a verdict, or judgment, as the case may require.

SEC. 11. A separate trial between the plaintiff and any of sev. eral defendants, may be allowed by the court whenever in its opinion,
justice will be thereby promoted. 

SEC. 12. A motion to postpone a trial for the absence of evi‘ dence, can only be made upon afiidavit, showing the materiality of the
evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to
procure it; the court may also require the moving party to state the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually
given on the trial or offered, and overruled as improper, the trial must not
be postponed.

SEC. 13. The plaintiff must furnish the court, before the trial
begins, with a copy of the summons and pleadings, and the offer of the
defendant, if any shall have been made.

SEC. 14. When the action is called for trial by jury, the clerk
must draw from the trial jury box of the court, the ballots containing the
names of jurors, until the jury is completed or the ballots are exhausted;
if the ballots become exhausted before the jury is complete, the sheriff,
under the direction of the court, must summon from the bystanders or the
body of the county, so many qualihed persons as may be necessary to
complete the jury.

SEC. 15. As soon as the drawing of the jury is completed, an
oath must be administered to each juror, that he will, well and truly try
the matter in issue between the plaintiff and the defendant, and a true
verdict give according to the evidence.

SEC. 16. When the jury is completed and sworn, the ballots
containing the names of the jurors sworn, must be laid aside till the jury
so sworn is discharged, and then they must be returned to the box; and

every ballot drawn, containing the name of a juror not so sworn, must be
returned to the box, as soon as the jury is completed.

SEC. 17. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when
there are several parties on either side, they must join in a challenge before it can be made ; the challenges are to the panel and to individual
jurors as in criminal actions, except that there can be but two peremptory
challenges on each side.

SEC. 18. When the jury has been completed and sworn,
the trial must proceed in the following order, unless the court for special
reasons, otherwise directs:

1. The plaintiff after stating the issue, must open the case and produce
the evidence on his part; '

2. The defendant may then open his defense, and offer his evidence in
support thereof;

3. The parties may then respectively otfer rebutting evidence only,
unless the court, for good reason, in furtherance of justice, permit them to
offer evidence upon their original case; ' _

4. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case is submitted to the
jury on either side, or on both sides without argument, the defendant must
commence and the plaintiff conclude the argument to the jury;

5. If several defendants, having separate defenses, appear by different
counsel, the court must determine their relative order in the evidence and
argument;

6. The court may then charge the 

SEC. 19. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper
that the jury should have a view of real property which is the subject of
the litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may
order the jury to be conducted in a body, in the custody of proper officers,
to the place, which will be shown to them by the judge, or by a person
appointed by the court for that purpose; while the jury are thus absent,
no person other than the judge or person so appointed, must speak to them
on any subject connected with the trial.

SEC. 20. The jury may be kept together in charge of proper
ofiicers, or may, in the discretion of the court, at any time before the submission of the cause to the jury, be permitted to separate; in either case,
they may be admonished by the court that it is their duty not to converse
with any other person or among themselves, on any subject connected with
the trial, or to form or express any opinion thereon, until the case is finally
submitted to them.

SEC. 21. If, after the impanneling of the jury, and before a
verdict, a juror becomes sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the
court may order him to be discharged; in that case, a new juror may
be sworn and the trial begin anew, or the juror may be discharged and a
new jury then_or afterwards impanneled.

SEC. 22. In charging a jury, the court must state to them
all matters of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving
their verdict; and if it present the facts of the case, it must also inform
the  that they are the exclusive judges of all questions of fact.

SEC. 23. After hearing the charge, the jury may either
decide in court, or retire for deliberation; if they retire, they must be left
together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient place, under the charge of one or more officers, until they agree upon their verdict,

or are discharged by the court; the officer must, to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury thus together, separate from other persons without
I drink, except water, and without food except ordered by the court; he
must not suffer any communication to be made .to them, nor make any
himself unless by order of the court, except to ask them if they have
agreed ,upon their verdict, and he must not, before the verdict is rendered,
communicate to any person the state of their deliberations or the verdict
agreed on.
SEC. 24. If while the  are kept together, either during
_ the progress of the trial or after their retirement for deliberation, the court
’ order them to be provided with suitable and sutiicient food and lodging,
they must be so provided by the ‘sheriff at the expense of the county.
SEC. 25. Upon (Upontreitinngrfor )iieli1l1)eii1atipn, th: jury may téllle
wi iem papers excep eposi ions w ic ave een receive as
evidence  the cause: or copies of such parts of public records or private
documents, given in evidence, as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to
be taken from the person having them in possession; and they may also
take with them notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on the trial,
ta(l§%n)byé them)5l{vkesi or ziay ofhthem, lipt nonpi tagifféil lily lalpy otther petiilson.
SEC. 26. The jury ave re re or e 1 era ion 1 ere
be a disagreement between them as to any part of the testimdny, or if
they desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the cause, they
may require the oflicer to conduct them into court ; upon their being
broufght into court,hthe information reclluired must be given in presence of,
or a er notice to t e parties or counse .

SEC. 27. "Except as otherwise provided by statute, or in
case of some accident or calamity requiring their discharge, the jury cannot be discharged after the cause is submitted to them until they have
agreed upon their verdict and rendered it in open court, iinless by the consent of both parties entered upon the minutes, or unless at the expiration
of such time as the court deem proper, it satisfactorily appear that there
is no probability of an agreement.

SEC. 28. In all cases where a jury are discharged, or
prevented from giving a verdict by reason of accident or other cause during the progress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the
action may be again tried immediately, or at a future time, as the court
directs.

SEC. 29. While the jury are absent, the court may adjourn
£l‘0I(11l timei to timfe, in respect to other busingss; Illiuthit is, neverbthelessl, to

e eeme open or every purpose connecte wit t e cause su mitte to
the jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury is discharged. A final
adjournment of the court discharges the jury.

SEC. 30. VVhen the jury have agreed upon their verdict,
gliey must be COI:CltlLCi€(lbintO1§30(li]I‘t by logieerthaving tglem ll: chargp) ;

eir names mus en e ca (2 , an i o no appear e res mus e
discharged without giving a verdict. ’

SEC. 31. If the jury appear, they must be asked by the
court or the clerk, whether. they have agreed upon their verdict; and, if
tllie for}eman answer in the atiirmative, they must, on being required, dec are t e same. ‘

SEC. 32. When a verdict is rendered, and before it is recorded, the jury may be polled on the request of either party, for which
purpose each juror must be asked whether it be his verdict ; if any one
answer in the negative, the jury must be sent out for flirther deliberation.
If the verdict ‘be informal or insufficient, it may be corrected by the jury
under the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out.

SEC. 33. When the verdict is given, and is such as the
court may receive, the clerk must immediately record it in full in the minutes, and must read it to the jury and inquire of them whether it be their
verdict; if any juror disagree, the fact must be entered in the minutes,
and the jury again sent out; but if no disagreement be expressed, the
verdict is complete, and the jury must be discharged from the case.

SEC. 34. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon
all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant. A
special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the
judgment to the court; it must present the conclusions of fact, as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them; and those
conclusions of fact must be so presented, as that nothing remains to the
court, but to draw from them conclusions of law.

SEC. 35. In every action for the recovery of money only,
or specific real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general
or special verdict; in all other cases, the court may direct the jury to find
a special verdict in writing, upon all or any of the issues, and in all cases
may instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a written
Hnding thereon. The special verdict or finding must be filed with the
clerk, and entered upon the minutes. ‘

SEC. 36. Where a special finding of facts is inconsistent
with the general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the court must
give judgment accordingly.

SEC. 37. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in an
action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant, when a counter
claim for the recovery of money is established, beyond the amount of the
plaintiff’s claim as established, the jury must also assess the amount of the
recovery.

SEC. 38. In an action for the recovery of specilic personal property, if the property have not been delivered to the plaintiff, or
the defendant by his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury must, if their
verdict be in favor of the plaintiff, or if being in favor of the defendant,
they also find that he is entitled to a return thereof, must assess the value
of the property, and may, at the same time, assess the damages, if any
are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has
sustained by reason of the taking or detention of such property.

SEC. 39. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry must
be made in the minutes of the court, specifying the time and place of trial,
the names of the jurors and Witnesses, the verdict, and either the judgment to be rendered thereon, or when the court is in doubt what judgment ought to be given, it may order that the case be reserved for argument or further consideration ; or the judge trying the cause, may in his
discretion and upon such terms as shall be just, stay the entry of judgment and further proceedings until the hearing and final decision of a_

motion for a new trial, or in arrest of judgment, or for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, or to set aside the verdict, or a dismissal of the action,
on the ground of surprise or irregularity, or on a case or bill of exceptions.

SEC. 40. The trial by jury may be waived by the several
parties to an issue of fact in actions arising on obligations, and with the
assent <1); tlfie lcourt in other actilclins, :11 the manner following:

1. aiin toa earattetri ; _

2. B; writtegn conlsgnt, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk ;

3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.

SEC. 41. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the court, its
decision must be given lI1.WI'ltlI1g, and tiled with the clerk within twenty
:11iiy'sfaftt:r fthe tierm (zitttvivliich tqe trial tfoqk place; 111: giving thcla (le:;:;:1D,

e ac oun an ie cone usions o aw must e se arate s ;
judgment upon the decision must be entered accordingly. P y

SEC. 42. On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an issue of

I law, the plaintiff may proceed in the manner prescribed by the statute,

upon the failure of the defendant to answer where the summons was personally served. If judgment be for the defendant, upon an issue of law,
and the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact be necessary to

enable the court to complete the judgment, a reference may be ordered
as by statute provided.

SEC. 43. In addition to the regular

i terms of the district courts in this territory, the said court is always open

for the transaction of any business which may be heard and determined
by the court, and the said court in vacation has power to hear and determine all questions which may arise in the said court, in the following
cases:

1. Applications for judgment in all actions other than those arising on

’ contract for the payment of money only, when a summons has been personally served upon the defendant, and no answer has been made to the
complaint, after the time for answering the same has expired. The said

- court in vacation may, upon any such application, Whenever it shall be
.proper so to. do, take an account, or hear proof, and render judgment

thereon, or may order .a reference as herein provided ; and when the
action is for the recovery of money only, or of specihe, real or personal
property, with damages for Withholding thereof, the court may hear and
determine the same in vacation, and assess the damages itself, or order a
reference for that purpose, or assessment by a jury;

2. In all cases where an action has been removed to the district court
by a certiorari to a justice of the peace, the same may be brought on for
argument before the court in vacation, and heard and determined as fully
as if the same had been determined in term;

3. All motions made to the said court in actions or proceedings pending therein, may be heard and determined by the court in vacation ;

4. All applications for judgment upon special verdicts, and all questions reserved for argument or further consideration, all motions for new
trials, and all issues and questions of law pending in the said court, may
also be heard and determined in vacation as well as in term.

SEC. 44. Whenever application is made to the judge
of any of the said district courts in vacation, for the hearing and determination of any of the cases mentioned in the preceding section, the judge
shall appoint a day in which he will hear and determine the same; and
any of said judges may appoint special terms for the hearing of such
cases from time to time.

SEC. 45. The party making such application shall notify the
adverse party that such application has been made, and that the hearing
and determination will take place at a time and place mentioned in the said
notice, which notice must be served on the opposite party at least six days
before the day of hearing.

SEC. 46. All judgments, orders, or determinations made by

the said court in vacation, jn any of the cases above mentioned, shall be
as tinal and effectual as if the same had been made in term.

SEC. 47. A referee is a person appointed by the court or
judge:

I. To try an issue of law or of fact in a civil action, and report a
judgme.nt thereon;

2. To ascertain any other fact in an action at law, or in a special proceeding of a civil nature, when necessary for the information of the court,
and report the fact either with or without his opinion thereon;

3. To execute an order or judgment.

SEC. 48. The appointment of a referee is denominated a
reference.

SEC. 49. Upon the agreement of the parties to a civil action, or a proceeding of a civil nature, filed with the clerk or entered upon
the minutes, a reference may be ordered:

1. To try any or all the issues in a civil action, whether of fact or
law, (except an issue of fact when the action is for a divorce dissolving
the marriage contract,) and to report ajudgment there_on ;

2. To try an issue or ascertain a fact in a special proceeding of a civil
nature.

SEC. 50. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon
the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the
following cases:

1. When the trial of an issue of fact requiresthe examination of a
long account on either side, which case the referees may be directed to
hear, and decide the whole issue, or to report upon any specific question
of fact involved therein;

‘2. “When the taking an account is necessary for the information of
tlée court, before judgment, or for the carrying a judgment or order into
e eet;

3. VVhen a question of fact other than upon the pleadings arises, upon
the motion or otherwise. in any stage of the action; or,

4. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a special
proceeding of a civil nature.

SEC. 51. A reference may be ordered in a civil action, or in a
special proceeding of a civil nature, in any court, (except a justice’s court,)
and may be ordered by ajudge or court in vacation.

SEC. 52. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties; if the parties do
not agree, the court or judge must appoint one or more, not exceeding
three, who reside in the county in which the action is brought, or the
proceeding is triable.

SEC. 53. When the appointment of referees is made by the
court or judge, the referee must be :

1. Qualitied as a juror, as provided by statute;

‘2. Competent as a juror between the parties.

SEC. 54. The report of the referees upon the whole issue
stands as the decision of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon,
in the same manner as if action had been tried by the court; and their
decision may be excepted to, and reviewed in like manner. When the
reference is to report the facts, the report has the effect of a special
verdict.

SEC. 55. An exception is an objection taken at the trial, to a
decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial be by jury, court, or
referees, and whether the decision be made during the formation of a
jury, the production of evidence, the charge to the jury, or at any other
time from the calling of the action for trial, to the rendering of the verdict or decision ; but no exception is to be regarded on a motion for a new
trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be material, and affect substantial rights of the party.

SEC. 56. The point of the exception must be particularly

I stated, and either delivered in writing to the judge, or entered in his minutes, and immediately corrected or added to until made conformable to the
truth, or it may afterward be settled in a statement of the case, as provided
in section sixty-three of this chapter.

SEC. 57. No particular form of exception is required; the
objection must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary to
explain it, but no more, and the whole as briefly as possible. If the decision excepted to, be verbally made, it must, upon the exception being
taken, be reduced to writing, and entered either in the judge’s minutes, or
in the minutes of the court, or in the statement.

SEC. 58. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact
in the same court, after a trial and decision by a jury, court, or referees.

SEC. 59. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated
and a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any
of the following causes materially aifecting the substantial rights of such

art :
P Ly Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or prevailing
party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion, by which either
party was prevented from having a fair trial;

2. Misconduct of the jury or of the prevailing party;

3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against;

4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the induence of passion or prejudice;

5. Insufliciency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision,
or that it is against law;

6. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered
and produced at the trial; a

7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to, by the party
making the application.

SEC. 60. When the application is made for a cause mentioned
in the fourth, fifth, and seventh subdivisions of the last section, it is made
either upon the judge’s minutes, or a statement of the case. prepared as

prescribed in the next section; for any other cause, it is made upon
atiidavit. ‘

SEC. 61. The party preparing a statement, is to propose a
draft of it, and within five days after the trial, serve it upon the adverse
party, who may, within five days thereafter, propose amendments to it; if
no amendment be proposed, the draft is adopted; if proposed, the statements and amendments may be submitted for settlement to the judge or
referee, before whom the trial was had, upon a notice of five days; if such
notice be not served within five days after the amendments are proposed,
they are adopted.

SEC. 62. The application for a new trial, must, in the first
instance, be made at a regular term except when made upon an appeal.

SEC. 63. The application for a cause mentioned in the
fourth and fifth subdivisions of section fifty-nine, can only be made when
notice thereof, oral, or written, was given in open court, immediately after
the verdict or other decision rendered; and thereupon if the adverse party
consent, the court must appoint a day in the same term for hearing the
application upon the judge's minutes; if however, the application be not
heard at the same term, or if an appeal be taken, a statement of the case
must be made.GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEC. 64. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff
may claim and recover any rate of damages, to which he may be entitled
for the cause of action established.

SEC. 65. Any party may, and if required by the court, must
when the evidence is closed, submit in distinct and concise propositions the
conclusions of fact which he claims to be established, or the conclusions
of law which he desires to be adjudged, or both; they may be written and
handed to the court, or, at the option of the court, oral and entered in the
judge’s minutes; but in either case they must be entered with any exceptions that may be taken, if either party require it.

SEC. 66. The provisions of this chapter respecting trials by
jury apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the
court or referees, and in the same manner, the provisions respecting trials
by the court, apply to trials by referees.


SEC. 67. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be entered by the clerk in conformity to the verdict, unless the court
order the case to be reserved for argument, or further consideration, or
grant a stay of proceedings.

SEC. 68. Wlien the case is reserved for argument, or
further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, on the ground that
judgment ought not to be given in conformity to the verdict, or that it is
doubtful what judgment should be given, the questions reserved may be
decided by the court, and judgment thereupon rendered without further
argument, or if not so decided, they may be brought before the court for
judgment, upon notice, and judgment thereupon rendered.

SEC. 69. If a counter claim established at the trial, exceed
the plaintiffs demand so established, judgment for the defendant must be
given for the excess, or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any
other afiirmative relief, judgment must be given accordingly.

SEC. 70. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession, or the value
thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and of damages for the detention; if the property have'been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return
of the property, or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and
damages for taking and withholding the same. .

SEC. 71. Judgments upon an issue of law, or of fact,
or upon confession, or upon failure to answer, except where the clerk is
otherwise authorized to enter the same, must in the first instance, be entered upon the direction of a single judge, or referees’ report upon the

whole issue. O
SEC. 72. The clerk must keep among the records of the

court, a book for the entry of judgments, to be called the judgment book.

SEC. 73. The judgment must be entered in the judgment
book, and must specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination
of the action.

SEC. 74. If a party die after verdict or decision upon an
issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may nevertheless render judgment thereon; such judgment is not a lien on the real property of the
deceased party, but is payable in the course of administration on his estate.

SEC. 75. Immediately after entering the judgment, the
clerk must attach together and file the following papers, which constitute
the judgment roll:

1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof of service and that no answer
has been received, the report, if a , and a copy of the judgment;

2. In all cases, the summons, lpgveadings, or copies thereof, and a copy
of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the offer of the defendant,
exceptions, and all orders relating to a change of parties, or in any way
involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment. If a statement of the case be made, the same may be attached to the judgment roll
on the request of either party, and henceforth forms a part thereof.
When the defendant is entitled to judgment, if the plaintiff shall not have
filed the summons, with proof of service, and the pleadings on his part,
the copies of summons and pleadings served on the defendant, may be
substituted therefor in making the judgment roll, or the plaintiff may
at the instance of the defendant, be ordered by a judge forthwith to
file such papers. Upon an exempliiication of a judgment, as evidence,
only that part of the roll which consists of the summons, pleadings, and
judgment, need be given.

SEC. 76. On filing a judgment roll, upon a judgment
requiring the payment of money, the judgment may be dockéted with the
clerk of the court, where it was rendered, and in any other county upon
filing with the clerk of the district court of such county a transcript of the
original docket: and thereupon the judgment becomes a lien on real property in the county, from the time of docketing it therein.

SEC. 77. The lien mentioned in the last section, extends
to all the real property of the judgment debtor in the county, owned by
him at the time of the judgment, or afterwards acquired.

SEC. 78. The docket mentioned in section seventy-six,
is a book which the clerk must keep in his otiice, and in which he must
enter alphabetically, under the name of each person:

1. The names of the parties to the judgment ;

2. The amount of the judgment; and,

3. The precise time of his entry.

SEC. 79. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in s
the clerk’s register and docket, upon an execution returned satisfied, or 5‘
upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made in the
manner of an acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, by the
judgment creditor, or within two years after the judgment, by the attorney,
unless a revocation of his authority is previously entered upon the register.
Whenever a judgment is satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon an execu- I
tion, it is the duty of the party or attorney to give such acknowledgment, 2
and upon motion the court may compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to be made without it; and whenever a judgment is satisfied in

fact, as to any one of several defendants, an entry to that effect may be
made in the register and docket.

SEC. 80. The party in whose favor judgment is given, may, 1
at any time within five years after the entry thereof, proceed to enforce 3
the same, as prescribed by statute. '

SEC. 81. There are three kinds of writs of execution; '.

one against the property of the judgment debtpr, another against his per- ‘
son, and the third for the delivery of the possession of real or personal

property, or such delivery with damages for withholding the same; they
are issued in the name of the United States, and are deemed the process
of the court; but they need not be sealed nor subscribed, except as prescribed in the next. section.

SEC. 82. The Writ of execution must be directed to the
sheriff, subscribed by the party issuing it, or his attorney, and must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court, the county where the judgment roll or transcript is filed, the names of the parties, the amount of the
judgment if it be for money, the amount actually due thereon, and the

time of dockcting in the county to which the execution is_issued, and must
require,the sheriff substantially as follows:

1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it must require
the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal property of such debtor, and if sufiicient property cannot be found, out of his
real property; or if the judgment be a lien on real property, then out of
the real property belonging to him on the day when the judgment was
docketed in the county, or at any time thereafter, or if the judgment be
entered pursuant to the statute, the execution must conform to such
judgment;

2. If .it be against real or personal property in the hands of personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatces, tenants of real property or

trustees, it must require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment with interest,
out of such property;

3. [Repealed by laws of 1855, page 125.]

4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, it must require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same,
particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the
same time require the sheritf to satisfy any costs, charges, damages, rents,
or profits, recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal property
of the party against whom it was rendered and the value of the property
for which the judgment was recovered, to be specified therein, if a deliv1

I

»

ery thereof cannot be had, and if suflicient personal property cannot be
found, then out of real property, as provided in the first subdivision of
this section, and in that respect, it is to be deemed an execution against
property.

SEC. 83. The execution mustrbe made returnable within
sixty days after its receipt by the sheriff, to the clerk with whom the

judgment roll is filed.
SEC. 84. Where a judgment requires the payment of

money, or the delivery of real or personal property, the same is enforced
in these respects, by execution, as provided in the three last sections.
Where it requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of
the judgment may be served upon the party against whom it is given, ‘or
upon the person or oflicer who is required thereby, or by law, to obey the
same,'and his obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse, he may be punished by the court as for contempt.
SEC. 85. After the lapse of five years from the entry of

r a judgment, if no execution has been already issued, an execution can be

issued only by leave of the court on motion, upon notice to the adverse
party; such leave must not be given, unless it be established by the oath

of the party, or other proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof,
remains unsatisfied and due. When the judgment has been rendered in
a ustice’s court and docketed in the office of the clerk of the district court,
the application for leave to issue execution must be to the district court of
the county where the judgment was rendered.

SEC. 86. Notwithstanding the death of a party after

judgment, execution thereon against his property may be issued and executed in the same manner and with the same effect as if he were still

living; except that such execution cannot be issued within a year after his
death, unless upon permission granted by the judge of probate.

SEC. 87. Where the execution is against the property
of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sherili‘ of any county
where the judgment is docketed. Where it requires the delivery of real
or personal property, it must be issued to the sheriff of the county where
the property or some part thereof is situated. Executions may be issued
at the same time to different counties.

SEC. 88. All property liable to an attachment is liable to execution; it must be levied on in the same manner as similar property is
attached; until a. levy, property is not affected by the execution.

SEC. 89. If the property levied on be claimed by .a third
person as his property; the sheriff may summon from his county any
twelve persons, qualified as jurors, between the parties, to try the validity
of the claim; they and the witnesses must be sworn by the sheriff, and if
their verdict be in favor of the claimant. the sheritf may relinquish the
levy, unless the judgment creditor give him a sutlicient indemnity for proceeding thereon; the fees of the jury must be paid by the claimant if the
verdict be against him, otherwise by the plaintiff‘. The following property
is exempt from execution, except as herein otherwise specially provided.

SEC. 90. The following named property shall be exempt from

sale under any execution, writ of attachment, or any other tinal process of

a court:

1. All spinning wheels, weaving looms, with the apparatus, and all
stoves and pipes with their utensils, put up or kept in any dwelling house;

2. A seat, pew, or slip, occupied by any person or family, in any house
or place of public worship; ,

3. All cemeteries, monuments, tombs, and rights of burial, while in use
as repositories of the dead;

4. All arms and accoutrements required by law to be kept by any
person;

5. All wearing apparel of every person or family;

6. The miscellaneous library, and school books, of every individual
and family, not exceeding in value one hundred and fifty dollars, and all
family pictures;

7. To each householder, ten sheep, with their fleeces, and the yarn and
cloth manufactured from the same, two cows, live swine, and provisions
and fuel for the comfortable subsistence of such householder and family
for six months;

8. To each householder, all household goods, furniture and utensils, not
exceeding in value two hundred and fifty dollars;

9. The tools, implements, material, stock, apparatus, team, vehicle,
horses, harness, library, or other things, to enable any person to carry on
the profession, trade, occupation or business in which such person may
be wholly or principally engaged, not exceeding in value two hundred
and fifty dollars; the word team, in this subdivision, shall be construed to
mean either one yoke of oxen, a horse, or a pair of horses, as the case
may be;

10. A sutlicient quantity of hay, grain, feed and vegetables necessary
for keeping for six months the animals mentioned in the several subdivisions of this section exempted from execution, and any chattel mortgage,
bill of sale, or other lien created on any part of the property, except such
as is mentioned in the ninth subdivision of this section, shall be void, unless
such mortgage, bill of sale, or lien, be signed by the wife of the party
making such mortgage, bill of sale, or lien.

SEC. 91. The property hereinbefore mentioned shall not be
exempt from any execution or other process issued upon a judgment rendered for the purchase money for the same property.

An Act for a Homestead Exemption. (a)
[Passed August 12, 1858.]

SEC. 92. Be it enacted by the legislature of the state of Illinnesota:

That a homestead consisting of any quantity of land not exceeding eighty
acres, and the dwelling house thereon, and its appurtenances, to be selected
by the owner thereof, and not included in any incorporated town, city, or
village, or instead thereof, at the option of the owner, a quantity of land
not exceeding in amount one lot, being within an incorporated town, city,
or village, and the dwelling house thereon and its appurtenances, owned
and occupied by any resident of this state, shall not be subject to attachment, levy or sale upon execution or any other process, issuing out of any
court within this state. This section shall be deemed and construed to
exempt such homestead in the manner aforesaid, during the time it shall
be occupied by the widow, or minor child or children of any deceased person who was, when living, entitled to the benefits of this act.

SEC. 93. Such exemption shall not extend to any mortgage
thereon, lawfully obtained, but such mortgage or other alienation of such
land by the owner thereof, if a married man, shall not be valid without
the signature of the wife to the same, unless such mortgage shall be given
to secure the payment of the purchase money, or some portion thereof.

SEC. 94. Whenever a levy shall be made upon the lands or
tenements of a householder, whose homestead has not been selected and
set apart by metes and bounds, such householder may notify the ollicer at
the time of making such levy of what he regards as his homestead, with a
description thereof, within the limits above prescribed; and the remainder
alone shall be subject to sale under such levy.

SEC. 95. If the plaintiff in execution shall be dissatisfied with
the quantity of land selected and set apart as aforesaid, the otiicer making
the levy shall cause the same to be surveyed, beginning at a point to be
designated by the owner, and set off in a compact form, including the
dwelling house and its appurtenances, the amount specified in the first section of this act, and the expense of such survey shall be chargeable on
the execution and collected thereupon.

SEC. 96. After the survey shall have been made, the oflicer
making the levy may sell the property levied upon, and not included in
the set-off, in the same manner as provided in other cases for the sale of
real estate on execution, and in giving a deed of the same, he may describe
it according to his original levy, excepting therefrom by metes and bounds,
according to the certificate of the survey, the quantity set off as aforesaid.

SEC. 97. Any person owning and occupying any house or land
not his own, and claiming said house as a homestead, shall be entitled to
the exemption aforesaid.

SEC. 98. Nothing in this act shall be considered as exempting
any real estate from taxation or sale for taxes.

SEC. 99. No property hereinafter mentioned or represented
shall be liable to attachment, execution or sale, or any final process issued
from any court in this state:

1. The family bible ;

2. Family pictures, school books or library, and musical instruments
for use of family;

3. A seat or pew in any house or place of public worship;

4. A lot in any burial ground; ’

5. All wearing apparel of the debtor and his family, all beds, bedsteads
and bedding, kept and used by the debtor and his family; all stoves and
appendages put up or kept for the use of the debtor and his family; all
cooking utensils, and all other household furniture not herein enumerated,
not exceeding five hundred dollars;

6. Three cows, ten swine, one yoke of oxen, and one horse in lieu of
one yoke of oxen and a horse, a span of horses or mules, twenty sheep
and the wool from the same, either in the raw material or manufactured
into yarn or cloth; the necessary food for all the stock mentioned in this section, for one year’s support, either provided or growing, or both, as the
debtor may choose; also, one wagon, cart or dray, one sleigh, two ploughs,
one drag, and other farming utensils, including tackle for teams, not
exceeding three hundred dollars in value;

7. The provisions for the debtor and his family necessary for one
year’s support, either provided, or growing, or both, and fuel necessary for
one year;

8. The tools and instruments of any mechanic, minor or other person,
used and kept for the purpose of carrying on his trade or business, and in
addition thereto, stock in trade not exceeding four hundred dollars in value;

the library and implements of any professional man; all of which articles
hereinbefore intended to be exempt, shall be chosen by the debtor, his
agent, clerk or legal representative as the case may be.

SEC. 100. Nothing in this act shall be so construed, as to
exempt any property in this state from execution or attachment for clerks’,
laborers’, or mechanics’ wages. '

SEC. 101. All laws inconsistent with provisions of this act are
hereby repealed.

SEC. 102. This act shall take effect and be in force from and

after its passage.


SEC. 103. When a levy shall be made upon property of any
class or species, which.is by law exempt from execution to a specified
amount or value, the officer levying the execution may make an inventory
of the whole of such property, and cause the same to be appraised at its
cash value, by two disinterested freeholders of the precinct where the
property may be, on oath to be administered by him to such appraisers.
The appraisers shall be entitled to fifty cents each for their services, and
six cents per mile for traveling fees, for which the plaintiff in the execution shall be liable to them, but the same may be collected on the execution for his use.

SEC. 104. Such inventory being completed, the defendant in
the execution, or his authorized agent, may select from such inventory an
amount of such property, not exceeding, according to such appraisal, the
amount or value exempted by law from execution; but if neither such
defendant nor his agent shall appear and make such selection, the ofiicer
shall make the same.

SEC. 105. A levy may be made upon grain or grass while
growing, and upon any other unharvested crops; but no sale thereof shall
be made under such levy, until the same shall be ripe or fit to be harvested;
and any levy thereon by virtue of an execution, issued by a justice of the
peace, shall be continued beyond the return day thereof, if necessary, and
remain in life, and the execution thereof may be completed at any time
within thirty days afier such grain, grass, or other unharvested crop shall
be ripe, or fit to be harvested.

SEC. 106. Any real or personal estate which may have
been acquired by any female before her marriage, either by her own personal industry, or by inheritance, gift, grant, or devise, or to which she
may at any time after her marriage, be entitled by inheritance, gift, grant,
or devise, and the rents, profits, and income of any such real estate, shall
be and continue the real and personal estate of such female after marriage,
to the same extent as before marriage; and none of such property shall
be liable for her husband's debts, engagements, or liabilities; but such
property shall be liable for all debts of the wife contracted prior to her
said marriage: provided, that nothing in this section contained shall be
construed to authorize any married woman to give, grant, or sell any such
real or personal property during coverture, without the consent of her husband, except by order of the district court of the county; and, provided

further, that in the case of a separation or divorce between such husband

and wife, by an adjudication of a court, or by act of the legislature, such
married woman shall in no case be authorized to remove any such property from the premises of her husband without his consent, except by order

of the court, or in pursuance of such act; provided, also, that the husband
shall be liable for the debts of his wife, contracted before marriage, to the
extent only of the property real and personal, if any, acquired or received
by such husband from his wife by virtue of the marriage contract, or
otherwise.

SEC. 107. The district court for the county where the parties,
or either of them reside, shall have jurisdiction in all cases arising under
the provisions of the preceding section, except when the amount in controversy, is less than one hundred dollars, and relates to personal estate,
in which case a justice of the peace shall have jurisdiction, and the wife
may institute proceedings to enforce the said provision, in her own name,
or otherwise.

SEC. 108. If any married woman shall die without disposing
of any such real estate, the husband surviving her shall have a life estate
therein, by the curtesy.

SEC. 109. The sheriff must execute the writ against
the property of the judgment debtor, by levying on the property, collecting the things in action, or selling the same as prescribed by statute in
cases of attachment, selling the other property, and paying to the plaintiff
the proceeds, or so much thereof as will satisfy the execution.

SEC. 110. Before the sale of property on execution, notice
thereof must be given as follows: '

1. In case of personal property, by posting written notice of the time
and place of sale, in three public places of the county where the sale is to
take place, six days successively;

2. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, describing the
property with suflicient certainty to enable a person of common understanding to identify it, for six weeks successively, in three public places
of the county where the property is situated, and also where the property
is to be sold, and publishing a copy thereof once a week, for the same period, in a newspaper of the county, if there be one, or if there be none,
and the property is not occupied by the judgment debtor, or by a tenant
or purchaser under him, then in a paper at the capital of the territory.

SEC. 111. An oliicer selling without the notice prescribed by
the last section, shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the aggrieved party,
in addition to his actual damages; and a person taking down or defacing
the notice posted, if done before the sale, or the satisfaction of the execution, and without the consent of the parties, shall forfeit fifty dollars; but
the validity of the sale is not affected by either act.

SEC. 112. A sale must be made by auction between nine
o’clock in the morning and sunset; after sufficient property has been sold
to satisfy the execution, no more must be sold; neither the ollicer holding
the execution, nor his deputy can purchase; when the sale is of personal
property capable of manual delivery, it must be within view of those who
attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest price; and when the sale is of real property, and consisting of several
known lots or parcels, they must be sold separately, or when a portion of
such real property is claimed by a third person, and he requires it to be
sold separately, such portion must be thus sold.

SEC. 113. Upon a sale of real property, where the estate
is less than a leasehold of two years unexpired term, the sale is absolute;
in all other cases, the property sold is subject to redemption, as provided
in the next five sections; the oilicer must give to the purchaser, a certificate of the sale, proved or acknowledged, so that it may be recorded;
containing,

1. A particular description of the property sold;

2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel;

3. The whole price paid;

4. When subject to redemption, it must be so stated; a duplicate of
which certificate must be tiled by the officer, with the register of deeds of
the county.

SEC. 114. Property sold, subject to redemption, as provided in the last section, or any
part sold separately, may be redeemed in the manner provided in the
next four sections, by the following persons or their successors in interest:

1st. The judgment debtor or his successor in interest in the whole or
on any part of the property.

2d. A creditor having lien by judgment or mortgage of the property

sold, or on some share or part thereof subsequent to that on which the’

property was sold. The persons mentioned in this and the preceding subdivisions other than the judgment debtor, are in this chapter termed redemptioners.

SEC. 115. The judgment debtor or redemptioner may redeem the property from the
purchaser within one year after the day of sale, on paying him the amount
of his purchase, with interest at ten per cent., and if he be also a creditor,

having a lien prior to that of the redemptioner, the amount of such lien
with interest.

SEC. 116. If the property be redeemed by
redemptioner, either the judgment debtor or another redemptioner may,
at any time within one year after the sale of the said property, again redeem it from the last redemptioner, on paying the sum paid on his ‘redemption, with interest, and, unless his lien be prior to that of the preceding
redemptioner, the amount of‘ such lien with interest. But if any redemptioner other than the judgment debtor redeem within the year after the
sale thereof, the judgment debtor shall have thirty days after the expiration of the said year wherein to redeem. If no redemption is made in one
year after the sale, the purchaser is entitled to a conveyance ; or if so redeemed whencver thirty days have elapsed after the year from the sale,
and no redemption has been made and ' ed therein, the time for redemption has expired, and the last rede oner is entitled to a sheriff’s
deed. If the debtor or owner redeem at any time before the time for redemption shall expire, the sale is terminated and he is restored to his
estate.

SEC. 117. The payment mentioned in the last two sections,
may be made to the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case may be, or for
him, to the otlicer who made the sale ; and a tender of the money is equivalent to payment.

SEC. 118. A redemptioner must produce to the oflicer or
person from whom he seeks to redeem, and tile with his notice, in the sheritl‘s office:

1. A copy of the docket of the judgment, under which he claims the
right to redeem, certified by the clerk of the court of the county, where the
judgment is docketed, or if he redeem upon a mortgage or other lien, a
note of the record thereof, certified by the clerk;

2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified
by the allidavit of himself‘, or of a subscribing witness thereto; and,

at

[O

l

I
V

3. An aiiidavit of himself or his agent, showing the amount then actually due on the lien.

SEC. 119. Until the expiration of the time allowed for
redemption, the court may restrain the commission of waste on the property, by order granted with or without notice, on the application of the
purchaser or judgment creditor; but it is not waste for the person in
possession of the property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession
afterward, during the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use
it in the same manner in which it was previously used, or to use it in
the ordinary course of husbandry, or to make the necessary repairs of
buildings thereon, or to use wood or timber on the property therefor,
or for the repair of fences, or for fuel in his family, while he occupies the
property.

SEC. 120. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom, in consequence of

‘irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal or

discharge of the judgment, he may recover the price paid, with interest,
from the judgment creditor; such judgment creditor, if the recovery was
in consequence of the irregularity, shall thereupon be entitled to a new
execution on the judgment, for the price paid on the sale, with interest;
and for that purpose the judgment shall be deemed valid against the judgment debtor, his personal representatives, heirs or devisees; but not
against a purchaser in good faith, or an incumbrancer, whose title or
incumbrance shall have accrued before a levy on such__new execution.
SEC. 121. When property, liable to an execution against
several persons, is sold thereon, and more than a due proportion of the
judgment is levied upon the property of one of them, or one of them pay
without a sale, more than his proportion, he may compel contributions
from the others; and when a judgment is against several, and is upon an
obligatim of one of them, as security for another, and the surety pays the
amount, or any part thereof, either by sale of his property, or before sale,
he may compel repayment from the principal. In such cases, the person
so paying or contributing, is entitled to the benefit of the judgment to
enforce contribution or repayment, if within ten days after his payment
he file with the clerk of the court where the judgment was rendered,
notice of his payment, and claim to contribution or repayment; upon filing
of such notice, the clerk must make an entry thereof in the margin of

the docket. 

SEC. 122. When an execution zrrainst property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors, in the same judgment issued
to the sheriff of the county where he resides, or if he do not reside in this
territory, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment roll, or a transcript of a justices’ judgment is filed, is returned unsatisfied, in whole or
in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after such return made, is entitled to an order from a judge of the district court in which the execution
was issued, requiring such judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his property, before such judge, or a referee appointed by the
judge of the court, at a time and place specified in the order.

SEC. 123. After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon proof, by atlidavit of a party, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof, that any judgment debtor has property, which he unjustly refuses to apply toward the satisfaction of the

Judgment, such court or judge may, by an order,- require the judgment
debtor to appear, at a specified time and place, to answer concerning the
same; and such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of
the property of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction of the judgment, as are provided upon the return of an execution.

SEC. 124. Instead of the order requiring the attendance
of the judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the judge
may upon proof, by afiidavit or otherwise, to his satisfaction, that
there is danger of the debtor leaving the territory, or concealing himself,
issue a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county where such debtor
may be, to arrest him and bring him before such judge; upon being
brought before the judge, he may be examined on oath, and ordered to
enter into an undertaking with one or more sureties, that he will attend
from time to time, before the judge, or referee, as he shall direct, during
the pendency of the proceeding, and until the final determination thereof,
and will not in the mean time dispose of any portion of his property, not
exempt from execution ; in default of entering into such undertaking, he
may be committed to prison by warrant of the judge.

SEC. 125. After the issuing of execution against property,
any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the
amount of his debt, or so much thereof _ as may be necessary to satisfy the
execution, and the sheriff’s receipt shall be a sufiicient discharge for the
amount so paid.

SEC. 126. After the issuing or return of an execution
against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors
in the same judgment, and upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to the
satisfaction of the judge, that any person or corporation has property of
the judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding ten
dollars, the judge may by an order require such person or corporation, or
any officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place, and
answer concerning the same; the judge may also, in his discretion, require
notice of such proceedings to be given to any party in the action, in such
manner as may seem to him proper.

SEC. 127. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify upon any proceeding under this chapter, in the same manner as upon
the trial of an issue. '

SEC. 128. The party or witness may be required to attend before the judge, or before a referee appointed by the court or judge;
if‘ before the referee, the examination must be taken by the referee, and
certified by the judge; allexaminations and answers before a judge or
referee under this chapter, must be on oath, except that when a corporation answers, the answer must be on the oath of an otiicer thereof.

SEC. 129. The judge may order any property of the a
judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of him- i
self or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied j
toward the satisfaction of the judgment, except that the earnings of the '
debtor for his personal services, at any time within thirty days next preceding the order, cannot be so applied when it is made to appear by the
debtor’s affidavit, or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the
use of a family supported wholly or partly by his labor.

SEC. 130. The judge may also by order appoint a re- 1
ceiver of the property of the judgment debtor in the same manner, and :
with the like authority as if the appointment were made by the court; the 1
judge may also by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the
property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, and any
interference therewith.

SEC. 1. There are no statutes establishing or regulating the costs
or fees of attorneys and counsel in civil actions, and there are established
no rules or provision of law restricting or controlling the right of a party
to agree with an attorney or counsel for his compensation, and hereafter
the measure and mode of such compensation must be left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties; but there may be allowed to the
prevailing party, certain sums by way of indemnity, for his expenses in
the action, which allowances are termed costs.

SEC. 11. Costs are allowed, of course, to the plaintiff upon a
judgment in his favor, in the following cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when a claim. of title to real property arises on the pleadings, or is certified by the court to
have come in question at the trial; °

2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property;

3. In the actions of which a justice’s court has not jurisdiction;

4. In an action’ for the recovery of money, where the plaintiff‘ recovers
one hundred dollars or more; but in an action for assault, battery, false
imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation,
or seduction, if the plaintiff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he can
recover no more costs and charges than damages. And in an action to
recover the possession of personal property, if the plaintiff recover less
than fifty dollars damages, he can recover no more costs and charges than
damages, unless he recover also property, the value of which, with the
damages, amounts to fifty dollars; such value must be determined by the
jury, court, or referee by whom the action is tried.

SEC. 3. When several actions are brought on one bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in writing,
or in any other case for the same cause in action against several parties
who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs
can be allowed to the plaintiff‘ in more than one of such actions, which
may be at his election, if the parties proceeded against in the other actions
were at the commencement of the previous action openly within this territory; but the disbursements of the plaintiff may be allowed to him as
hereinafter provided.

SEC. 4. Costs are allowed, of course, to the defendant upon
a judgment in his favor, in an action for the recovery of money only, or
where the plaintiff recovers less than fifty dollars in such action; and also
upon a judgment in his favor in the other actions mentioned in section
two.

SEC. 5. In other actions, costs may be allowed, or not; and if
allowed, may be apportioned between the parties in the same or adverse
sides, in the discretion of the court. When there are several defendants
not united in interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers,
and the plaintiff fails to recover judgment against all, the court may award
costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor, or any of
them; and in the following cases, the costs of an appeal are in the discretion of. the court:

1. Where a new trial is ordered;

2. Where a judgment is modified.

SEC. 6. Costs cannot be allowed to the plaintiff in an action

upon a judgment of a court of this territory, between the same parties,‘

unless such action was brought with previous leave of the court, for cause

shown; but this prohibition does not apply to an action upon the judgment of a justice’s court brought in another county, or brought in the
same county, in case of the summons not having been served on all the
defendants, or the death of a party, or the death, resignation, incapacity
to act, or removal from the county of the justice, or the loss of his docket.

SEC. 7. When allowed, costs are as follows:

1. To the plaintiff for all proceedings before notice of trial (including
judgment when entered) -in an action arising on obligations for the
recovery of money only, seven dollars; in other actions and in all cases
where an application to the court for judgment is necessary, twelve
dollars;

2. To the defendant, for all proceedings before notice of tria.l, five
dollars; for all subsequent proceedings before trial, seven dollars;

3. For the trial of issues of law, if separate from the trial of issues
of fact, to the plaintiff, f1fteen dollars; to the defendant, twelve dollars;

4. For the trial of the issues of fact, if separate from the trial of
the issues of law, to the plaintiff, fifteen dollars; to the defendant, twelve
dollars;

5. For the trial of the issues of fact and of law, when tried at
the same time, to the plaintiff, fifteen dollars; to the defendant, fifteen
dollars; - I

6. To either party, when any action has been removed to the
supreme court before argument, twenty dollars; for argument, thirty
dollars;

7. To either party for every term, not exceeding three, at which the
cause necessarily remains on the calendar, not reached, or postponed,
excluding that at which it is tried or heard, ten dollars.

SEC. 8. When the judgment is for the recovery of money,
interest from the time of the verdict or report, until the judgment be
finally entered, must be computed by the clerk, and added thereto.

SEC. 9. The clerk must insert in the entry of judgment, on
the application of the prevailing party, upon two days’ notice to the other,
the sum of the allowances for costs, as above provided, and the necessary
disbursements, including the fees of oflicers allowed by law, the fees of
witnesses, the necessary expenses of commissions, the compensation of
referees, and the expense of printing the papers upon an appeal, which
disbursements are in the statute, also termed charges. The disbursements
must be stated in detail, and verilied by atlidavit, which must be tiled.
W.henever costs are allowed by statute, the charges are also allowed; and
when costs are not allowed, the charges are not allowed, except where
express provision is made therefor.

SEC. 10. The fees of referees are three dollars to each, for every
day spent in the business of the referees, but the part.ies may agree in
writing upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon such rate
must be allowed.

SEC. 11. When an application is made to a court or referees to
postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not exceeding
ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed as the condition
of granting the postponement.

SEC. 12. Costs may be allowed on an original motion, or on an
appeal from an order, in the discretion of the court, not exceeding ten dollars; and when costs are ordered against a party upon a motion, proceedings on his part may he stayed until payment thereof.

SEC. 13. When costs are adjudged against‘an infant plaintiff,
the guardian by whom he appears in the action is responsible for them,

anfd judgment therefor may be entered against both the guardian and the
in ant. - '

SEC. 14. When in an action for the recovery of money only,
the defendant alleges in his answer, that before the commencement of the
action, he tendered to the plaintiff the full amount to which he was entitled,
and thereupon deposits in court for the plaintiff the amount so tendered,
and the allegation be found true, the plaintiff cannot recover costs, but
must pay costs to the defendant.

SEC. 15. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor,
administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized
by statute, costs may be-recovered, as in an action by and against a person
prosecuting or defending in his own right, but such costs must, by the judgment, be made chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or party represented,
unless the court direct the same to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant
personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in the action or defense; but
no costs are recoverable in such action if brought without leave of the judge
of probate, against an executor or administrator within one year after the
death of the person whom he represents, nor after that time, unless it
appear that the demand was first presented to the executor or administrator, verified by oath, 'and payment demanded.

SEC. 16. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in a special proceeding, is brought before the supreme court or a district court for review, such proceeding is for purposes of costs, to be deemed
an action at issue on a question of law, from the time the same is brought
into the supreme court or district court, and costs thereonmay be awarded
and collected in such manner as the court may direct, according to the
nature of the case.

SEC. 17. In all civil actions prosecuted in the name and for
the use of the territory, or in the name and for the use of any county, the
territory or county shall be liable for costs in the same cases and to the
same extent as private parties.

SEC. 18. In an action in which the cause of action, after the
commencement of the action, by assignment or any other manner, becomes
the property of a person not a party to the action, and the prosecution or
defense is thereafter continued, such person is liable for the costs in the
same manner as if he were a party, and payment thereof may be enforced
by order. '

SEC. 19. Upon the settlement before judgment of any action,
no greater sum can he demanded from the defendant as costs, than at the
rates prescribed by this chapter.

SEC. 20. The attorney of a foreign corporation, against
whom costs are awarded to a defendant, is responsible to such defendant
therefor, to an amount not exceeding two hundred dollars; and the attorney neglecting to pay the same, after due proceedings against him, may
be removed by the court; but he may relieve himself from responsibility
at any time before judgment, by filing an undertaking for the payment to
the defendant, of the costs and charges, executed by a sutlicient surety.

SEC. 21. In all civil actions and proceedings by or in the
name of the United States, for the benefit of any county, instituted by
any ofiicer ddy authorized for that purpose, and not brought on the relap '
tion or for the use of any citizen, or upon any penal statute, the county to
be benefited shall be liable for costs in the same cases and to the same
extent as if such suit or proceeding was instituted by an individual.

SEC. 22. When a suit or proceeding shall be instituted in t

the name of the United States, on the relation of any citizen, such relation shall be entitled to and liable for costs, in the same cases and to the
same extent as if such suit or proceeding had been instituted in his own
name.

SEC. 23. For actions and proceedings upon writs of
mandamus, the supreme court or a district court may, in its discretion,
award or refuse costs to any party therein, and upon refusing an alternative
or peremptory mandamus, the court may award costs to be paid by the
party applying for such mandamus.

SEC. 24. When any action shall be brought in the name of
another, by _an assignee of any right of action, or by any person beneficially interested in the recovery in such action, such assignee or person
shall be liable for costs in the same cases and to the same extent in which
a plaintiff would be liable, and the payment of such costs may be enforced
by attachment in all cases where judgment is not by law required to be
rendered therefor, against such assignee or person interested.

SEC. 25. In all civil actions tried before a justice of
the peace, if the plaintiff shall appeal from a judgment in his favor, and
shall not recover in the district court, a greater sum for debt or damages
than he recovered by the first judgment, the defendant shall be entitled to
costs; if the defendant appeal, and the amount of the plaintitf’s recovery
before the justice be reduced one-half or more in the district court, the
defendant shall be entitled to costs; in all other cases of appeal from the
judgment of a justice of the peace in such actions, the successful party
shall be entitled to costs.

SEC. 26. In comparing the sums recovered by the two
judgments, for the purposes specified in the preceding section, the sum, if
any, allowed for interest accrued on the plaintiffs demand, after the first
verdict, or judgment, shall not be included, and he shall not be considered
as having recovered more on the appeal than on the first trial, merely on
account of the addition of interest accrued between the two trials.

SEC. 27. When a defendant shall bring money into court
and offer the same in satisfaction of the damages demanded by the plaintill‘, the plaintiff shall in all cases be entitled to the costs which had previously accrued, though he may not recover a larger sum of damages than
is so brought into court. ‘

SEC. 28. The foregoing provisions do not apply tojustices’
courts.


SEC. 29. When a suit shall be commenced in any court:

1. For, or in the name of the trustees of any debtor;

2. For, or in the name of any person being insolvent, who shall have
been discharged from his debts pursuant to law, brought for the collection
of any debt, contracted before the assignment of his estate; or,

3. For, or in the name of any person committed in execution for a
crime; or, _

4. In the name of any infant, whose next friend has not given security for costs; or, 0

5. For a plaintiff not residing within the jurisdiction of such court, or
for several plaintiffs who are all non-residents; the defendant may require
such plaintiff‘ to file security for_ the payment of the costs that may be
incurred by the defendant in such suit.

SEC. 30. If after the commencement of a suit, all the plaintilfs shall become insolvent or non-resident, and be discharged as aforesaid,
or be sentenced to imprisonment in the penitentiary for any term less than
life, the defendant may also require such security to be filed.

SEC. 31. The order shall be to file such security, and that
all proceedings on the part of the plaintiff, be stayed until such security be
filed, and the sureties shall justify if excepted to. Such order may be
made by the court in which the action is pending, or by any judge thereof,
in vacation, upon due proof by affidavit, of the facts entitling the defendant
thereto.

SEC. 32. Such security shall be given in the form of a
bond in the penalty of at least one hundred dollars, with one or more sumcient sureties, to the defendant, conditioned to pay, on demand, all costs
that may be awarded to the defendant in such action.

SEC. 33. Such bond shall be filed with the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, and notice thereof be given to the
defendant or his attorney.

SEC. 34. Within twenty days after the service of such
notice the defendant may except to the suiiiciency of the sureties by giving
notice of such exception to the plaintiff ’s attorney.

SEC. 35. Within twenty days after such notice of exception the sureties shall justify by aflidavit, that they are worth double the
penalty of such bond over and above all" debts, of which afiidavit a copy
shall be served on the defendant or his attorney, and such justification
shall operate to discharge the order to stay proceedings.

SEC. 36. In the cases in which, according to the provisions
of this chapter, a defendant at the commencement of an action, shall be
entitled to require security for costs, the attorney for the plaintiff shall be
liable for such costs, to an amount not exceeding one hundred dollars,
until security therefor be filed as herein provided, whether such security
shall have been required by the defendant or not.

SEC. 37. Such attorney may relieve himself from such
liability by filing security as herein provided without being required to do
so by the defendant, and by giving notice thereof to such defendant, or his
attorney. ‘

SEC. 1. For the services mentioned in this chapter, hereafter done
or performed in the several courts in this territory, by the otiicers thereof,
or in any proceedings authorized by law, the fees hereinafter prescribed,
shall be allowed. .


SEC. 2. The
fees of the clerks of the district courts for any services herein specified, to
be rendered by them, shall be as follows :

For issuing and sealing every writ when filled up by the clerk, seventyiive cents; and each exemplification or certificate when required, twentyiive cents.

Entering the return of every writ, and filing such writ, fifteen cents for
each folio. .

Entering an appearance, retraxit, discontinuance, nonsuit or default,
fifteen cents. _

Entering every rule in term, founded on motion, fifteen cents for each
folio.

Entering every other rule or order, fifteen cents for each folio.

For certified copies of rules, the same fees as for entering such rules.

Every report upon an assessment of damages, or other matter referred
to him, fifty cents. '

Every certificate, twenty-five cents, but not to be allowed for certifying
any paper to be a copy, for the copying of which he shall be paid.

Calling and swearing,a jury, fifty cents.

Swearing each witness on trial, ten cents; and swearing every constable
to take charge of a jury, twelve cents.

Entering every recognizance, fifty cents.

Entering every cause in a calendar for the'court, and making a copy
thereof for the bar, ten cents.

Receiving and entering a verdict, twenty cents.

Entering every cause or suit without process, fifty cents.

Certified copy of the minutes of a trial when required, fifty cents.

Entering every final judgment, fifty cents.

Entering satisfaction of a judgment, fifteen cents for each judgment
debtor.

Drawing a special jury in any_cause, fifty cents.

Attendance in striking a special jury, certifying the names selected, and
delivering such certificate to each party, fifty cents.

Reading and filing a habeas corpus, certiorari, or writ of error, fifteen
cents.

For a subpazna, summons or execution, when issued by a clerk, on
request, and sealing the same, fifty cents.

Filing a complaint or other pleading, an aflidavit, or other papers or
proceedings, ten cents; all papers annexed together and filed at the same
time, to be considered as one paper, and no allowance to be made for
reading any paper or proceeding in any case.

Copies and exemplilications of records and of pleadings, to be returned
on certiorari or writ of error; copies and exemplifications of all records,
pleadings, and proceedings furnished on request, when no special provision
is otherwise made, ten cents for each folio.

Searching the records or files in his office, if a copy is not required,
twenty cents for the records or files of each year, except for oflicers of the
court.

Receiving and tiling the papers of any insolvent, ten cents for each
paper filed.

Copies of such papers, ten cents for each folio.

For administering the oath of oflice to‘ any ofiicer, and certifying the
same, twenty-live cents.

Recording credentials of ordination of ministers, and giving certificate
of the same, one dollar.

Recording certificate of the solemnization of marriage, filly cents.

Entering transcript of justices’ judgment, ten cents for each folio.

Entering appeal from justices’ court, fifty cents.

For each blank writ furnished attorneys, with seal for the same, fifteen
cents. Entering a surrender of bail, fifteen cents.

Issuing commission to take deposition, one dollar.

Issuing venire facias, seventy-five cents.

Certificate of jurors’ or constables’ attendance at court, to be paid from
the county treasury, each ten cents.

Entering forfeiture of recognizance, fifteen cents.

Entering discharge of bail, twenty cents.

For entering a declaration to become a citizen of the United States,
twenty-five cents.

For a certified copy of such declaration, under the seal of the court,

cents.

Miler entering the final admission of an alien to the rights of citizenship,
twenty-five cents.

For a certitied copy thereof, under the seal of the court, fifty cents.

For all services required by law, to be performed by such clerk respectively, and not specially provided for by law, such fees as the supreme

court shall," by general rule or order prescribe, corresponding as near as
may be, with the rates herein prescribed. 0

And be it further enactedzothat the fees of the clerks of district courts
for making docket entries of judgments shall be fifteen cents for each
judgment debtor.

Filing and docketing a transcript of judgment docket from any other
county, the same fees as for docketing those originally in his own county.

Attendance on court for each day of actual session to be paid from the
county treasury, live dollars.

For docketing, entering the return of, and tiling execution, fifty cents.

SEC. 3. For
drawing a writ of error, or other process issued under seal of the court,
one dollar.

For atiixing the seal to any process of the court, twenty-five cents.

For filing the papers sent at one time from a district court, ten cents for
each paper.

Reading and filing any petition relating to any proceeding in court, ten
cents.

Entering the appearance or default of appellant, or plaintiff, or of defendant, or correspondent, fifteen cents.

Entering every rule or order, fifteen cents for each folio.

For a certified copy of every such rule or order, and all papers, pleadings, and proceedings filed with him, ten cents for each folio.

Entering every decree or sentence, ten cents for each folio.

Entering every judgment or order, fifteen cents for every judgment
debtor; ten cents for each folio more than two.

Engrossing every remitter to be sent to a district court, ten cents for
each folio. .

Every certificate given on request, relative to any matter or cause,
twenty-five cents.

Taxing costs, fifty cents.

Entering every satisfaction on the record, filieen cents.

Taking security in cases authorized by law, fifty cents.

Entering each cause in the calendar, and making copy for the bar, ten cents.

For searching records and files in his otlice, except for suitors and their
attorneys, twenty cents for the records or files of each year.

For services required by law, or the rules of the court not herein provided for, such fees as the court shall direct.

Entering causes without process, fifty cents.

Admission of attorneys, one dolllar.


SEC. 4. The person to whom any commission shall be issued to
take testimony in any cause or matter pending in law or chancery, shall
be entitled to receive the same fees as allowed to justices of the peace for
the same services.


SEC. 5. For
granting letters of administration, when not contested or approved, three
dollars. 0When contested, five dollars.

Hearing any complaint, petition, or action, two dollars.

Hearing any application for the appointment of a guardian, two dollars.

Appointing a guardian, one dollar.

And when one guardian shall be appointed for more than one person at
the same time, fifty cents for each person after the first for whom such
guardian shall be appointed.

Decree of probate of a will, when not contested, two dollars.

When contested, five dollars.

Decree for settling an estate, two dollars.

Partition of real estate, two dollars and fifty cents.

Warrant to appraise and divide an estate, one dollar and fifty cents.

Issuing a commission to examine and allow claims against an estate, one
dollar and fifty cents.

Ordering an allowance to widows, or children under seven years of age,
one dollar and fifty cents.

Approving securities of executors or others, one dollar.

Appointment of agent on petition of real estate, one dollar and fifty
cents.

Each order for sale of real estate to pay debts of an estate, two dollars.

Each order for sale of personal estate, one dollar. '

Order for publication of any notice, or any ordinary order in proceeding before him, fifty cents.

Granting reference of accounts of executors or administrators, or allowing report thereon, one dollar. '

Disallowing application for letters of administration or probate of will
to be paid by the party applying, two dollars.

For a warrant to set off dower, one dollar.

Proportioning an insolvent estate among the creditors, two dollars.

Order for distribution, one dollar and fifty cents.

Extending time for settling an estate, fifty cents.

Examining and allowing claims against an estate, fifty cents.

Ordering and drawing a quietus, one dollar.

For all services required by law to be performed by judges of probate,
for which a compensation is not herein provided, such fees as shall from
time to time be established by the supreme court. by general rules, corresponding as near as may be with the rates herein specified: provided, that
the amount of fees taxed by any judge of probate, in his own behalf in
any case not contested, shall in no case exceed twenty-five dollars; unless
the same be audited and certified to be just by any judge of the district
court of the county. .

Examining and allowing an inventory, fifteen cents for each folio.

Administering an oath to an executor or other person, and certifying the
same when necessary, fifteen cents.

Examining and allowing accounts of executors, administrators, or other
persons, for the first page, fifteen cents, and for each additional page, five
cents.

For each citation, summons, or other process, twenty-five cents.

Approving and filing a bond given on an appeal, fifty cents.

Each order to divide an estate among heirs, or to set. off dower, twentyfive cents.

Entering and filing a caveat, fifteen cents.

Entering the accounts of an executor, administrator, or guardian, fifteen
cents for each folio.

Entering each oath of an executor, or administrator, fifteen cents.

Searching the records or files in his office, for each year, fifteen cents.

Recording wills and the proof thereof, letters of administration, of
guardianship, and every other matter required to be recorded, for each
folio, fifteen cents; and where any will or other matter is in any other than
the English language, eighteen cents for each folio.

For a translation of any will from any other than the English language,

twenty-five cents for each folio.

Copies and exemplifications of the probate of a will, or of letters testamentary, or of administration, or of any other proceeding or order had or
made before him, or of any other papers filed or recorded in his office,

transmitted, on appeal, or furnished on request to any person, fifteen cents
for each folio.

SEC. 6. For actual services, and in lieu of all other fees, one
dollar per day, and fifty cents for each half day, and their actual and
necessary disbursements for the benefit of the estate; but the probate
court may allow executors and administrators, in cases of unusual difiiculty
or responsibility, such further sum as the judge may deem reasonable.

SEC. 7. For attending in any suit or proceeding pending in a
court of record, one dollar for each day, and fifty cents for each half day.

For attending in any justice’s court, or before any oflicer, person, or
board authorized to take the examination of witnesses, one dollar for each
day, and fifty cents for each half day.

For traveling, at the rate of six cents per mile in coming to the place.

of attendance, to be estimated from the residence of such witness, if within
this territory, or from the boundary line of this territory, which such
witness passed in coming, if his residence be out of the territory.

The secretary of the territory, treasurer, attorney general, and clerk,
register of deeds, county surveyor, or judge of probate, attending on a
subpcena, requiring the same, with bills, records, or other written evidence,
shall be entitled to one dollar per day, and for traveling, at the rate of six
cents per mile, coming and returning from the residence of such Witness.

SEC. 8. For serving a summons, replevin, or any process
issued by a court 0 ' law, or a subpoena to appear and answer in chancery,
one dollar, when service is made on one defendant only, and for the service
on each additional, fifty cents. _

For traveling in making such service, ten cents per mile for going only,
to be computed in all cases from the court house of the county in which
the service is made, or from the place where the court has usually been
held therein. Section eight of chapter seventy—three, page 379, is so amended as to
allow the sheriff to charge ten cents per mile, both going to and returning
from the place of service. ,

For taking a bond of plaintiff in replevin, or taking a bond on the arres
of a defendant, or in any other case where he is authorized to take the
same, fifty cents.

For a. certified copy of such bond when requested, twenty-five cents.

For a note of every capias delivered to a defendant, on request, ten
cents.

For a copy of every summons or complaint, served by him when made
by the sheriff, ten cents for each folio.

For a copy of every other writ when demanded, or required by law,
fifteen cents.

For serving an attachment for the payment of money, or an execution

for the payment of money, or a warrant issued for the same purpose, and
delivered to him by the county treasurer or any county commissioner for
collecting the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars or less, four per cent.,
and for any sum more than two hundred and fifty dollars, two per cent.;
advertising goods or chattels, lands or tenements, for sale on any execution,
if a sale be made, one dollar, and if the execution be stayed or settled
after advertising and before sale, fifty cents. .

The fees allowed by law, and paid to any printer by such sheriff, for

publishing an advertisement, of the sale of real estate, for not more than
six weeks, and for publishing the postponement of any such sale shall be
paid by the party requiring the same.
' The fees herein allowed for the service of an execution and for advertising thereon, shall be collected by virtue of such execution, in the same
manner, as the sum therein directed to be levied; but when there shall be
several executions against the defendant at the time of advertising his
property, in the hands of the same sheriff, there shall be but one advertising fee charged on the whole, and the sheriff shall elect on which execution he will receive the same.

For every certificate, on the sale of real estate, fifty cents; and for
each copy thereof, twenty-five cents; which, together with the register’s
fee for filing the same, shall be collected as other fees on execution.

For drawing and executing a deed pursuant to a sale of real estate, one
dollar, to be paid by the grantee, in such deed.

Serving a writ of possession, or of restitution, putting any person entitled, into the possession of premises, and removing the occupant, one dollar ; and the same compensation for traveling as is herein allowed on other
writs.

Taking a bond for the liberties of the jail, fifty cents.

Summoning a jury upon a writ of inquiry, attending such jury, and
making and returning the inquisition, one dollar and fifty cents.

Summoning a special jury, struck pursuant to an order of the court, and
returning the panel, one dollar and twenty-five cents.

Summoning a jury pursuant to any precept or summons of any oilicer,
in any special proceeding, seventy-five cents, and for attending such jury
when required, fifty cents.

Bringing up a person upon a habeas corpus, to testify or answer in any
court, one dollar; and for traveling, each mile from the jail, fifteen cents.

For attending any court with such prisoner, one dollar per day, besides
actual necessary expenses.

- Bringing up a person upon a habeas corpus, with the cause of his arrest,
and detention, one dollar; and for traveling, fifteen cents, for each mile
from the jail.

Attending before any otlicer with a prisoner, for the purpose of having
him surrendered in exoneration of his bail, or attending to receive a prisoner so surrendered, who was not committed at the time, and receiving
such prisoner into his custody, in either case, one dollar.

Attending a view when ordered by the court, one dollar and twenty-five
cents per day, including the time occupied in going and returning.

Serving an attachment upon any ship, boat, or vessel in proceedings to
enforce any lien thereon created by law, one dollar, with such additional
compensation for his trouble and expenses in taking possession of and preserving the same, as the otlicer issuing the warrant shall certify to be
reasonable.

For making and returning an inventory, and appraisal of property attached in any case, one dollar per day each to the appraisers, for each day
actually employed, and fifty cents for each half day; and for drafting the

inventory, twenty-five cents for each folio; and for copying the same, six ,

cents for each folio.
For selling any ship, boat or vessel, or the tackle, apparel and furniture

thereof so attached, and for advertising such sale, the same fees as for sales
on execution.

For giving notice of any general or special election to the inspectors of
the different townships and wards in the county, twenty-five cents, for each
copy of notice, and ten cents per mile traveling one way, and expenses of
publishing such notice as required by law; such fees and expenses to be
paid by the county, as other contingent expenses thereof.

For any services which may be rendered by a constable the same fees
as are allowed by law for such services to a constable.

For attending the supreme court, one dollar and fifty cents each day, to
be allowed by the auditor, on the certificate of the clerk, and paid out of
the territorial treasury.

For summoning grand or petit jurors, to attend the district court, lifty
cents per each juror summoned.

Serving a subpoena for witnesses, tifty cents for each witness summoned,
and ten cents for each mile actually traveled in going only; but when two
or more witnesses live in the same direction, traveling fee shall be charged
only from the farthest. _

Keeping and providing for a debtor in jail, in all cases where the debtor
is unable to support himself, fifty cents for each day.

For mileage on every execution, five cents per mile for going only, to
be computed from the court house of his county.

For selling lands on the foreclosure of a mortgage by advertisement and
executing a deed to the purchaser, and for all services required on such
sale, three dollars.

SEC. 9. For all services rendered by them, the same fees as are
herein allowed to sheriffs for similar service.
For confining a sheriff in any house on civil process, fifty cents for each

day, to be paid by such sheriff before he shall be entitled to be discharged
‘from such confinement, unless otherwise ordered by the court.

SEC. 10. Constables may be allowed to receive the following
ees:

For serving a warrant or other writ, not herein provided for, on each
person named therein, twenty-five cents.

For a copy of every summons delivered on request, or left at the place
of residence of defendant, fifteen cents.

For serving a subpoena or summons, on each party or name therein,
fifteen cents.

For serving an attachment, fifty cents.

For each copy of an attachment, fifteen cents. For each copy of inventory of property seized on attachment, fifteen
cents.

For issuing summons on gamishee, fifty cents.

For copy of any affidavit or other paper not otherwise enumerated, per
folio, ten cents '

For posting up each notice, tifteen cents.

For each mile actually traveled to serve any process, to give or post up
notice, ten cents.

Committing to prison, fifty cents.

For summoning a jury, one dollar.

For writing a list of jurors, fifteen cents.

For attending on a jury, fifty cents.

On all sums made on execution and paid over, charged upon the defendant, five per cent. '

For notifying a plaintiff of a service of warrant, or summons, or attachment, returnable in three days, twelve cents.

For serving every writ of replevin, fifty cents.

For summoning and swearing appraisers, and taking appraisement, titty
cents.

For taking and approving security in any case, twenty-five cents.

SEC. 11. When the services mentioned in the last section are
performed by any other person, the same fees shall be allowed as constables are entitled to receive, and no more.

SEC. 12. For drawing and copy of protest of the non-payment
of a promissory note, or bill of exchange, met‘ the non-acceptance of such
bill, one dollar, in the cases where by law, such protest is necessary, but
in no other case.

For drawing, and a copy of every other protest, fifty cents.

For drawing, copy, and serving every notice of non-payment of note
or non-acceptance of a bill, fifty cents.

For drawing any afiidavit or other paper or proceeding, for which provision is not herein made, twenty cents for each folio, and copying the
same, six cents for each folio.

For taking the acknowledgment of deeds, and for other services authorized by law, the same fees as are allowed to other oflicers for similar

services.

SEC. 13. Justices of the peace may be allowed to receive the
following fees. and may tax the same in all cases where applicable:

For a summons, warrant, or subpoena, twenty five cents.

For a venire for a jury, twenty-five cents.

For a warrant in a criminal case, twenty-five cents.

For taking a recognizance of bail, twenty-five cents.

For administering an oath, fifteen cents.

For certifying the same when administered out of court, fifteen cents.

For a writ of attachment, twenty-five cents.

For entering a judgment, twenty-five cents.

For every adjournment, fifteen cents.

For every bond, recognizance, or security directed by law to be taken
and approved by the justice, twenty-five cents.

For swearing a jury, twenty—five cents.

For taking an examination, deposition, or confession, per folio, fifteen
cents.

For copy of proceedings, or of any paper or examination, in any case
when demanded, per folio, fifteen cents.

For entering a satisfaction of judgment, twenty-five cents.

For entering amicable suit without process, twenty-five cents.

For a transcript of judgment, twenty-five cents.

For opening a judgment for rehearing, twenty-five cents.

For filing every paper required to be filed, five cents.

For issuing notice to take deposition, twenty-live cents.

For taking recognizance, certifying oath, or aflidavit, and  return
to an appeal, including travel, one dollar.

For making return to writ of certiorari, per folio, fifteen cents.

For a search warrant, twenty-five cents.

For every atlidavit, or other paper drawn by the justice, for which no
other allowance is made by law, per folio, fifteen cents.

For a commitment to jail, twenty-five cents. a
' For an order to bring up prisoner, twenty-five cents.

For an order to discharge prisoner, issued to jailor, twenty-five cents.

For discharging a prisoner after a hearing, on motion to discharge,
fifteen cents.

For an execution, twenty-five cents.

For every other writ, not herein enumerated, twenty-five cents.

For taxing costs, fifteen cents.

For marrying and making return thereof, one dollar and titty cents, and
such other sum as may be allowed by the party making the application.

For holding an inquisition, in cases of forcible entry and detainer, in
addition to other fees, one dollar.

For taking and certifying the acknowledgment of a deed, for each
grantor named therein, twenty-live cents.

For traveling to perform any duty, when not otherwise provided for,
and such travel is necessary, going, per mile, ten cents.

SEC. 14. In all civil actions, unless otherwise provided, the .

party in whose favor judgment is given, shall recover costs, and the justices’ courts may give or refuse costs on all motions, at their discretion,
unless otherwise directed.

SEC. 15. At the time of entering a judgment for costs, in any
case, the justice may proceed to tax the costs in such case, and no notice
of such taxing need be given to the party against whom judgment is rendered. - .

SEC. 16. The ‘justice shall allow no fees for the travel of witnesses unless the same be proved on the oath of some person qualified to
testify in the cause.

SEC. 17. No fees shall be allowed for travel in serving a
subpoena, unless the same be charged by a constable, or sheriff, or be
proved by the oath of the person who served the same.

SEC. 18. The attendance of only two witnesses to each particular fact before a justice of the peace, shall be taxed in the bill of
costs.

SEC. 19. No fees for copies,,or exemplitications of documents
or papers, or for depositions, shall be allowed, unless such copies of depositions were used upon the trial. ~

SEC. 20. No allowance for disbursements, except to otlicers,
shall be allowed, unless the items are particularly specified, and proved to
the justice, and the same were, in the opinion of the justice, necessary
and reasonable in amount.

SEC. 21. The justice shall hear any evidence which may be

offered to him, to prove that any charge is unreasonable, or that the ser- '
vice has not been rendered. P

SEC. 22. The return of a sheriff or constable, to any writ, I
shall be deemed prima facie evidence, that such return is correct, and that t’
the service has been rendered, or disbursement made.

SEC. 23. The justice shall have power, when he shall deem J
it necessary, to command any constable to attend at the trial of the cause, g
and shall make an entry thereof in his docket, and may tax in the bill of

costs fifty cents for each half day such constable shall so attend by his I
command.

SEC. 24. For entering and recording any deed or other in- 1

strument, twelve and a half cents for each folio, to be paid when the same
, is left for record.

For every certificate, twenty-five cents.

For copies of any records or papers, when required, seven cents for
each folio. '

For recording any deed or other paper, in any other than the English
language, twenty cents for each folio. ‘

For every entry of a discharge of a mortgage, in the margin of the
record, ten cents.

For tiling every other paper, and making an entry thereof, when necessary, six cents.

Searching for every such paper, on request, three cents for every paper
examined.

For searching the record, ten cents.


SEC. 25. All appraisers of estates of deceased persons, appraisers of property taken on writ of attachment or replevin, persons appointed under a legal process, or order for assigning dower, or making
partition of real estate, sheriffs’ aids in criminal cases, and all other private
persons performing any other like service required by law, or in the execution of legal process, where no express provision is made for compensation
therefor, shall be entitled to one dollar for each day, and fifty cents for each

half day, for their services, and four cents a mile for travel in going and
returning.


SEC. 26. Each
grand and petit juror, except talesmen, shall be entitled to one dollar and
fifty cents for each day’s attendance upon any district court, and six cents
for each mile traveled in going and returning by the most usual route, to
be paid out of the treasury of the county, by the treasurer thereof, on the
certificate of the clerk of the court.

Each talesman summoned and acting as a juror in a court of record,
shall be entitled to fifty cents for his services in each cause, to be paid in
the same manner herein provided for the payment of grand jurors.

Each juror sworn in any action in a justice’s court, or before any sheriff,
on any writ of inquiry, shall be entitled to fifty cents, to be paid in the
first instance by the party requiring such jury.

Each juror sworn before any coroner, on any inquest taken by him, shall .

be entitled to one dollar for each day's attendance on such inquest.

Provided, however, that no juror shall receive any per diem, or allowance for travel, by virtue of this statute, for any such attendance, or for any
travel for which he shall draw pay from the United States, and all certificates issued by the clerk of the district court, for the services of jurors,
shall, before being paid by the treasurer of the wunty, be presented to
the board of county commissioners of the county, and audited by them,
and countersigned by the chairman of said board, and it is hereby made
the duty of the clerks of the boards of county commissioners to keep a
record of all certiiicates presented, which record shall show the time of such
presentation, the name of the party presenting the same, and the amount
thereof‘.

SEC. 27. The fees of witnesses and jurors in the probate
courts shall be the same as allowed by law to jurors and witnesses in the

district courts. '

SEC. 28. The fees of sheriffs and constables, for services '

rendered in probate courts, and for the service of process therefrom, shall
be such as are allowed by law to constables for similar services in civil
proceedings before justices of the peace, and where no fees for such services are provided for by law, they shall be entitled to such fees as are
allowed to sheriffs for similar services in the district court.

SEC. 29. For publishing notices of any application of an
insolvent, for six weeks, and furnishing evidence of such publication, one
dollar and sixty-seven cents; if published ten weeks, two dollars.

SEC. 30. Such notice may be published in the following
manner:

1. A general heading, stating whether such notices are for the purpose
of being discharged from debt, or for the purpose of having the person
exonerated from imprisonment, shall be pretixed to each class of applicants; next, the name of the applicant; next, the date of the first publication of such notice; next, the name of the oiiicer before whom the
creditors are required to appear; next, the place appointed for such
appearance ; next, the time for such appearance. And every such application shall be deemed as valid as if such notice had been published a
length. _ , '
SEC. 31. For ublishing any other notice, or any order,
citation, summons, or any other? proceeding or advertisement, required by
law to be published in any newspaper, not more than forty cents per folio,
for the iirst insertion, and twenty-five cents per folio for each insertion
after the first.

SEC. 32. When notice of any sale by virtue of a mortgage, shall be published in other than the county in which the premises
are situated, a copy of such notice shall be served, at least four weeks
before the time of such sale, on the person in possession of the mortgaged
premises, in all cases where the same are occupied; and where they are
not occupied, and the mortgagor, his heirs, or personal representatives, shall
reside in the county where such premises lie, then upon such mortgagor,
his heirs, or personal representatives, as the case may be; proof of the
service of such notice may be made, certified and recorded in the same
manner and with the like effect, as proof of the publication of a notice-of
sale under a mortgage.

SEC. 33. Every ofiicer, whose fees are hereinbefore ascertained, limited, and appointed, shall publish and set up in his oflice, fair
tables of his fees according to this chapter, within six months after the

passage thereof, in some conspicuous place, for the inspection of all persons who have business in such oflice, upon pain of forfeiting for each day
the same shall not be put up through such oflicer’s neglect, a sum not
exceeding two dollars, which may be recovered by a civil action, in the
name of any person, before any justice of the peace of the same county.

SEC. 34. The allowance of any fees by this chapter, shall
not apply to any case where special provision is otherwise made by law
for any particular service, but the fees for such service shall be such as are
provided in the statute requiring the service, or providing the compensation
therefor.

SEC. 35. The term “folio,” when used as a measure for
computipg fees or compensation, shall be construed to mean one hundred
words, counting every figure necessarily used, as a word; and any portion
of a folio, when in the whole draft or paper there shall not be a complete
folio, and when there shall be any excess over the last folio, shall be computed as a folio.

SEC. 36. No judge, justice, sheriff, or other officer whatever, or other person to whom any fees or compensation shall be allowed
by law for any service, shall take or receive any other greater fee or
reward for such service but such as is or shall be allowed by the laws of
this territory. 

SEC. 37. No fee or compensation allowed by law shall
he demanded or received by any otlicer or person, for any service unless
such service was actually rendered by him, except in the case of prospective costs hereinaiier specified ; but this section shall not prevent any
otlicer from demanding any fee herein allowed for any service of which he
is entitled by law_ to require the payment, previous to rendering such
service.

SEC. 38. A violation of either of the last two sections
shall be deemed a misdemeanor; and the person guilty thereof shall be
liable to the party aggrieved for treble the damages sustained by him.

SEC. 39. No fees shall be taxed for services as having been
rendered by any attorney, solicitor, clerk, sheriff, or other ofiicer, in the
progress of a cause, unless such service was actually rendered, except
when otherwise expressly provided.

SEC. 40. Prospective costs may be charged and taxed for
filing decree, and for one execution.

SEC. 41. Whenever any allowapce is made for drafting any
process, pleading, or proceeding, it shall be made for only one draft of the
same, although several may have been issued and used.

SEC. 42. No record, writ, return, pleading, instrument, or
other writing copied into any proceeding, entry, process, or suggestion,
shall be computed as any part of the draft of such proceeding, entry, process, or suggestion.

SEC. 43. The legal fees paid for certified copies of the
depositions of witnesses, filed in any clerk's office, and of any documents
or papers recorded or filed in any public ofiice, necessarily used on the
trial of a cause, or on the assessment of damages, shall be allowed in the
taxation of costs.

SEC. 44. No attorney, solicitor, or counsel, in any cause, shall
be allowed any fee for attending as a witness in such cause.

SEC. 45. Every otiicer, upon receiving any fees for any
otiicial duty or service, shall, if required by the person paying the same,
make out in writing and deliver to such person, a particular account of
such fees, specifying for what they respectively accrued, and shall receipt

the same; and if he refiise or neglect to do so, he shall be liable to the
party paying the same for three times the amount so paid.

SEC. 46. No fee shall be charged by any oflicer for administering the oath of otlice to any member of the legislature, to any military
oilicer, or to any township oflicer, and no more than twelve cents shall be
charged for administering such oath to any other officer.

SEC. 47. When a fee is allowed to one ofiicer, the same
fees shall be allowed to other ofiicers for the performance of the same
services, when such oflicers are by law authorized to perform such services.

SEC. 48. When any person shall attend a court of record
as a witness in behalf of the United States, upon the request of the public prosecutor, or upon a subpoena, or by virtue of a recognizance for that
purpose, and it shall appear that such person has come from any other
state or territory of the United States, or from any foreign country, or
that such person is poor, the court may, by order, on its minutes, direct
the county treasurer, of the county in which the court shall be setting, to
pay to such witness such sum of money as shall seem reasonable for his
expenses.

SEC. 49. When any prosecution, instituted in the name of this

* territory, for breaking any law of this territory, shall fail, or when the
defendant shall prove insolvent or escape, or be unable to pay the fees when
convicted, the fees shall be paid out of the county treasury, unless otherwise ordered by the court: provided, that no fees shall be paid out of the
county treasury for mileage to the district attorney.

SEC. 50. The attorney general and district attorney in each
county is authorized to issue subpoenas, and compel the attendance of witnesses, on behalf of the territory or county, without paying or tendering
fees in advance; and any witness failing or neglecting to attend, after
being served with a subpoena, may be proceeded against, and shall be liable
in the same manner as provided by law in other cases where fees have
been paid or tendered.

SEC. 51. The clerk of any court, at which any witness shall

" have attended on behalf of the United States, in a civil action, shall give
to such witness a certificate of travel and attendance, which shall entitle
him to receive the amount from the treasurer of the county where the
suit arises.

SEC. 52. The provisions of the next two preceding sections of

5 this chapter, shall extend to all suits and information brought in the name

of the attorney general, or aiiy other person or persons, for the «benefit of
the county where the suit arises.

SEC. 1. An action may be brought by any person  posses‘gion, by himself or his tenant of real property, against any person who
claims an estate or interest therein, adverse to him, for the purpose of
determining such adverse claim, estate or interest.

SEC. 2. If the defendant in such action, disclaim in his answer,
any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken
against him without answer, the plaintiff cannot recover costs.

SEC. 3. In an action for the recovery of dower, before
admeasurement, or by a tenant in common, or joint tenant of real property,
against a co-tenant, the plaintiff must show, in addition to the evidence of his
right, that the defendant either denied the plaintiffs right, or did some act
amounting to such denial.

SEC. 4. In an action for the recovery of specific real or personal
property, when the plaintiff shows a right to recover, at the time the action
was commenced, but it appears that such right has terminated during the
pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment must be according to the
fact, and the plaintiff may recover damages for withholding the property.

SEC. 5. Any person against whom a judgment for the recovery
of specific real property is rendered, may within six months after written
notice of the judgment, upon the payment of all costs and damages recovered thereby, demand another trial, by notice in writing to the adverse
party, or to his attorney in the action, and thereupon the action may be
brought to trial by either party.

SEC. 6. If on a second trial, as provided in the last section,
judgment be to the same effect as on the first, no further trial can be had,
unless the court in its discretion, on’ motion by the party, as to whom the
judgment last rendered is less favorable than the first, order a third trial.

SEC. 7. The judgment given on a trial to be had under the last
two sections, must be annexed to the judgment roll of the former trial, and
the judgment last given shall be the final determination of the rights of
the parties. If a prior judgment shall have been executed, restitution
must be ordered as the last judgment may determine the rights of the
parties, and the same may be enforced by execution.

SEC. 8. Damages for withholding the property recovered, can‘
in no case exceed the fair value of the property, exclusive of the use of
improvements, made by the defendant for a period not exceeding six
years; and when permanent improvements have been made by a defendant or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title adversely
to the claims of the plaintiff, in good faith, the value thereof must be
allowed as a set-off against the damages of the plaintiff for the use of the
property.

SEC. 9. The court in which an action is pending for the
recovery of real property, may on motion, upon notice by either party, and
for cause shown, grant an order allowing to such party the right to enter
upon the property and make survey and measurement thereof for the
purpose of the action.

SEC. 10. The order must describe the property, and a copy
thereof must be served on the owner or occupant, and thereupon such
party may enter upon the property with necessary ‘surveyors and assistants, and make such survey and measurement, but if any unnecessary
injury he done to the property, he is liable therefor.

SEC. 11. A mortgage of real property is not to be deemed a
conveyance, so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to recoveripossession of the real property without a foreclosure.

SEC. 12. When real property shall have been sold on execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his
interest, may after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury
to the property by the tenant in possession, after the sale, and before
possession is delivered under the conveyance.

SEC. 13. An action for the recovery of real property, against
a person in possession or in receipt of the rents and profits thereof, cannot
be prejudiced by an alienation made by such person, either before or after
the commencement of the action, but in such case if the defendant have
no property suiiicient to satisfy the damages recovered for the withholding
of possession, such damages may be collected by action against the
purchaser. .

SEC. 14. When in case of a lease of real property, and the
failure of the tenant to pay rent, the landlord has a substituting right to
re-enter for such failure, he may bring an action to recover possession of
the property, and such action is equivalent to a demand of the rent and a
re-entry upon the property ; ‘but if at any time before the expiration of
six months after possession obtained by the plaintiff on recovery in the
action, the lessee or his successor in interest, as to the whole or part of the
property, pay to the plaintiff, or bring int.o court the amount of rent then
in arrear, with interest and the costs of the action, and perform the other
covenants on the part of the lessee, he may be restored to the possession,
and hold the property according to the terms of the original lease.

SEC. 15. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent,
or offensive to the senses, or an obtrusion to the free use of property, so
as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a
nuisance, and the subject of an action ; such action may be brought by any
person whose property is injuriously aifected, or whose personal enjoyment
is lessened by the nuisance, and by the judgment, the nuisance may be
enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.

SEC. 16. If a guardian, tenant by the curtesy in dower,
for life or years, joint tenant, or tenant in common of real property, commit waste thereon, any person injured by the waste may bring an action
against him therefor, in which action there may be judgment for treble
damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party o&'ending, and eviction from
the property.

SEC. 17. Judgment of forfeiture and eviction, can only be
given in favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the tenant in
possession, when the injury to the estate in reversion is adjudged in the
action to be equal to the value of the tenant's estate or unexpired term, or
to have been done in malice.

SEC. 18. Every person who cuts down or carries off any
wood or underwood, tree, or timber, or girdles, or otherwise injures any
tree, timber, or shrub, on the land of another person, or in the street or
highway in front of any person’s house, village or city lot, or cultivated
grounds, or on the commons, or public grounds of any city or town, or on
the street or highway in front thereof, without lawful authority, is liable to
the owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the amount of
damages which may be assessed therefor, in a civil action in any court
having jurisdiction, except as provided in the next section.

SEC. 19. If upon trial of such action it appears that the trespass was casual or involuntary, or that the defendant had probable cause
to believe that the land on which the trespass was committed was his own,
or that of the person in whose service, or by whose direction the act was
done, judgment must be given for only the single damages assessed in the
action.

SEC. 20. Nothing in the last two sections authorizes the recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken from uncultivated
wood land for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon the land, or
adjoining it. .

SEC. 21. If a person be put out of real property in a forcible
manner without lawful authority, or being so put out, be afterwards kept
out by force, recover damages therefor, judgment may be entered for three
times the amount at which the actual damages are assessed.

SEC. 22. In case of forcible entry or forcible detention, if a
person claiming in good faith under color of title to be rightfully in pospession so put out, or kept out, recover damages therefor, judgment may
be entered in his favor for three times the amount at which the actual
damages are assessed.

SEC. 1. When several persons hold and are in possession of real

' property as joint tenants, or as tenants in common, in which one or more

of them have an estate of inheritance, or for life or years, an action may
be brought by one or more of such persons in the district court of the
proper county, for a partition thereof according to the respective rights of
the persons interested therein, and for a sale of such property, or a part of
it, if it appear that a partition cannot "be made without great prejudice to
the owners. '

SEC. 2. The summons must be addressed by name to all the
joint tenants, or in common who are known, and generally to all persons

unknown having or claiming an interest in the property.
SEC. 3. The interest of all persons in the property whether

' such persons be known or unknown, must be set forth in the complaint

specifically and particularly as far as known to the plaintiff, and if any one
or more of the part.ies or the share or quantity of interest of any of the
parties be unknown to the plaintiff or be uncertain or contingent, or the
ownership of the inheritance, depend upon executory devise or the remainder be a contingent remainder so that such parties cannot be named, that
fact must be set forth in the complaint. _

SEC. 4. The plaintiff may at hisoption make creditors, having
specified or general lien upon the property, or upon any particular portion
thereof parties to the action.

SEC. 5. When the lien is on an undivided interest or estate of _

any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, is thenceforth a
charge only on the share assigned to such party, but such share must be

first charged with its nrst proportion of the costs of the partition in preference to such lien.

SEC. 6. If a party having a share or interest be unknown, or 1:.
either of the known parties reside out of the territory, or cannot be found °"'
therein, and such fact be made to appear by atiidavit, the summons may
be served on such absent or unknown party by publication, directed by
the court or judge in the manner hereinbefore prescribed. When the
publication is made, the summons as published must be accompanied
by a brief description of the property which is the subject of the action.

SEC. 7. The rights of the several parties, plaintiffs as well as m
defendants, may be put in issue tried and determined by such action. And E
where a defendant fails to answer, or where a sale of the premises is necessary, the title must be ascertained by proof, to the satisfaction of the court,
before the judgment for partition or sale is given.

SEC. 8. If it be alleged in the complaint and established by 0
evidence to the satisfaction of the court that the property or any part of it 3'
is so situated that partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the
owners, the court may order a sale thereof, and for that purpose may
appoint one or more referees; otherwise upon the requisite proofs being
made, it must order a partition according to the respective rights of the
parties as ascertained by the court, and appoint three referees thereof, and

must designate the portion to remain undivided for the owners whose
interests remain unknown or not ascertained.

SEC. 9. In making the partition, the referees must divide the L
property, and allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties, 
quality and quantity relatively considered, according to the respective
rights of the parties, as determined by the court, designating the several

‘portions by proper land marks, and may employ a surveyor, with the

necessary assistant, to aid them therein.
SEC. 10. The referees must make report of their proceedings 1

specifying the manner of executing their trust, describing the property '
divided and the shares allotted to each party, with a particular description
of each share.

SEC. 11. The court may confirm or set aside the report, and if ‘

necessary appoint new referees; upon the report being confirmed, judg- ]
ment must be rendered that such partition be effectual forever, which *
judgment is binding and conclusive:

1. On all the parties named therein and their legal representatives
who have at the time any interest in the property divided as owners in
fee, or as tenants for years, or as entitled to the reversion, remainder, or
inheritance of such property, after the determination of a particular estate
therein, or who by any contingency may be entitled to a beneficial interest
in the property, or who have an interest in an individual share thereof, as
tenants for years, for life, by the curtesy, or. in dower; ,

2. On all persons interested in the property who may be known, to
whom notice shall have been given of the application for partition, by the
publication directed by section six; and,

3. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons or either
of them.

SEC. 12. But such judgment and partition cannot affect tenants or persons having claims as tenants in dower, by the curtesy, or for

life, to the whole of the property which is the subject of the partition; nor
can such judgment and partition preclude any person except such as are
specified in the last section, from claiming title to the property in question,
or from controverting the title of the parties between whom the partition
is made. ‘

SEC. 13. The expenses of the referees, including those of a
surveyor and his assistants, when employed, must be ascertained and
allowed by the court, and the amount thereof, together with the fees
allowed by law to the referees must be paid by the plaintiff, and may be
allowed as part of the charges.

SEC. 14. If the referees report to the court that the property
of which partition shall have been directed, or any distinct portion thereof
is so situated that a partition thereon cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners, and the court is satisfied that such report is correct, it
may thereupon by an order direct the referees to sell the property or portions so situated.
SEC. 15. When a part of the property only is ordered to be

sold, it there be an estate by the curtesy, in dower, or for life, or years, in

an undivided share of the property, the whole of such ‘estate may be set
off in any part of the property not ordered to be sold.

SEC. 16. Before the making of an order for sale, where the
creditors having specified liens have not been made parties, the court on
the motion of either party, must direct the plaintiff to amend his complaint
if necessary, by making every person, having a specified lien on the undivided interest or estate of any of the parties, by mortgage, devise, or otherwise, a party to the action.

SEC. 17. The plaintiff must produce to the court the certificate of the clerk of the district court, where the property is situated, showing whether there are any general liens by judgment upon the property or

any part thereof.
SEC. 18. Unless it be made to appear to the court by the

certificate of the clerk, pursuant to the last section, that there are outstanding no general liens on the property, or on any share or parcel_

thereof, the court must order a reference to ascertain them.
SEC. 19. If it appears by the certificate that there are outi standing of record such general liens, the court must appoint a referee to

ascertain whether such liens have been paid, or, if not paid, what amount
remains due, or secured by them respectively, and the order of priority in

which they are entitled to be paid out of the property.
SEC. 20. The plaintiff must cause a notice to be served at

least ten days before the time for appearances, on each person having such
general liens to appear before the referee at a specified time and place, to
make proof by his own afiidavit or otherwise of the true amount due or to
become due, contingently or absolutely, on his judgment.

SEC. 21. The referee must receive the evidence and report
the names of the creditors whose liens are established, the amounts thereof
and their priority, respectively, and if such liens are contingent he must
specify them. He must attach to his report the proof of service of the
notices, and the atiidavits and copies of other evidence before him.

SEC. 22. Any creditor having a lien, and being dissatisfied
with the report of the referee, may move the court to correct it at any
time before distribution of the proceeds of sale, on ten days’ notice to the
plaintiff, and the other persons in whose favor liens are reported, and
thereupon the court may correct the report on the evidence reported, or if
necessary may order a new reference of the whole or of any part of the
matter. When confirmed, the report is conclusive of the rights of the

several creditors on whom notice was served.
SEC. 23. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered

property must be applied, under the direction of the court, as follows:
1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action;
2. ‘To pay the costs of the reference;

3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens, in their order of
priority, by payment of the sums due, and to become due, the amount
remaining due to be verified by aliidavit at the time of payment;

4. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according to
their respective shares.

SEC. 24. The proceedings, to ascertain the amount of :
incumbrances, and to determine their priority, as above provided, or those 1
herein authorized to determine the rights of parties to funds paid into
court, must not delay the sale nor affect any other party whose rights are
not involved in such proceedings.

SEC. 25. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by 1
the referees on any part thereof, may be distributed by them to the per— 1
sons entitled thereto whenever the court so directs; but in case no direction be given, all such proceeds and securities must be paid into court, or
be deposited as required by law, or directed by the court.

SEC. 26. \Vhen the proceeds of sales of any shares or J
parcels, belonging to persons who have become parties to the action, and ‘
who are known, are paid into court, the action may be continued as
between such parties, for the determination of their respective claims
thereto, which must be ascertained and adjudged by the court; further
testimony may be taken in court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the
court, and the court may if necessary, require such parties to present the
facts or law in controversy, by pleadings as in an original action.

SEC. 27. All sales of real property made by referees .
under this chapter, must be made by public auction to the highest bidder, '
upon notice published in the manner required for the sale of real property
on execution; the notice must state the terms of the sale, and if the

_ property, or any part of it is to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge, or

specific lien, that must be stated in the notice.

SEC. 2. The court must in the order for sale, direct the 1
terms for credit which may be allowed for the purchase money, of any ,
portion of the premises, of which it may direct a sale on credit, and for
that portion of which the purchase money is required by the provisions
hereinafter contained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners,
infants, parties out of the territory, or tenants in dower, or by the curtesy, or for life, or years, when the estate of such tenants is ordered to
be sold.

SEC. 29. The referees may take separate mortgages, and
other securities for the whole, or convenient portions of the purchase
money, on such parts of the property, as are directed by the court to be
sold on credit, in the name of the clerk of the district court, and his successor
in oflice, and for the shares of any known owner of full age, in the name
of such owner.

SEC. 30. When the estate of a tenant in dower, or by the
curtesy, or for life, or years, in the whole or any part of the property in
question, has been admitted by the parties, or ascertained by the court to
be existing at the time of the order for sale, and the person entitled to
such estate has been made a party to the action, such estate may be first
set off out of any part of the property, and a sale made of such parcel,
subject to the prior unsold estate of such tenant therein; but if in the
judgment of the court, a due regard to the interest of all the parties
requires that such estate be also sold, the sale may be so ordered.

SEC. 31. If a sale of the property including such estate be
ordered, the estate and interest of every such tenant or person passes
thereby; and the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, shall hold the pro erty,
discharged from all claims, by virtue of such estate or interest, wli)ether

the same be to the individual share of a joint tenant, or tenant in common,
or to the whole, or any part of the property sold.

SEC. 32. The persons entitled to such estate, in dower,
tenancy by curtesy, or tenancy for life or years, whose estate shall have
been sold, are entitled to receive such sum in gross as may be deemed upon
principles of law applicable to annuities, a reasonable satisfaction for such
estate, and which the person so entitled may consent to accept instead
thereof, by an instrument under seal duly acknowledged or proved, in
same manner as deeds for the purpose of record.

SEC. 33. If such consent be not given at or before the
report of sale, the court must ascertain and determine what proportion of
the proceeds of the sale, deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable
sum to be invested for the benefit of the person entitled to such estate in
dower, by the curtcsy, or for life, and must order the same to be deposited
in court for that purpose.

SEC. 34. The proportions of the proceeds of the sale to
be invested, must be ascertained and determined in the several cases, as
follows :

1. If an estate in dower be included in the order of sale, its proportions must be one-third of the proceeds of the sale of the property, or of
the sale of the individual share in such property, upon which the claim
of dower existed;

2. If an estate by the curtesy, or other estate for life, or yeais, be
included in the order of sale, its proportion must be the whole proceeds of
the sale of the property, or of the sale of the individual share thereof in
which such estate may be.

Andin all cases the proportion of the expenseso f proceedings must be
deducted from the proceeds of the sale.

SEC. 35. If the persons entitled to such estate in dower,
by the curtesy, or for life, or years, be unknown, the court must provide for
the protection of their rights, in the same manner, as far as may be, as if
they were known and had appeared.

SEC. 36. In all cases of sales in partition, when it appears

' that a married woman has an inchoate right of dower in any of the property divided or sold, or that any person has a vested or contingent future
right or estate therein, the court must ascertain and settle the proportional
value of such inchoate, contingent or vested right or estate, according to
the principles of law applicable to annuities and survivorships, and must
direct such proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured or paid over in such manner as to protect the rights and interests
of. the parties.

SEC. 37. A married woman may release such right,
interest, or estate to her husband, and acknowledge the same in the manner required by law, in respect to the acknowledgment of deeds by married women, before any otlicer authorized to take’ acknowledgment of
deeds, or if executed out of this territory, before any oflicer residing in
the state, territory, district, or county, where the acknowledgment is made,
who is authorized to take the acknowledgment of deeds, to be recorded
in this territory. Upon the release, the share of the proceeds of the sale
arising from her contingent interest, must be paid to her husband, and the
release, or the payment, investment, or otherwise securing of a share of
the proceeds of a sale, shall be a bar against such right, estate, or claim.

SEC. 38. The terms of the sale must be made known
at the time; and if the premises consist of distinct farms or lots, they must
be sold separately.

SEC. 39. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the

- benefit of either of them, can be interested in the purchase, nor can 8

guardian of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any real
property, being the subject of the action, except for the benefit of the
infant. All sales contrary to the provisions of this section are void.

SEC. 40. After completing the sale, the referees must report i
the same to the court, with a description of the different parcels of land, ‘
sold to each purchaser, the name of the purchaser, the price paid or secured, the terms and conditions of the sale, and the securities if any taken;
the report must be tiled in the office of the clerk of the district court of
the county where the property is situated.

SEC. 41. If the sale be confirmed by the court an order must
be entered, directing the referees to execute conveyances and take securities pursuant to such sale, which they are hereby authorized to do; such
order may also give directions to them respecting the disposition of the
proceeds of the sale.

SEC. 42. When a party, entitled to a share of the property,
or an incumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes
a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds
of the sale as belongs to him, and must also pay over to the plaintiff or
his attorney, and take his receipt for the costs and charges of the action.

SEC. 43. The conveyance must be recorded in the county
where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons interested in the property in any way, who shall have been named as parties
in the action, and against all such parties and persons as were unknown,
if the summons have been served as is directed by section six, and against
all persons claiming from them or either of them.

SEC. 44. The conveyances shall also be a bar against all
persons having specified or general liens or incumbrances, by judgment, on
any undivided share or interest in the premises sold, who shall have been
served with notice, as prescribed by section twenty, and also against all
persons having specific liens of any undivided share or interest therein,
who shall have been made parties to the action; but no creditor having
such specific lien can be affected by the sale or conveyance, unless he has
been made a party.

SEC. 45. When there are proceeds of sale belonging to an
unknown owner, or to a person without the territory, who has no legal
representative within it, or when there are proceeds arising from the sale
of an estate subject to the prior estate of a tenant in dower, or by the
curtesy, or tenant for life, or years, which are paid into court, or deposited
with an ofiicer, by order of the court, the same must be invested in securities on interest for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.

SEC. 46. When security for the proceeds of sale is taken,
or when an investment of any such proceeds is made, it must be done,
except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the clerk of the district court of the county where the papers are liled, and his successors in
office, who shall hold the same, for the use and benefit of the parties interested, subject to the order of the court.

SEC. 47. When security is taken by the referees on a sale,
and the parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing
under their hands, delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares and
proportions to which they are respectively entitled, or when such shares
and proportions have been previously adjudged by the court, such securities must be taken in the names of, and payable to the parties respectively
entitled thereto, and must be delivered to such parties upon their receipt
therefor; such agreement and receipt must be returned and filed with the

clerk.
SEC. 48. The clerk in whose name a security is taken, or

by whom an investment is made, and his successors in otlice, must receive
the interest and principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same
as the court may direct; and must file in his office, all securities taken, and
keep an account, in a book provided and kept for that purpose, in the
clerk’s office free for inspection by all persons, of investments and moneys
received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

SEC. 49. When it appears that partition cannot be made
equal between the parties, according to their respective rights, without
prejudice to the rights and interest of some of them, the court ‘may adjudge compensation to be made by one party, to another for equality of
partition; ‘but such compensation cannot be required to be made to others by owners unknown, nor by infants, unless in case of an infant, it appears that he has personal property sufficient for that purpose, and that
his interest will be promoted thereby.

SEC. 50. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the
sale may be paid by the referees making the sale, to his general guardian,
or to the special guardian appointed for him in the action, if such general
or special guardian, before the payment of such share into court shall
have given the security required by statute.

SEC. 51. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and
management of the estate, of an insane person, or other person, adjudged
incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real property

shall have been sold, may receive in behalf of such person, his share of

the proceeds of such real property, from the referees, if the guardian before the money is paid into court, shall have executed with suflicient sureties, an undertaking approved by a judge of the district court, that he will
faithfully discharge the trust reposed in him, and will render a true and
just account to the person entitled, or to his legal representative.

SEC. 52. The general guardian of an infant, and the guardian
entitled to the custody and [management] of the estate of an insane person,
or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is
entitled to real estate, held in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other
manner, to authorize his being made party to an action for the partition
thereof, may consent to a partition, without action and agree upon the
share tp be set off to such infant, or other person entitled, and may execute a release in his behalf to the owners of the shares of the parts to
which they may be respectively entitled, upon an order from the court.

SEC. 53. The territory may be made a party to an action for
the sale or partition of real property, in which case, the summons and
complaint must be served upon the attorney general, who must appear on
behalf of the territory.

SEC. 54. The costs of partition, including fees of referees, and

a other disbursements, must be paid by the parties respectively entitled to

share, in the lands divided, in proportion to their respective interests therein, and may be included and specified in the judgment; in that case, they
are a lien on the several shares, and the judgment may be enforced by
execution against the parties separately. “There however a litigation arises between some of the parties only, the court may require the expense
of such litigation, to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.

SEC. 1. This chapter embraces all corporations, including in such '
designation, all associations having any corporate rights, whether created j
by special acts of legislation, or under general laws, except that no part
of the chapter, other than the next section, extends to municipal or religious
corporations, or to a corporation for a public library, a cemetry, an academy, or a society for literary or charitable purposes, or for the encouragement of the line arts, unless such corporation has, by its charter, or the
law of its organization, shares, or stock, from which, in some contingencies,
a dividend may be made.

SEC. 2. A foreign corporation, created by the laws of any other
state or country, may prosecute in the courts of this territory, in the same
manner as corporations created under the laws of this territory, upon giving security for the payment of costs of suit, in the same manner that nonresidents are required by law to do.

SEC. 3. A foreign corporation cannot maintain an action in this
territory, upon an obligation or liability arising out of, or in consideration
of an act which is contrary to the law or policy of this territory, or which
is thereby forbidden in respect to corporations or associations therein,
whose general business is similar to that of such foreign corporation.

SEC. 4. When judgment is rendered against a bank or banking
association, for any bill or other contract, for the absolute payment of
money, payment of which has been refused on presentment at the bank or
place of business of the defendant, the plaintiff may recover interest at the
rate of ten per cent. a year, from the time of such refusal, unless in the
act of incorporation, a different rate of interest or measure of damages has

’ been prescribed.

SEC. 5. Actions may be commenced against corporations, in the
same manner as other civil actions, and where service of summons shall
be made according to the statute, the plaintiff may proceed thereupon in
such action, in the same manner as in civil actions against natural persons.

SEC. 6. In actions brought by a corporation, within the laws of
this territory, it shall not be necessary to prove in the trial of the cause,
the existence of the corporations, unless the defendant shall, in his answer,
deny the existence of such corporation.

SEC. 7. In actions by or against corporations, under the laws
of this territory, it shall not be necessary to set forth in the complaint or
answer, the act or acts of incorporation, or the proceedings by which such
corporation was created, or to set forth the substance thereof, but the same
may be proved by reciting the title of such act.

SEC. 1. Upon a bill being filed under the direction of the attorney
general in any district court, such court shall have power to restrain by
injunction, any corporation from assuming or exercising any franchise,
liberty, or privilege, or transacting any business not authorized by the
charter of such corporation, and in the same manner to restrain any individuals from exercising any corporate rights, privileges, or franchises not
granted to them by any law of this territory.

SEC. 2. Such injunction may be issued before the coming in of
the answer, upon satisfactory proof that the defendant complained of, has
usurped, exercised, or claimed any franchise, privilege, liberty, or corporate
right not granted to them, and after the coming in of the answer, such
injunction may be continued, until judgment at law shall have been had.

SEC. 3. The district court shall have jurisdiction over directors,
managers, trustees, and other otiicers of corporations:

1. To compel them to account for their official conduct in the management and disposition of the funds and property committed to their
charge;

2. To decree and compel payment by them, to the corporations whom
they represent, and to its creditors of all sums of money, and of the value
of all property which they may have acquired to themselves, or transferred
to others, or may have lost or wasted by any violation of their duties as
creditors, managers, trustees, or other otlicers;

3. To suspend any such trustee, or other oiiicer from exercising his
oflice whenever it shall appear that he has abused his trust;

4. To remove any such trustee, or officer from his ofliee, upon proof or
conviction of gross misconduct; '

5. To direct, if necessary, new election to be held by the body or board
duly authorized for that purpose, to supply any vacancy created by such
removal;

6. In case there be no such body or board, or all the members of such
board he removed, then to report the same to the governor, who shall be
authorized to fill such vacancies;

7. To set aside all alienations of property made by the trustees, or
other oflicers of any corporation, contrary to the provisions of law, or for
purposes foreign to the lawful business and objects of such corporation, in
cases where the person receiving such alienation knew the purpose for
which the same was made; and

. 8. To restrain and prevent any such alienation, in cases where it may
be threatened, or there may be good reason to apprehend that it is intended
to be made.

SEC. 4. Whenever any visitatorial powers over any corporation, (
are or shall be vested by statute, in any corporate body or public otlicer,
the provisions of the preceding section shall not be construed to direct or
impair the powers so vested.

SEC. 5. The jurisdiction conferred by the third section of this chapter, shall be evidence as in ordinary cases, on bill or petition, as the .
case may require, or as the court may direct, at the instance of the attorney general prosecuting in behalf of this territory, or at the instance of
any director, trustee, or other officer of such corporation, having a general
superintendence of its concerns.

SEC. 6. Whenever a judgment at law, or a decree in chancery !
shall be obtained against any corporation incorporated under the laws of 1
this territory, andan execution issued thereon, shall have been returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, upon the petition of the person obtaining such
judgment or decree, or his representatives, the district court within the
proper county, may sequestrate the stock, property, things in action, and
effects of such corporation, and may appoint a receiver of the same.

SEC. 7. Upon a final decree on any such petition, the court;
shall cause a just and fair distribution of the property of such corporation,
and of the proceeds thereof, to be made among the fair and honest creditors of such corporation, in proportion to their debts respectively, who
shall be paid in the same order as provided in the case of a voluntary dissolution of a corporation.

SEC. 8. Whenever any incorporated company shall have re- :
mained insolvent for one year, or for one year shall have neglected or refused to pay and discharge its notes, or other evidences of debt, or for one
year, shall have suspended the ordinary and lawful business of such corporation, it shall be deemed to have surrendered the rights, privileges, and
franchises, granted by any act of incorporation, or acquired under the laws
of this territory, and shall be adjudged to be dissolved.

SEC. 9. Whenever any corporation having banking powers, or
having the power tomake [loans] on pledges, or deposits, or authorized by
law to make insurances, shall become insolvent, or unable to pay its debts,
or shall neglect or refuse to pay its notes or evidences of debt on demand,
or shall have violated any of the provisions of its act or acts of incorporation, or of any other law, binding on such corporation, any court having
equity jurisdiction, may, by injunction, restrain such corporation and its
officers, from exercising any of its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises, and from collecting or receiving any debts or demands, and from
paying out, or in any way transferring or delivering to any person, any of
the moneys, property, or effects of such corporation, until such court shall
otherwise order.

SEC. 10. Such injunction may be issued on the application of the
attorney general, in behalf of this territory, or on the application of any
creditor or stockholder of such corporation, upon bill, or petition, filed for
that purpose, and upon due proof of any of the facts in the last section
required, to authorize the issuing of the same. Whenever such injunction
shall issue against any bank for any violation of its charter, on the appliU-QC.

cation of any creditor, the court shall proceed to final decree in such case’
and adjudge a forfeiture, if the proof is suilicient, notwithstanding such
creditor may settle with such corporation, and relinquish his claim against
said corporation, and in all such cases, the attorney general, under the direction of the governor, or any creditor, shall have the right to appear and
prosecute such suit; and such suit shall not be discontinued, if either of ,
them so appear and prosecute such suit to final judgment.

SEC. 11. Upon such application being made, in any stage of the
proceedings, thereupon the court may appoint one or more receivers to
take charge of the property and effects of such corporation, and to collect,
sue for, and recover the debts and demands that may bedue, and the property that may belong to such corporation, who shall in all respects be
subject t.o the control of the court.

SEC. 12. Such receivers shall possess all the powers and authority conferred, and be subject to all the obligations and duties imposed upon
receivers appointed in case of the voluntary dissolution of a corporation.

SEC. 13. If such application be made by a creditor of any
corporation, whose directors or stockholders are made liable by law for the
payment of such debt, in any event or contingency, such directors or stockholders or any of them, may be made parties to the bill or petition, either
in the filing thereof or in any subsequent stage of the proceedings, whenever it shall become necessary to enforce such liability.

SEC. 14. If any creditor of a corporation desire to make such
directors or stockholders parties to the suit, after a decree therein against
the corporation, he may do so on filing a supplemental bill against them,
founded upon such decree; and if such decree was rendered in-a proceeding instituted by the attorney general, such creditor may, on his application, be made complainant therein, and may in like manner make the directors and stockholders sought to be charged, defendants in such suit.

SEC. 15. Whenever any creditor of a corporation shall seek to
charge the directors, trustees, or other superintending officers of such corporation, or the stockholders thereof, on account of any liability created
by law, he may tile his bill for that purpose, in any district court which
shall possess jurisdiction to enforce such liability.

SEC. 16. The court shall proceed thereon as in other cases,
and when necessary, shall cause an account to be taken of the property
and debts due to and from such corporation, and shall appoint one or
more receivers, who shall possess all the powers conferred, and be subject
to all the obligations imposed on receivers in case of the voluntary dissolution of a corporation.

SEC. 17. But if on the coming in of the answer, or upon the
taking of any such account, it shall appear that such corporation is insolvent, and that it has no property or effects to satisfy such creditors, the
court may proceed, without appointing any receiver, to ascertain the respective liabilities of such directors and stockholders, and enforce the same
by its decree as in other cases. —

SEC. 18. Upon a final decree being made, upon any such
application to restrain a corporation, or upon any such bill filed against
directors or stockholders, the court shall cause a just and fair distribution
of the property of such corporation, and of the proceeds thereof,’ to be
made among its fair and honest creditors, in the order and in the proportions prescribed in the case of a voluntary dissolution of a corporation.

SEC. 19. In all cases in which the directors or other officers
of a corporation, or the stockholders thereof shall have been made parties
to a suit in which a decree shall be rendered, if the property of such corporation shall be insufficient to discharge its debts, the court shall proceed

to compel each stockholder to pay in the amount due and remaining unpaid
on the shares of stock held by him, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy the debts of the company.

SEC. 20. If the debts of the company shall remain unsatisfied,
the court shall proceed to ascertain the respective liabilities of the directors
or other ofiicers, and of the stockholders, and to decree the amount payable

‘by each, and enforce such decree as in other cases.

SEC. 21. Upon any application to the court having jurisdiction in any of the cases provided in this chapter, such court may compel
such corporation to discover any stock, property, things in action or effects
alleged to belong or to have belonged to it, the transfer and disposition
thereof, and consideration, and all the circumstances of such disposition.

SEC. 22. Every oflicer, agent or stockholder of any corporation, against which proceedings shall be instituted, according to the provisions of this chapter, and every person to whom it shall be alleged that any
transfer of property or effects of such corporation has been made, or in
whose possession or control any such property or effects shall be alleged to
be, may be compelled, in the discretion of the court, to answer a bill tiled
to obtain any discovery in the preceding section specified, notwithstanding
such answer may expose the corporation, of which he is a member, to a
forfeiture of its corporate rights, or any of them.

SEC. 23. The answers of the ofticers or agents of any corporation, shall be evidence against the corporation, in the same manner,
and to the Same extent as if such answers had been given upon an examination of such otlicers or agents, as witnesses in the cause, and such officers
or agents may subsequently be examined as witnesses by either party,
under the order of the court; but no such answer shall be compelled,
unless by special order of the court.

SEC. 24. Neither the answer of any such oflicer or agent,
nor his testimony upon any such subsequent examination, shall be used as
evidence upon an indictment or other criminal prosecution or proceeding
against him.

SEC. 25. Whenever any bill shall be filed, or any application
shall be made against any corporation, its directors or other superintending
officers, or stockholders, according to the provisions of this chapter, the
court may, by injunction on the application of either party, and at any
stage of the proceedings, restrain all proceedings at law, by any creditor
against the defendants in such suit, and whenever it shall appear necessary
or proper, may order notice to be published, in such manner as the court
shall direct, requiring all the creditors of such corporation to exhibit their
claims and become parties to the suit, within a reasonable time, not less
than six months from the first publication of such order, and in default
thereof to be precluded from all benefit of the decree which shall be made
in such suit, and from any distribution which shall be made under such
decree.

SEC. 26. The provisions of this chapter shall not extend to
any incorporated library, or lyceum society, to any religious corporation,
or any incorporated academy, or select school, nor to the proprietors of any
burying ground, incorporated under the laws of this territory.

SEC. 1. A cause of action arising out of an injury to the person,
dies with the person of either party, except. as provided in section three.

SEC. 2. All other causes of action, by one against another,
whether arising on contract or not, survive to the personal representatives
of the former, and against the personal representatives of the latter;
therefore, the executors or administrators, may maintain the action against
the party against whom the cause of action accrued, or after his death,
against his representatives.

SEC. 3. When the death of one is caused by the wrongful act or
omission of another, the personal representatives of the former may maintain an action against the latter, if the former might have maintained an
action, had he lived, against the latter, for an injury caused by the same
act or omission ; but the action must be commenced within two years after
the act or omission, by which the death was caused; the damages thereon
cannot exceed five thousand dollars, and the amount recovered, is to be
for the exclusive benefit of the widow and next of kin, to be distributed to
them in the same proportions, as the personal property of the deceased
person.

SEC. 4. In an action against several executors or administrators,
they are all considered as one person, representing their testator or intestate, and judgment may be taken, and execution issued against all who are
named as defendants in the summons, although it be served only on part of
them, in the same manner as if served on all, except as provided in the
next section.

SEC. 5. When a judgment is taken against. an administrator or
executor, upon failure to answer, it is not to be deemed evidence of assets
in his hands, unless it appear that the complaint alleged assets, and was
personally served on him.

SEC. 6. The time which shall have elapsed between the death
of a person, and the granting of letters testamentary, and of administration
on his estate, not exceeding six months, and the period of six months after
the granting of such letters are not to be deemed any part of the time
limited for the commencement of actions by executors or administrators.

SEC. 7. An executor of an executor, has no authority as such
to commence or maintain an action or proceeding, relating to the property
of the testator of the first executor, or to take any charge or control thereof.

SEC. 8. The real property which belonged to a deceased person, is not bound or in any way affected by a judgment against his executors or administrators, nor liable to be sold, by virtue of an execution
issued upon such judgment.

SEC. 9. In an action against executors or administrators, in
which the fact of their having administered the estate of their testators or
intestate, or any part thereof, comes in issue, and the inventory of the
property of the deceased, filed by them, is given in evidence, the same
may be repelled by evidence:

1. That any property has been omitted in such inventory, or was not
returned therein at its full value; .

2. That such property has perished, or been lost without the fault of
such executors or administrators, or that it has been fairly sold by them at
private or public sale, at a less price than the value so returned, or that,
since the return of the inventory, such property has deteriorated or
increased in value; in such action the defendants cannot be charged for
any things in action specified in their inventory, unless it appears that they
have been mllected, or might, with due diligence, have been collected.

SEC. 10. No person is liable to an action as executor of his own
wrong, for having taken, received, or interfered with the property of a
deceased person; but is responsible to the executor, as general or special
administrator of such deceased person, for the value of all property so
taken or received, and for all damages caused by his acts, to the estate of
the deceased.

SEC. 11. The next of kin of a deceased person, are liable to an
action by a creditor of the estate,to recover the distributive shares received
out of such estate, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy his
debt; the action may be against all the next of kin jointly, or against any
one or more of them severally.

SEC. 12. In such action, the plaintiff may recover the value
of all the assets received by all the defendants in the action, if necessary
to satisfy his demand; and the amount of the recovery must be apportioned among the defendants, in proportion to the value of the assets
received by each; and no allowance or deduction can be made from such
amount, on account of there being other relatives to whom assets have also
been delivered.

SEC. 13. Any one of the next of kin, against whom a recovery is had pursuant to the last section, may maintain an action against all
the other relatives of the testator, to whom any such assets have been paid

jointly, or against any of them separately, for a just and equal contribution,
and may recover of each defendant such amount as shall be in the same
proportion to the whole sum collected of the plaintiff, as the value of the
assets delivered to such defendant, bore to the value of all the assets delivered to all the relations of the deceased.

SEC. 14. Legatees are liable to an action by a creditor of the
testator, to recover the value of a legacy received by them. The action
may be brought against all, or only one of the legatees. In such action,
the plaintiff cannot recover unless he shows:

1. That no assets were delivered by the executor or administrator of
the deceased, to his heirs or next of kin; or,

2. That the value of such assets has been recovered by some other
creditor; or,

3. That such assets are not suilicient to satisfy the demands of the
plaintiff; and in the last case, he can recover only the deficiency.

The Whole amount which the plaintiff can recover, must be apportioned among all the legatees of the testator, in proportion to the amount
of their legacies respectively, and his proportion can only be recovered of
each legatee.

SEC. 15. If an action be brought against several next of kin
jointly, or against several legatees jointly for assets delivered to them, and
a recovery be had against them, the costs of such action must be apportioned among the several defendants, in proportion to the amount of the
debt, or damages, recovered against each of them.

SEC. 16. In case a judgment against several next of kin of a
testator, or against several legatees, the payment on satisfaction of the
amount recovered against any one 'of the defendants, discharges such
defendant, and exoneratcs him and his property from the judgment.

SEC. 17. Heirs and devisees are liable to an action by a
creditor of a deceased person, to recover the debt, to the extent of the
value of [any real property inherited] by, or devised to them; if such
action be against the heirs, all the heirs who may be liable must be made
parties to the action.

SEC. 18. But the heirs are not liable for the debt, unless it

appear that the personal assets of the deceased were not suliicient to discharge it, or that after due proceedings before the probate court, the creditor has been unable to collect the debt, from the personal representatives
of the deceased, or from his next of kin, or legatee; if the personal assets
were sutlicient to pay a part of the debt, or in case a part thereof shall
have been collected, as mentioned in the last section, the heirs of such
deceased person are liable for the residue.
SEC. 19. But the last section does not affect the liability of
heirs for a debt, of their ancestors, where such debt was by his will
expressly charged exclusively on the real property descended to such
heirs, or where such debt is by the will expressly directed to be paid out
of the real property descended before resorting to the personal property.

SEC. 20. In cases where the next of kin, legatees, heirs, and
devisees are liable for the debts of their ancestors, as herein provided, they

must give preference in the payment of the same, and are liable therefor,
in the following order:

1. Debts entitled to a preference under the laws of the United States;
2. Judgment against the ancestor or testator, according to the priority
thereof, respectively;

3. Recognizances, bonds, sealed instruments, notes, bills, unliquidated
demands, and accounts.

SEC. 21. No preference can be given by any next of kin,
legatee, heir, or devisee, to one debt over another of the same class,
except one specified in the second subdivision of the last section; nor is a
debt, due and payable, entitled to a preference over a debt not due; nor
does the commencement of an action against any next of kin, legatee, heir,
or devisee, for the recovery of a debt, entitle it to preference over others
of the same class.

SEC. 22. The next of kin, legatees, heirs and devisees may
show that there are debts of a prior class, unsatisfied; or that there are
unpaid debts of the same class with that on which the action is brought;

and if it appear that the value of the personal property delivered to them,
or of the real estate descended or devised to them, does not exceed the debts
of a prior class, judgment must be rendered in their favor.

SEC. 23. If the personal property delivered to such next.

of kin or legatee, or if the real estate, descended or devised to such heir,
and devisee, exceed the amount of debts which are entitled to a preference over the debt for which the action is brought, judgment must be rendered against them only for such a sum as shall be a just proportion to
the other debts of the same class with that on which the action is brought.

SEC. 24. If a debt of a class prior to that on which the .
action is brought, or of the same class, shall have been paid by any next '

of kin, legatees, heirs, or devisees, they may prove such payment, and the
amountof the debt so paid must be estimated in ascertaining the amount
to be recovered, in the same manner as if such debts were outstanding and
unpaid, as prescribed in the last two sections.

SEC. 25. If it appear that the real property so descended

was not aliened by the lien at the time of the commencement of the 
action, or if the heir confess the claim, and show what real property has .

descended to him, the court must order that the debt of the plaintiff, or
the proportion thereof -which he is entitled to recover, be levied of the
real property so descended, and not otherwise; and every judgment rendered in such action has preference as alien on the real property descended,
to any judgment obtained against such heir personally, for a debt on demand in his own right.

SEC. 26. When it appears in the action, that before the
commencement thereof, the heir has claimed the real property descended
to him, or any part thereof, he shall be personally liable for the value of
the property so aliened, and judgment may be rendered therefor, and execution awarded, as in actions for his own debts. But no real property,
aliened in good faith by an heir, before action commenced against him, is
liable to execution, or in any manner affected by a judgment against him.

SEC. 27. In actions brought against several heirs jointly,
or several devisees jointly, the amount which the plaintiff recovers must
be apportioned among all the heirs of the ancestor, or among all the devisees of the testator, in proportion to the value of the real property
descended or devised, and such proportion only can be recovered of each
heir or legatee.

SEC. 28. Devisees made liable, by the foregoing provisions of this chapter, to the creditor of their testator, are not so liable, unless .

it appear that his personal assets, and the real property of the testator
descended to his heirs, were insuflicient to discharge the debt; or unless
it appear that after due proceedings before the probate court, the creditor
has been unable to recover the debt, or any part thereof, from the personal
representatives of the testator, or from his next of kin, or legatees, or
from his heirs.

SEC. 29. In either of the cases specified in the last section,
the amount of the deficiency of the personal assets, and of the real property descended to satisfy the debt of _the plaintiff, and the amount which
such plaintiff may have failed to recover from the personal representatives
of the testator, his next of kin, legatees and heirs, may be recovered of
the devisees of such testator, to the extent of the real property devised to
them respectively.

SEC. 30. But the last two sections do not affect the liability
of devisees, for a debt of their testator, where such debt was, by his will,
expressly charged exclusively upon the real property devised, or by the
terms of the will made payable exclusively by such devisee, or made payable out of the real property devised, before resorting to the personal
property, or to any other real property descended or devised.

SEC. 31. The provisions of this chapter, with regard to
heirs, and to proceedings by and against them, and to judgments and executions against them, are applicable to action and proceedings against
devisees, and they must in like manner be jointly sued.

SEC. 32. In cases where, by the provisions of any statute,
a child, born after the making of a will, is entitled to succeed to a portion
of the testator’s real and personal property, such child shall have the same
rights and remedies to compel a distribution of the personal ‘property, and
a partition of the real property, as are provided for next of kin, and for
heirs, and shall in all respects, be liable in the same manner, and to the
same extent, to the creditors of his ancestor, in respect to the personal
property delivered to him, and the real property descended to him, as is
herein prescribed in relation to next of kin, and heirs, and such child may
recover of the legatees and devisees who may have received or taken any
real or personal property of the testator, the share or portion thereof to
which he may be entitled. '

SEC. 33. The provisions of the last two sections, relative
to a child born after the making of a will, apply equally to every person,
who being a witness to a Will, is entitled, by the provisions of any statute,
to recover a portion of the real or personal property of the testator from
the legatees and devisees named in such will.


SEC. 34. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the state of Illinnesola:
That any administrator or executor duly appointed in any other state or
county, may commence and prosecute any action or suit in law, or equity,
in any court of the state, in his capacity of executor or administrator, in
like manner and under like restrictions as a resident may be permitted to
sue: provided, that before commencing any action or suit, an authenticated copy of his appointment as such_ executor or administrator must be
filed in the probate court of the county in which such action or suit shall
be commenced.

SEC. 35. This act shall take effect from and after its passage.

SEC. 1. The official bonds, or other security of a public oflicer,
to the territory, or the United States, whether with or without securities,
is to be construed as security to the territory, and also to all persons severally, for the othcial delinquencies against which it is intended to provide.
If it be a county, city, village, or other municipal body, it is in like manner to be construed as security severally, to all persons intended to be
secured, as well as to the body politic named therein.

SEC. 2. When a public otiicer by official misconduct or neglect
of duty, forfeits his official bonds, or renders his sureties liable upon an
oflicial security, any person injured thereby, or who is by law entitled to
the benefit of the security, may bring an action thereon, in his own name,
against the officer and his sureties, to recover the amount to which he may
be entitled by reason of the delinquency. ‘

SEC. 3. Before an action can be brought by a plaintiff, other

than the territory or body politic named in the security, leave must be 1

obtained of the district court, or a judge thereof, within the district or
county where the action is triable, and leave can only be granted on a
production of a copy of the bond, and an affidavit showing the delinquency,
and if the delinquency be such, as that if established on the trial, it would
entitle the party applying to recover in the action, leave must be granted.

SEC. 4. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency,
does not preclude the same or another party, from an action on the same
security for another delinquency.

SEC. 5. If it appears in an action against a. surety, on an official
security, that he has already been obliged, by reason of prior recoveries
against him on the same, to, pay amounts, which in the aggregate are equal
to the extent of his undertaking, or that by reason of the insolvency of
his principal, he will be obliged to pay to that extent, on judgments already

recovered against the surety, the recovery against a surety must in all such '

cases be limited by the amount of his undertaking, except as otherwise
provided by law.

SEC. 6. Upon the execution issued on a judgment, recovered
upon the oiiicial security of a public otlicer, against him and a surety,
there must be indorsed a direction to the otlicer to whom the execution is
delivered, to collect the same out of the property of the principal, if suilicient can be found, and if not, then to collect it out of the property of the
suret . .

SEC. 7. If there be several judgments, on which executions
are, at the same time, in the sheriff’s hands, against a public oflicer, and
his sureties, amounting in the aggregate to a sum greater than that for
which the sureties are liable, the court must, on their application, limit the
amount to be collected of them, to the amount of their respective liabilities, and may cause the same to be applied as the judgment or execution,
in proportion to such amount.

SEC. 8. Actions for tines and forfeitures, may be prosecuted

by the otiicers or persons to whom they are by law given, or who, by special provision of law, are authorized to recover them; and whether prosecuted by public officers, or by private persons, are governed by the sa.me
rules as other civil actions, except as otherwise specified in this chapter.

SEC. 9. When an action is brought for a penalty, which is limited by law, not to exceed a certain amount, the action may be brought for
that amount, and upon trial, the amount recovered must be determined in
proportion to the offense.

SEC. 10. A recovery of a judgment, for a penalty or forfeiture,
by collusion between the parties, with intent to save the defendant from
the consequences contemplated by law, in case where the penalty of forfeiture is given wholly or partly to the prosecutor, does not prevent the
recovery of the same, by another person.

SEC. 11. Fines and forfeitures, not specially granted or appropriated by law, must be paid into the treasury of the territory; and whenever, by the provision of law, any property, real or personal, is forfeited
to the territory, or to any oliicer, for its use, an action for the recovery of
such property, alleging the grounds of the forfeiture, may be brought by
the proper officer, in the district court of any county where such property
may be.

SEC. 12. The following oflicers may prosecute actions in their
official capacity:

The board of county commissioners of a county;

The trustees of a school district;

Any organized department of a municipal corporation, having a board
of officers in charge of a particular branch of public service, and specially
authorized by statute to prosecute. In such action, the plaintiffs may be
designated by their official name, or the action may be brought in the
name of the body in whose behalf the action is brought.

SEC. 13. Every such action be either,

1. On a contract made with them in their official capacity; or,

2. To enforce a liability, or a duty enjoined by law in favor of such
oflicers, or the body represented by them; or,

3. To recover a penalty or forfeiture given to such ofiicers or body;
01';

4. To recover damages for an injury to their ofiicial rights or
property.

SEC. 14. When an organized department of a municipal
corporation is authorized by statute to sue, it shall, for purposes of the
action, be deemed the real party in interest, though the corporation of
which it is the department be the party ultimately to be beneiited by the
action, or responsible for any loss incurred therein.

SEC. 15. An action may be brought against the officers mentioned in section twelve, in their official capacity, or against the body they
represent, either upon a contract made by such ofiiccrs in their olhcial
capacity, and within the scope of their authority, or for an injury to the
rights of the plaintiff, arising from some act or omission of such officers,
or of the body represented by them.

SEC. 16. The actions authorized by this chapter, may be
brought by or against the officers mentioned in section twelve, upon a
cause of action which accrued during the term of their predecessors, as

well as during their own term of office, and when brought may be continued by or against the successors in otiiee, of the parties whose names
may for that purpose be substituted in the action.

SEC. 17. If judgment for the recovery of money be rendered against a county, or the board of commissioners of a county, on
account of the liability of such county, and the judgment be not satisfied,
or proceedings thereon stayed by appeal or otherwise, before the next
annual meeting of the board of commissioners of the county, a certified
copy of the docket of the judgment may be presented to the board of commissioners at their annual meeting.' ,

SEC. 18. The board of commissioners must thereupon
cause the amount due on the judgment, with interest from the time of
the recovery until the first Monday in February after such meeting,
to be added to the tax of the county for whose liability the same was
recovered, and the same must be collected as other contingent charges of
the county.

SEC. 19. The treasurer of a county against which or against
whose officers a judgment has been recovered for a liability of the county,
the execution of which has not been stayed upon appeal, must upon
demand, and the delivery to him of the certified copy of the docket of the
judgment, pay the amount due thereon, if there be sutiieient money of the
county in his hands not otherwise specifically appropriated. If he fail to
do so, he shall be personally liable for the amount, unless the collection
thereof be afterwards stayed upon appeaL

Sec. 20. Execution cannot be issued on a judgment mentioned in sections seventeen and nineteen without leave of the court, nor
must leave be granted until the court is satisfied that payment has been
demanded of the proper county officers, as provided in the last two sections, and that the board of commissioners have wrongfully omitted to
include the amount in the tax list, as provided in section eighteen; when
execution is issued, the property of the county only is liable thereon.

SEC. 1. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto, and
proceeding by information in the nature of quo warranto, are abolished,
and the remedies heretofore obtainable in these forms may be obtained by
civil actions under the provisions of this chapter. But nothing contained
in this section affects any right already acquired or any judgment or order
already made, or any proceeding already taken.

SEC. 2. An action may be brought by the attorney general in
the name of the territory, whenever the legislature so directs, against a
corporation for the purpose of vacating or annulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its corporate existence, on the ground that such
act or renewal was procured upon some fraudulent suggestion, or concealment of a material fact by the persons incorporated, or by some of them,
or with their knowledge and consent. '

SEC. 3. An action may be brought by the attorney general, in
the name of the territory, on leave granted by the supreme‘court, or a
judge thereof, for the purpose of vacating the charter, or annulling the
existence of a corporation other than municipal, whenever such corporation: ' '

1. Olfends against any of the provisions of the act, or acts creating,
altering, or renewing such corporation; or,

2. Violates the provisions of any laws, by which such corporation
forfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers; or,

3. VVhenever it has forfeited its privileges, or franchises, by failure to
exercise its powers ; or,

4. Whenever it has done, or omitted any act, which amounts to a
surrender of its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises; or,

5. Whenever it exercises a franchise or privilege not conferred upon
it by law. .

And it is the duty of the attorney general, to apply for leave, and upon
leave granted, to bring the action in every case of public interest, whenever he has reason to believe that any of these acts or omissions can
be proved.; and also in every other case, in which satisfactory security is
given to indemnify the territory against the costs and expenses to be
incurred thereby. '

SEC. 4. Leave to bring the action may be granted, upon the
application of the attorney general, and the court or judge may, in their
discretion, direct notice of such application to be given to the corporation,
or its officers, previous to granting such leave, and may hear the corporation in opposition thereto.

SEC. 5. An action may be brought by the attorney general in

the name of the territory, upon his own information, or upon the complaint of a private party, against the party offending in the following
cases: 1. When any person usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or
exercises any public office, civil or military, or any franchise within this
territory, or any ofiice in a corporation created by the authority of this
territory; or,

2. When any public officer, civil or military, has done or suffered an
act, which by the provisions of law makes a forfeiture of his otiice; or,

3. When any association or number of persons act within this territory
as a corporation, without being duly incorporated. And it is the duty of
the attorney general to bring the action whenever he has reason to believe

that any of these acts can be proved, or when he is directed to do so by a
judge of the supreme court.

SEC. 6. An action may be brought by the attorney general, in
the name of the territory, for the purpose of vacating or annulling letters
patent, granted by the territory in the following cases:

1. When he has reason to believe that such letters patent were obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact, made by persons to whom the same were issued or made, or
without his consent or knowledge; or,

2. When he has reason to believe that such letters patent were issued
through mistake, or in ignorance of a material fact;

3. When he has reason to believe that the patentee, or those claiming
under him, have done or omitted an act in violation of the terms and conditions on which the letters patent were granted, or have by any other
means forfeited the interest acquired under the same. ‘

SEC. 7. When an action is brought by the attorney general by

virtue of this chapter, on the complaint or information of any- person hav- ]

ing an interest in the question, the name of such person must be joined
with the territory as plaintiff.
SEC. 8. Whenever such action is brought against a person

for usurping an oflice, the attorney general, in addition to the statement of 1

the cause of action, may also set forth in the complaint the name of the
person rightfully entitled to the office, with a statement of his right thereto;
and in such case, upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has received
fees or emoluments belonging to the otlice, and by means of his usurpation
thereof, an order may be granted by a judge of the supreme court, for the
arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail; and thereupon he may
be arrested and held to bail in the same manner, and with the same effect,

and subject to the same rights and liabilities as in other civil actions where
defendant is subject to arrest.

SEC. 9. In every such case, judgment may be rendered upon 1
the right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so alleged

to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice requires.

SEC. 10. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the

person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, 1

he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office, and executing such
oflicial bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself the execution of the office, and it is his duty immediately thereafter to demand of
the defendant in the action, all the books and papers in his custody, or
within his power, belonging to the office.

SEC. 11. If the defendant refuse or neglect to deliver over such
books or papers pursuant to the demands, he is to be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and the same proceedings may be had, and with the same
effect, to compel delivery of such books and papers, as are prescribed by
law to obtain books and papers from a justice of the peace, where the
same are withheld from his successor in oliice.

SEC. 12. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover, by
action, the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpation of the otiice by the defendant.

SEC. 13. Where several persons claim to be entitled to the
same ofiice or franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such oflice or franchise.

SEC. 14. When a defendant, whether a natural person or a
corporation, against whom such action has been brought, is adjudged guilty

of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully holding or exercising any
ofiice, franchise, or privilege, judgment must be rendered, that such defendant be excluded from the ofiice, franchise, or privilege, and also that
the plaintiff recover costs against such defendant ; the court may also, in
its discretion, impose upon the defendant a fine not exceeding one thousand
dollars, which fine, when collected, must be paid into the treasury of the
territory.

SEC. 15. If it be adjudged that a corporation against which
an action shall have been brought, pursuant to this chapter, has by neglect,
abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises,
judgment must be rendered that the corporation be excluded from such
corporate rights, privileges, and franchises, and that the corporation be
dissolved.

SEC. 16. If judgment be rendered in such action, against a
corporation, or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may
cause the costs therein to be collected by execution against the persons
claiming to be a corporation, or by process against the directors or other
otlicers of such corporation.

SEC. 17. When such judgment is rendered against a corporation, the court has the same power to restrain the corporation, to appoint
a receiver of its property, and take an account and make distribution
thereof among its creditors, as is given in the chapter upon actions respecting corporations, and in the chapter upon the voluntary dissolution of
wrporations, to the court of chancery; and it is the duty of the attorney
general, immediately after the rendition of such judgment, to institute
proceedings for that purpose. .

SEC. 18. Upon the rendition of such judgment against a
corporation, or for the vacating or annulling of letters patent, it is the duty
of the attorney general to cause a copy of the judgment-roll to be forthwith tiled in the otlice of the secretary of the territory.

SEC. 1. A judgment or order, in a civil or criminal action, in any
of the district courts, may be removed to the supreme court, as provided
in this chapter.

SEC. 2. All penal judgments in the district courts, may be examined and affirmed, reversed or modified, by the supreme court, or if necessary, a new trial may be ordered ; such examination may be had upon a
writ of error or appeal, as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 3. Any party aggrieved, may appeal in the cases prescribed in this chapter. '

SEC. 4. The party appealing, is known as the appellant, and the
adverse party, as the respondent; but the title of the action is not to be
changed in consequence of the appeal.

SEC. 5. An appeal must be made by the service of a notice in
writing, on the adverse party, and on the clerk with whom the judgment
or order appealed from, is entered, stating the appeal from the same, or
some specified part thereof. When a party gives in good faith, notice of
appeal from a judgment or order, and omits, through mistake, to do any
other act necessary to perfect the appeal, or to stay proceedings, the court
may permit an amendment on such terms as may be just.

SEC. 6. Upon the appeal, allowed by the provisions of this chapter, being perfected, the clerk with whom the notice of appeal is filed,
must, at the expense of the appellant, forthwith transmit to the appellate
court, a certified copy. of the notice of appeal, and of the judgment roll.

SEC. 7. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review
any intermediate order, involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the
judgment.

SEC. 8. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate court may reverse, afiirm, or modify the judgment or order appealed
from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or
all of the parties, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial.
When the judgment is reversed or modified, the appellate court may make
complete restitution of all the property and rights lost by the erroneous
judgment. '

SEC. 9. The appeal allowed by this chapter, must be taken within sixty days after notice of the judgment, if heretofore rendered, and
within six months after a judgment shall be rendered.

SEC. 10. The appellant must furnish the court with copies of
the notice of appeal, and of the order or judgment roll. If he fail to do
so, the appeal may be dismissed.

SEC. 11. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court, or brought there from
another court, and upon the appeal from such judgment the court may
review any intermediate order involving the merits or necessarily affecting
the judgment.

2. Froman order granting or refusing a provisional remedy, or which
grants, refuses or dissolves an injunction ;

3. From an order involving the merits of the action or some parts
thereof;

4. From an order granting or refusing a new trial;

5. From an order which in effect, determines the action and prevents a
judgment from which an appeal might be taken ;

6. From a final order affecting a substantial right made in a special
proceeding, or upon a summary application in an action after judgment;

SEC. 12. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written undertaking must be executed, on the part of the appellant, by at least
two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all damages, costs and
charges, which may be awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding
two hundred and fifty dollars, or that sum must be deposited with the clerk
with whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the judgment of
the court of appeal ; but such undertaking or deposit may be secured by a
written consent, on the part of the respondent.

SEC. 13. If the appeal be from a judgment, directing the payment of money, it does not stay the execution of the judgment. unless a
written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by at least
two sureties, to the effect that if the judgment appealed from, or any part
thereof be aflirmed, the appellant will pay the amount directed to be paid
by the judgment, or the part of such amount as to which the judgment
shall be atlirmed, if it be affirmed only in part, and all damages which
shall be awarded against the appellant, upon the appeal.

SEC. 14. If the judgment appealed from, direct the assignment or delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of the
judgment is not stayed by appeal, unless the things required to be assigned
or delivered, be brought into court, or placed in the custody of such oliicer
or receiver, as the court may appoint ; or unless an undertaking be entered
into on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, and in such
amount as the court or judge thereof, may direct, to the effect that the
appellant will obey the order of the appellate court, upon the appeal.

SEC. 15. If the judgment appealed from, direct the execution
of a conveyance, or other instrument, the execution of the judgment is not
stayed by the appeal, until the instrument is executed and deposited with '
the clerk, with whom the judgment is entered, to abide the judgment of
the appellate court.

SEC. 16. If the judgment appealed from direct the sale or
delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same is not
stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, with two sureties, to the effect that during the possession of such
property by the appellant, he will not commit or suffer to be committed,
any waste thereon; and that if the judgment be aflirmed, he will pay the
value of the use and occupation of the property, from the time of the
appeal, until the delivery of the possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not exceeding a sum to be fixed by a judge of the court, by which
the judgment was rendered, and which must be specilied in the undertakintr.

SEC. 17. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided by sections thirteen, fourteen, and sixteen, it stays all further proceedings in
the court below, upon the judgment appealed from, or upon the matter
embraced therein; but the court below, may proceed upon any other matter included in the action and not affected by the judgment appealed from.
And the court below may, in its discretion, dispense with, or limit the security required by sections thirteen, fourteen, and sixteen, when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another’s right, and may also, in all cases, limit such security to an amount not
less than five thousand dollars.

SEC. 18. In an action arising on contract for the recovery of money only, notwithstanding an appeal and security given for a stay of proceedings therein,
if the respondent gives adequate security to make restitution in case the
judgment is reversed or modified, he may, upon leave obtained in the manner hereinafter provided from the court below, proceed to enforce the
judgment. Such security must be an undertaking executed to the appell
lant, by at least two sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the judgment
be reversed or modified, the respondent will make such restitution as the
appellate court may direct. Such leave shall only be granted upon motion, and notice to the adverse party, and in case when it shall satisfactorily appear to the court that the appeal has been taken for the purpose of
dela .

SEC. 19. The undertakings prescribed by section twelve,
thirteen, fourteen, and sixteen, may be in one instrument, or several, at the
option of the appellant; and a copy including the names and residence of
the sureties, must be served on the adverse party, with the notice of appeal, unless a deposit is made as provided in section twelve, and notice
thereof given.

SEC. 20. An undertaking upon an appeal, is of no effect, unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, that they are each ,
worth double the amount specified therein; the adverse party may how-.
ever, except to the sufliciency of the sureties, within ten days after notice 0
the appeal, and unless they or other sureties justify before a judge of the
court below, as prescribed by law in other cases within ten days thereafter,
the appeal must be regarded as if no such undertaking had been given;
the justification must be upon a notice of not less than five days.

SEC. 21. In the cases not provided for in sections thirteen,
fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, and seventeen, the perfecting of an appeal by
giving the undertaking mentioned in section twelve,_stays proceedings in
the court below, upon the judgment appealed from, except that when it
directs the sale of the perishable property, the court below may order the
property to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited or invested,
to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

SEC. 22. Writs of error in civil and criminal cases,
may issue, of course, out of the supreme court of this territory, in vacation as well as in term, and shall be returnable to the same court; but no
writ of error shall be issued after the expiration of one year from the time
of the rendition of the judgment to which it refers.

SEC. 23. No writ of error, shall operate to stay or supersede the execution in any civil action, unless the plaintiff in error or some
person in his behalf, shall give bond to the defendant, with one or more
sufficient sureties, with conditions, that the plaintiff shall prosecute his
suit to effect, and shall pay and satisfy such judgment as shall be rendered
thereon.

SEC. 24. The sufficiency of sureties, and the sum for which
the bond shall be given, shall be determined in each case by any judge of
the supreme court, or by the clerk from whose office the writ of error is .
issued, according to such general rules as the court may from time to time
establish.

SEC. 25. The bond, if any is given, shall be filed in the
odice of the clerk of the supreme court, for the use of the defendant, and
no execution shall be issued thereafter, upon the judgment complained of
during the pending of the writ of error, and if execution shall have been
already issued the clerk shall make and sign a certificate of the issuing of
the writ of error, and the filing of the bond; and after notice of such certificate to the otiicer holding the execution, all further proceedings thereon
shall be stayed. .

SEC. 26. The party prevailing on a writ of error, shall in
all cases be entitled to his wsts against the adverse party; and if the judgment is affirmed, the court may, in its discretion, award double costs to the
defendant.

SEC. 27. No writ of error upon a judgment for any capital offense, shall issue, unless allowed by one of the judges of the supreme
court, after notice given to the attorney general of the territory.

SEC. 28. Writs of error upon judgment in all other criminal cases shall issue of course, but they shall not stay or delay the execution of the judgment or sentence, unless they shall be allowed by one of
the judges of the supreme court, with an express order thereon, for a
stay of proceedings on the judgment or sentence.

SEC. 29. When a stay of proceedings shall be ordered, as
provided in the preceding section, the judge may at the same time make
such order as the case may require, for the custody of the plaintiff‘ in error, or for letting him to bail, or the party may, upon a writ of habeas
corpus, procure his enlargement, upon giving bail, if entitled thereto.

SEC. 30. In all cases where the judgment of the court below has been superseded by a writ of error, and the judgment shall be
allirmed by the supreme court, the supreme court shall award ten per cent.
damages upon the amount of the judgment below, exclusive of interest
and costs, and execution shall be issued therefor, in favo rof the defendant
1n error. '

SEC. 31. No discontinuance, nonsuit, or dismissal of awrit
of error in the supreme court, shall preclude the party from suing out
another writ of error, in the same cause within the time limited by law.

SEC. 32. If any person who is or shall be impleaded before any court in any civil action, where a writ of error lies, to a higher
tribunal, shall allege an exception, such exception, being reduced to writing, shall be signed by the judge, allowing the same, and shall become a
part of the record, if the party taking the same shall so elect.

SEC. 1. When a judgment is recovered against one or more of
several persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding as
provided by statute, those who were not originally summoned to answer
the complaint, may be summoned to show cause why they should not be
bound by the judgment, in the same manner as if they had been originally
summoned.

SEC. 2. In case of the death of a judgment debtor, after judgment, the heirs, devisees, legatees, or personal representatives of the judgment debtor, or the tenants of real property owned by him, and affected by
the judgment, may be summoned to show cause why the judgment should
not be enforced against the estate of the judgment debtor, in their hands
respectively. The proceedings thereon are subject to the provisions of the chapter upon actions by or against executors, administrators, legatees, heirs
and devisees.

SEC. 3. The summons provided in the last two sections, must
be subscribed by the judgment creditor, his representative, or attorney,
describe the judgment, and require the person summoned, to show cause,
within twenty days after service of the summons, and must be served in
the same manner as the original summons.

SEC. 4. The summons must be accompanied by an afiidavit of
the person subscribing it, that the judgment has not been satisfied, to his
knowledge or information and belief, and must specify the amount due
thereon.

SEC. 5. Upon such summons, the party summoned may answer,
within the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up any
defense which may have arisen subsequently, and in addition thereto;
if he he proceeded against according to section one, he may make the same
defense which might have been made originally to the action, except the
statute of limitations ; if he he proceeded against according to section two,
he may make the same defense which he might have made to an action
upon the judgment.

SEC. 6. The party issuing the summons may demur or reply
to the answer, and the party summoned may demur to the reply, and the
issue may be tried and judgment and costs may be given, in the same
manner as in an action, and enforced by execution, or the application of
property charged to the payment of the judgment, may, if necessary, be
compelled by attachment.

SEC. 7. The answer and reply must be verified in the same

manner, and are subject to the same rules as the answer and reply in an
action.

SEC. 8. The defendant may at any time before the trial or
judgment, serve upon the plaintiff an offer to allow judgment to be taken
against him for the sum or property, to the effect therein specified, with
costs. If the plaintiff accept the offer, and give notice thereof, within ten
days, he may nle the summons, complaint and offer, with an aflidavit of
notice of acceptance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly; if the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed
withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence; and if the plaintiff fail to
obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay
the defendant’s cost from the time of the offer.

SEC. 9. In an action for the recovery of money only, the
defendant may with his answer, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in Writing,
that if he fail in his defense, the amount of the recovery be assessed at a
specified sum, and if the plaintiff signify his acceptance thereto in writing,
with or before the notice of trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the
amount must be assessed accordingly.

SEC. 10. If the plaintiff do not accept the offer, he must prove
the amount to be recovered, as if the offer had not been made, and cannot
be permitted to give it in evidence; and if the amount assessed in his favor
do not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant may recover
his expenses incurred in consequence of any necessary preparation or
defense, in respect to the question of amount; such expenses must be
ascertained at the trial.

SEC. 11. Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his
attorney, at any time before the trial, any document or papers, material to
the action, and request an admission in writing, of its genuineness; if the
adverse party, or his attorney fail to give the admission within four days
after the request, and if the party exhibiting the document or paper, be
afterwards put to expense, in order to prove its genuineness, and the
same be finally proved, or admitted on the trial, such expense to be ascertained at the trial, must be paid by the party refusing the admission,
unless it appears to the satisfaction of the court that there were good
reasons for the refusal.

SEC. 12. The court before which an action is pending, or a
judge thereof, may order either party to give to the other, within a specilied time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy of any
book, document or paper in his possession or under his control, containing
evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein; if
compliance with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book,
document or paper from being given in evidence, or if wanted as evidence
by the party applying may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he
alleges it to be; and the court may also punish the party refusing. This section is not to be construed to prevent a party from compelling another

to produce books, papers or documents, when he is examined as a
witness.

SEC. 13. Every direction of a court or judge, made or
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an
order. ,

SEC. 14. An application for an order is a motion.

SEC. 15. All motions may be made to the court at term;
motions may likewise be made to a judge out of court, as provided in

other parts of the statute. .
SEC. 16. Motions must be made within the dis_trict in which the action is triable. Orders made out of court without
notice, may be made by any judge of the court in which the action is
brought, in any part of the territory; no order to stay proceedings for a
longer time than twenty days, can be granted by a judge of the court,
except upon previous notice to the adverse party.

SEC. 17. VVhen a notice of a motion is necessary, it must
be served eight days before the time appointed for the hearing; but
the court or judge may by an order to show cause, prescribe a shorter
time.

SEC. 18. When a notice of a motion is given, or an order
to show cause provides for a motion, before a judge out of court, and at
the time fixed for the motion, he is unable to hear it, the same may be
transferred by his order to some other judge, before whom the motion
might originally have been made.

SEC. 19. Whenever an order for the payment of a sum of
money is made by a court pursuant to a provision of the statute, the same
may be enforced by execution in the same manner as if it were a judgment, except that the person cannot be arrested unless specially directed
in the order, nor can real property be sold thereon, except in the cases
where the same is by law a charge upon real property.

SEC. 20. Upon a motion, and person present in court, whose
afiidavit or deposition would be admissible thereupon, may be orally

examined.
SEC. 21. Where the answer of the defendant admits part of

the plaintiff ’s claim to be just, the court on motion may order such defendant to satisfy that part of the claim, and may enforce the order as it
enforces a provisional remedy. ‘


SEC. 22. Notices must be in writing; and notices and other
papers may be served on the party or attorney in the manner prescribed
in the next three sections, where not otherwise provided by statute.

SEC. 23. The service may be personal or by delivery to
the party or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it
may be as follows:

1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his
oflice, by leaving the papers with his clerk therein, or witha person
having charge thereof; or, when there is no person in the office, by leaving it between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening in
a conspicuous place in the office; or if it be not open so as to admit of

such service, then by leaving it at the attorney’s residence with some
person of suitable age and discretion:

2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the papers at his
residence between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

SEC. 24. Service by mail may be made, when the person
making the service, and the persons on whom it is to be made reside

in different places between which there is a. regular communication by
mail.

SEC. 25. In case of service by
mail, the paper must be deposited in the post-oiiice, addressed to the person on whom it is served at his place of residence, and the postage paid ;
and in such case the time of service must be double that required in case
of personal service.

SEC. 26. A defendant appears in an action when he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintiff written notice of his appearance;
after appearance, a defendant is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings; but when a defendant has not apeared, service of notices or

papers in the ordinary proceedings in an action, need not be made upon
him, unless he be imprisoned for want of bail.

SEC. 27. Where a plaintiff or defendant who has appeared, resides out of the territory, and has no attorney in the action, the
service may be made by mail if his residence be known; if not known, on
the clerk for him. But where a part.y has an attorney in the action, the
service of papers must be upon the attomey instead of the party.

SEC. 28. The foregoing provisions of this chapter do not
apply to the service of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to
bring a party into contempt.

SEC. 29. A notice or other, paper is valid and

effectual, though the title of the action in which it is made be omitted, or
it be defective either in respect to the court or parties, if it intelligently
refer to such action or proceeding; and in furtherance of justice upon
proper terms, any other defect or error in any notice or other paper or
proceeding, may be amended by the court, and any mischance, omission or
defect relieved within one year thereafter; and the court may enlarge or
extend the time for good cause shown within which by statute any act is
to be done, proceeding had or taken, notice or paper filed or served, or
may on such terms as shall be just, permit the same to be done or supplied
after the time therefor has expired, except that the time for bringing a
writ of error or appeal in a civil action, shall in no case be enlarged, or a

‘party be permitted to bring such writ of error or appeal after the time

therefor has expired.

SEC. 30. The various undertakings required to be given by
this statute, and the afiidavits and other written proceedings in an action,

- must be filed or entered in court, or with the clerk thereof, unless the

court expressly provide for a different disposition thereof, except that the
undertaking provided for by this chapter, on the blaim and delivery of
personal property, must after the justitication of the sureties be delivered
by the sheriif to the parties respectively for whose benefit they are taken;
the summons and several pleadings in an action must be filed with the
clerk within ten days after the service thereof, respectively, or the adverse
party, on proof of the omission, is entitled, without notice, to an order
from a judge that the same be filed within a term specified in the order, or
be deemed abandoned.

SEC. 31. If an original pleading or paper be lost or withheld by any person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and
used instead of the original.

SEC. 32. Successive actions may be maintained upon the
same contract, or transaction, whenever after the former action a new cause
of action arises therefrom. a

SEC. 33. Whenever two or more actions are pending at
one time between the same parties, and in the same court, upon causes of
action which might have been joined, the court may order the actions to be
consolidated into one. u

SEC. 34. An action is deemed to be pending from the
time of its commencement, until its final determination upon appeal, or
until the time for an appeal has passed, and the judgment has been satisiied.

SEC. 35. An
action may be brought by one person against another, for the purpose of
determining an adverse claim, which the latter makes against the former,
for money or property upon an alleged obligation; and also against two or
more persons, for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a debt due to
the other, for which the plaintiff is bound as surety.
A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a contract or obligation, or for money, or specific real or personal property, may at any
time before answer, upon afiidavit that a person not a party to the action,
and without collusion with him, makes a demand against him for the same
money, debt, or property, upon due notice to such person, and the adverse
party apply to the court for an order to substitute such person in his place,
and discharge the defendant from liability to either party, on his depositing
in court the amount of the debt or money, or delivering the property or
its value, to such person as the court may direct; and the court may
thereupon make the order, and thereafter the action shall proceed between
the plaintiff and person so substituted; and the court may compel them to
interplead. X

SEC. 36. No natural person is subject to the jurisdiction
of a court of this territory, unless he appear in the court, or be found
within the territory, or served with process therein, or be a resident
thereof, or have property therein, and then only to the extent of such
ptrptpeulgty, except in cases where it is otherwise expressly provided by
s u .

SEC. 37. No corporation is subject to the jurisdiction of
a court of this territory, unless it appear in the court, or have been created
by or under the laws of this territory, or have an agency established
therein, for the transaction of some portion of its business, or have property therein; and in the last case, only to the extent of such property at
the time the jurisdiction attached.

SEC. 38. When the court has jurisdiction of the parties,
it may exercise it, in respect to any cause of action, whenever arising,
except for the specific recovery of real property situated out of this territory, or an injury thereto, and except as also provided by statute, in relation to proceedings against foreign corporations.

SEC. 39. When a cause of action has arisen in a state or
territory out of this territory, or in a foreign country, and by the laws
thereof, an action thereon cannot there be maintained against a person, by

reason of the lapse of time, an action thereon cannot be maintained ginst
him, in this territory, except in favor of a citizen thereof, who has had
the cause of action from the time it accrued.

(40.) S1-:0. XL. The clerk must keep among the records of the court,
a register of actions; he must enter therein the title of the action, with
brief notes under it, from time to time, of all papers filed, and proceedings
had therein.

SEC. 41. When there are three referees, all must meet, but
two of them may do any act which might be done by all; and whenever
any authority is conferred on three or more persons, it may be exercised
by a majority upon the meeting of all, unless expressly otherwise provided
by statute.

SEC. 42. The time within which an act is to be done, as
herein provided, must be computed by excluding the first day, and including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it must be excluded.

SEC. 43. The publication of legal notices required by law,
or by an order of a judge or court, to be published in a newspaper once in
each week, for a specified number of weeks, must be made on the day of
each week in which such newspaper is published; and in all cases where
a municipal corporation is required to publish legal notices, and may designate the papers in which the publication is to be made, it must make such
designation; all such legal notices must be published in the paper so designated.

The time for publication of legal notices must be computed so as to
exclude the first day of publication, and to include the day on which the
act or event of which notice is given is to happen, or which completes the
full period required for publication.

SEC. 44. No counsel can be permitted to speak on the argument of any case, more than an hour, without special leave of the court,
granted before the argument begins.

SEC. 45. A person who, without probable cause, prosecutes
an action, or makes a defense, or takes any legal proceedings against
another, is guilty of a contempt, and is also liable to an action therefor, at
the suit of the party aggrieved.

SEC. 46. Rights of action, given or secured by existing laws,
may be prosecuted in the manner provided by statute. If a case ever
arise, in which an act for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the
redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this statute, the
practice heretofore in use may be adopted, so far as may be necessary to
prevent a failure of justice._

SEC. 47. N 0 action or proceeding shall, in the first instance,
be removed by any writ, process, or appeal whatever, from a probate or
justice’s court, to the supreme court of this territory; but in all cases where
an action or proceeding is removed from either of the said probate or justice’s court, the same must be, in the first instance, removed to the district
court of the county. 

SEC. 48. In all actions in the district court, the defendant is required to answer the plaintiffs complaint in twenty days after a
summons has been legally served on him, except as herein otherwise
provided ; and if such answer is not made and served within twenty days
of the service of the summons, or such further time as may be allowed
according to law, the plaintiff may proceed to take judgment against the
defendant, according to the provisions of the statute in such case provided.
But a defendant who has appeared, may, without answering, demand in
writing an assessment of damages, or of the amount which the plaintiff is

SEC. 1. The party prosecuting a. special proceeding may be
known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 2. A judgment in a special proceeding is the final determination of the parties therein. The definitions of a motion, and an
order in a civil action, are applicable to similar acts in a special proceeding.

SEC. 3. The writ of mandamus is defined and regulated as in
this chapter prescribed.

SEC. 4. It may be issued to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person, to compel the performance of an act, whigh the law
specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office, trust, or station; but
though it may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment, or
proceed to the discharge of any of its functions, it cannot control judicial
discretion.

SEC. 5. This writ ought not to be issued in any case where
there is a plain," speedy, and adequate remedy, in the ordinary course
of the law. It is issued on the information of the party beneficially
interested.

SEC. 6. The writ is either alternative or peremptory. The
alternative writ must state concisely the facts, showing the obligation of
the defendant to perform the act, and his omission to perform it, and command him, that immediately after the receipt of the writ, or at some other
specified time, he do the act required to be performed, or show cause
before the court, out of which the writ issued, at a specified time and
place, why he has not done so; and that he then and there return the
writ, with his certificate of having done as he is commanded. The peremptory writ must be in a similar form, except that the words requiring
the defendant to show cause why he has not done as commanded, must be
omitted.

SEC. 7. When the right to require the performance of the
act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can be given for
not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may be allowed in the first
instance; in all other cases, the alternative writ must be first issued.

SEC. 8. The motion for the writ, the allowance, and the service thereof, and the enforcement of obedience thereto, must be such as
the court shall direct.

SEC. 9. On the return day of the alternative writ, or such further day as the court may allow, the party on whom the writ shall have
been served, may show cause by answer, made in the same manner as an
answer to a complaint in a civil action.

SEC. 10. If no answer be made, a peremptory mandate must be
allowed against the defendant; if an answer be made containing new
matter, the same shall not in any respect conclude the plaintiff, who may,
on the trial or other proceedings, avail himself of any valid objection to

Q? xgcgipnpyogidzugpay countervail it by proof, either in direct 
SEC. 11. No other pleading or written allegation is 
than the writ and answer; these are the pleadings in the case an have
the same eifect, and are to be construed and may be amended  the same
manner, ae proceedings in a civil action, and ‘the issues thereby 
mu_s't1l be tried, and the further proceedings had, in the same manner as in
a 01 ' action.
Sec. 12. Issues of fact, joined in the case of mandamus where
gee same is issued out of the supreme court, may be tried as provided in
next section. a
SEC. 13. (a) When the parties consent thereto, the court
ring“: try sages Igsasuele of (fthe ?()L fact, arieinlg uppn the oft‘ the 
y y ereerre as1nc1v1 aclonsm e s c ecu;
when either party refuses to consent to a trial, other than a trial by jury,
the 'd su reme court Ina order a 'ur of twelve men ( ossessi the
”.‘“. P . . .3’ . J 3’ . . ’ P "3
requisite qualifications for jurors 1n the district courts,) to be summoned
to appear forthwith, before the said court, to try the said issue; and in
eIIse_any of the jurors so summoned, should for any cause be rejected, or
L» disqualified to act as a juror 111 the case, the court may order others to
summoned until a jury shall be obtained.
SEC. 14. When a jury shall be impanneled, the same pro' shall be had as in the trial of a civil action in the district court.
SEC. 15. If judgment be given for the plaintiff, he shall
recover the damages which he shall have sustained, to be ascertained by l
the gourt orjury or by referees, as in a civil action, together with costs
and  and ,9. peremptory mandamus must also be awarded Without

SEC. 16. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed to a J
public o$cer, body, or board, commanding the performance of any public 3
duty specially enjoined by law, if it appear to the court that such officer
or any member of such body or board, has without just excuse, refused or
neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the court may impose a due not
exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, upon every such oiiicer or member of such body or board; such fine, when collected, must be paid into
the territorial treasury, and the payment of such fine is a bar to an action
Earthy penalty incurred by such otliccr, or member of such body or board,
by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.
SEC. 17. The several district courts of this territory, j
lhall have original jurisdiction in cases of mandamus, except in cases i,
where such writ is directed to one of the judges of the said district court C
in his omcial capacity; and the said courts shall proceed upon all such
cases, in the same manner as in a civil action, except as hereinafter otherwise provided.

SEC. 18. Writs of pro- 3

Hbition shall only be issued out of the supreme court, and such writs shall 0
be applied for upon aiiidavits, by motion to the court, or a judge thereof in
ll&»ion, in the same manner, as writs of mandamus; and if the cause

shown, shall appear to the court or judge to be suliicient, a writ shall be
thereupon issued, which shall command the court and party, or otlicer to
whom it shall be directed, to desist and refrain from any further proceedings in the suit .or matter specified therein, until the next term of said
supreme court, or the further order of the court thereon; and to show
cause at the next term of said court, or some day to be named in the same
term at the option of the court, if issued in term time, why they should
not be absolutely restrained from any further proceeding in such suit or
matter.

SEC. 19. Such writ shall be served upon the court and party
or otlicer to whom it shall be directed, in the same manner as a writ of
mandamus; and a return shall in like manner be made thereto by such
court or ofiicer, which may be enforced by attachment.

SEC. 20. If the party to whom such writ of prohibition shall
have been directed, shall, by an instrument in writing, to be signed by him
and annexed to such return, adopt the same return, and rely upon the
matters therein contained, as sufficient cause why such court should not be
restrained, as mentioned in the said writ, such party shall thence-forth be
deemed the defendant in such matter, and the person prosecuting such writ
may take issue, or demur to the matters so relied upon by such defendant;
and the like proceedings shall be had, for the trial of issues of law or fad
joined between the parties, and for the rendering of judgment thereupon,
as in a mandamus.

SEC. 21. If the party to whom such writ of prohibition shall
be directed, shall not adopt such return, as above provided, the party
prosecuting such writ, shall bring on the argument of such return, as upon
a rule to show cause; and he may, by his own aflidavit, and other proofs.
controvert the matters set forth in such return. _

SEC. 22. The court, after hearing the proofs and allegations of the parties, shall render judgment, either that a prohibition absolute, restraining the said court and party, or oiiicer, from proceeding in
such suit or matter, do issue, or a writ of consultation authorizing the court
and party, or officer, to proceed in the suit or matter in question; and may
make and enforce such order in relation to costs and charges, and the
amount thereof, as may be deemed just.

SEC. 23. If the party to whom such first writ of prohibition shall be "directed, shall adopt the return of the court thereto, as above
provided, and judgment shall be rendered for the party prosecuting such
writ; a prohibition absolute shall be issued, but if judgment be given
against such party, a writ of consultation shall be issued as above provided.

SEC. 24. Every person imprisoned, or otherwise restrained
of his liberty, except in the cases in the following section specified, ma)‘
prosecute a writ of habeas corpus, according to the provisions of this chapter, to obtain relief from such imprisonment or restraint, if it shall prove
to be unlawful.

SEC. 25. The following persons shall not be entitled to

I prosecute such writ: persons committed or detained by virtue of the final

iudgment, or decree of any competent tribunal of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or by virtue of an execution issued upon such judgment or decree;
but no order of commitment for any alleged contempt, or upon proceedings
as for contempt, to enforce the rights or remedies of any party, shall be

deemed a judgment or decree within the meaning of this section; nor shall

any attachment, or other process issued upon any such order, be deemed
an execution within the meaning of this section.

SEC. 26. Application for such writ shall be made by petition, signed either by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by some
person in his behalf, as follows: to any judge of the supreme or district
court, being within the county where the prisoner is detained; or if there
be no such officer within such county, or if he be absent, or for any cause
he incapable of acting, or have refused to grant such writ, then to some
officer having such authority residing in any adjoining county.

SEC. 27. Whenever application for any such writ, shall be
made to any officer not residing within the county where the prisoner shall
be detained, he shall require proof by the oath of the party applying, or
by other sufficient evidence, that there is no officer in such county authorized to grant the writ; or if there be one, that he is absent, or has refused
to grant such writ; or for some cause, to be specially set forth, is incapable
of acting, and if such proof be not produced, the application shall be
denied.

SEC. 28. The petition must state in substance:

1. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for, is imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, the oflicer or person by whom he is so
confined or restrained, and the place where, naming both parties, if their
names be known, or describing them if they are not.;

2. That such person is not committed or detained by virtue of any
process, judgment, decree, or execution, specified in the twenty-fifth section
of this chapter;

3. The cause or pretence of such confinement or restraint, according
to the best of the knowledge and belief of the party;

4. If the confinement or restraint is by virtue of any warrant, order,
or pnocess, a copy thereof must be annexed, or it must be averred, that by
reason of such prisoner being removed or concealed before the application, a demand of such copy could not be made, or that such demand was
made, and the legal fees therefor tendered to the officer or person having
such prisoner in his custody, and that such copy was refused;

5. If the imprisonment be alleged to be illegal, the petition must also
state in what the alleged illegality consists;

6. It must be verified by the oath of the party making the application.

SEC. 29. Any officer empowered to grant any writ applied
for under this chapter, to whom such petition shall be presented, shall
grant such writ without delay, unless it shall appear from the petition itself, or from the documents annexed, that the party applying therefor is,
by the provisions of this chapter, prohibited from prosecuting such writ.

SEC. 30. Every writ of habeas corpus, issued under the provisions of this chapter, shall be substantially in the following form:

In the name of the United States, to the sheriff of, &c., (or to A. B.)

“ You are hereby commanded to have the body of C. D., by you imprisoned and detained, as it is said, together with the time and cause of such
imprisonment and detention, by whatsoever name the said C. D. shall be
called or charged, before E. F., judge of the district court, as &c., (or immediately after the receipt of this writ,) to do and receive what shall then
and there be considered concerning the said C. D. And have you then
and there this writ.

“Witness, &c.”

SEC. 31. Such writ of habeas corpus shall not be disobeyed
for any defect or form. It shall be sufficient:

1. If the person having the custody of the prisoner, be designated
either by his name of office, if he have any, or by his own name, or if
both such names be unknown, or uncertain, he may be described by an
assumed appellation, and any one who may be served with the writ, shall
be deemed the person to whom it is directed, although it may be directed
to him by a wrong name or description, or to another person;

2. If the person who is directed to be produced, be designated by
name, or if his name be uncertain or unknown, he may be described in
any other way, so as to designate the person intended.

SEC. 32. If any oflicer, authorized by the provisions of
this chapter, to grant writs of habeas corpus, shall willfully refuse to grant
such writ when legally applied for, he shall forfeit for every such offense,
to the party aggrieved, one thousand dollars.

SEC. 33. The persons upon whom any such writ shall
have been duly served, shall state in his return plainly and unequivocally:

1. Whether he have or have not the party in his custody or power,
or under his restraint, and if he have not, whether he has had the party
in his custody, or under his power or restraint, at any and what time prior
or subsequent to the date of the writ;

2. If he have the party in his custody or power, or under his restraint,
the authority and true cause of such imprisonment or restraint, setting
forth the same at large;

3» If the party be detained by virtue of any writ, warrant, or other
written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the return, and the
original shall be produced and exhibited on the return of the writ, to the
ofiicer before whom the same is returnable;

4. If the person upon whom such writ shall have been served, shall
have had the party in his power or custody, or under his restraint at any
time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ, but has transferred such
custody or restraint to another, the return shall state particularly to whom,
at what time, for what cause, and by what authority such transfer took

lace.
P The return must be signed by the person making the same, and except
where such person shall be a sworn public ofiicer, and shall make his
return in his oliicial capacity, it shall be verified by oath.

SEC. 34. The person or oflicer, on whom the habeas corpus shall have been served, shall also bring the body of the person in his
custody, according to the command of such writ, except in case of the
sickness of such person, as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 35. If the person upon whom such writ shall have
been duly served, shall refuse or neglect to obey the same, by producing
the party named in such writ, and making a full and explicit return to
every such writ, within the time required by the provisions of this chapter,
and no suflicient excuse shall be shown for such refusal or neglect, it shall
be the duty of the oiiicer before whom such writ shall have been made
returnable, upon due proof of the service thereof, forthwith to issue an
attachment against such person, directed to the sheriff of any county in
this territory, and commanding him forthwith to apprehend such person,
and to bring him immediately before such officer; and on such person
being so brought, he shall be committed to close custody, in the jail of the
county in which such officer shall be, until he shall make return to such
writ, and comply with any order that may be made by such oiiicer, in
relation to the person for whose relief such writ shall have been issued.

SEC. 36. If a sheriff of any county, shall have neglected
to return such writ, the attachment may be directed to any coroner or

other person, to ho (10:-=i;II1:ltl'.‘(i liI('l‘t_'ilI., who :-511:1” il£l\'l_'. Full. ]iO\\’L‘]‘ to t_-xr_-cute the same, and .-'ue_-.1: .~.~liu'1'ifi' lllmll i_n=ii'1f'_" h1'u11_:__fht. up, n1:'I_y ht: t'I)ll1lllilf1_'l_i
to the jail of any (-ount_v uthvl‘ than his own.

SEC. 37. T|u_~(_:IIii-1-1' h_y wlium :m_\_‘ .-_~‘ut_'l1 :llii1t'ilI'll(’l1T ..-hull
be issued, may :t|.-u :11 thug .~::'uni- Iinw. or ufii-1'\\':i1'tl.-;, i.-.~:I1u.- :1 }>I':_-vvpl to tlu‘-.
sheriff, 01‘ other pL'1'.-'t_nl In 'Will_}Hl .~iIlt'h :1t1:l1'|1m¢_'IIt .~4h:1il h:l\'l*. h1_'*i'Ii tiiI‘H'i:_'d,
commanding him to h1‘in;_»: ii_a1'Ilm‘i[li 1wfi,_s1't_-. such t__iiiit_'t'l'. the ]uu'l_\' liir
whose benefit .-'U(‘il w1'it...-'l1:11l il.'l\'t' In-«_-11 1liiU\‘.'('ti. wlm ;-‘hull Ihi-i°<_-:1f'li-I‘
remain in the ¢_'1I.-'lmi_y nt' .~_em‘h .-41::-1'iIi'uI‘ ]H‘]‘.-4t_)Il. until he :-_-'h;iH hv (lirecharged, bailed, or 1'v1I1:1m|s'I.l. :1.-.4 .-'lIt.'il t)[iii'(*I‘ .~:h:tll «lire-i':I.

SEC. 38. In Ihv t.‘.\(__'t'Hii(IIl ut' .-'ui-11 :tt1:'u'lmu-m or pivcept, or of eitlwr of lilI'}ll. thv :-'lit*I'iii'. cn'ullu_-1' ]H'1'.-HIl tn whom Iilt_'}' .~ah:1|l
be directed, may will In his nicl thw ImWt_‘I' of 1Iu- l.'IIlllII_‘_i'. :14 in utlurr t.'."l.-il_'-'~.

SEC. 39. Tiiv nHim'1' iH'ii}l'1‘ wlmin lhv p:u'£_\_' .-'h:iH ill‘.
brought, on such writ. -h:1H i1urm—ili:ite-I_\_' 2111:-1' Ihv 1'I‘IllI'Il iln-1':-mt’. 1::-um-ml
to examine into Ihv liivr.-a ('UIlI:liIlt-Ii in :~I11'il l'¢‘I!ll'I]. mul illtu thw t'2lll:-H‘ nt'
the confinement. or 1‘:-.~=t1':ii1iI 111' .-«us.-h ]>:u'I_\-'. \\'i1I'IiH*I‘ thr- .~::1nu- .-h:1i| h:u'<_been upon 0OD1!nilInt'IiI. fur :tn_\‘ t_'1‘iI1liIl:Ii or ."-llllllfi-'l_'l_i (_'l'il1liIl:li 11l:1H't,'l‘. or
not.

SEC. 40. If no in-_-_=r:1l mus.-I_' hv .—~hm-.11 tin‘ .-1.n-h im]iri+:«_unm:1i1 H1‘
restraint, or for lhv mntinuuliml Iln-1':-mi", .-"in-h tIiiiI"i’I' :-iii!” «'li.~':_-li:ii'_-__rc- r-‘-ll('il
party from the «.'1i.~'~iml}‘ n1‘ ]'f*.-'1I‘:Iil|f.lil1th'l‘ \\'iliK'il hw ia lwhl.

SEC. 41. When 'h:lii hr iill‘ ¢iIIl_\' Hi". ihv iiliiiwl‘ I:iiI‘Ih\\'ilh ft)
remand such p:11'I_\’. it’ it -hull £l]|]H.‘ILl' Ii|:I.I hv is «lvmiiu-«.1 in t'll.-'ItNi__V. e-iIlu_*I':

1.  Virtlll‘ Hi. |ll‘m‘1'.-.4 'l-.-lIt*ti iI_‘_»' :Il1_\' H1121‘! HI‘ 'ill[l|'_'_'t' of Iiw l_-||.iI:-ii
States, in a can-. \\'ilI‘I'I' .~'1n'h 1':.IIli‘I ui'_imlj_;'r- 11:1- I'xc-l:1-i\'«- ‘illI‘i.-:|iI'Ii(Jll: ur.

2. By virtnv of Ihv tiiml _iIlti:_{l1lf‘llI |.JI' clw*1'm-. (if :-'m_\' minim-I:-:11 :-mi1'1
of civil or criminal ‘illI‘i-iiivliull. or ml’ :m_x' l_‘KI_‘i‘l1iiH]I, i.-'_-'I1t't1 npmi .-'1lt°il
judgment or d«=m-m- : 1:1‘.

3. For any mum-rI‘i]rI. .-]w<'i:i1l_i_.':ii1:I IIi11illi_\' i'i1:II‘_‘_*_‘I*ti in tilt‘1'n!lllIlillI1I’lII.
by some court. niiim-I‘. nr luul_\', h:i\'iI1;_;' :mthu1'iI}‘ In Hlilllllil 1'01‘ iillf mmtempt so charge-«I: :u1r|.

4. That. the timv du1'i1i§__1‘ whim-h :-'llI'il [i:ii_‘t_x' 1I1:l.\' hr h-_I_r:iH_y ch-t:iinm_1 h:i.~<
not expired.

SEC. 4. If it :imn-:11‘ mi Iii|_‘ l'f'fIl!‘ll. that thv 1u'i-'n11r*:‘ is in
custody by ViI'{i|t‘ Ht’ vivil [aim-w'-.~'. mi‘ mi)‘ t‘IIHl'I iI."f.‘|ii_\‘ NIH-liIllII'I.i. III‘
issued by an ullim-I’. in 1h-- t'1illl'.-t' of iiiclii-E:il ||I'lII‘I‘|'|liH_'_f_" iH.‘ii1l'I‘ him.
authorized  hm’. .~lI<'h [1l‘i-'HIlI‘l‘(':l?I mil_‘«' in‘ t_i'l-r.‘iIll1"'_'_"'ti in min’ 1..-1' Ihv libilowing cases:

1. When thv _iIll'i-'I.iit.'IiHlI of .~m-h mill‘! or uliin-e-i'.h:1-~ in‘-‘I1 z'.‘x‘<'I-«-r,h'«'i
either as to m£llh'I'. film‘:-. .-'llIll. m‘ lH'l'.-'I)Il.'.

2. Where, I|1uH_'_:h rhv ».n'i_:'in:i1 in1|»1‘i-uimi-.-HI‘ \'t':l~ I::\\‘Ii1l.‘\'<-I h_v .-'(I?I1-'
act, omission, ‘Ul' <'\I'|lI.. '-\'hin'h h:i.~' l.‘li\'I‘?.l lliiliu. :1I’1:_-i'1.\‘:11'-i~. Ihv 1::1i'I_x' h:1~'
become entitled In lw Iii-t'il:ll‘_'_"r'ti:

3. VVhere tilt‘ ]H‘IH'i*~'- i-%th'ii'i'Ii\I'* in .~'uiii+=1'ii:1tI--I‘(II'-11h~¢l;II1t‘I' 1’<‘*l‘ii1'u-:1
by law, rendering sm-h ll!‘-‘Jl'{'-*-' wi-I:

4. Where {hr ]>I‘m'¢'«'.~.li1uIt_-_rh ill lmulu-1'iirI'1Ilh:1~4iII'«'I1i.~=-1!t':i in :1 (‘:t~'t.'
not allowed by hm’ :

5. Where Ii1I'1ir‘l‘~iI')ll h:t\'in_'_r Iilv I'il"‘ilHi.\'I|i'1iIl‘['l!'i-ilIlI‘I' lllliivl‘ 5'11:-11
process, is not {hr [H‘l'.-ill]! I‘IIl|Hl\\'l.‘I'I'Ii in_\' him‘ In ti<‘T;Ii!I him: HI‘.

6. Where Ihv iuwu.-u-~~ i~ nut :1lIliI~il‘i;’.*.‘Ii h_\' :m_\'_iI_1«1j;ui~'i1I.uiwl»-I'.u1'
decree of aI'|y('u1lI‘I.IItIl'ii}'£tl1}'[Il'n\‘i<iHl1~::iT' Ihv hm.

SEC. 43. Hut nu tiiiiI'I'I‘ nu Ihv l‘I‘[llI‘l| mil" :1n_\' huh:-:1-4 mi‘pus, issued lll'lCi:'I‘thi.-'l.'h:I11I<'l‘. -'h:1H |i:1\'«-‘mm-1' tn il1t1l1il'<‘iIl[U Ihv iI‘;_":tiiI_\'
or justice of any_iu«lg;uiu.*i11.«I--1-1';-u-. ur (_'X'.'I’Ulit)ll. .-[am-ili-wl in 1111- ]i1't'i‘:‘1i-llIi‘;‘_"
second section.

SEC. 44. If it appear that the party has been legally committed for any criminal offense, or if he appears, by the testimony ohered
with the return, upon the hearing thereof, to be guilty of such an ohense,
although the commitment be irregular, the ofiicer before whom such party
shall be brought, shall proceed to let such party to bail, if the case be
bailable, and good bail be offered, or if not, shall forthwith remand such

art .

SEC. 45. If the party be not entitled to his discharge, and
be not bailed, the officer shall remand him to the custody, or place him
under the restraint from which he was taken, if the person under whose
custody or restraint he was, be legally entitled thereto; if not so entitled,
he shall be committed by such officer to the custody of such ofiicer or person as by law is entitled thereto. .

SEC. 46. Until judgment be given upon the return, the off]cer before whom such party shall be brought, may either commit such party to the custody of the sheriff of the county in which such ollicer shall
be, or place him in such care, or under such custody, as his age and other
circumstances may require.

SEC. 47. When it appears from the return to any such writ,

, that the party named therein is in custody, on any process under which any

other person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment or restraint, no
order shall be made for his discharge, until it shall appear that the party
so interested, or his attorney, if he have one, if to be found within the
county, shall have had suflicient notice of the time and place at which such
writ shall have been made returnable.

SEC. 48. When it shall appear from the return, that such
party is detained upon any criminal accusation, such officer shall make no
order for the discharge of such party, until suflicient notice of the time and
place at which such writ shall have been returned, or shall be made returnable, shall be given to the district attorney, of the county in which such
otlicer shall be, if to be found within the county.

SEC. 49. The party brought before any such oflicer, on the
return of any writ of habeas corpus, may deny any of the material facts
set forth in the return, or allege any fact to show either that his imprisonment or detention is unlawful, or that he is entitled to his discharge, which
allegations or denials shall be on oath; and thereupon such officer shall
proceed in a summary way, to hear such allegations and proofs as may be
produced in support of such imprisonment or detention, or against the
same, and to dispose of such party as the justice of the case may require.

SEC. 50. Whenever from the sickness or infirmity of the person,
directed to be produced by any writ of habeas corpus, such person cannot,
without danger, be brought before the officer before whom the writ is made
returnable, the party in whose custody he is, may state the fact in his return
to the writ, verifying the same by his oath; and if such officer be satisfied
of the truth of such allegation, and the return be otherwise sufhcient, he
shall proceed to decide upon such return, and to dispose of the matter;
and if it appear that the person detained, is illegally imprisoned, confined,
or restrained of his liberty, the officer shall grant a writ of discharge, commanding those having such person in their custody, to discharge him forthwith; and if it appear that such person is [legally] detained, imprisoned,
or confined, and is not entitled to be bailed, such otlicer shall cease from all
further proceedings thereon.

SEC. 51. Obedience to any writ of discharge, or to any order
for the discharge of any prisoner, granted pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, may be enforced by the officer issuing such writ, or granting
such order, by attachment, in the same manner as herein provided for a

neglect to make a return to a writ of habeas corpus, and with the like effect
in all respects; and the person guilty of such disobedience, shall forfeit to
the party aggrieved, one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, in addition to any special damages such party may have sustained.

SEC. 52. No sheriff or other otiicer shall be liable to any civil :
action for obeying any such writ or order of discharge ; and if any action c
shall be brought against such otiicer, for suffering any person committed
to his custody to go at large, pursuant to any such writ or order, he may
set up the same in answer, in bar of the action.

SEC. 53. No person who has been discharged by the order of 1
any otiicer, upon a habeas corpus, issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall be again imprisoned, restrained, or kept in custody, for the 1
same cause; but it shall not be deemed the same cause:

1. If he shall have been discharged from a commitment on a criminal
charge, and be afterwards committed for the same offence, by legal order
or process of the court wherein‘ he shall be bound by recognizance to
appear, or in which he shall be indicted, or convicted for the same offense
by the legal order or process of the court wherein he shall be bound by
recognizance to appear, or in which he shall be indicted or convicted for
the same offense; or

2. If, after a discharge for defect of proof, or for any material defect in
the commitment, in a criminal case, the prisoner be again arrested on suiiicient proof, and committed by legal process for the same offense; or

3. If in a civil suit the party has been discharged for any illegality in
the judgment or process hereinbefore specified, and is afterwards imprisoned by legal process for the same cause of action ; or

4. If in any civil suit, he shall have been discharged from commitment
on process, and shall be afterwards committed on execution in the same
cause, or on mesne process in any other cause after such first suit shall
have been discontinued.

SEC. 54. If any person shall knowingly recommit, imprison,
or restrain of his liberty, or cause to be committed, imprisoned, or restrained of his liberty for the same cause, except as provided in the last section, any person so discharged, or shall knowingly aid or assist therein,
he shall forfeit to the party so aggrieved, one thousand .two hundred and
fifty dollars ; and shall also be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

SEC. 55. Any one having in his custody, or under his power,
any person who by the provisions of this chapter, would be entitled to a
writ of habeas corpus, to inquire into the cause of his detention, who shall
with intent to elude the service of any such writ, or to avoid the effect
thereof, transfer any such prisoner to the custody, or place him under the
power or control of another, or conceal him, or change the place of his confinement, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

SEC. 56. Any one having in his custody, or under his power,
any person for whose relief a writ of habeas corpus shall have been duly
issued, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, who with the intent to
elude the service of such writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, shall transfer
such prisoner to the custody, or place him under the power or control of
another, or conceal him, or change the place of his confinement, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

Sec. 57. Every person who shall knowingly aid, or assist in
the violation of either of the last two preceding sections, shall be deemed
guilty of misdemeanor.

SEC. 58. Every person convicted of any offense under
either of the last four sections, shall be punished by fine or imprisonment,
or both, in the discretion of the court, in which he shall be convicted ; but
such fine shall not exceed one thousand dollars, nor such imprisonmentsix
months.

SEC. 59. Whenever it shall appear by satisfactory proof that
any one is held in illegal confinement or custody, and that there is good
reason to believe that he will be carried out of the territory, or suffer
some irreparable injury before he can be relieved by the issuing of a
habeas corpus, any oflicer authorized to issue such writs may issue a warrant under his hand and seal, reciting the facts, and directed to any sheriff,
constable or other person, commanding such otiiccr or person to take such
prisoner and forthwith to bring him before such otiicer, to be dealt with
according to law.

SEC. 60. When the proof mentioned in the last section shall
also be suflicient to justify an arrest of the person having such prisoner in
custody, as for a criminal offense, committed in the taking or detaining of
such prisoner, the warrant shall also contain an order for the arrest of
such person for the offense.

SEC. 61. Any ofiicer or person to whom such warrant shall
be directed, shall execute the same by bringing the prisoner therein
named, and the person who detains him, if so commanded by the warrant,
before the otlicer issuing the same; and thereupon the person detaining
such prisoner shall make a return in like manner, and the like proceedings shall be had as if a writ of habeas corpus had been issued in the first
instance.

SEC. 62. If the person having such prisoner in his custody
shall be brought before such otiicer as for a criminal offense, he shall be
examined, committed, bailed, or discharged by such officer, in like manner
as in other criminal cases of the like nature.

SEC. 63. Any officer or other person refusing to deliver a
copy of any order, warrant, process or other authority, by which he shall
detain any person, to any one, who shall demand such copy and tender
the fees thereof, shall forfeit two hundred dollars to the . person so
detained.

SEC. 64. Every writ of habeas corpus may be made returnable at a day certain, or forthwith, as the case may require.

SEC. 65. Every such writ shall be indorsed with a certi£cate that the same has been allowed, and with the date of such allowance,
which indorsement shall be signed by the officer allowing the writ.

SEC. 66. Writs of habeas corpus can only be served
by an elector of some county within this territory; and the service thereof
shall not be deemed complete so as to require the bringing up of the prisoner before the otiicer issuing the same, unless the party serving the same
shall tender to the person in whose custody the prisoner may be, if such
person be a sheriff, coroner, constable or marshal, the fees lowed by law
for bringing up such prisoner; nor unless he shall also gt e bond to the
sheriff, coroner, constable or marshal, as the case may be, in a penalty

double the amount of the sum for which such prisoner may be detained,
if he be detained for any. specific sum of money; and if not, then in such
sum as the oflicer granting the writ shall direct, not exceeding one thousand dollars, conditioned that such person shall pay the charges of carrying back such prisoner, if he shall be remanded, and that such prisoner
will not escape by the way, either in going to or returning from the place
to which he is to be taken; but if such fees be not paid, or such security
not tendered, the officer to whom the writ is directed, shall make return
thereto in the manner required by section thirty-three of this chapter,

and thereupon the omcer or court granting the writ, may order the
perkoner to be brought up notwithstanding, or proceed as if he were
re him.

Sec. 67. Every writ of habeas corpus issued pursuant to
this chapter, may be served by delivering the same to the _person to whom
it is directed; if he cannot be found it may be served by being left at the
jail, or other place in which the prisoner may be confined, with any under
£cer or other person of proper age having charge for the time of such

81'.

Sec. 68. If the person on whom the writ ought to be
served conceal himself, or refuse admittance to the party attempting to
serve the same, it may be served by athxing the same in some conspicuous place on the outside, either of his dwelling house or of the place where
the party is confined. ~ ~

SEC. 69. It shall be the duty of every sheriif, coroner,
constable, or marshal, upon whom a writ of habeas corpus shall be served,
whether such writ be directed to him or not, upon payment or tender of
the charges allowed by law, and the delivery or tender of the bond herein
described, to obey and return such writ according to the exigency thereof;
and it shall be the duty of every other person, upon whom such writ shall
be served, having the custody of the individual for whose benefit the writ
shall be issued, to obey and execute such writ according to the command
thereof, without requiring any bond or the payment. of any charges, unless
the payment of such charges shall have been required by the officer issuin such writ.

SEC. 70. Every oilicer allowing a. writ of habeas corpus,
directed to any other than a sheriff, coroner, constable or marshal, may in
his discretion require as a duty to be performed, in order to render the
service thereof effectual, that the charges of bringing up such prisoner
shall be paid b the petitioner, and in such case he shall in the allowance
of a writ specifiy the amount of such charges so to be paid, which shall not
exceed the fees allowed by law to sheriifs for similar services.

SEC. 71. If the writ be returnable at a certain day, such
return shall be made, and such prisoner shall be produced at the time and
place specified therein; if it be returnable f'orthwit.h, and the place be
within twenty miles of the place of service, such return shall be made, and
such prisoner shall be produced within twenty-four hours; and the like
time shall be allowed fbr every additional twenty miles.

SEC. 72. The provisions of the common law, in regard to
the writ of habeas corpus, treated of in this chapter, are hereby abrogated,
except so much and such parts thereof as may be necessary to carry into
full effect the provisions herein contained; and the authority of courts and
oilicers to award such writ, or to proceed thereon by the common law,
shall be exercised in conformity to the provisions of this chapter, in all
cases therein rovidcd for.

SEC. 73. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed to restrain the power of any court. t.o issue a writ of habeas
corpus, when necessary to bring before them any prisoner for trial, in
any criminal case lawfully pending in the same court, or to bring any
prisoner to be examined as a witness in any suit or proceeding, civil or
criInina.l, pending in such court, when they shall think the personal
attendance and examination of the witness, necessary for the attainment

of justice.

SEC. 1. A judgment by confession may be entered without action,
either for money due, or to become due, or to secure any person against
contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both in the manner prescribed by this chapter. '

SEC. 2. A statement in writing must be made, signed by the
defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect:

1. It must authorize the entry of judgment for a specified sum;

2. If it be for money due, or to become due, it must state concisely the
facts out of which it arose, and must show that the sum confessed therefor
is justly due, or to become due;

3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and
must show that the sum confessed therefor, does not exceed the same.

SEC. 3. The statement may be filed with the clerk of the district court, who must indorse upon it, and enter in the judgment book a
judgment of the district court for the amount computed, with five dollars
costs. The statement, and aflidavit with the judgment indorsed thereupon,
become the judgment roll.

SEC. 4. Judgments may also be entered in the district court in
vacation, or in term, upon a plea of confession signed by an attorney of
such court, although there be no suit then pending between the parties,
if the following provisions be complied with, and not otherwise:

1. The authority for confessing such judgment, shall be in some proper
instrument, distinct from that containing the bond, contract, or other evidence of the demand for which judgment is confessed;

2. Such authority shall be produced to the oflicer signing such judgment, and shall be filed with the clerk of the court in which the judgment
shall be entered at the time of filing and docketing such judgment.

SEC. 5. When the authority mentioned in the last section shall
have been filed with the clerk of the district court, judgment may be
entered thereon, in the same manner as is provided in section one of this chapter.

SEC. 6. Any judgment entered under either of the provisions of
this chapter in vacation, shall be as final and effectual as judgment rendered upon a verdict of a jury, and unless special provision be made for a
stay of execution upon such judgment, execution may issue immediately
upon the [rendition] of such judgment.

SEC. 7. Parties to a question in difference, which might be the 1
subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing 1
the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of
the same, to any court which would have jurisdiction if an action had been
brought; but it must appear by atiidavit that the controversy is real, and
the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties; the
court must thereupon hear and determine the case at a general term, and
render judgment thereon, as if an action were dependimg.

SEC. 8. Judgment must be entered in the judgment book, as in other cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to notice of trial. 5
The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment, constitute a judg- *
ment roll.

SEC. 9. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and is in the same manner subject to s
an appeal. ‘

CHAPTER 75.

FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES BY ADVERTISEMENT.

8:0-rxox Samoa
1. Mortgage of real estate may be foreclosed in 13. Surplus money to be paid to mortgagor.
certain cases by advertisement. 14. Evidence of sale how per-pecugma,
2. What requisite to entitle party to foreclose. 16. Atlidavit shall be recorded by register ofdeeds.

3. Mortgage may be foreclosed for each lnst.a1l- 16. Note to be made by register in margin of the
ment. record.

4. Notice to be given by publication. 17. Recold sutliclent to pass the title.
5. Notice what to contain. 18. Subsequent mortgagee entitled to g-edggm,
6. Sale how, when and by whom made. 19. What shall be deemed evidence of the sale
7. Sale how may be postponed. and foreclosure of the equity of redemption.
8. Separate tract of land how sold. 20. Costs of foreclosing.
9. Mortgages may purchase premises. 21. Creditors of mortgagor may redeem property
10. Officer to give purchaser ea certiticate of sale. mortgaged.
11. Mortgagor may redeem in one year. 22. Judgment debtor or mortgagor how to retain
12. If premises not redeemed purchaser entitled possession of property.
to deed. 23. Injunction to stay waste by mortgagor.

[Chapter 85, Revised Statutes.)

SEC. 1. Every mortgage of real estate, containing therein a
power of sale, upon default being made in any condition of such mortgage,
may be foreclosed by advertisement, in the cases and in the manner hereinafter specified.

Sec. 2. To entitle any party to give a notice as hereinafter
prescribed, and to make such foreclosure, it shall be requisite :

1. That some default in a condition of such mortgage shall have
accrued, by which the power to sell [has] become operative;

2. That no suit or proceeding shall have been instituted at law, to
recover the debt then remaining secured by such mortgage, or any part
thereof; or if any suit or proceeding has been instituted, that the same

has been discontinued, or that an execution upon the judgment rendered
therein, has been returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part; and,

3. That the mortgage containing such power of sale has been duly
recorded, and if it shall have been assigned, that all the assignments thereof
shall have been recorded.

SEC. 3. In cases of mortgages given to secure the payment of
money by installments, each of the installments mentioned in such mortgage, after the first, shall be taken and deemed to be a. separate and indedependent mortgage; and such mortgage for each of such installments,
may be foreclosed in the same manner, and with the likeeffect as if such
separate mortgage were given for each of such subsequent installments,
and a redemption of any such sale by the mortgagor shall have the like

effect, as if the sale for such installments had been made upon an inde- ‘

pendent prior mo ge.

SEC. 4. Notice
that such mortgage will be foreclosed by sale ot' the mortgaged premises,
or some part of them, shall be given by publishing the same for six successive weeks at least, once in each week, in a newspaper of the county
where the premises intended to be sold, or some of them, are situated, if
there be one, if not, then in the nearest paper in one of the adjoining
counties.

SEC. 5. Every notice shall specify: A

1. The names of the mortgagor and of the mortgagee, and the
assignee, if any;

2. The date of the mortgage, and when recorded;

3. The amount claimed to be due thereon, at ‘the date of the notice ;

4. A description of the mortgaged premises, conforming substantially
with that contained in the mortgage; and,

5. The time and place of sale. A

SEC. 6. The.sale shall be at public vendue, between the hours
of nine o’clock in the forenoon, and the setting of the sun, in the county
in which the premises to be sold, or some part of them, are situated, and
shall be made by the person appointed for that purpose in the mortgage,
or by the sheriff, under sheriff, or deputy sheriff of the county, to the
highest bidder. ’

Sec. 7. Such sale may be postponed from time to time, by
inserting a notice of such postponement, as soon as practicable, in the
newspaper in which the original advertisement was published, and continuing such publication until the time to which the sale shall be postponed, at
the expense of the party requesting such postponement. '

SEC. 8. If the mortgaged premises consist of distinct farms,
tracts, or lots, they shall be sold separately, and no more farms, tracts, or
lots, shall be sold, than shall be necessary to satisfy t.he amount due on
such mortgage at the date of the notice of sale, with interest, and the costs
and expenses allowed by law.

SEC. 9. The mortgagee, his assigns, or his, or their legal representatives, may fairly, and in good faith, purchase the premises so advertised, or any part thereof, at such sale.

SEC. 10. Whenever any lands and tenements shall be sold, by
virtue of a power of sale contained in any mortgage, it shall be the duty
of the oiheer, or other person making the sale, to give to the purchaser or
purchasers, a certificate in writing, under seal, setting forth a description
of each tract, or parcel of the premises sold, the sum paid therefor, and
the time when the purchaser or purchasers will be entitled to a deed for
the same, unless they shall be redeemed.as provided in this chapter; and
such officer shall, within ten days from the time of sale, file in the office
where the mortgage is recorded, a duplicate of such certificate, signed by

him, and such duplicate, certificate, or a copy certified by the register,
shall be taken and deemed evidence of the facts therein contained.

SEC. 11. It shall be lawful for the mortgagor, his heirs, execu- 1
tors, administrators or assigns, whose lands or tenements shall be sold in I
conformity with the provisions of this chapter, within twelve months after '
such sale, to redeem such lands or tenements, by paying to the purchaser, ‘
his executors, administrators or assigns, or to the officer who sold the same, 4
the sum of money for which the same was sold, together with interest on ,
the same, at the rate of ten per cent. per annum, from the time of such
sale; and such payment being made as aforesaid, the said sale and the
certificate granted thereon as aforesaid, shall be null and void; anything
in this chapter, to the contrary notwithstanding; and the hail of the sheritf
shall be responsible for the faithful payment to the purchaser aforesaid, of
all moneys received by him, or any of his deputies aforesaid. But no
mortgagor shall be entitled to retain the possession of the mortgaged premises, after the sale thereof, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 12. If such mortgaged premises, so sold as aforesaid, shall i
not be redeemed as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the oflicer or his suc- j
cessor in office, or other person who shall have sold the same or his executors, or administrators, or some other person appointed by the district
court for that purpose to complete such sale, by executing a deed of the
premises so sold to the original purchaser, or to the creditor who may have
acquired the title of such original purchaser, or to the creditor who may
have purchased such title from any other purchaser, or to the assignee, as
the case may be, of the certificate of sale.

SEC. 13. If after sale of any real estate, made as herein prescribed, there shall remain in the hands of the otiicer or other person
making the sale, any surplus money, after satisfying the mortgage on which I
such real estate was sold, and payment of the costs and expenses of such
foreclosure and sale, the surplus shall be paid over by such oflicer, or other
person on demand to the mortgagor, his legal representatives or assigns.

SEC. 14. Any party desiring to perpetuate the evidence of
any sale made in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, may procure:

I. An affidavit of the publication of the notice of sale, and of any notice of postponement, to be made by the printer of the newspaper in which
the same was inserted, or by some person in his employ knowing the facts;
and,

2. An atiidavit of the fact of any sale pursuant to such notice, to be
made by the person who acted as auctioneer at the sale, stating the time
and place at which the same took place, the sum bid, and the name of the
purchaser;

3. The afiidavit specified in the last preceding section, may be taken
and certified by an officer authorized by law to administer oaths.

SEC. 15. Such aftidavits shall be recorded at length by the
register of deeds of the county in_which the premises are situated, in a
book kept for the record of mortgages; and such original allidavits, the
record thereof, and certified copies of such record, shall be presumptive
evidence of the facts therein contained.

SEC. 17. A note, referring to the page and book where the
evidence of any sale having been made under a mortgage is recorded,
shall he made by the register recording such evidence, in the margin of
the record of such mortgage, if such record be in his oliice.

SEC. 17. A record of the affidavits aforesaid, and of the deed
executed on the sale of the premises, shall be suflicient to pass the title
thereto; and the said conveyance shall be an entire bar of all claim or

equity of redemption of the mortgagor, his heirs and representatives, and

of all persons claiming under him or them, by virtue of any title subse'
quent to such mortgage; but no title accruing prior to the execution of
such mortgage, shall be affected thereby.

SEC. 18. Any person to whom a subsequent mortgage may
have been executed, shall be entitled to the same privilege of redemption
of the mortgaged premises, that the mortgagor might have had, or of satisfying the prior mortgage; and shall by such satisfaction acquire all the
benefits to which such prior mortgagee, was or might have been entitled.

SEC. 19. When the mortgaged premises, or any part of them,
shall have been purchased at such sale by the mortgagee, his legal representative, or his or their assigns, as herein before provided, the afiidavits
of the publication and aflixing notice of sale, and of the circumstances of
such sale, shall be evidence of the sale, and of the foreclosure of the
equity of redemption, as herein specified, without any conveyance being
executed, in the same manner, and with the like effect, as a conveyance
executed by a mortgagee upon such sale to a third person.

SEC. 20. [Added by/amendments of 1852 to the revised "statutes,
page 16 z] The party foreclosing a mortgage by advertisement, shall be
entitled to ten dollars costs, besides fees of omcers and disbursements, out
of the proceeds of sale.

SEC. 21. Be it enacted 63/the legislature of the state of Jllinnesota:
That any real estate hereafter to be sold upon the execution, judgment,
order or decree of any court of this state, or upon the ‘foreclosure by advertisement or otherwise of a mortgage, contract or liability, shall be held
by the party purchasing the'same subject to right of judgment debtor or
mortgagor, or anyone claiming through or under him, or them, to redeem
tlleplfttjlllg atl any {time £;"ll.l:11I1 onfe yezir (olr such other timp atshmay be prescri e y aw rom e ay 0 sue sa e, upon paying 0 e purchase‘ 1',
mortgagee or judgment creditor, the sum or amount for which t.he same
was sold or foreclosed, and interest thereon at the rate of twelve per cent
per annum. Other crediltors of the original judgment debtor, or mortgagor, may ttllt any timtc wit iin tcline yeiar ait(:I‘dS1ll)(:h sale, rgitiecm sulph premises, upon ie same erms as ic ju amen e or or mo gacror y paying
to the first or previous purchaser tlije amount of his bid add interest as
aforesaid, and so on as often as one purchaser, mortgagee or creditor, shall
purchase or redeem from another: provided, that the original debtor, his
heirs or assigns shall have the period of one year for the redemption upon
each and every such sale, foreclosure, advance, or redemption after the
same shall have been made, and notice thereof filed in the office of the
register of deeds in the county where such real estate shall be situated.

SEC. 22. Provided always that the judgmentdebtor, mortgagor,
or any one claiming through or under him, shall be entitled to the possession, rents, use, and profits of any and  such premises or real estate, so
sold, purchased or foreclosed upon condition that such debtor shall pay to
the purchaser, the interest upon the amount of said sale, foreclosure or
purchase at the rate of twelve per cent. per annum.

SEC. 23. And further provided, that such judgment creditor,
purchaser or mortgagee may at any time, upon eight days notice, move the
court or a judge thereof, in vacation for an order or injunction to stay
waste, and upon satisfactory proof that the mortgagor or party in possession is committing waste upon such premises, the court may enjoin or restrain sueh debtor, mortgagor or party in possession from committing the
Sfllllk‘.

as

SEC. 24. This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage.

CHAPTER 76.

PROCEEDINGS FOR THE COLLECTION OF DEMAND

AGAIN ST BOATS AND VESSELS. ~
Eamon ‘ Samoa

1. Boats, &e., for what debts liable. ‘ 11. Execution for plaintiff how issued.

2. Suit may _be instituted against boat 12. Justices of the peace have cognizance, &c.
8. Suit how instituted against boat. 18. Proceedings before Justices of the peace.
4. Complaint what to contain. 14. Warrant issued by ajustice how returned.
5. When warrant to be issued.  garrantbissueg by ajustice liow returned.
6. Proceedings how conducted. . art of oat c. may be so (1.

7. Who may defend, &c._ 17. Continuance’how’gra.nted.

8. If answe; is not made in twenty days judg- I8. Continuance when refused.

ment, c. , 9. Fees of omcers.
9. Bond may be given-and boat discharged. 20. Appeal allowed.
10. Boat, &c., may be sold. 21. Limitation of action.

[Chapter 86, Revised Statutes ]

Sec. 1. Every boat or vessel, used in navigating the waters ‘
of this territory shall be liable: ‘

1. For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent, or consignee
thereof, on account of supplies furnished for the use of such boat or vessel, on account of work done or services rendered on board of such boat
or vessel, or on account of labor done or materials furnished by the
mechanics, tradesmen, or others in and for building, repairing, fitting out,
furnishing, or equipping such boat or vessel;

2. For all sums due for wharfage or anchorage of such boat or vessel
within this territory;

3. For all demands or damages, accruing from the non-performance, or
mal-performance of any contract of affreightment, or any contract touching
the transportation of persons or property, entered into by the master,
owner, agent, or consignee of the boat or vessel on which such cont.ract is
to be performed; and,

4. For all injuries done to persons or property by such boat or vessel.

SEC. 2. Any person having a demand as aforesaid, instead of proceeding for the recovery thereof. against the master, owner, agent, or consignee of a boat or vessel, may at his option institute suit against such boat
or vessel by name. °

SEC. 3. Any plaintiff wishing to institute suit against a boat or
vessel, shall file his complaint against such boat or vessel by name, with

- the clerk of the district court of the county in which such boat or vessel
shall lie or be.

SEC. 4. The complaint shall set forth the plaintiff's demand in
all its particulars, and on whose account the same accrued; it shall be
verified by the atiidavit of the plaintiff or some credible person for him.

SEC. 5. Whenever any complaint, as aforesaid, shall be filed in
the otlice of the clerk of the district court, it shall be his duty to issue a
warrant returnable in twenty days, directing and authorizing the sheriif to
seize the boat or vessel mentioned in the complaint, and detain the same
in his custody, together with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, until discharged from such custody by due course of law.

SEC. 6. Upon the return of any warrant, issued by virtue of the
next preceding section, proceedings shall be had in the district court against
the boat or vessel seized, in the same manner as if suit had been instituted
against the person on whose account the demand accrued.

SEC. 7. The master, owner, agent, or consignee, of the boat or
vessel, may appear on behalf of such boat or vessel, and answer the
complaint.

SEC. 8. If in any action, commenced under the provisions of
this chapter, the master, owner, agent, or consignee, of the said boat or
vessel, shall not appear and answer the complaint, in twenty days after the
said action shall be commenced, the plaintiff may proceed to take judgment, in the same manner, and under the same restrictions, as in a civil
action against a natural person; if an issue of facts should be joined, the
proceedings shall be had as in other actions.

SEC. 9. If the master, owner, agent, or consignee shall, before
final judgment in any suit instituted by virtue of this chapter, give bonds
to the plaintiff in such suit, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
court, or the judge or clerk thereof in vacation, conditioned to satisfy the
amount which shall be adjudged to be owing and due to the plaintiff, in
the determination of the suit, together with all costs accruing, such boat or
vessel, with the tackle, apparel, and furniture, belonging thereto, shall be
discharged from further detention by the sheriff.

SEC. 10. If judgment shall be rendered against any boat or vessel, in favor of the plaintiff, the court shall make an order directed to the
sheriff, commanding him to sell such boat or vessel, together with its
tackle, apparel, and furniture, to satisfy the judgment, and all costs that
may have accrued in the cause, which order shall be executed and returned
in the same manner as executions. I

SEC. 11. If bond and security shall have been entered into,
according to the ninth section of this chapter, and judgment shall have
been rendered in favor of the plaintiif, execution shall be issued for the
amount of judgment and costs, in favor of the plaintiff, against the principal and security in such bond.

SEC. 12. Justices of the peace, within their respective counties,
shall have cognizance of all cases arising under this chapter, when the
demand claimed shall not exceed the jurisdiction of a just.ice-of the peace.

SEC. 13. In all their proceedings, justices of the peace shall
conform to the provisions of the law governing justices’ courts, and as near
as may be to the provisions of this chapter, as they apply in the district
court. ‘

SEC. 14. Each warrant issued by a justice of the peace under this chapter,.sha1l be returnable forthwith; and upon the return of
such warrant, it shall be the duty of the justice of the peace to hear and
determine the complaint of the plaintiff, in a summary manner.

SEC. 15. All warrants issued by the provisions of this chapter,
shall be served and returned as writs or warrants of attachment are served
and returned.

SEC. 16. Whenever an order of sale shall be made for the
sale of a boat or vessel, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, the sheriff
or constable shall have power to sell such part thereof, or such interest

therein, as shall be necessary to satisfy the amount of judgment rendered
in favor of the plaintiff, and all the costs that may haveaccrued.

SEC. 17. Upon good and sutlicient cause shown by the master, owner, agent, or consignee of any boat or vessel, sold under this chapter, the court or justice of the peace may grant a continuance of the
cause; but no such continuance shall operate as a discharge of such boat
or vessel from the custody of the sheriff or constable.

SEC. 18. No continuance of a cause, under this chapter,
shall be granted to the plaintiff. .

SEC. 19. Sheriffs, constables, and other oflicers, shall receive
the same fees and compensation for their services under this chapter, as
are allowed them in cases of suits of attachment.

SEC. 20. In all cases arising under this chapter, if judgment
shall have been rendered in favor of the plaintiff, the master, owner, agent,
or consignee of the boat or vessel, or other person interested, may appear
from the judgment, as if they, or either of them, had been sued.

SEC. 21. All actions against a boat or vessel, under the provisions of this chapter, shall be commenced and sued within one year after
the cause of such action shall have accrued.

CHAPTER 77.

FORCIBLE ENTRIES AND UNLAWFUL DETAINERS.

Sac-nos Samoa
1. N1; person to make forcible entry into lands, 12. Action‘ lies to recover possession of leased
c. prem sea.

2. Justice to try such entries and detainers. 18. Limitation to preceding section.

8. Upon complaint being dled,justlce to issue 14. Complainant may bring civil action against
summons. defendant.

4. Summons how served. 15. Penalty for neglect to serve as juror.

6. Trial by jury may be demanded by either 18. Fines to be for the useof common schools
party 17. Appeal when and how taken.

6. Summons may be served by copy in certain 18. Stay of proceedings upon appeal.
cases. 19. If restitution allowed before appeal, justice

7. Continuance when granted. to give certificate.

8. Deposltions may be used in certain cases. W. Proceeding in appellate court.

9. Judgment how entered where defendant is 21. Amendments allowed.
found guilty. 22. What matters to be set up in answer.

10. Proceedings when jury cannot agree. 23. Appellate court may compel amended return.
11. Treble damagesallowed. 24. Forms adopted.

SEC. 1. No person or persons shall hereafter make an entry I
into lands, tenements, or other possessions, but in cases where entry is f
given by law; and in such cases, not with strong hands, nor with a 1!
multitude of people, but only in a peaceable manner; and if any person
from henceforth do to the contrary, and ‘thereof be duly convicted, he

shall be punished b tine.’
SEC. 2. Any justice of the peace shall have authority E
to inquire as hereinafter directed, as well against those who may make 3

unlawful or forcible entry into lands, tenements, or other possessions, and
detain the same, as against those who having lawful and peaceful entry
into lands, tenements, or other possessions, unlawfully and forcibly detain
the same; and if it be found upon such inquiry, that an unlawful or
forcible entry hath been made, and that said lands, tenements or other
possessions are unlawfully detained by force and strong hand, or that
the same, after a lawful entry, are so held or detained unlawfully, then
such justice shall cause the party complaining to have restitution thereof.

SEC. 3. When any complaint shall be made in writing, to any
justice of the peace, of any such unlawful or forcible entry or unlawful
detainer, said justice shall issue a summons, directed to the sheriff or any
constable of the same county, commanding him to summon the person or
persons against whom such complaint shall have been made, to appear
before the said justice on a day in such summons named, which shall not
be less than six, nor more than ten days from the day of issuing such
summons, and at the place therein mentioned. '

SEC. 4. Such summons shall be served upon the person or
persons against whom the same is issued, by delivering a certified copy
thereof to such person or persons, at least three days before the return day
thereof; and the officer serving the same shall make a special return of
the time and manner of serving said summons.

SEC. 5. After the return of said summons, served as hereinbefore provided, and at the time and place appointed in said summons, the
said justice shall proceed to hear and determine said complaint: provided,
that if either party shall call for a trial by jury, the said justice shall issue
a venire, in the same manner, and upon the same terms, as in other cases
provided for trial by jury in justice’s court; and such jury shall be sworn
as in other cases.

SEC. 6. If at the time of making said complaint, it shall be
made to appear that the person or persons against whom said complaint is
made, or either of them are absent from the county, it shall be the duty
of the justice before whom the same is made, to issue his summons as
hereinbefore provided, and make the same returnable not less than six,
nor more than ten days from the time of issuing the same, and such summons may be served by leaving a true and attested copy thereof at the
last and usual place of such person or persons’ abode, not less than six
days before the return day thereof; such copy shall be left with some

n member of the family, or some person residing at such place, of suitable

age and discretion, to whom the contents thereof shall be explained by the
otlicer leaving the same; and the said otiicer shall make a special return
of the time and manner of serving said summons; and the suit shall
thereafter proceed the same as though a personal service were had of such
summons.

SEC. 7. The justice may at his discretion, adjourn any trial
under this chapter, not exceeding six days ; but in all cases mentioned in section twelve of this chapter, if the defendant, his agent or attorney, shall
make oath that he cannot safely proceed to trial, for the want of some
material witness, naming him, that he has made due exertion to obtain
said witness, and believes if an adjournment be allowed, he will be able to
procure the attendance of said witness, _or his deposition, in season to
produce the same upon such trial; in which case, if such person or per_sons will give bond, with one or more sufiicient sureties, conditioned to pay
the said complainant for all rent which may accrue during the pendency
of such suit, and all costs and damages consequent upon such adjournment, the said justice shall adjourn said cause for such reasonable time as
may appear necessary, not exceeding three months.

SEC. 8. The deposition of any witness whose testimony may V
be considered necessary by either party, may be taken for the same .
reason, in the same manner, and with the same effect, as is provided by
law for taking of depositions to be used in justices’ courts.

SEC. 9. If, upon the trial of any complaint under this chapter, ~
the justice or jury shall find that the defendant or defendants, or either of ]
them, are guilty of the allegations in the complaint, the said justice shall I
thereupon enter judgment for the complainant, to have restitution of the
premises, and shall impose such fine, not exceeding one hundred dollars,
considering all the circumstances, as he may deem just, and shall tax the
costs for the complainant, and may issue execution in favor of said complainant, for such costs as in other actions ex delicto, and the said justice shall
also award and issue a writ of restitution; but if the said justice or the
jury, find that the person complained of is not guilty, the complaint, in
their opinion, not having been supported, the said justice shall tax the
cost against the complainant, and issue execution therefor.

SEC. 10. If the jury impanneled as aforesaid, cannot agree
upon a verdict, the justice before whom the trial is pending may discharge
said jury, if in his opinion they are not likely to agree upon a verdict, and
issue a venire returnable forthwith, or at some other time agreed upon by
the parties, for the purpose of imparmeling a new jury.

SEC. 11. The complainant of any forcible entry, or of any
unlawful detainer, as aforesaid, who shall recover against the person com- ‘
plained of as aforesaid, shall be entitled to rcmver treble damages, with
costs of suit, by a civil action against the offender or offenders, to be
brought before any justice of the peace, or court of record, for that pur‘pose: provided, always, that nothing contained in the foregoing part of

this chapter, shall be construed to extend to any person or persons who
have had quiet, peaceable and uninterrupted occupation of any lands, tenements, or other possessions, otherwise than by demise or lease, for the
period of three whole years next before the entering of such complaint,
anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding.

SEC. 12. When any person shall hold over any lands, tenements or other possessions, after a sale thereof on an execution against
such person, and expiration of the time for redemption, or after a sale
thereof under a mortgage upon foreclosure by advertisement, or after the
termination of the time for which they are demised or let to him or her,
or to the person under whom he or she holds possession, or contrary to the
conditions or covenants of the lease or agreement under which he or she
holds, or after any rent shall have become due, according to the terms of
such lease or agreement, and shall remain unpaid for the space of three
days; in all such cases, if the lessor, his heirs, executors, administrators,
assigns, agent or attorney, shall make demand in writing of such tenant or
person holding over, that he or she shall deliver possession of the premises
held as aforesaid, and if such tenant or person holding over shall refuse,
or neglect for the space of three days after such demand, to quit the possession of such lands or tenements, or to pay the rent therefor, so due and
unpaid as aforesaid, upon complaint thereof to any justice of the peace of
the county, the justice shall proceed to hear, try and determine the same,
in the same manner as in other cases hereinbefore provided for: provided,
that in all cases mentioned in this section, the justice shall impose no line
upon such tenants, or persons holding over.

SEC. 13. The preceding section shall not extend to
any person who has or shall have continued in possession three years after
the termination of the time for’ which the premises were demised or let to

him or her, or those under whom he or she claims, or after the sale thereof}
as aforesaid; or to any person who continues in possession three years
quietly and peaceably by disseizin, anything contained in this chapter to
the contrary‘ notwithstanding.

SEC. 14. The complainant shall be entitled to bring a civil
action against the person complained of, and who shall be found guilty on
the trial, and may recover treble damages from the time of notice to quit
the premises, and until that time damages only.

SEC. 15. Every person summoned as a juror, or subpoenaed
as a witness, who shall not appear, or, who appearing, shall‘refuse to
serve or give evidence in any prosecution instituted by virtue of this chapter, shall forfeit and pay for every such default or refusal, unless
some reasonable cause be assigned, such fine, not exceeding ten dollars. as
the said justice shall think proper to impose.

SEC. 16. All fines imposed by virtue of any provisions in
this chapter, shall be paid to the county treasurer of the county where the
action is commenced, for the use of common schools; and the said justice
may commit the person against whom the fine is imposed, to the common
jail of the county, until such fine be paid, or the said justice may issue
execution therefor, as in other cases ex delicto.

SEC. 17. If either party shall feel aggrieved by the verdict
of the jury, or decision of the justice, he may appeal within ten days, as
in other cases tried before justices of the peace, excepting his bond
shall be with two or more sutlicient sureties to be approved by said
justice, conditioned to pay all costs of such appeal, and abide the order the
court may make therein, and pay all rent and other damages justly
accruing to said complainant during the pendency of such appeal.

SEC. 18. Upon the taking of such appeal, all further proceedings in the case shall be thereby stayed, and the appellate court shall
thereafter issue all needful writs and processes, to carry out the provisions
of this chapter, according to the true intent and meaning thereof.

SEC. 19. If a writ of restitution shall have been issued previous to the taking of any appeals, as provided in this chapter, the justice
shall forthwith give the appellant a certificate of the allowance of such
appeal; and upon the service of such certiiicate upon the officer having
such writ of restitution, the said officer shall forthwith cease all further
proceedings by virtue of such writ; and if such writ shall not have been
completely executed, the defendant shall remain in possession of the
premises, until the appeal shall have been determined.

SEC. 20. In all cases of appeal under the provisions of this chapter, the appellate court shall not dismiss or quash the proceedings for
want of form only, provided they have been conducted substantially,
according to the provisions of this chapter.

SEC. 21. Amendments may be allowed by the court at any
time before final judgment, upon such terms as to the court shall appear
just, in the same cases and manner, and to the same extent as in civil
actions. ,

SEC. 22. All matters in excuse, justitication, or avoidance
of the allegations in the complaint, shall be set up in the answer.

SEC. 23. The appellate court shall have power to compel
the justice, by attachment, to make or amend any return which shall be
withheld, or insutliciently or improperly made.

SEC. 24. The following or equivalent forms shall be used
in proceedings under this chapter, to wit:

Territory of Minnesota,

county of . "8'

To the sheriff or any constable of the county aforesaid:

Whereas, , of , hath exhibited unto a justice of the
peace, in and for said county aforesaid, a complaint against ,
of , for that the said , on the day of ,
at , (here insert the substance of the complaint with legal certainty) ; therefore, in. the name of the United States, you are hereby
commanded to summon the said , if to be found in the said
county, to appear before me at , on day of , at
of the clock in the noon, then and there to make answer to, and
defend against the complaint aforesaid, and further to be dealt with accx)rding to law, and make due return to me of this summons, with your doings
thereon.

Dated at , this day of , in the year one thousand«

eighthundred and
J. P. justice of the peace.

Form of writ of restitution.

Territory of Minnesota, ~

county of . 88'

To the sherif or any constable of the county aforesaid:

Whereas, , of , at the court of inquiry of an unlawful
or forcible entry and unlawful detainer, held at , in the county
aforesaid, on the day of , one thousand eight hundred
and , before , a justice of the peace, in and for the
county aforesaid, by the consideration of the court, recovered judgment
against , of , to have restitution of, (here describe the
premises as in the complaint); therefore, in the name of the United
States, you are hereby commanded, that taking with you the force of the

county, if necessary, you cause the said to be immediately
removed from the aforesaid premises, and the said to have
peaceable restitution of the same; you are also hereby commanded, that
of the goods and chattels of the said , within said county, you
cause to be levied, and the same being disposed of according to law, to be
paid to the said , the sum of , being the cost taxed
against said , for the said , at the court aforesaid,

together with twenty-five cents for this writ, and thereof together with
this writ, make due return within thirty days from the date hereof, according to law.

Dated at , the day of , one thousand eight
hundred and .

Form of verdict.

At a court of inquiry held at , on the day of ’ ,
one thousand eight hundred and , before , a justice of
the peace, in and for the county of , complainant, against

, respondent, the jury find the facts alleged in the said complaint
are true, that the said is guilty thereof, and the said

ought to have restitution of the premises therein described without delay;
(or in case the jury do not find the allegation of complaint proved) the
jury find that the facts alleged in the same complaint are not proved, and
that the said is not guilty thereof.

C. D., foreman.

J. P., justice of the peace.

SEC. 1. Every insolvent debtor may be discharged from his]
debts, as hereinafter provided, upon executing an assignment of all his :

property, real and personal, for the benefit of his creditors, and upon compliance with the several provisions of this chapter.

SEC. 2. Such insolvent debtor shall petition a judge of the dis- 1
trict court, praying to be discharged in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, and shall annex to, and deliver with his petition to the officer to
whom it shall be presented, a schedule containing: '

1. A full and true account of all his creditors;

2. The place of residence of each creditor, if known to such insolvent,
and if not known, the fact to be so stated;

3. The sum owing to each creditor, and the nature of each demand,
whether arising on written security, on account, or otherwise ;

4. The true cause and consideration of such indebtedness, in each case,
and the place where such indebtedness accrued;

5. A statement of an existing judgment, mortgage or collateral or
other security, for the payment of any such debt;

6. A full and true inventory of all the estate, both real and personal,
in law and in equity, of all choses in action, debts due, and moneys on
hand, of such insolvent, of the incumbranccs existing thereon, and of all
the books, vouchers and securities relating thereto.

Sec. 3. An atlidavit, in the following form, shall be annexed to 1
the said petition, account and inventory, and shall be sworn to and sub- ‘
scribed by such insolvent in the presence of the oflieer to whom the said
petition is addressed, who shall certify the same:

“ I, , do swear, (or affirm, as the case may be,) that the
account of my creditors, and the inventory of my estate, which are annexed
to my petition, and herewith delivered, are in all respects just and true,
and that I have not, at any time or in any manner whatever, disposed of
or made over any part of my estate for the future benetit of myself, or my
family, or in order to defraud any of my creditors, and that I have in no
instance, created or acknowledged a debt for a greater sum than I honestly
or truly owed, and that I have not paid, or in any way compounded with
any of my creditors, with a view fraudulently to obtain the prayer of my

petition.”
SEC. 4. The officer receiving such petition, schedule and atlidavit, shall make an order requiring all the creditors of such insolvent to
show cause, if any they have, at a certain time and place, to be specified
by him, why an assignment of the insolvent’s estate should not be made,
and he be discharged from his debts.

SEC. 5. The otlicer granting such order shall direct notice of its
contents to be published in a newspaper printed at the seat of government
of the territory, and in a newspaper printed in the county in which such

application is made, if there be one ; and if one-fourth part. in amount, of
the debts owing by such insolvent, shall have accrued in any other state or
territory, or be due to creditors residing there, such otiicer shall also designate a newspaper at the seat of government of such state or territory, in

which such notice shall be published.
SEC. 6. If all the creditors of such insolvent reside within the

- territory, the said ofiicer shall direct such notice to be published once in

each week, for six successive weeks, and if any of such creditors reside
out of the territory, the notice shall be directed to be published once in
each week for ten successive weeks. _

SEC. 7. On the day, or at the term appointed in such order, or
any subsequent day or term, that the judge or court before whom cause is
required to be shown, may appoint, the said judge or court, as the case
may be, shall proceed to hear the proof and allegations of the parties, and
before any other proceeding be had, shall require proof [of] the publication
of the notice as herein directed.

SEC. 8. Every creditor opposing the discharge of an insolvent,
under this chapter, may at the time appointed for the first hearing,
demand of the judge or court before whom such hearing shall be had, that
the case of such insolvent be heard and determined by a jury, and shall be
entitled to an order to that effect, upon filing with such judge or court a
specification in writing, of the grounds of his objection to such discharge.

SEC. 9. Upon such demand being made to any court, before
which a hearing shall be had, a jury shall be drawn in the same manner as
for the trial of civil actions, from the jurors summoned and attending said
court, who shall be sworn as prescribed in this chapter.

SEC. 10. If such demand be made to any court in vacation, he

L shall nominate eighteen freeholders of the county, and shall issue a summons to the sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to
cause the persons so nominated to appear before such officer, at a time and
place to be specified in the summons, not less than six nor more than
twelve days from the time of issuing the same.

SEC. 11. At the time and place so appointed, twelve of the persons so summoned and appearing, shall be balloted for and drawn, in_ like
manner as jurors in a court of record, and shall be sworn by the judge,
well and truly to hear, try and determine the validity of the objection so
specified.

SEC. 12. Such jury so drawn and sworn, either by a court, or
judge in vacation, having heard the proofs and allegations of the parties,
shall determine the matter submitted to them, and for that purpose shall
be kept together by some proper otiicer, to be sworn as usual in like cases
in courts of record, until they agree upon their verdict, and such verdict
shall be conclusive in the premises, unless reversed on writ of error, as
hereinafter directed.

SEC. 13. The verdict so rendered, shall be recorded by the
court or judge, in the minutes of the proceedings.

SEC. 14. There shall be but one hearing before a jury, in
any case under this chapter. If such jury cannot agree after being kept.
together a reasonable time, then they shall be discharged, and the court or
judge shall decide upon the merits of the application, as if no jury had
been called. '

SEC. 15. At the hearing of any such petition, before a jury or
otherwise, the insolvent may be examined on oath, at the instance of any
creditor, touching his estate or debts, or any matter stated in his schedule,
and may be required to state any change which may have occurred in the
situation of his property, since the making of his schedule, and particu_

larly whether he has collected any debts or demands, or made any transfer
of any part of his real or personal estate; but this shall not be construed
to prohibit any such creditor from contradicting or impeaching, by other
competent testimony, any evidence given by such insolvent.

SEC. 16. If it shall appear on such examination, or otherwise,
by competent proof, that such insolvent has collected any debts or demands, ,
or made any transfer absolute, or conditional, or otherwise, of any part of p
his real or personal property, since the making of the schedule annexed
to his petition, he shall be required to pay forthwith to the officer or to the
clerk of the court, before whom the hearing shall be had, the full amount
of debts and demands so by him collected or received, and the full value
of all property so by him transferred, except such part of the said debts
and property as shall satisfactorily appear to the judge or court to have
been necessarily expended by such insolvent, for the support of himself or
his family; and no discharge shall be granted to him under the provision
of this chapter, unless such payment shall be made wit.hin thirty days
thereafter, to the assignee of such insolvent.

SEC. 17. If it shall satisfactorily appear to the judge of the
court before whom such application is pending, in cases where no jury has
been required, or the jury have disagreed, that the insolvent is justly and
truly indebted to the creditors, in the sums mentioned in his schedule and
affidavit, that such insolvent has honestly and fairly given a true account
of his estate, and has in all things conformed to the matter required of him
in this chapter, the judge or court before whom the application shall be
pending shall direct an assignment of all such insolvent’s estate, both in
law and in equity, in possession, reversion, or remainder, except such
property as may be by law exempt from execution.

SEC. 18. When any of the matters in the last section,
required to be established previous to granting an order of assignment,
shall have been submitted to a jury as herein provided, and shall have
been found in favor of the insolvent, such finding shall be conclusive as to
such matters, upon the officers or court before whom the proceedings are
pending; and the officers or court shall direct an assignment accordingly:
provided, that the jury may increase or diminish the amount of any debt,
by such insolvent set forth in his schedule.

SEC. 19. Such assignment shall vest in the assignees, all the
interest of such insolvent at the time of executing the same, in any estate,
or property, real or personal, whether such interest be legal or equitable;
but no contingent interest shall pass to the assignees by virtue of such
assignment, unless the same shall become vested within three years after
the making of the assignment; and in case of its becoming so vested, it
shall pass to the assignees in the same manner as it would have vested in
such insolvent if no assignment had been made by him.

SEC. 20. Upon such insolvent’s producing a certificate under
the hands and seals of the assignees, executed in the presence of such
officer, or of two witnesses, and proved by the affidavit of one of them,
stating that such insolvent has assigned and delivered for the use of all his
creditors, all his estate so directed to be assigned, and all the books, vouchers, and securities relating to the same; and upon his also producing a
certificate of the register of deeds of the proper county, that such assignment has been duly recorded in his office, the officers or court who
directed such assignment, shall grant to such insolvent a discharge from
his debts, which shall have the edect declared in the succeeding sections of
this chapter.

SEC. 21. The petition, affidavit, order of discharge, and all
the testimony, proceedings, and papers in the case of such insolvent, shall

be filed in the oflice of the clerk of the district court; whose duty it shall
be to enter upon the docket of judgments in such court, the names of the
several creditors mentioned in the schedule of such insolvent, as plaintiffs,
and the name of such insolvent as defendant, and to enter a judgment in
said docket by confession of defendant, for the several sums respectively
appearing, or shown to be due in and by such schedule and proceedings.
SEC. 22. The said clerk shall also enter a discharge of such

judgment upon the docket, by order of the court, and such discharge may
be pleaded in all cases hereinafter mentioned.

SEC. 23. In any action which shall be brought against such
insolvent, or his personal representatives, a discharge granted pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter, may be pleaded in his answer, in bar of any
action upon any contract made by such insolvent, and in bar of any action
upon any liability of such insolvent, incurred by making or indorsing any
promissory note or bill of exchange, previous to the execution of this
assignment, or incurred by him in consequence of the payment by any
party to such note or bill of the whole, or any part of the money secured
thereby, whether such payment be made prior or subsequent to the execution of the assignment by such insolvent: provided, the same or the consideration be included in such schedule.

SEC. 24. Every discharge granted to an insolvent under
this chapter, shall be voidable in each of the following cases:

1. If such insolvent shall have willfully sworn falsely in his afiidavit
annexed to his petition, or upon his examination in relation to any material
fact concerning his estate, or his debts, or to any other material fact;

2. If, after the presentation of his petition, he shall sell, or in any way
transfer or assign any of his property, or collect any debts due him,
and shall not give a just and true account thereof, on the hearing of his
application, and shall not also pay or secure the payment of the money
so collected, or the value of the property so assigned, as hcreinbefore
directed;

3. . If he shall secrete any part of his estate, or any books or writings
relative thereto, with intent to defraud his creditors;

4. If he shall fraudulently conceal the names of any of his creditors,
or the amount of any sum due to any of them; . .

5. If he shall pay, or consent to the payment of any portion of the
debts or demand of any of his creditors, or shall grant, or consent to the

granting of any gift or reward to any such -creditor, upon any express or
implied contract or trust, that the creditor so paid or rewarded should
abstain or desist from opposing the discharge of such insolvent;

6. If he shall be guilty of any fraud whatever, contrary to the true
intent of this chapter.

SEC. 25. Writs of error from the supreme court, may be

- sued out within one year next after the rendition of the several judgments

against such insolvent in the district court, and if upon the hearing of such
cause in the supreme court, it shall appear by afiidavit that any clause in
the last preceding section has been violated, then and in that case, a new
trial or hearing shall be awarded to the district court, in which such judgments may have been rendered.

SEC. 26. The new hearing to be had, in pursuance of the
last preceding section shall be in all respects conducted according to the
provisions of this chapter ; and the judgment rendered on such new hearing shall be final and conclusive in the premises.

SEC. 27. No judgment ,rendered in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, shall be, or become a lien upon any other property, than such as may have been assigned in satisfaction thereof.

SEC. 28. The court in which judgment may have been .
rendered in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, may from time to 1
time make such order, for the distribution of the proceeds of the sale of 1
the property assigned by any insolvent, as to said court may appear most ‘
for the interest of the creditors; and for the payment from the proceeds
of sales of such property, of all legal fees and expenses accruing on the
application for discharge by any such insolvent.

CHAPTER 80.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST GARNISHEES.

Stories same:
1. When and in what cases party may be sum- 14. lndorsement of omcer evidence of then theremoned as garnishee. in stated.
2. Garnishee how summoned in district court. 15. Otilcer holding execution, how to proceed.
8. Garnishee how liable. 16. Ofilcer holding execution, how to proceed.
4. Proceedings when garnlshee refuse to appear. 17. Elfect of judgment against garnishee.
5. Warrant what to contain. 18. Defendant cannot maintain action against
6. Suit when commenced against garnishee. garnishee
7. Examination of garnishee. 19. Limitation of preceding section.
8. Case when adjourned. 20. Promissory notes, deemed eifects.
9. Court when to render judgment in case of 21. Proceedin when moneys are due to defendgarnishee. ant at a ture time.
10. Proceedings when discontinued as to gar- 22. Proceedings when moneys are due to defendnishee. ant at a future time. '
11. Execution how to issue. 23. Corpprations may he proceeded against under
12. Garnishee when entitled to costs. th chapter.
18. Payment by the garnishee to omcer, same as

payment to defendant.

[azapter 91, Revised Statutes.]

SEC. 1. In any action commenced in any court of record, or justice’s court, founded upon contract, expressed or implied, or upon a judgment or decree, or after the rendition of said judgment in‘ any action, if
the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, shall make and file with the clerk of
the court, or justice of the peace, stating that he has good reason to believe, ahd does believe, that any person (naming him) has property,
money, or effects, in his hands or under his control, belonging to the defendant in such action, or that such person is indebted to the defendant, if
the action is in the justice’s court, the justice shall issue a summons against
said person, requiring him to appear before such justice at a time and
place mentioned in said summons, not less than six nor more than twelve
days from the date thereof, and answer under oath all questions put to him,
touching his indebtedness to such defendant, and the property, money, and
effects of the defendant in his possession, within his knowledge, or under
his control, which summons shall be served and returned in the same manner as a summons issued against a defendant in other cases. The garnishee shall be entitled to the same fees as he would if he were subpoenaed
as a witness in such case.

SEC. 2. In actions pending in the district court, the garnishee may be summoned in the same manner as defendants are summoned in that court; the summons must require the garnishee to appear

before the court or judge, at a time and place mentioned in the summons,
not less than twenty days from the service thereof, and answer touching
his indebtedness to the defendant in the action. On the appearance of the
garnishee before the court or judge, he may be examined, or a reference
may be ordered to take and return the examination of the gamishee, who
may be compelled to attend before the referee from time to time, for that
purpose.

SEC. 3. The person summoned as a garnishee, from the time
of the service of such summons, shall be deemed liable to the plaintiff in
such suit, to the amount of the property, money, oreffects in his hands, or
possession, or under his control, or due from him to the defendant in such
suit: provided, that when the defendant is a householder having a family,
nothing herein contained shall be applicable to any indebtedness of such
garnishee to the defendant for the personal labor of such defendant, or his
family, for any amount not exceeding the sum of twenty-live dollars.

SEC. 4. If such garnishee neglect or refuse to appear, at the
time and place mentioned in such summons, and answer as aforesaid, the
court shall continue the cause to some other day, and without. further showing than the proof that the summons had been properly served upon the
garnishee, and his fees paid or tendered, issue a warrant to bring such

garnishee before him.

SEC. 5. Such warrant shall command the oflicer forthwith to
take the body of such garnishee, and bring him before such court, and
shall contain a further command that such oflicer shall, after he shall have
arrested the garnishee, notify the plaintiff of such arrest; and such Warrant shall be served and returned in the same manner as warrants issued
in other cases.

SEC. 6. The personal service of a summons upon such garnishee, shall be deemed the commencement of suit in the name of the
plaintiff, against such garnishee, which may be entered on the docket as
suits in other cases.

SEC. 7. On the appearance of such garnishee before
the justice, court, judge, or referee, or on some day to which the proceedings may be adjourned, the plaintiff may proceed to examine the garnishee, on oath or otherwise, as the plaintiff may elect, touching the matter alleged in the allidavit, and the justice, judge or referee shall take minutes
of such examination, and tile the same with the other papers in the cause.

SEC. 8. Upon closing the examination, if a suit be pending
and undetermined between the plaintiff and defendant, the cause shall be
continued, but it shall not be necessary to adjourn the same to any day
certain. .

SEC. 9. After the final determination of the action against the
defendant in the case mentioned in the preceding section, the court in
which the action is pending shall, if judgment be rendered in favor of the

(plaintiff, proceed to render‘ judgment in the matter pending against the

said garnishee ; and if it appear from the testimony of the said garnishee, or other testimony which may have been taken in the case, that the
said garnishee is indebted to the defendant, or that he has property belonging to the defendant in his possession, the court shall proceed to render
judgment against the said garnishee, to the amount of his indebtedness to
the said defendant, or for so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy
the plaintiffs demand.

SEC. 10. If the plaintiff fail to recover judgment against the
defendant, in the case mentioned in section seven of this chapter, or if the
defendant pay the judgment rendered in such cases, or stay the execution

thereon, within the time and in the manner prescribed by law, it shall in
either case be deemed a discontinuance of all proceedings against the
garnishee. ,

SEC. 11. If judgment be rendered against the garnishee, the
court may issue executions thereon as in other cases.

SEC. 12. If the garnishee shall on demand, deliver to the oilicer having such execution, all the property, money, and effects, in his possession, or under his control, belonging to the defendant, and pay all
moneys found to be due from him to the defendant, at the time the suit
was commenced against him, or so much of the money, property, and
effects, as may be necessary to satisfy such execution, then the costs which
may have accrued against -such garnishee, shall be paid out of the property, money, and effects so paid over or delivered to such officer.

SEC. 13. The officer having such execution shall indorse all
moneys received from such garnishee, and a description of all property
and effects delivered to him by the gamishee, and such delivery or payment shall be deemed a delivery or payment to the defendant in such suit.

SEC. 14. Upon the return of such execution so indorsed, the
same shall be entered on the docket of the court, as fully as such return
upon such execution, and such entry or transcript thereof shall be prima
facie evidence of the facts therein stated. 

SEC. 15. Whenever the garnishee shall pay or deliver to the
oflicer having such execution, any property which may be sold on an
execution by existing laws, the oflicer shall proceed to levy upon and sell
the same at public auction or vendue, as in other cases; and if the garnishee shall deliver to the ofiicer any notes, bills, bonds, or other choses in
action, the oflicer shall return the same to the court, to be retained in his
hands for the use of the plaintiff, and the plaintiff may sue and collect the
same, or so much thereof as may be necessary to pay the judgment against
the defendant, and costs; the balance, if any, shall be returned to the
gamishee or the defendant. All bills, bonds, notes, accounts, and other
choses in action, secured or delivered under the provisions of this section,
shall be taken, subject to all liens, set-oils, liabilities, and equities existing
between the original parties thereto.

SEC. 16. If the garnishee pay to the oflicer having such execution, any bank note or bill, the same shall be paid over to the plaintiff
at the par value thereof, if he will accept the same, if not, it shall be sold
in the same manner as other personal property.

SEC. 17. Judgments rendered against the garnishee, under
the provisions of this chapter, shall have the same force and effect, as they
would have under existing laws, if such defendant had been named as
plaintiff therein.

SEC. 18. No suit shall be maintained or recovery had by
such defendant against the -garnishee, for the amount of money sworn,

proved, or admitted to be due from such garnishee to the defendant, or for 1

property of the value thereof, money or effects in the hands of such garnishee as aforesaid, while such proceeding is pending.

SEC. 19. The preceding section shall not be so construed, as
to prevent such defendant from prosecuting for, and recovering of such
garnishee, any other or future sum of money due from such garnishee, or
the possession or value of any other property or effects in the hands of
such garnishee belonging to such defendant.

SEC. 20. Bills of exchange and promissory notes not due, in j
the hands of the garnishee at the time of the service of the summons, '

shall be deemed “ effects” under the provisions of this chapter.

sec. 21. If it shall appear upon any examination or trial, had

_ under the provisions of this chapter, that any sum or sums of money is,

or are owing and payable from the garnishee to the defendant, at some
future time or times, it shall be the duty of such court, after the examination or the rendition of the verdict, if a trial by jury is had, and after the
trial, (if the cause is tried by the court) to note the time or times when
the sum or sums of money mentioned in this section, shall become due and
payable, and shall thereupon continue the cause until after the time or
times so noted.

SEC. 22. After the said sum or sums of money become due
and payable as mentioned in the preceding section, the court shall, at the

1 request of the plaintiff, render judgment against the garnishee, as mentioned in section nine of this chapter; and the same proceedings shall
be had thereon and with the like effect, as if the said sum or sums of
money had been due and payable at the time of the service of the summons.

SEC. 23. Corporations may he proceeded against as garnishees, in the same manner and with the like effect as individuals, under
the provisions of this chapter, and the rules of law regulating proceedings
against corporations.

CHAPTER 81.

  PUNISHMENT or CONTEMPTS.

Bnorion Stories

1. Contempts deiined. 9. Warrant to be returned.

2. What courts and judicial oillcers may punish. 10. Warrant how executed.

3. Contempts in presence of court, how pun- 11. On appearance of party how to proceed.
ished. 12. Party found guilty, lined or imprisoned.

4. In other cases how to proceed. 13. Indemnity to injured party also required.

5. If party imprisoned, he may be brought up. 1-1. Imprisonment in certain cases.

6. Whether to be hailed or not, when directed. 15. Party liable to indictment.

7. Warrant of arrest how executed. 16. When a second warrant to issue.

8. Bali how given. 17. Illness an excuse for not producing party.

[Chapter 92, Revised Statutes.)

SEC. 1. The following acts or omissions, in respect to a court of
justice, or proceedings therein, are deemed to be contempts of the authority

of the court:
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior toward the judge

while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or
other judicial proceeding;

2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance,
tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or other judicial proceedin ;

g3. Misbehavior in office, or other willful neglect or violation of duty
by an attorney, counsel, clerk, sheriff, coroner, or other person appointed
or elected to perform a judicial or ministerial service;

4. Deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of the court by a
party to an action or special proceedings; .

5. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order, or process of the
court;

6. Assuming to be an officer, attorney, counsel of a court, and acting
as such without authority;

7. Rescuing any person or property, in the custody of an otlicer by
virtue of an order or process of such court;

8. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action while going to,
remaining at, or returning from the court where the action is on the calendar for trial;

9. Any other unlawful interference with the process or proceedings
of a court;

10. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served; or refusing to be sworn
or answer as a witness;

11. When summoned as a juror in a court, neglecting to attend or ]
serve as such, or improperly conversing with a party to an action to be 4
tried at such court, or with any other person in relation to the merits of ‘
such action, or receiving a communication from a party or other person
in respect to it, without immediately disclosing the same to the court;

12. H Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magistrate, or otlicer, of the
lawful judgment, order, or process of a superior court, or proceeding in an
action or special proceeding contrary to law, after such action or special
proceeding shall have been removed from the jurisdiction of‘ such inferior
tribunal, magistrate, or officer. Disobedience of the lawful orders or
process of a judicial otlicer, is also deemed to be a contempt of the authority of such otiicer. '

SEC. 2. Every court of justice, and every judicial officer, has
power to punish contempts by fines or imprisonment, or both; but when .
the contempt is not one of those mentioned in the first or second subdivisions of the last section, it must appear that the right or remedy of a party
to an action nor special proceeding, was defeated or prejudiced thereby,
before the contempt can be punished by imprisonment, or by atine exceeding fifty dollars. Contempts of justices’ courts are punishable in the manner
provided by statute.

SEC. 3. When a contempt is
committed in the immediate presence of the court, or officer, it may be
punished summarily, for_which an order must be made, reciting the facts
as occurring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging that the
person proceeded against, is thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he be
punished as therein described. Such punishment, however, cannot exceed
that prescribed by section twelve; where the contempt is not committed in
the immediate view and presence of the court, an atlidavit or other proof,
must be presented to the court or ofiicer, of the facts constituting the
contempt.

SEC. 4. In cases other than those mentioned in the last section,
the court or otlicer, may either issue a warrant of arrest, to bring the person charged, to answer, or without a previous arrest may, upon notice, or
upon an order, to show cause, which may be served by a sheriff or other
otliccr, in the same manner as a summons in an action, grant a warrant of
commitment, impose a fine, or both, not exceeding the punishment prescribed by section twelve, and make such order thereupon, as the case may
require.

SEC. 5. If the party charged, be in the custody of an otiicer by

virtue of a legal order or process, civil or criminal, except upon a sentence
for felony, an order may be made for the production of such person, by
the officer having him in custody, that he may answer, and he shall thereupon be produced and held until an order be made for his disposal.

SEC. 6. Whenever a warrant of arrest is issued pursuant to
this chapter, the court or ofiicer must direct whether the person charged,
may be let to bail for his appearance upon the warrant, or detained in custody
without bail; and if he may be hailed, the amount in which he maybe
let to bail. The directions given in this respect, must be specilied in the

warrant.
SEC. 7. Upon executing the warrant of arrest, the sheriff must

i keep the person in actual custody, bring him before the court or ofheer,

and detain him until an order be made in the premises, unless the person
arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the nextsection.
SEC. 8. When the warrant contains the direction to let the
person arrested to bail, he must be discharged from the arrest, upon executing and delivering to the officer, at any time before the return day of
the warrant, a written undertaking with two sufficient sureties, to the effect
that the person arrested will appear on the return of the warrant, and
abide the order of the court or otiicer thereupon, or pay as may be

directed, the sum specified in the warrant.
SEC. 9. The otiicer must return the warrant of arrest, and the

I undertaking, if any received by him from the person arrested, by the return day specified therein. If he fail to make the return, a warrant of
arrest not bailable, may be issued against him, specifying therein the
cause of issuing it.

SEC. 10. The officer to whom the warrant mentioned in the last section is delivered, must execute it, by arresting the person proceeded
against, bringing him personally before the court or officer, and detaining
him in custody until otherwise ordered.

SEC. 11. When the person arrested has been brought up or
appeared, the court or officer must proceed to investigate the charge, by
examining him and the witnesses for or against him, for which an adjournment may be had from time to time, if necessary.

SEC. 12. Upon the evidence so taken, the court or oflicer must
determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the contempt

charged, and if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt, a fine
must be imposed upon him, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars,
or he must be imprisoned not exceeding six months, or both. But in the
discretion of the court or officer, (in case of inability to pay the fine, or
endure the imprisonment,) he may be relieved in such manner and upon
such terms as may be just.

SEC. 13. If an actual loss or injury to a party in an action or
special proceeding, prejudicial to his right therein, have been caused by
the contempt, the court or officer, in addition to the fine or imprisonment
imposed for the contempt, may order the person proceeded against to pa)’
to the party aggrieved a sum of money suflicient to indemnify him, and 00
satisfy his costs and expenses; which order, and the acceptance of money
under it, is a bar to an action by the aggrieved party for such loss and
injur .

SEC. 14. When the contempt consists in the omission to perform an act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be
imprisoned until he shall have performed it; and in that case the 801
must be specified in the warrant of commitment.

SEC. 15. Persons proceeded against, according to the provisi0I1_S
of this chapter, are also liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if 1‘

be an indictable offense, but the court before which a conviction is had on
the‘ indictment, in passing sentence, must take into consideration the punishment before inflicted. ’

SEC. 16. When the warra.nt of arrest has been returned
served, if the person arrested do not appear on the return day, the court
or oilicer may issue another warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the
measure of damages in the action, is the extent of the loss or injury sustained by the aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for which the
warrant was issued, and the costs of the proceedings.

SEC. 17. Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, an
oflicer is required to keep a person arrested in actual custody, and to bring
him before a court or oiiicer, the inability, from illness or otherwise, of the
person to attend, is a suilicient excuse for not bringing him up; nor ca.n
the oiiicer be required to confine a person arrested on a warrant, in a prison
or otherwise to restrain him of personal liberty, except so far as may be
necessary to secure his personal attendance.

CHAPTER 82.

ATTORNEYS AN D COUNSELLORS.

Sacrxox.
1. What attorneys and counsellors now in omce

may practice as such.

Bsorior.
18. Proceedings when attorney claims lien.
19. Attorney when and by whom suspended.

2. Who ma be admitted to practice. 2). By whom proceedings may be instituted,

8. Applicat on for admission and proof thereon. 21. Accusation to be in writing.

4. Examination. 22. Accusation what to contain.

5. Order entitling him to admission. 23. Order for accused to appear and answer,

6. Appiicationto bemadetosupreme court. 24. Accused to appear, or if not, how to pro7. General duties of attorneys ceed.

8. Punishment for deceit or collusion. 25. May object to, or deny accusation.

9. Not to permit other person to use his name. 26. Objections how made.
10. Authority otan attorney. 2?. Ifobjection not sustained, mustanswerforth11. Ptrgceedlngs when he appears without an- 28 with.

ority. . If accused lead court to rono
12. (‘ompelling attorney to produce authority. jud eut.p ‘um’, p “no.
13. Attorney how changed. 29. On Jeilciigment of suspension or removal,
14. Notice of change. case may be made by accused; case how
15. When attorney dies, notice to be served on settled.
opposite party. 80. The judgment roll.
16. Lien of attorney, and its effects. 81. In what cases other courts may suspend, and
17. Proceedin to compel attorneys to deliver their duty thereon.
papers, c.
o [auspter 93, Revised &a¢utss.]

SEC. 1. The following persons are entitled to practice as attorneys
and counsellors in all the courts of this territory:

1.

Those who were duly admitted as attorneys or counsellors of the 3
supreme or district court before the passage of this chapter, and whose I

names are still on the roHs of attorneys of that court.

SEC. 2. Any male person, of the age of twenty-one years, of ‘
good moral character, and who possesses the requisite qualifications of 

learning and ability, is entitled to admission to practice in all the courts of
this territory.
SEC. 3. For

' the purpose of admission, he must apply to the supreme court or any district court of the territoy, when in session, and must show first, that he is
of the age of twenty-one years, which proof may be made by his own allidavit; and second, that he is a person of good moral character, which
may be proved by certificate or other evidence satisfactory to the court.

SEC. 4. The applicant must also be examinedin open court, as
to his qualilications of learning and ability, by the judges, or under their
direction, at the term at which application for admission is made.

SEC. 5. If, upon the examination, he be found duly qualilied,
the court must direct an order to be entered, to the effect that the applicant is a citizen of the United States, of the age of twenty-one years, of
good moral character, and possesses the requisite qualifications of learning
and ability, to practice as an attorney and counsellor in all the courts of
this territory; and upon the entry of the order, he is entitled to practice
as such attorney and counsellor.

SEC. 6. No
person can be admitted to practice as an attorney and counsellor, except
on application to the supreme or any district court in form, and when so
admitted, may practice in any of the courts of this territory.

SEC. 7. It is the duty of an attorney and counsellor:

1. To support the constitution and laws of the United States, and of
this territory;

2. To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice and judicial
oflicers; .

3. To counsel or maintain such actions, proceedings, or defenses, only,
as appear to him legal and just, except the defense of a person charged with

a public offense;
4. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the causes confided to him.

such means only as are consistent with truth, and never to seek to mislead
the judges by any artifice or false statement of fact or law;

5. To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every peril to himself
to preserve the secrets of his client; I '

6. To abstain from all offensive personality and to advance no fact
prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or witness, unless required
by the justice of the cause with which he is charged.

7. Not to encourage either the commencement or the continuance of
an action or proceeding from any motive of passion or interest; and,

8. Never to-reject, for any consideration personal to himself, the cause
of the defenseless or oppressed.

SEC. 8. An attorney or counsellor who is guilty of deceit or
collusion, or consents thereto, with intent to deceive a court or judge, or a
p to an action or judicial proceeding, is punishable for a misdemeanor,
and shall also forfeit to the party injured, treble damages, recoverable in a
civil action.

SEC. 9. If an attorney and counsellor knowingly permit a person not his general law partner to sue out process, or to prosecute or defend
an action or proceeding in his name, he and every person who so uses his
name, shall severally forfeit to the party against whom the process was
issued, on the action or procwding prosecuted or defended, the sum of fifty

dollars, recoverable in a civil action.

I

SEC. 10. An attorney and counsellor has authority:

1. To bind his client in any of the proceedings, in an action or
special proceeding by his agreement duly made, or entered upon the
minutes of the court; but the court shall disregard all agreements and
stipulations in relation to the conduct of, or any of the proceedings, in an
action or special proceeding, unless such agreement or stipulation be
made in open court, or in presence of the clerk, and entered in the minutes by him, or signed by the party against whom the same is alleged, or
his attorney;

2. To receive money claimed by his client in an action or special
proceeding during the pendency thereof, or within one year after judgment, and upon the payment thereof, and not otherwise, to discharge the
claim or acknowledge satisfaction of the judgment.

But this section does not prevent a party employing a new attorney
to issue an execution upon a judgment, or to take other proceedings prescribed by the statute for its enforcement; and when he does so, the
authority of the former attorney ceases.

SEC. 11. If it be alleged by a party for whom an attorney
appears, that he does so without authority, the court may at any stage of
the proceedings relieve the party for whom the attorney has assumed to
appear from the consequences of his acts; it may also summarily upon
motion, compel the attorney to repair the injury to either party consequent
upon his assumption of authority.

SEC. 12. The court or a judge may, on motion of either party,
and on showing reasonable grounds therefor, require the attorney for the
adverse party, or for any one of several adverse parties, to produce or
prove the authority under which he appears, and until he does so, may
stay all proceedings by him on behalf of the party for whom he assumes

to appear.

Sec. 13. The attorney in an action or special proceeding,
may be changed at any time before judgment or final determination, as
follows:

1. Upon his own consent, filed with the clerk or entered upon the
minutes; or, 2. Upon the order of the court, or a judge thereof, on the application
of the client, or for other sutlicient cause; but no such change can be
made until the charges of such attorney have been paid by the party
asking such change to be made.

SEC. 14. When an attorney is changed, as provided in the
last section, written notice of the change, and of the substitution of a
new attorney, or of the appearance of the party in person, must be given
to the adverse party; until then, he is bound to recognize the former
attorney.

SEC. 15. When an attorney dies, or is removed, or suspended,
at‘ ceases to act as such, a party to an action for whom he was acting as
attorney, must, at least thirty days before any further proceedings against
him, be required by the adverse party, by written notice, to appoint
another attorney or to appear in person.

SEC. 16. An attorney has alien for his compensation, whether

I specially agreed upon or implied, as provided in this statute:

1. Upon the papers of his client, which have come into his possession
in the course of his professional employment;

2. Upon money in his hands belonging to his client;

3. Upon money in the hands of the adverse party in an action or proceeding, in which the attorney was employed from the time of giving notice
of the lien to that party; i

4. Upon a judgment to the extent of the costs included therein, or if
there be a special agreement, to the extent of the compensation specially
agreed on, from the time of giving notice to the party against whom the
judgment is recovered. This lien is, however, subordinate to the rights
existing between the parties to the action or proceeding.

SEC. 17. When an attorney refuses to deliver over money
or papers, to a person from or for whom he has received them in the course
of professional employment, whether in an action or not, he may be requiral
by an order of the court in which an action, if any, was prosecuted, or if
no action was prosecuted, then by order of the supreme court, to do so
within a specified time, or show cause why he should not be punished for a
contempt.

SEC. 18. If, however, the attorney claim a lien upon the
money or papers, under the provisions of this chapter, the court may :

1. Impose as a condition of making the order, that the client give
security in a form and amount to be directed, to satisfy the lien when
determined in an action; or,

2. Summarily to inquire into the facts on which the claim of a lien is
founded, and determine the same; or,

3. A Direct the trial of the controversy by a jury, or refer it, and upon
the verdict or report, determine the same, as in other cases.

REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS.

SEC. 19. An attorney and counsellor may be removed or
suspended by the supreme court, at a general term thereof, for either of
the following causes, arising after his admission to practice:

1. Upon his being convicted of felony, or of a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude, in either of which cases the record of his conviction is
conclusive evidence;

2. Upon its being shown to the satisfaction of the court, that he has
knowingly signed a frivolous pleading, or has been guilty of any other
deceit or willful misconduct in his profession;

3. For a willful disobedience or violation of the order of a court,
requiring him to do or forbear an act connected with or in the course of
his profession;

4. For a willful violation of any of the provisions of section seven.

SEC. 20. The proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney
and counsellor, as provided in the last section, must be taken by the court
of its own motion for matter within its knowledge, or may be taken upon

the information of another.

SEC. 21. If the proceeding be upon the information of
another, the accusation must be in writing, and must be presented to the T
court.

SEC. 22. The accusation must state the matter charged, and A
must be verified by the oath of the person making it, or of some other
person, to the effect that the charges therein contained are true.

SEC. 23. After receiving the accusation, the court must, 1
if in its opinion the case requires it, make an order requiring the accused I
to appear and answer the accusation at a specified time in the same or a
subsequent term; and must cause a copy of the order and of the accusation
to be served upon the accused, within a prescribed time before the day
appointed in the order.

SEC. 24. The accused must appear at the time appointed ;
in the order, and answer the accusation, unless for sutlicient cause the 1
court assign another day for that purpose. If he do not appear, the court
may proceed and determine the accusation in his absence.

SEC. 25. The accused may answer the accusations, either 1
by objecting to its sufiiciency, or by denying its truth. T

SEC. 26. If he object to the sufiiciency of the accusation, «
the objection must be in writing, but need not be in any specified form, it ’
being sutlicient if it present intelligibly the grounds of the objection. If
he deny the truth of the accusation, the denial may be oral and without
oath, and must be entered upon the minutes.

SEC. 27. If an objection to the sutliciency of the accusation be not sustained, the accused must answer it forthwith. ,

SEC. 28. If the accused plead guilty, or refuse to answer
the accusation, the court must proceed to judgment of removal or suspension. If he deny the matters charged, the court must immediately, or at
such time as it may appoint, proceed to try the accusation. 3

SEC. 29. In case of a judgment of suspension or removal,
the accused may within ten days after it is pronounced, make a case setting
forth the evidence, and other proceedings in the matter upon the hearing
thereof, which must be settled by the court in the same manner as a case
in a civil action; when settled it must be filed by the clerk of the court
by which the judgment was given.

SEC. 30. The following papers must be annexed together,
and filed by the clerk within two days after the filing of the case, or
within such further time as the court or judge thereof may prescribe:

1. The accusation;

2. The objections or answers thereto;

3. The case mentioned in the last section;

4. A copy of the entries upon the minutes of the court, relating to the
accusation and the proceedings thereon, including the order of suspension
or removal.

SEC. 31. Any court, except a justice’s court, may suspend
an attorney and counsellor from practicing therein, for any of the causes
mentioned in section nineteen, for a period not beyond the adjournment of
the next general term of the supreme court in the territory; the order of
suspension must state the cause thereof, and must be entered upon the
minutes, and a certified copy thereof transmitted by the court by which it
is made to the next general term of the supreme court in the territory,
which may proceed thereon against the person suspended, in the manner
provided in this chapter.

SEC. 5. The sufficiency of the sureties in any bond executed
under the provisions of this chapter, shall be ascertained by the aflidavit
of eachsurety, stating that he is a householder, resident within this territory, and that he is worth a sum equal to the amount in which the bond
shall have been required, over and above all debts and demands against
him. Every such atiidavit shall be annexed to or indorsed on the bond.

SEC. 6. Whenever a bond shall be required to be executed,
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, prior to the issuing of an injunction, the same with the atiidavit above required, shall be tiled with the
clerk of the court before the sealing and delivery of the injunction.

SEC. 7. The judge shall direct the delivery of any bond executed under the provisions of this chapter, to the person entitled to the
benefit thereof, for prosecution, whenever the condition of such bond shall
be broken, or the circumstances of the case shall require such delivery.

SEC. 8. Bills for the foreclosure or satisfaction of mortgages
may be filed in the district court of the county where the mortgaged premises, or some portion thereof are situated, and in case any defendant is not
a resident of the county, process may be served on him in any other
county within the territory; or if he be absent or concealed, an order for
his appearance may be made, and proceedings thereon be had as are provided for in the case of absent or concealed defendants. '

SEC. 9. (a) Whenever a bill shall be filed for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, the court shall have power to decree
a sale of the mortgaged premises, or such part thereof as may be willcient to discharge the amount due on the mortgage and the costs of suit;
but the district judge shall not by such decree order any lands to be sold
within nine months after the filing of the bill of foreclosure.

When a bill shall be filed for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, the court shall not only have power to decree and compel the dclivery of the possession of the premises to the purchaser thereof, but on
the coming in of the report of sale, _the court shall have power to decree
and direct the payment by the mortgagor of any balance of the mortgage
debt that may remain unsatisfied, after a sale of the mortgaged premises
in the cases in which such- balance is recoverable at law; and for that purpose, may issue the necessary executions as in other cases against other
property of the mortgagor.

SEC. 10. After such bill shall be tiled, while the same is pending, and after a decree is rendered thereon, no proceedings whatever shall
be had at law for the recovery of the debt secured by the mortgage, or
any part thereof, unless authorized by the court.

SEC. 11. If the mortgage debt be secured by the obligation,
or other evidence of debt of any person other than the mortgagor, the
complainant may make such other person a party to the bill, and the court
may decree payment of the balance of such debt remaining unsatisfied,
after a sale of the mortgaged premises, as well against such other person

as the mortgagor, and may enforce such decree as in other cases.
SEC. 12. Upon filing a bill for the foreclosure or satisfaction

of a mortgage, the complainant shall state therein whether any proceed’ ings have been had at law for the recovery of the debt secured thereby,

or any part thereof, and whether such debt, or any part thereof has been
collected or paid. . . _

SEC. 13. If it appear that any Judgment has been obtained
in a suit at law, for the moneys demanded by such bill, or any part thereof,
no proceedings shall be had in such case, unless to an execution against
the property of the defendant in such judgment, the sheriff, or other
proper otiicer, shall have returned that the execution is unsatisfied, in
whole or in part, and that the defendant has no property whereof to satisfy
such execution, except the mortgaged premises.

SEC. 14. All sales of mortgaged premises under a decree
of chancery, shall be made by a master in chancery, or other person appointed by the court, in the county where the premises or some part of
them are situated. .

SEC. 15. Deeds shall thereupon be executed by such master or other person appointed as aforesaid, which shall vest in the purchaser
the same estate that would have vested in the mortgagee, if the equity of
redemption had been foreclosed, and no other or greater; and such deeds
shall be as valid as if executed by the mortgagor and mortgagee, and shall
be an entire bar against each of them, and against all parties to the suit
in which the decree for such sale was made, and  their heirs respectw
ively, and all persons claiming under such heirs.

SEC. 16. The proceeds of every sale made under a decree
in chancery, shall be applied to the discharge of the debt adjudged by such
court to be due, and of the costs awarded; and if there be any surplus, it
shall be brought into court for the use of the defendant, or of the person
entitled thereto, subject to the order of the court.

SEC. 17. If such surplus, or any part thereof, shall remain

j in the said court, for the term of three months, without being applied for,

the district judge may direct the same to be put out at interest, subject to
the order of the court for the benefit of the defendant, his representatives
or assigns, to be paid to them by the order of the court.

SEC. 18. Whenever a bill shall be filed for the satisfaction
or foreclosure of any mortgage upon which there shall be due any interest,
or any portion or installment of the principal, and there shall be other
portions or installments to become due subsequently, the bill shall be dismissed upon the defendant’s bringing into court, at any time before the
decree of sale, the principal and interest due, with costs.

SEC. 19. If, after a decree for sale entered against a defendant in such case, he shall bring into court the principal and interest
due, with costs, the proceedings in the suit shall be stayed, but the court
shall enter a decree of foreclosure and sale, to be enforced by a further
order of the court, upon a subsequent default in the payment of any pol‘tion, or installment of the principal, or of any interest thereafter to grow
due.

SEC. 20. If the defendant shall not bring into court the
amount due, with costs, or if, for any other cause, a decree shall pass for
the complainant, the court may direct a reference to a master, to ascertain
and report the situation of the mortgaged premises, or may determine the
same, on oral or other testimony; and if it shall appear that the same can
be sold in parcels, without injury to the interests of the parties, the decree
shall direct so much of the mortgaged premises to be sold, as will be sumcient to pay the amount then due on such mortgage, with costs ; and such
decree shall remain as security for any subsequent default.

SEC. 21. If, in the ease mentioned in the preceding section,
there shall be any default subsequent to such decree, in the payment of
any portion, or instalment of the principal, or of any interest due upon
such mortgage, the court may, upon the petition of the complainant, by a
further order founded upon such first decree, direct a sale of so much of
the mortgaged premises to be made under such decree, as will be suflicient
to satisfy the amount so due, with the costs of such petition, and the subsequent proceedings thereon; and the same proceedings may be had as
often as a default shall happen.

SEC. 22. If, in any of the foregoing cases it shall appear
to the court that the mortgaged premises are so situated, that a sale of the
whole will be most beneficial to the parties, the decree shall, in the first
instance, be entered for the sale of the whole premises accordingly.

SEC. 23. In such case, the proceeds of such sale shall be
applied as well to the interest, portion or installment of the principal due.
as towards the whole or residue of the sum secured by such mortgage, and
not due and payable at the time of such sale; and if such residue do not
bear interest, then the court may direct the same to be paid, with a rebate
of the legal interest for the time during which such residue shall not be
due and payable; or, the court may direct the balance of the proceeds of
such sale, after paying the sum due with costs, to be put out at interest for
the benefit of the complainant, to be paid to him as the installments or
portions of the principal, or the interest, may become due, and the surplus
for the benefit of the defendant, his representatives, or assigns, to be paid
to them on the order of the court. .

SEC. 24. Whenever it shallbe deemed necessary, pending

any suit or proceeding, the court may appoint a special master in chancery; ,

such master to be sworn, and to give bond, if required, for the faithful
performance of the duties assigned him, to have power to administer oaths
in any proceedings before him, and to receive for his services, such reasonable compensation as the court may allow.

SEC. 25. When any person being complainant or defendant, shall think himself aggrieved by the final order or decree of a judge
of a district court, sitting as a court of chancery, such person may enter
an appeal within two months, to the supreme court, from such decree or
final order; and when any person, being complainant or defendant shall
think himself aggrieved by any interlocutory decree, or any order previous to a final order or decree, he may enter an appeal therefrom to the
supreme court within fifteen days from the time of entering such decree
or making such order.

SEC. 26. The party appealing in either of the above spe- ;
cified cases,shall give bond to the adverse party with good security, in such ‘

sum as the judge of the district court shall order, conditioned to pay, satisfy, and perform the order or decree of the supreme court, and all costs,
in case the decree or final order, or interlocutory decree or previous order,
as the case may be, of the district court, shall be atiirmed; and if the final
order or decree of the district court shall be aflirmed, the supreme court
may award'such damages against the appellant as they may think proper,
not exceeding twenty-live per cent. on the amount of the money or other
subject matter of such decree.

SEC. 1. Every clerk of a court of record, and every justice of
the peace may issue subpoenas for witnesses in all civil cases pending
before the court, or before any magistrates, arbitrators, or other persons
authorized to examine witnesses, and the subpoenas shall be in the form
heretofore adopted and commonly used.

SEC. 2. Such subpoenas may be served by any person by exhibiting and reading it to the witness, or by giving him a copy thereof, or by
leaving such copy at the place of his abode.

SEC. 3. No person shall be obliged to attend as a witnessunless
the fees are paid or tendered to him which are allowed by law for one
day’s attendance as a witness, and for traveling to and returning from the
place where he is required to attend.

SEC. 4. If any person duly subpcenaed and obliged to attend
as a witness, shall fail so to do, without any reasonable excuse, he shall be
liable to the aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by such failure,
to be recovered in a civil action.

SEC. 5. Such failure to attend as a witness in any court of
record, shall also be considered a contempt of the court, and may be punished by a fine not exceeding twenty dollars.

SEC. 6. The court in such case may issue an attachment to
bring such witness before them to answer for the contempt, and also to
testify as a witness in the cause in which he was subpoenaed.

SEC. 7. Depositions may be taken in the manner and according to the regulations provided in this chapter, to be used before any
magistrates or other persons authorized to examine witnesses in any other
than criminal cases.

SEC. 8. When a witness whose testimony is wanted in any
civil cause pending in this territory shall live more than thirty miles from

the place of trial, or shall be about to go out of the territory and not to
return in time for trial, or is so sick, infirm or aged as to make it probable
that he will not be able to attend at the trial, his deposition may be taken
in the manner hereinafter provided.

SEC. 9. At any time after the cause is commenced by the
service of process or otherwise, or after it is submitted to arbitrators
or referees, either party may apply to any justice of the peace who shall
issue a notice to the adverse party, to appear before the said justice, or
any other justice of the peace, at the time and place appointed for taking
the deposition, and to put such interrogatories as he may think fit.

SEC. 10. The said notice may be served on the agent or attorney
of the adverse party, and shall have the same effect as if served on the

art himself.
SEC. 11. When there are several persons plaintiffs or defendants, or parties on either side in the cause, a notice served on either of
them shall be suflicient.

SEC. 12. The notice shall be served by delivering an attested
copy thereof to the person to be notified, or by leaving such copy at his
place of abode, allowing in all cases not less than twenty-four hours after
such notice before the time appointed for taking the depositions, and also
allowing time for his travel to the place appointed after being notified,
not less than at the rate of one day, Sundays excepted, for every twenty
miles travel.

SEC. 13. The written notice before prescribed may be wholly
omitted, if‘ the adverse party or his attorney shall in writing waive the
ri ht to it.

SEC. 14. The deponent shall be sworn to testify the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, relating to the cause for which
the deposition is taken, and he shall then be examined by the parties
if they think fit, or by the justice, and his testimony shall be taken in
writin .

SEC. 15. The party producing the deponent shall be allowed
first to examine him, either u on verbal or written interrogatories, on all
points which he shall deem pmaterial, and then the adverse party may
examine the deponent in like manner; after which either party may propose such further interrogatories as the case may require.

SEC. 16. The deposition shall be written by the justice or by
the deponent, or by some disinterested person, in the presence and under
the direction of the justice, and it shall be carefully read to or by the
deponent, and shall then be subscribed by him. »

SEC. 17. The justice shall annex to the deposition a certificate substantially as follows:

Territory of Minnesota,

County of

I, A. B., justice of the peace in and for said county, do hereby certify
that the above deposition was taken before me, at my oliice in the

in said county, on the day of , 18 , at o’clock,
; that it was taken at the request of the plaintiif, (or defendant)
upon verbal (or written) interrogatories; that it was reduced to writing

88.

by myself, (or by deponent, or by , a disinterested person,
in my presence and under my direction,) that it was taken to be used in
the suit of A. B. vs. C. D., now pending in court, and that

the reason for taking it was (here state the true reason,) that
attended at the taking of said deposition, (or that a notice, of which the
annexed is a copy, was served upon him, on the day of
18 ;) that said deponent before examination was sworn to testify the

truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, relative to the said
cause, and that the said deposition was carefully read to (or by) said deponent, and then subscribed by him.

Dated at the day of one thousand eight
hundred and .

A. B., justice of the peace.

SEC. 18. The deposition shall be delivered by the justice
to the court or arbitrators, or referees, before whom the cause is pending,
or shall be inclosed and sealed by him, and directed to them, and shall
remain sealed until opened by said court, or the clerk thereof, or arbitrators, or referees.

Sec. 19. No depositions shall be used if it shall appear that
the reason for taking it no longer exists: provided, however, that if the
party producing the deposition in such case shall show any sufiicient cause
then existing for using such deposition, it may be admitted.

SEC. 20. Every objection to the competency or credibility of
the deponent, and to the propriety of any question put to him, or of any
answer made by him, may be made when the deposition is produced, in
the same manner as if the witness was personally examined on the trial:

provided, that all objections to any interrogatory shall be made before it is

answered, and if the interrogatory is not withdrawn, the objection shall
be noted in the deposition, or otherwise the objection shall not be afterward allowed.

SEC. 21. When the plaintiff in any suit shall discontinue it,
or the suit shall be dismissed for any cause, and another suit shall afterward be commenced for the same cause between the same "parties, or
their respective representatives, all depositions lawfully taken for the
first suit may be used in the second, in the same manner, and subject
to the same conditions and objections as if originally taken for the second
suit; provided, that the deposition shall have been duly filed in the court
where the first suit is pending, and shall remain in the custody of the
court, from the termination of the first suit until the commencement of the
second.

SEC. 22. When a suit shall have been appealed from one
court to another, all depositions lawfully taken to be used in the court
below, may be used in the appellate court in the same manner, and subject
to such exception for informality or irregularity, and none other, as were
taken to such depositions in writing in the court below.

SEC. 23. The court may from time to time make such rules
as they shall find proper and convenient, as to the time and manner of
filing depositions, and the safe keeping thereof, and any other regulations
concerning the taking and using of depositions, which may not be inconsistent with the provisions of law. ‘

SEC- 24. Any witness may be subpoenaed and compelled to
give his deposition, at any place within twenty miles of his abode, in like
manner, and under the same ‘penalties, as he may be subpoenaed and compelled to attend as a witness in any court.

SEC. 25. The deposition of any witness without this territory may. be taken under a commission issued to any competent person in
any state or county, by the court in which the cause is pending, or upon a
reference as hereinafter provided; and the deposition may be used in the

same manner and subject to the same conditions and objections as if it had
been taken in this territory.
SEC. 26. No commission shall be issued to take testimony

‘ out of this territory, except in the following cases:

1. When an issue has been joined in an action in a court of record in
this territory, and it shall appear on the application of either party that
any witness not residing in this territory, is material in the prosecution or
defense of such action, and that the due notice of such application was
served upon the adverse ‘party at least ten days before the application is
made.

2. When, in an action commenced in a court of record in this territory:
the time for answering the complaint shall have expired, and the defendant shall not have answered or demurred to the said complaint, and it shall
appear upon the application of the plaintilf that the testimony of any Witness not residing in this territory is material and necessary to establish the
facts stated in the complaint, and to enable the court to render judgment
in such action.

SEC. 27. When the application is made in behalf of the
plaintiff in an action wherein no answer or demurrer to the complaint has
been interposed, the court may, in its discretion, order a reference to one
or more competent persons in any state or county to take such depositioma
and report the same to the court in the same manner as testimony is taken
and reported by referees within the territory. In all other cases such
depositions shall be taken under a commission, and upon written interroglr
tories, to be exhibited to the adverse party or his attorney, and cross inter‘
rogatories to be filed by him, if he shall think fit: provided, that the 
ties may, by stipulation in writing, agree upon any other mode of tak1D8
depositions, and when taken pursuant to such stipulation, they may be used
upon the trial with like force and effect in all respects as if taken upon the
commissions and written interrogatories as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 28. The court may make rules as to the issllingd
commissions, either in vacation or term time, and the filing of inte1'r0g8_‘
tories, and all other matters relating to depositions taken out of the temtory: provided, that such rules be not inconsistent with the provisions Of
law. '

SEC. 29. All depositions and aiiidavits taken out of the
territory, in any other manner than is prescribed in the preceding secti0D5v
if taken before any notary public, or other person authorized by the18W5
of any state or country, to take depositions, may be admitted or rejecmd
in the discretion of the court: provided, that no such deposition or aIlld3'
vit shall be admitted, unless it appear that the adverse party had sufficient
notice of the taking thereof, and opportunity to cross examine the Witn035'

SEC. 30. When any person shall be desirous to perpewfw
the testimony of any witness, he shall make a statement in writing, Setting
forth briefly, and substantially, his title claim or interest, in or to the sub‘
ject concerning which he desires to perpetuate the evidence, and the name’
of all other persons interested, or supposed to be interested therein» fwd
also the name of the witness proposed to be examined, and shall de11V°’
the said statement to the judge of a court of record, requesting him “°
take the deposition of the said witness.

SEC. 31. The said judge shall thereupon cause notice to be

given of the time and place appointed for taking the deposition, to all persons mentioned in the said statement, as interested in the case, which notice
shall be given in the same manner as is prescribed in this chapter, respecting notice upon taking a deposition in this territory, to be used in any
cause here pending.

SEC. 32. The deponent shall be sworn and examined, and
his deposition shall be written, read, and subscribed in the same manner
as is prescribed respecting the other depositions before mentioned, and the
judge shall annex thereto a certificate under his hand, of the time and
manner of taking it, and that it was taken in perpetual remembrance of
the thing, and he shall also insert in the certificate, the names of the persons at whose request it was taken, and of all those who were notified to
attend, and of all those who did attend the taking thereof.

SEC. 33. The deposition with the certificate, and also the
written statement of the party at whose request it was taken, shall, within
ninety days after the taking thereof, be recorded in the registry of deeds
in the county where the land lies, if the depositiop relates to real estate,
otherwise in the county where the parties, or some of them reside.

SEC. 34. If any suit shall, either at the time of taking
such deposition, or at any time afterwards, he pending between the person
at whose request it was taken, and the persons named in the written statement, or any of them who were notified as aforesaid, or any person claiming under either of the said parties respectively, concerning the title, claim,
or interest set forth in the statement, the deposition so taken, or a certified
copy of it from the registry of deeds, may be used in such suit, in the
same manner and subject to the same conditions and objections as if it had
been originally taken for the said suit.

SEC. 35. Any witness may be subpaanaed and wmpelled
to give his deposition in perpetual remembrance of the thing, as before
prescribed, in like manner and under the same penalties as are provided
in this chapter, respecting other depositions taken in this territory.

SEC. 36. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses living without the territory, may be taken in any state, or in any
foreign country, upon a commission to be issued by any court of record in
the manner hereinafter provided.

SEC. 37. The person who proposes to take the deposition, shall apply to any such court, and tile therein a statement like that
before prescribed to be delivered to the judge or justice of the peace, upon
taking such a deposition within this territory, and if the subject of the
proposed deposition relate to real estate within this territory, the statement
shall be filed in the county where the lands, or any part thereof lies; otherwise in the county where the parties, or some of them reside.

SEC. 38. The court shall order notice of such application and statement, to be served on all the persons mentioned therein as
adversely interested in the case, and living within the territory, which
notice shall be served fourteen days at least before the time appointed for
hearing the parties. .

SEC. 39. If, upon such hearing of the parties, or of the
applicant alone, should no adverse party appear, the court shall be satis&ed that there is sufficient cause for taking the deposition, they shall issue

a commission therefor, in like manner as for taking a deposition to be used
in any cause pending in the same court.
SEC. 40. The deposition shall be taken upon written interrogatories, filed by the applicant, and cross interrogatories filed by any party
adversely interested, if he shall think tit; and it shall be taken and

returned substantially in the same manner as if taken to be used in any
cause pending in the same court.

Sec. 41. The person who proposes to take the deposition,
may, at his election, file his statement in the clerk’s omce in vacation, and

i may cause notice thereof to be given to the persons therein named as

adversely interested, by serving them with an attested copy of the said statement, fourteen days at least before the next term of the court; and the
court may thereupon proceed to hear the parties, and to issue the commission as before provided. °

SEC. 42. The supreme court may, from time to time, make
rules as to taking depositions, to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses
without the territory when taken under a commission from any court of
record, and as to the  and recording of such deposition: 
such rules be not inconsistent with the provisions of law.

SEC. 43. All depositions to perpetuate the testimony of
witnesses taken at any place without this territory, according to the provisions of this chapter, may be used in like manner as if taken within this
territory.

SEC. 44. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses within or without this territory, so that the same may be evidence
against all persons, may be taken upon a commission to be issued, after
public notice, by any court of record.

SEC. 45. The person who desires to have such deposition
taken, may apply to any such court in the manner before prescribed, in the
case of taking a deposition to perpetuate the testimony of a witness living
without the territory, and all the proceedings thereon, shall be the same as
are prescribed in the case last mentioned.

SEC. 46. The court shall, in addition to the proceedings so
before prescribed, inquire upon the oath of the applicant, or otherwise, in
their discretion, as to all persons known or supposed to be interested in
the case, and shall in the commission direct the commissioner or commissioners, to publish in such newspaper or newspapers, within or without the
territory, or both, or in such other manner as the court shall consider
most effectual, such notice of the time and place of taking such deposition, and of the subject matter thereof as the court shall think proper;
which notice shall be addressed specially by name to all persons who are
known or supposed to be interested in the case, and generally to all others,
that they may attend and propose cross interrogatories to the witness; and
the court may also require personal notice of the time and place of taking,
and of the subject matter of such deposition, to be given to such persons,
and in such manner, as under all the cirumstances shall seem proper.

Sec. 47. Such deposition having been taken and returned
to the court by whose order the commission issued, and being found by
the court to have been taken according to law and the directions contained
in the commission, the‘ court shall order it to be recorded within thirty
days, in the registry of deeds for the county in which the land lies, if the

deposition relate to real estate, otherwise in the county in which the parties
or some of them reside.

SEC. 48. Any deposition taken and recorded under the
provisions of the four preceding sections, or a certitied copy thereof from
the registry may be used by the person at whose request it was taken, or
by any person claiming under him, against any person whatever in any
suit or proceeding wherein shall be brought in question the title, claim or
interest set forth in the statement upon which the commission was founded,
in the same manner and subject to the same conditions and objections as if
it had been originally taken for said suit or proceeding.


SEC. 49. Any witness may be subpoenaed and compelled in
like manner, and under the same penalties as are prescribed in this chapter, to give his deposition in any cause pending.in a court in any state or
government, which deposition may be taken before any justice of the
peace in this territory, or before any commissioners that may be appointed
under the authority of the state or government in which the suit is pending; and if the deposition is taken before such commissioners, the witness
may be subpoenaed and compelled to appear before them by process from
any justice of the peace in this territory.


SEC. 50. A witness is a person whose declaration under oath is
received as evidence for any purpose, whether such declaration be made
on oral examination or by deposition or atiidavit.

SEC. 51. All persons without exception, otherwise than as
specified in the next two sections, having the power and faculty to perceive, and of making known their perceptions to others, may be witnesses.
Therefore, neither parties nor other persons, who have an interest in the
event of an action, are excluded, nor those who have been convicted of a
crime, nor persons on account of their religious opinions or belief; although
in every case the credibility of the witness may be drawn in question.
But no defendant in a criminal action or proceeding, shall be a competent
witness therein for himself.

SEC. 52. The following persons are not competent to testify in V

any action or proceeding:

1. Those who are of unsound mind or intoxicated at the time of their
production for examination;

2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of receiving
just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined or of relating them truly.

SEC. 53. There are particular relations in which it is the ‘
policy of the law to encourage confidence and to preserve it inviolate; ‘

therefore a person cannot be examined as a witness in the following cases:

1. A husband cannot be examined for or against his wife, without her
consent; nor a wife for or against her husband, without his consent; nor
can either during the marriage or afterwards, be, without the consent of the
other, examined as to any communication made by one to the other during
the marriage; but this exception does not apply to a civil action or proceeding by one against the other; nor to a criminal action or proceeding
for a crime committed by one against the other;

2. An attorney cannot, without the consent of his client, be examined
as to any communication made by the client to him, or his advice given
thereon in the course of professional duty;

3. A clergyman or priest cannot, without the consent of the person
making the confession, be examined as to the confession made to him in
his professional character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the church
to which he belongs;

4. A regular physician or surgeon cannot, without the consent of his
patient, be examined in a civil action, as to any information acquired
in attending the patient, which was necessary to enable him to prescribe
or act for the patient; A

5. A public officer cannot be examined as to communications made to
him in official confidence, when the public interest would suffer by the
disclosure. 0

SEC. 54. The records and judicial proceedings of any court
of any state or territory or of the United States, shall be admissible in
evidence, in all cases in this territory, when authenticated by the attestation
of the clerk, prothonotary or other ofiicer having charge of the records of
such court, with the seal of such court annexed.

SEC. 55. The printed copies of all statutes, acts, and resolves
of this territory, whether of a public or private nature, which shall be
published under the authority of the territory, shall be admitted as
sufficient evidence thereof in all courts of law, and on all occasions
whatsoever. .

SEC. 56. Printed copies of the statute laws of any state or

territory of the United States, if purporting to be published under the

authority of their respective governments, or if commonly admitted and
read as evidence in their courts, shall be admitted in all courts of law and
on all other occasions in this territory as prima facie evidence of such
laws.

SEC. 57. The unwritten or common law of any state or territory of the United States, may be proved as facts by parol evidence, and
the books of reports of cases, adjudged in their courts, may also be admitted as evidence of such law.

SEC. 58. The existence and the tenor, or effect of all foreign
laws, may be proved as facts, by parol evidence, but if it shall appear
that the law in question is contained in a written statute or code, the court
may in their discretion, reject any evidence of such law, that is not accompanied by a copy thereof.

SEC. 59. An exemplification of a judgment rendered by any
justice of the peace, in any state or territory of the United States, officially
certified by such justice as a full and correct copy of all the proceedings in
that case from his docket, with a certificate of magstracy thereon, signed
and authenticated by a clerk of a court of record in the county, where
such judgment was rendered, with the seal thereof attached. shall be good
and legal evidence in any court or legal proceedings in this territory to

prove the fJ'_.'_1‘c‘ts contained in such exemplitication.

SEC. 60. When notice of any application to any court, or judicial ofticer for any proceeding authorized by law, is required. to be published in one or more newspapers, an atiidavit of the printer of ‘such
newspaper, or of his foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a printed cdpy
of such notice, taken from the paper in which it was published, and specifying the time whon, and the paper in which such notice was published
may be filed with the proper officer of the court, or with the judicial oflicer
before whom such proceeding shall be pending, at any time within sin
months after the last day of the publication of such notice, unless sooner
specially required.

SEC. 61. When any notice of a sale of real property is required by law, to be published in any newspaper, an aiiidavit of the printer
of such newspaper, or of his foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a
printed copy of such notice, taken from the paper in which it was published, and specifying the times when, and the paper in which such notice
was published, may be filed at any time within six months after the last
day of such publication with the register of deeds in the county in which‘
the premises sold are situated.

SEC. 62. The original afiidavit so filed pursuant to the last
two preceding sections and copies thereof, duly certified by the otiicer in
whose custody the same shall be, shall be presumptive evidence in all
cases, and in every court or judical proceeding, of the facts contained in
such affidavit.

SEC. 63. The affidavit of the printer, or foreman of such
printer, of any public newspaper published in this territory, of the publication of any notice or advertisement which by any law of this territory
shall be required to be published in such newspaper, shall be entitled to be
read in evidence in all courts of justice in this territory, and in all proceedings before any otiicer, body, or board, and shall be prima facie evidence of such publication, and of the facts stated therein.

SEC. 64. Whenever a certified copy of an ahidavit, record,
document, or other paper, is allowed by law to be evidence, such copy shall
be certified by the officer in whose custody the same is required by law to
be, to have been compared by him with the original and to be a correct
transcript therefrom; and if such oilicer have any oliicial seal by law, such

certificate shall be authenticated by such seal.
SEC. 65. But the preceding section shall not be construed to

require the afiixing of the seal of a court to any certilied copy of a rule or
order made by such court, or of any paper filed therein, when such copy
is used in the same court or before any oiiicer thereof.

SEC. 66. Every written instrument except promissory notes,
and bills of exchange, and except the last wills of deceased persons
may be proved or acknowledged in the manner now provided by law for
taking the proof or acknowledgment of conveyances of real estate, and the
certitieate of the proper ofiicer indorsed thereon, shall entitle such instrument to be read in evidence in all courts of justice, and all proceedings
before any otiicer, body or board, with the same effect, and in the same
manner as if such instrument were a conveyance of real estate.

SEC. 67. The register of deeds, and the clerk of any court
of record in every county of this territory, upon being paid the fees allowed
therefor by law, shall receive and deposit in their otlices respectively, any
instruments or papers which any person shall offer them for that purpose,
and if required, shall give such person a written receipt therefor.

SEC. 68. Such instruments or papers, shall be properly

indorsed so as to indicate their general nature and the na.mes of the parties
thereto, shall be filed by the officer receiving the same, stating the time
when received, and shall be deposited and kept by him and his successors
in ofiice, in the same manner as his oflicial papers, in some place separate
and distinct from such papers.

SEC. 69. The instruments or papers so received and deposited, shall not be withdrawn from such ofliee, except on the order of
some court for the purpose of being read in evidence in such court, and
then to be returned to such otiice; nor shall they be delivered without such
order, to any person, unless upon the written order of the person who
deposited the same, or his executors or administrators.

SEC. 70. Such instruments or papers so deposited, shall be
open to the examination of any person desiring the same, upon the payment of the fees allowed by law.

SEC. 71. Vvhenever any ofiicer to whom the legal custody
of any documents, instrument or paper shall belong, shall certify under
his oflicial seal, that he has made diligent examination in his oliiee for
such paper, instrument, or document, and that it cannot be found, such
certilicate shall be presumptive evidence of the facts so certified in all
causes, matters and proceedings, in the same manner and with the like
effect as if such otiicer had personally testilied to the same in the court, or
before the oflicer before whom such cause, matter or proceeding may be
pendmg.

SEC. 72. Any competent witness in a cause shall not be
excused from answering a question relevant to the matter in issue, on the
ground merely that the answer to such question may establish or tend to
establish that such witness owes a debt or is otherwise subject to a civil
suit; but this provision shall not be construed to require a witness to give
any answer which will have a tendency to accuse himself of any crime or
misdemeanor, or to expose him to any penalty or forfeiture, nor in any
respect to vary or alter any other rule respecting the examination of
witnesses.

SEC. 73. Whenever a party to any action shall have been
permitted to prove by his own oath the loss of any instrument, in order
to admit other proof of the contents thereof, the adverse party may also
be examined by the court, on oath, to disprove such loss and to account for
such instrument.

SEC. 74. In any suit founded on any negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, or in which such note, if produced, might
be allowed as a set-off in the defense of any suit, if it appear on the trial
that such note or bill was lost. while it belonged to the party claiming the
amount due thereupon, parol or other evidence of the contents thereof
may be given on such trial, and notwithstanding such note or bill was
negotiable, such party shall be entitled to receive the amount due thereon,
as if such note or bill had been produced.

SEC. 75. But to entitle a party to a recovery on a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange which has been
lost, he shall execute a bond to the adverse party in a penalty at least

double the amount of such note or bill, with two sureties to be approved :
by the court in which the recovery shall be had, or the clerk thereof‘, in '
case no trial has been had, conditioned to indemnify the adverse party, his
heirs and personal representatives, against all claims by any other persons

on account of such note or bill, and against all costs and expenses by reason of such claim.

SEC. 76. Whenever a party in any cause or proceeding
shall produce at the trial his account books, and swear that the same are
his account books kept for that purpose, that they contain the original
entries of charges for goods, or other articles delivered, or work and labor
or other services performed, or materials found, and that such- entries are
just to the best of his knowledge and belief, that said entries are in his
own hand writing, and that they were made at or about the time said
goods or other articles were delivered, said work and labor or other services were performed, or said materials were found, the party offering
such book or books as evidence, bein subject to all the rules of cross-examination by the adverse party thatewould be applicable by the rules to
any other witness giving testimony relating to said book or. books, if it
shall appear upon the examination of said party that all of the interrogatories in this section contained, are satisfactorily established in the aflirma»

. tive, then the said book or books shall be received as prima facie evidence

in proof of the charges therein contained.

SEC. 77. Whenever the original entries mentioned in
the preceding section are in the hand writing of an agent, servant or clerk
of the party, the oath of such agent, servant or clerk, may in like manner
he admitted to verify the same, and said books shall be testimony in the
same manner as the books mentioned in the preceding section: provided,
that such books mentioned in this and the preceding section shall not be
admitted as testimony of any item of money delivered at one time exceeding five dollars, or of money paid to third persons, or of charges for
rent.

SEC. 78. Where a book has marks which show that the
items have been transferred to a ledger, the book shall not be testimony
unless the ledger be produced.

SEC. 79. Any entries made in a book by a person
authorized to make the same, he being dead, may be received as evidence
in a case proper for the admission of such book as evidence, on proof that
the same are in his hand writing, and in a book kept for such entries,
without further verification.

SEC. 80. Every written instrument purporting to have been
signed or executed by any person, shall be proof that it was so signed or
executed, until the person by whom it purports to have been signed or
executed shall deny the signature or execution of the same by his oath or
affidavit; but this section shall not extend to intruments purporting to
have been signed or executed by any person who shall have died previous
to the requirement of such proof.

SEC. 81. VVhenever it shall become necessary in an
action before a justice of the peace to give evidence of a judgment, or
other proceedings had before him, the docket of such judgment, or other

proceeding, or a transcript thereof certified by him, shall be good evidence
thereof before such justice.

SEC. 82. A transcript from the docket of any justice of
the peace of any judgment had before him of the proceeding in the case
previous to such judgment, of the execution issued thereon if any, and of
the return to such execution, if any, when certitied by such justice, slmll
be evidence to prove the facts contained in such transcript in any court in
the count where such jud ent was rendered.

SEC. 83. To entitle such transcript to beread in evidence
in a different county than that in which the judgment was rendered, or the
proceedings originated, there shall be attached thereto or indorsed thereon
a certiticate of the clerk of the district court of the same county in which
such justice resides, under the seal of said court, specifying that the person
subscribing such transcript was at the date of the judgment therein mentioned, a justice of the peace of such munty. f

SEC. 84. The roceedings in any cause had be ore a
justice )not reduced to writing bypsaid justice, nor being the contents of
any paper or document produced before said justice, unless such paper or
document be lost or destroyed, may be proved by the oath of the justice.
In case of his death or absence they may be proved by producing the
original minutes of such proceeding entered in a book kept by such 
tiee, accompanied by proof of l]lS hand writing; or they may be proved by
producing copies of such minutes sworn to by a competent witness, as
having been compared by him with the original entries, with proof that
such entries were in the hand writing of the justice.

SEC. 85. In all actions brought on promissory notes or
bills of exchange by the indorsee, the possession of the note shall be
prima facie evidence that the same was indorsed by the persons by whom
it purports to be indorsed.

SEC. 86. All notices required by this chapter to be
given to or by an adverse party, may be given by or to the agent or attorney of the said party.

SEC. 87. II. The depositions of persons out of this territory,
to be used in cases before justices of the peace within this territory, may be
taken in the same manner, and under the same regulations as depositions
are now authorized by law, to be_takcn of persons within this territory,
and shall be‘ subject to the same exceptions: pro:-ided, that in no case
shall more than forty days notice of the taking of such depositions be required to be given to the adverse party.

SEC. 88. The receiver’s receipt or certificate of purchase of public lands, signed by the receiver, and under the official certiticate of any register or receiver, of the entry or purchase of any tract
or tracts of land, or of the location of any tract or tracts by a military
land warrant, shall be prima facie evidence in court in this territory, that
the title of the lands mentioned or described, in said receipt or certificate
is in the person or persons named therein, his, her, or their heirs, or assigns; but the said certiticate shall not be construed to apply to cases in
which the land was held, owned, or occupied by any person or persons as
mineral ground at the time of said entry, and on which discoveries of lead
or copper ore had been made : provided, the same be held by the original
claimant, or his legal or equitable assignce.

SEC. 89. All deeds, mortgages, or other instruments in
writing, relating to real estate situate within this territory, which shall
have been recorded in the office of any register of deeds before this section shall take effect, purporting to have been acknowledged or proved
without this territory, and having upon them substantially the ordinary
form of a certificate of acknowledgment or proof, purporting to have been
signed by some ofiicer in another state or country shall be deemed prima
facie in all legal proceedings to have been acknowledged or proved, (as
the case may be,) before the proper ofiicer and in conformity with the
laws of such state or country, where it purports to have been acknowledged or proved; and the records of all such deeds, mortgages, and instruments, certificate of acknowledgment or proof may be read in evidence, in like manner and with the same effect as the originals.

SEC. 90. [Added by laws of 1856, page 19 and 20 :] All
plats of surveys of public land in this territory, certified by the register of
the land otiice of the district in which such land is situated, to be a correct copy of the certified copy on file in his ofiice, of the original plat of
such surveys, and all certificates by the register of such land office of the
surveys of, and of other facts in relation to, such land taken from the certificate indorsed on the copy on file in said land ofiice, of the original plat,
shall entitle such certified copy or certificate to be read in evidence in the
courts of the territory, in the same manner as if the same were a certified

copy of, or certificate from the original plat or certificate of the surveys of
such lands.

SEC. 91. Whenever any oath or afiidavit is, or may be
required or authorized by law, or in any judicial proceeding, (except oaths
to jurors and witnesses in the trial of a cause, and such other oaths as are
required by law to be taken before particular otlicers,) the same may be
taken before any judge, judge of probate, clerk of any court of record,
notary public, or justice of the peace; and when certified by any such
ofiicer to have been taken before him, may be read and used in any court
of law or equity, of record or not of record, within this territory, and before any ofiicer, judicial, executive or administrative.

SEC. 92. Every person who shall declare that he has conscientious scruples against taking an oath, or swearing in any form, shall
be permitted to make his solemn declaration or affirmation.

SEC. 93. Whenever the court before which any person shall
be offered as a witness, shall be satisfied that such person has any peculiar
mode of swearing, which is more solemn and obligatory in the opinion of
such person, than the usual mode, the court may in its discretion, adopt
such mode of swearing such person.

SEC. 94. Every person believing in any other than the
Christian religion, shall be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of
his religion, if there be any such ceremonies.

SEC. 95. The court before whom an infant, or a person apparently of weak intellect, shall be produced as a witness, may examine
such person to ascertain his capacity, and whether he understands the
nature and obligations of an oath ; and any court may inquire of any person, what are the peculiar ceremonies observed by him in swearing, which
he deems most obligatory.

SEC. 96. In all cases in which an oath or affidavit is
required, or authorized by law, or in any judicial proceeding, or by the
rules or practice of any court of law or equity, the same may be taken in

any of the usual forms, and every person swearing, ailirming, or declaring, in any such form, shall be deemed to have been lawfully sworn, and
to be guilty of perjury for so corruptly or willfully and falsely swearing,
affirming or declaring in any such form.

SEC. 97. Be it enacted by the legislative assembly qf the territory
of Jllinnesota : That copies of the records of all deeds, mortgages, town
plats, or other investments of writing, relating to real estate within this
territory, when certified by the register of deeds, of the county in which
such investments are recorded to have been compared by him with the
original records, and to be a correct transcript therefrom, may be read in
evidence in like manner and with the same effect as the original records
thereof.


SEC. 89. Be it enacted bytlze legislative assembly of the territory of
Jkfinnesota : In all applications before the register_ and receiver of any
United States land office in this territory, to pre-empt or to enter as a
town site, any portion of the public lands, and in all contests concerning
the same before said oiiicers, each and every applicant and contestant shall
have compulsory process for witnesses to establish his right to pre-empt or
enter or disprove the right of adverse claimants.

SEC. 99. That whenever any pre-emptor or adverse claimant
shall present to the clerk of any court of record and justice of the peace
the ofiicial notice of the register and receiver of any land office in this
territory, stating the name or names of the claimants, the name or names
of the contestants, the time and place of meeting for the having said contests, it shall be the duty of the said clerk to issue subpoenas for witnesses
for either party to-attend before the said register and receiver at the time
and place specified in the notice of said register and receiver.

SEC. 100. Such subpoena may be in the form commonly
used, except that they shall notify the witnesses in whose behalf they are
called upon_ to testify and in what proceeding.

SEC. 101. Each witness shall be allowed the same fees for
attendance and travel as in cases pending before the courts of this territory, but no person shall be obliged to attend as witness unless the fees
are paid or tendered him, which are allowed by law for one day's attendance as a witness and for traveling to and returning from the place he is
required to attend. Each party shall pay his own witnesses in all cases
subpoenaed under the provisions of this act.

SEC. 102. If any person duly subpoenaed as such witness, shall
fail to attend as required, without reasonable excuse, he shall be liable to
the party aggrieved for all damages occasioned by such failure, to be
recovered in a civil action.

SEC. 103. If any person attending as a witness under the provisions of this act, shall refuse to be sworn and examined, or being sworn
shall refuse to answer any questions put to him and not overruled by said
land officers, and the answer to which will not have a tendency to accuse
him of a crime or misdemeanor, or to him to any penalty or forfeiture, he

shaulluse liable to the party aggrieved for all damages occasioned by such
ref , to be recovered in a civil action, and if the subpoena on which he

attested shall have been issued out of any court of record, such refusal

shall.be considered a contempt of said court, and be punished by fine and
imprisonment at the discretion of said court.

SEC. 104. Such court may also issue an attachment to bring 1

such witness before them in vacation, as well as term time, to answer for
said contempt.

SEC. 105. The provisions of this act shall not be so construed 1

as in any way to impair the validity of section 53 of chapter 95 of the
revised statutes of Minnesota.

SEC. 106. This act shall take eifect from and after its passage. ‘

CHAPTER R5.

ARBITRATORS.

Saorrox - Srcrxos

1. Controversy may be submitted toarbitrators. 12. Award may be accepted, rejected or re-coup
2. When submission not to be made. mitted.

8. Parties to make ageement of submission; 18. On what grounds party may move court to

form of agreement. set aside award.

4. Agreement to submit, what to contain. 14. In what cases court may alter award.

5. Submission not to be revoked. 15. Award when to be returned to court.

8. To appoint a time and place for the hearing. 16. Judgment how rendered ; mats how taxed.
7. Arbitrators to be sworn. 17. Record of judgment, how made.

8. Award made after time tixed by parties not 18. Record how illed and docketed, &c.

to have etlect. 19. Arbitrators may make award cones
9. Award to be in writing. costs. I '
10. To be delivered to the clerk. 3). Court may enforce ju ent.
11 Court to have cognizance of award. 21. Arbitrators may admin ter oaths.

[Gtaptsr 96, Revised &a¢uIes.]

SEC. 1. All controversies which might be the subject of a personal action at law, or of a suit in equity, may be submitted to the decision
of one or more arbitrators in the manner provided in this chapter.

SEC. 2. N 0 such submission shall be made respecting the claim
of any person, to any estate in fee, or for life to real estate, but any claim
to an interest for a term of years, or for one year or less, in real estate,
and controversies respecting the partition of lands between joint tenants, or
tenants in common, or concerning the boundaries of lands, or concerning
the admeasurement of dower, may be submitted to arbitration.

SEC. 3. The parties shall appear in person, or by their lawful
agents or attorneys, before any justice of the peace, and shall there sign
and acknowledge an agreement in substance as follows:

“ Know all men, that of and of

have agreed to submit the demand, a statement
whereof is hereto annexed, (and all other demands between them as the
case may be,) to the determination of and the
award of whom or the greater part of whom, being made and reported
within from this day, to the district court for the county of

the judgment thereon shall be final; and if either of the parties shall
neglect to appear before the arbitrators, after due notice given them of the
time and place appointed for hearing the parties, the arbitrators may
proceed in his absence.

Dated this day of - in the year .

And the justice shall subjoin to the said agreement his certificate, in
substance as follows:
Territory of Minnesota, 88

county of
Then the above named and personally appeared,
(or the above named personally, and the said
by the said his attorney, appeared, as the case may be,) and
acknowledged the above instrument by them signed, to be their free act.
Before me, ’ J. P. justice of the peace.

SEC. 4. If any specific demand is submitted to the exclusion of
others, the demand submitted shall be set forth in the statement annexed
to the agreement, otherwise it shall not be necessary to annex any statement of a demand, and the words in the agreement relating to such statement may be omitted, and the submission may then be of all demands
between the parties, or of all demands which either of them has against
the other, or the submission may be varied in this respect, in any other
manner according to the agreement of the parties.

SEC. 5. Neither party shall have power to revoke a submission
made as herein provided, without the consent of the other; and if either
of them shall neglect to appear before the arbitrators after due notice, the
arbitrators may, nevertheless, proceed to hear and determine the cause
upon the evidence produced by the other party, as provided in the agreement of submission.

SEC. 6. The arbitrators thus selected shall appoint a time and
place for the hearing, and shall adjourn the same from time to time as may
be necssary; and on the application of either party, and for good cause.
they may postpone such hearing to a time not extending beyond the day
fixed in such submission for rendering their award.

SEC. 7. Before proceeding to hear any testimony, the arbitrators shall be sworn by an officer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully
and fairly to hear and examine the matters in controversy, and to make a
just award according to law and evidence, to the best of their understandmg.

SEC. 8. The time within which the award shall be made and
reported, may be varied according to the agreement of the parties; and
no award made after the time so agreed upon, shall have any legal effect or
operation, unless made upon a recommitment of the award by the court to
which it is reported.

SEC. 9. To entitle any award to be enforced, according to the
provisions of this chapter. it must be in writing, subscribed by the arbitrators making the same, and attested by a subscribing witness.

SEC. 10. The award shall be delivered by one of the arbitrators,
to the clerk of the court, designated in the agreement, or shall be inclosed
and sealed by them, and transmitted to the clerk, and shall remain sealed
until opened by the court.

SEC. 11. The court to which the award is returned shall have
cognizance thereof in the same manner, and the same proceedings shall
be had thereon, as if it had been made by referees appointed by a rule of
the same court.

SEC. 12. The award may be accepted or rejected by the court
for any legal and sufficient reason, or it may be recommitted to the same

arbitrators for a rehearing by them; and when an award is accepted and
confirmed by the court, judgment shall be rendered thereon in the same
manner as upon a like award made by referees appointed by a rule of the
court, and execution shall issue accordingly.

SEC. 13. Any party complaining of such award may move
the court designated in such submission, to vacate the same upon either of
the following grounds:

1. That such award was procured by corruption, fraud, or other undue
means; 2. That there was evident partiality or corruption in the arbitrators,
or either of them;

3. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct in refusing to postpone the bearing upon suflicient cause shown, or in refusing to hear evidence, pertinent and material to the controversy, or any other misbehavior
by which the rights of any party shall have been prejudiced;

4. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers, or that they so imperfectly executed them, that a mutual, final and definite award on the subject matter submitted was not made;

5. That the award was contrary to law and evidence.

SEC. 14. Any party to such submission may also move the
court designated therein, to modify or correct such award in the following
cases:

1. Where there is an evident miscalculation of figures or an evident
mistake in the description of any person, thing or property referred to in
such award;

‘2. Where the arbitrators shall have awarded upon some matter not
submitted to them, nor affecting the merits of the decision upon the matters submitted;

3. Where the awards shall be imperfect in some matter of form not
affecting the merits of the controversy, and where, if it had been a verdict,
such defect could have been amended or disregarded by the court according to the provisions of law.

SEC. 15. The award may be returned at any term or session
of the court, that shall be held within the time limited in the submission;
and the parties shall attend at every such term or session, without any
express notice for that purpose, in like manner as if an action for the
same cause were pending between them in the same court; but the court
may require actual notice to be given to either party, when it shall appear
to tlfcm necessary or proper, before they proceed to act upon the award.

SEC. 16. Upon such award being confirmed or modified, the
court shall render judgment in favor of the party to whom any sum of
money or damages shall have been awarded, that he recover the same, and
if the award shall have ordered any act to be done by either party, judgment shall be entered that such act be done according to such order; the
costs of proceedings shall be taxed as in suits, and if no provision for the
fees and expenses of the arbitrators shall have been made in the award,
the court shall make a suitable allowance.

SEC. 17. A record of such judgment shall be made, commencing with a memorandum reciting the submission, then stating the
hearing before the arbitrators, their award, the proceedings of the court
thereupon in modifying or continuing such award, and the judgment of the
court for the recovery of the debt or damages awarded, and that the parties perform the acts ordered by the award, and for the recovery of the
costs allowed.

SEC. 18. Such record shall be filed and docketed as records

of judgments in other cases, shall have the same force and effect in all

respects, be subject to all the provisions of law in relation to judgments in
actions, and may in like manner be removed and reversed by writ of error,
and execution shall issue thereupon.

SEC. 19. If there is no provision in the submission concerning the costs of the proceedings; the arbitrators may make such award
respecting the costs as they shall judge reasonable, including therein a
compensation for their own services; but the court may reduce the sum
charged for the compensation of the arbitrators, if it shall appear to them
unreasonable. .

SEC. 20. Where by such judgment any party shall be required
to perform any act other than the payment of money, the court rendering
such judgment shall enforce the same by rule; and the party refusing or
neglecting to perform and execute such act, or any part thereof, shall be
subject to all the penalties of contemning an order of such court.

SEC. 21. The arbitrators shall hear and receive the
testimony of either party, under oath; and shall have power to administer
all necessary oaths to parties or witnesses appearing before them. Nothing
in this chapter contained, shall preclude the submission and arbitrament of
controversies according to the common law. And in all cases, arbitrators
may be sworn, and thereupon shall have power to administer oaths to parties and witnesses, on any hearing or examination before them, of the
matter submitted, and any such party or witness swearing willfully or corruptly false, on any such hearing or examination, shall be deemed guilty
of perjury.

SEC. 1. Any person who has a subsisting cause of action to the
amount of ten dollars for any labor performed upon any lands, tenements,
or hereditaments, or for any materials furnished for any improvements
upon any lands, tenements or hereditaments, may at any time within one
year next after such cause of action shall have accrued, file his complaint
as in other cases, -but without serving a summons upon the defendant ;
and such complaint shall, in addition to the facts necessary to constitute a.
cause of action, contain an accurate description and statement of the location of the lands, tenements, or hereditaments upon which the labor was
performed, or for the improvement of which the materials were furnished,
and shall also allege that the defendant therein named, is the owner of, or
has some interest in such lands, tenements, or hereditaments, and that such
labor was performed, or such materials furnished pursuant to an agreement, express or implied, between the plaintiff and defendant, or his agent,
the said complaint shall, as soon as filed in the ollice of the clerk of the
district court of the proper county, constitute and be a lien upon the
property therein described, in favor of the plaintiff, to the extent of the
defendant’s title or interest therein.

SEC. 2. When the complaint does not allege that the labor was
performed, or the materials furnished pursuant to an agreement with the
defendant, but shall allege that the labor was performed, or the materials
furnished pursuant to an agreement with some contractor therein named,
which contractor was employed by the defendant or his agent, and that
the plaintiff was employed by said contractor, and had served a notice in
writing upon the defendant or his agent, to the effect that he, the plaintiff,
was, or had been employed by the said contractor, to perform labor
thereon, or to furnish materials for the improvement of such lands, tenements, and hereditaments, and relied upon him, the defendant, or upon
such lands, tenements, or hereditaments for his pay; then the filing of
such complaint shall constitute and be a lien in favor of the plaintiff, the
same as provided in the preceding section, to the amount that the defendant was indebted to the said contractor, when the said notice was served
upon him or his agent, and to the amount in which the defendant became
indebted to said contractor after the service of said notice, and before the
expiration of the plaintiff’s lien: provided, the amount thus due, or thus
becoming due, does not exceed the amount claimed in the complaint; and
upon the trial, the plaintiff shall have judgment for no more than the sum
due from the defendant to the contractor at the time of serving such
notice, and the amount which become due after the service of such notice;
and when a lien shall be acquired under this section, it shall be a bar to
any action by the said contractor, for the recovery of his claim for moneys
due him from said defendant, to the amount of the lien, until such claim
of lien shall be finally decided; and if decided in favor of the plaintiff,
then it shall be to that extent a bar forever.

SEC. 3. The plaintiff may, at any time after filing his complaint as above provided, serve a summons and notice on the defendant,

and proceed to judgment as in other actions, but the lien hereby created, ‘

shall cease to exist after the expiration of one year from the time the
labor was performed, or the materials furnished, unless a summons be issued
and served within that time: provided, that if the defendant be absent or
concealed, he may be proceeded against in the same manner as is provided for in other cases of absent or concealed defendants.

SEC. 4. The lien hereby created by the filing of a complaint,
shall be as effectual as liens created by judgments of courts of record;
and if the plainti&' shall recover judgment upon his complaint, the lands»
tenements and hereditaments therein described, or any interest whatever
therein, either in law or equity, which the defendant had therein at the
time of securing such lien; and any interest whatever, either in law of
equity which the defendant shall have acquired therein, after such lien was
secured, shall be liable to sale by virtue of any execution issued thereon;
and if the property described in such complaint, be not suflicient to satisfy
such execution, or if the defendant was not the owner, or had not suflicient interest therein, any other property of the defendant not exempted
from sale on execution, may be sold to satisfy such execution. _

SEC. 5. The district courts of this territory, shall have jlJl'lS(llCtion in all actions and proceedings under this chapter, whatever may be
the amount in controversy; and they are hereby authorized to make all
orders and decrees which may be necessary for the effectual enforcement
of the remedies herein provided. .

SEC. 6. When any person who shall have filed his complnmt
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall have received satisfaction
for his claim, and the legal costs of his proceedings therein, he shall, up0I1
the request of any person interested, and upon the payment or tender of
the costs of entering satisfaction therein, within six days after such p8}_"
mentor tender, enter satisfaction of his demand in the otiice where 1115
complaint is filed, which shall forever thereafter discharge, defeat, and 1'9’
lease the same. _

SEC. 7. If such person, having received satisfaction as specified
in the preceding section, shall not, within six days after request and Pa)?
ment of costs as aforesaid, enter satisfaction as aforesaid, he shall form‘
and pay to the party aggrieved, double the amount of damages which he
shall have sustained in consequence of his refusal or neglect.

SEC. 8. In all cases under the provisions of this chapter,
Whenever a judgment shall be rendered in favor of the plaintiff, 5‘_‘°h
judgment shall be for damages, including interest from the time of filing
such complaint and costs of suit, as follows : Wlien judgment is rendered
upon failure to answer, two dollars; in all other cases the costs shall be
the same, and recoverable or not, as in other actions. If judgment be_l‘€11‘
dered in favor of the defendant, he shall recover costs as in other actions

SEC. 9. Any person who shall make, alter or repair: 01' be
stow labor on any article of personal property, at the request of the owner
or legal ptissessor thereof, shall have a lien on such property 80 made’

altered, or repaired, or upon which labor has been bestowed, for his just }
and reasonable charges, for the labor he has performed and the materials i
he has furnished, and such person may hold and retain possession of the “
same until such just and reasonable charges shall be paid, and if they be
not paid within three months after the labor shall have been performed, or
the materials furnished, such person having such lien may proceed to sell
the property by him so made, altered or repaired, or upon which labor has
been bestowed, at public auction, by giving public notice of such sale by
advertisement for three weeks in some newspaper published in the county,
or if there be no such paper in the county, then by posting up notice of
such sale in three of the most public places in the county three weeks
before the time of sale; and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied
first to the discharge of such lien and the costs and expense of keeping
and selling such property, and the regnainder, if any, shall be paid over to
the owner thereof; the provisions of this and the following section not to
interfere with any special agreement of parties.

SEC. 10. Any person who is a common carrier, and any person who shall, at the request of the owner or lawful possessor of any personal property, carry, convey or transport the same from any one place
to another, and any person who shall safely keep or store any personal
property, at the request of the owner or lawful possessor thereof, shall
have the same lien and the same power of sale for the satisfaction of his

reasonable charges, upon the same conditions and restrictions as provided
in the preceding sections.

SEC. 11. And be it further enacted, that all laws heretofore
passed by the legislative assembly of Minnesota, and now in force in said
territory, regarding or affecting mechanics’ liens, be and the same are
hereby repealed.

SEC. 12. (All) laws now in force in this territory containing the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.

SEC. 13. This act shall be in force from and after its passage.


SEC. 14. That every dwelling house or other building for the
construction, erection, or repairs of which any person shall have a claim
for material furnished or services rendered, shall, with the land on which
the same may stand, not exceeding forty acres, or if the building be within
the limits of any city, town, or village plat, the lot on which such building
shall stand, not exceeding one acre in extent, be subject to the payment of
said claim; and the same shall be a lien on such land and building, and
shall take precedence of any other lien or incumbrance which shall originate subsequent to the commencement of such services, or the furnishing
of such materials.

SEC. 15. The debt for services or materials as aforesaid shall not
remain a lien on such land or building for a longer period than sixty days
after the person performing such services or furnishing such materials has
ceased so to do, unless he shall lodge with the register of deeds of the
county in which said building is situated a certificate in writing, describing
the premises, the amount claimed as a lien thereon, and the date of the
commencement of the claim—-the same being first subscribed and sworn
to as the amount justly due, as nearly as the same can be ascertained:
which certificate shall be recorded by the register of deeds in a separate
book to be provided by the register of deeds for that purpose; nor shall
the debt for services or material as aforesaid remain a lien on such land

or building for a longer period than one year after such certificate in writing has been so lodged with the register of deeds, unless an action for the
recovery thereof be instituted within the said year.

SEC. 16. Any person who has lodged a certificate as aforesaid,
after receiving satisfaction for his debt, or after final judgment against him
showing that nothing is due by reason of his claim, shall at the request of
any person interested in the premises on which the same was a lien, or
interested in having the lien removed, lodge a further certificate with the
register of deeds that said debt is satisfied and said lien removed; which
certificate shall be recorded by said register of deeds as aforesaid, and shall
forever discharge said lien; and if any person who has received satisfaction
as aforesaid, against whom judgment has been rendered as aforesaid, shall
not within ten days after request in writing, lodge a certificate with the
register of deeds aforesaid, he shall pay to the party or parties aggrieved
a sum not exceeding one-half the debt claimed as a lien on such premises,
according to the circumstances of the case, to be recovered in a civil action. The register of deeds shall be allowed for recording the certificates provided for by this act the same fees to which they are entitled by
law for recording other instruments in writing.

SEC. 17. The district court of this state shall have jurisdiction
of all cases arising under the provisions of this act, without regard to the
amount of the claim for which the lien herein provided is sought to be
enforced. '

SEC. 18. That executors and administrators under this act shall
have the same rights and be subject to the same liabilities that their testator or intestate would or might have if living.

SEC. 19. All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed; and all of chapter XVI. of the session laws of 1855, entitled “A Bill legalizing the Town of Winona, and
for other purposes,” from section nine to twenty inclusive, are [is] hereby
repealed.

SEC. 20. This act shall take effect and be in force from and

after its passage.

An Act to create a lien in favor of Mechanics and others in certain cases.
(Passed August 12, 1858.]

SEC. 21. Be it enacted bythe legislature of the state of Jllinnesota:
That any person or company who shall have performed, or may hereafter
perform labor, or furnish materials or machinery for erecting, constructing,
altering, or repairing any house, mill, manufactory, or other building or
appurtenances, or for constructing, altering, or repairing any boat, vessel,
or other water craft, by virtue of a contract or agreement with the owner
or agent thereof, shall have a lien to secure the payment of the same, upon
such house, mill, manufactory, or other building and appurtenances, and
upon such boat, vessel, or other water craft, together with the right, title,
or interest of the person or persons owning such house, mill, manufactory
or other building and appurtenances on and to the land upon which the same
shall be situated, not exceeding forty acres, and if erected Within the limits
of any city, town, or village plat, the lot of ground on which said house,
mill, manufactory or other building and appurtenance shall be erected, not
exceeding in extent one acre.

SEC. 22. That every mechanic or other person doing or performing any work towards the erection or repair of any house, mill, manufactory or other building or appurtenance, or the construction, alteration or
repair of any boat, vessel or other water craft, erected under a contract

between the owner thereof and builder, or other person, whether such
work shall be performed as journeyman, laborer, carman, sub-contractor or
otherwise, or any person who shall furnish materials for the construction of
such building or vessel, whose demands for work so done, or materials so
furnished, has not been paid or satisfied, may deliver to the owner of such
building or vessel, an attested account of the amount and value of the
work or labor performed, or the materials thus furnished and remaining
unpaid, and thereupon such owner shall retain out of his subsequent payments to the contractor, the amount of such work and labor for the benefit
of the person so performing the same.

SEC. 23. Whenever any account of labor performed, or materials
furnished, as referred to in the preceding section, shall be placed in the
hands of the owner of any building or vessel, as above stated, or his
authorized agent, it shall be the duty of such owner or agent to furnish
his contractor with a copy of such papers, so that if there be any disa-_
greement between such contractor and his creditor, they may, by amicable
adjustment, or by arbitration, ascertain the true sum due; and if the
contractor shall not, within ten days after the receipt of such papers, give
the owner written notice that he intends to dispute the claim, or if in ten
days after giving such notice, he shall refuse or neglect to have the matter
adjusted, as aforesaid, he shall be considered as assenting to the demand,’
and the owner shall pay the same when it becomes due.

SEC. 24. If the contractor shall dispute the claim of his journeyman or other person, for work done or materials furnished, as aforesaid,
and the matter cannot be adjusted between themselves, it shall be submitted to the arbitrament of three disinterested persons, one to be chosen by
each of the parties, and one by the two thus chosen, and their decision, or
the decision of any two of them, shall be conclusive in the case submitted.

SEC. 25. When the account shall be adjusted, as above provided,
and the contractor shall not, within ten days after it is so adjusted, pay the
sum to his creditor, with the costs incurred, the owner shall pay the same
out of the fund as above provided ; and which amount may be recovered
from the said owner by the creditor of the said contractor, and in action
for money had and received to the use of said creditor, and to the extent
in value of any balance due by the owner to his contractor under the
contract with him at the time of the notice first given, as aforesaid, or
subsequently accruing to such contractor, under the same, if such amount
shall be less than the sum due from said contractor to his creditor.

SEC. 26. If by collusion the owner of any building erected by
contract, shall pay to his contractor any money in advance of the money
due on said contract, and if the amount still due the contractor after such
payment has been made, shall be insufiicient to satisfy the demand made
in conformity with the provisions of this act, for labor done and materials
furnished, the owner shall be liable to the amount that would have been
due at the time of his receiving the account of such work or materials, in
the same manner if no such payment had been made.

SEC. 27. That any person entitled toalien under this act shall ,
make an account, in writing, of the item of labor, skill, material and1
machinery furnished, or either of them, as the case may be, and after;

making oath thereto, within one year from the time of performing such
labor and skill or furnishing such material and machinery, shall file the
same in the register’s ofiice of the county in which such labor, skill and
materials shall have been turnished, which account so made and tiled, shall
be recorded in a book to be provided, separately, by the recorder for that
purpose, and shall, from the commencement of such. or the furnishing of
such materials, and for two years after the completion of such labor or the

furnishing of such materials, operate as a lien on the several description of
structures and buildings, and the lots of ground on which they stand, in
the .iirst section of this act named. When any labor has been done, or
materials furnished, as provided, on a written contract, the same, or a copy
thereof, shall be filed with the account herein required.

SEC. 28. That every person or persons holding such lien, may
proceed to obtain a judgment for the amount of his or their account
thereon, according to the course of legal proceedings in like cases; and
when any suit or suits shall be commenced on such accounts, within the
time of such lien, the lien shall continue until such suit or suits be finally
determined and satisfied. ‘

SEC. 29. That when the owner or owners of any house or buildings, described in the first section of this act, shall suspend its progress or
completion, without the consent of such laborers, mechanics or furnishers;
or if the progress or completion of the same be suspended by the decease of
the owner or owners, at a stage when, from its unfinished state, such
structure would go to waste, the laborers, mechanics and furnishers
thereto, or any of them, may, at their election, proceed with the same at
their cost, so far as to inclose such building and thereby prevent such
waste: provided, the work so done, after said suspension, shall be according
to the contract and the plan of the owner or owners.

SEC. 30. That if the person or persons also may erect as owner
or owners, any building described in the first section of this act, be not, at
the suspension or completion of the same, possessed of the legal but
equitable title to the ground on which the same is erected (if the same be
a fixture) and the fact of such defect of title he made to appear to the
court before whom any judgment or judgments under this act may have
been obtained; or if the same be returned by any legal ofiicer, to whom
any execution under this act shall be directed, in either case the court
shall direct the ofiicer who has returned, or who is authorized by law to
serve such execution, to rent or lease such building or buildings, until the
rents and issues thereof shall pay or satisfy the several liens on which
judgment may be had against the same: provided, this law shall not he so
construed, as to interfere with prior bona fide lien on grounds on which
such building or buildings shall be erected, (if a fixture.)

SEC. 31. That in all other cases of judgment or judgments
obtained in favor of any lien holder or holders, if the property bound by
such lien will not sell on execution as provided by law in other cases, having been once duly offered, the court before whom such judgment or judgments may be obtained, may direct the oiiicer aforesaid, to lease the same
in the manner and for the purpose pointed out in the preceding section;
and the officer giving such lease or leases shall therein require the payment to be made to him, or his successors in oflice, which successor or
successors shall have the same power and perform the same duties therein
as the maker of the lease or leases should or could do; and in cases where
the money may be collected by said oiiicer on lease or leases made under
this act, it shall be his duty, forthwith, to pay the same into court where
the judgment or judgments were obtained, which money shall be distributed to the several lien holders interested in said judgments, in proportion
to their several demands.

SEC. 32. Any person or persons performing manual labor
upon any land, logs, timber or lumber, for or on account of the owner,
agent or assignee thereof, may avail themselves of the foregoing provisions of this act, and upon complying with the requirements thereof, shall
have a like lien upon said lands, logs, timber or lumber, for the amount of

work and labor done and performed; and the said lien may be carried
into force and effect, pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this act.

SEC. 33. That all lien or liens may be discharged by the
payment of judgment or debt, with all legal costs, before the property on
which such lien or liens attached be sold or leased under this act; and if
any lien holder or holders, after the same be duly tendered to him or them,
shall proceed at law, or shall refuse to give a due discharge from such
lien, then such lien holder or holders shall forfeit all lien and pay all costs.

SEC. 34. That if the owner or owners of the property which
is subsequent to a lien under this act, be without the reach of process, or
resident without the state, any lien holder or holders may proceed by
attachment, against the same, as in other cases, and the court before whom
the same attachment is pending, on the entry of judgment, on return of
the proper officer, shall have the same power to order lease or leases, as is
given in the tenth and eleventh sections of this act.

SEC. 35. That executors and administrators under this act
shall have the same rights and be subject to the same liabilities that their
testator or intestate would or might have if living.

SEC. 36. That the registers of counties, for filing and recording contracts and accounts under this act, shall be paid the same fees they
are legally entitled to in other cases. ,

SEC. 37. Each and every person in favor of whom any such
lien has existed, after receiving satisfaction of his or their debt, or after
final judgment against him or them by a competent tribunal, showing that
nothing is due by reason of such claims, shall, at the request of any person interested in the property on which the same was a lien, or who is
interested in having the lien removed, or of his or their legal representatives, lodge a certiticate with said register, that the said debt is satisfied
and said lien removed, which certificate shall be filed and recorded by the
register on the margin of the record, in the same manner that releases of
mortgages are now by law required to be recorded; and when so recorded,
shall for ever discharge and release said lien; and if such person or persons, having received satisfaction as aforesaid, by himself or attorney, or
judgment having been rendered him as aforesaid, shall not, within ten
days after request in writing, lodge a notice in writing, with the register,
as is prescribed in this section, be or they neglecting or refusing so to do,
shall forfeit and pay to the party or parties so aggrieved, any sum of money
not exceeding one half of the debt claimed, as a lien on such property,
according to the circumstances of the case, to be recovered in a civil action;
and the party lodging such certifcicate as aforesaid, shall pay to the register
twelve and a half cents for recording each notice or certificate as aforesaid. In all cases where liens have been filed under pre-existing laws,
the same may be prosecuted to final judgment under such law; and in all
cases where the right to liens have accrued as provided in this act, the
same may be prosecuted in accordance with the provisions of this act.

SEC. 38. The following form may be used under this act:
Sure or MINNESOTA,

County. 33' .

A. B. atliant, makes oath and says: That the annexed is a true and correct account of the labor performed, and material (or say machinery)
furnished by him (or them) to and for (here give name or names) at said
county; and the prices thereof set forth in the account hereto annexed,
are just and reasonable, and the same is unpaid; that said labor was performed, and material (or' say machinery) was furnished for said C. D. at
the time in said account mentioned under and by virtue of a contract
between atliant and C. D., (it' the contract was in writing, add above copy

