SEC. 3461. Civil actions and designation of parties tbereto.—There
shall be in this state but one form of action for the enforcement or protection of private rights, and 1‘edress or prevention of private wrongs, which
shall be denominated a civil action; and the party thereto complaining
shall be known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
(G. S. 651, § 1—a.)

SEC. 3-162. Action to be prosecuted in name of’ real party; in interest.Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest,

except as otherwise provided in the next succeeding section ; but this section shall not be deemed to authorize the assignment of a thing in action
not arising out of contract. (G. S. 651, § 2—b.)

SEC. 3463. Erecutors and trustees may sue /e.ow—trustee defined.—An
executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue in his own name, without joinin
with him the person for Whose benefit the suit is prosecuted. A trustee 0
an ex ress trust, Within the meaning of this section, shall be construed to
inclu e a person with whom, or in Whose name, a contract is made for the
benefit of another. ( G. S. 651, § 3—c.)

SEC. 3464. Parties in interest may be made plainti#’s.—All persons
having an interest in the subject of the action, and in obtaining the relief
demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this
article. (G. S. 651;  4.)

S130. 3465. Parties necessary/ to complete settlement of‘ controversy
may be made def'endants.—Any person may be a defendant who has or

claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a

necessary arty to a complete determination or settlement of the question

involved t ierein. (G. S. 651, § 5.) _
SEC. 3466. Parties -united in interest must be joined.—Part.1es who

are united in interest must be 'oined as plaintiffs or defendants ; but if the
consent of any one who shoul be joined as plaintiff cannot be obtained,

he may be made a defendant, the reason" thereof being stated in the petition. (G. S. 651, § 6—d.)

SEC. 3467. W/zo may be joined as def'endants.—Every person who shall
have a cause of action against several persons. including parties to bills of
exchange and promissory notes, and who shall be entitled by law to one
satisfaction therefor, may brin suit thereon, jointly, against all, or as
many of the persons liable, as e may think roper; and he may, at his
option, join any executor or administrator, or 01: er person liable in a representative character, with others, originally liable. (G. S. 651.§ 6, amended.

SEC. 3468. Suits by and against married women.—When a marrie
woman is a party, her husband must be joined with her in all actions, except those in which the husband is the sole plaintiff and the wife‘ the sole
defendant, or the wife a plaintiff and the husband a defendant, and in all
such actions it shall be lawful for the Wife to sue or defend, by her agent or
attorney, as she may think proper, and in all actions by husband and
wife, or against husband and wife, they may prosecute the same by attorney; or they, or either, may defend by attorney; and it shall not be neces-.
sary for the wife, in any such case, to sue with her husband b next friend,
-or to appear and defend by next friend. (Laws 1868, p. 87, ‘ 1, am’d—e.)

‘ A RTIULE II.

OF’ PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST INFANTS.

Bncrxox . Sscnox

3445). Suite by infants. prosecuted by whom 3476. ' Guardian and next.-friend liable for costs.
8470. Next friend, by whom appointed. 3477. suits against infants not to proceed without a
3471. How appointed. guardian.

3472. Appointment. when minor is under fourteen 3478. Appointment of guardian. _

years or age. 3479. Guardian ad man, when appointed.

3473. Next friend to rive bond. 3430. Guardian only liable for costs in case of min3474. Bond to be me Where. conduct

3475. '1 be petition and appointment to beiiled before
further proceedings.

S110. 3469. Suits by infants, prosecuted by w/wm.——Suits by infants
may be commenced and prosecuted, either: ‘irst, by the guardian or
curator of such infant; or, second, by a next friend appointed for him in
such suit. (G. S. 651, 9, amended—a.)

SEC. 3470. Next Mend, by w/tom appointed.——The appointment of a
next friend for an infant shall be made by the court'in which the suit is intended to be brought, or by a judge or clerk thereof. G. S. 652, § 1.)

SEC. 3471. How a]ipo'iuted.—S11cl1 appointment s all be made on the
petition, in writing, of such infant, if of the age of fourteen years and the
written consent of the person proposed to be next friend to such infant,
acknowledged before, or proved to the court or oflicer making the appointment. (G. S. 652, § 2.)

SEC. 347 2. Appo2.'ntm.ent, when minor 2'3 under fourteen years of age.If such infant be under the age of fourteen years, the appointment of a
next friend may be made upon like petition of a relative or friend of the

infant, in which case a notice thereof must first be given to the person with
Whom such infant resides. (G. S. 652, § 3.)

SEC. 3473. Next friend to give bond.—Before any person shall be appointed next friend for an infant, in any suit to recover any personal property, debt or damages, he shall, if required by the court or otlicer to Whom
application for such appointment shall be made, execute a bond to such infant in double the amount claimed in such suit, with such securities as
shall be approved by the court or oflicer, conditioned that such next friend
shall account to such infant for all money or property which may be recovered in such suit. (G. S. 652 § 4.)

see. 3474. Bond to be riled, w/iere.—Such bond shall be delivered to
such oilicer before the appointment shall be made, and shall be filed in the
ogce of tlhe) clerk of the court in which the suit is to be brought. (G. S.
6 , , 5-- .

SEC. 347 5. T lie petition and appointment to be filed before furl/ier proceeding/s.—The petition for the ap ointment of a next friend, the Written
consent of the person proposed to e next friend, and the order of appointment, shall be filed in the ofiice of the clerk of the court where the suit is
pé:)pSosgd2to l(>;e)brought, before any proceedings shall be had in the’ cause.

.' . 5 , .

SEC. 34 6. Guardian and neast friend liable for c0st3.—The guardian
or next friend of any infant, who.commences or prosecutes a suit, shall be
responsible for the costs thereof, unless such infant be permitted by the
court to sue as a poor person, as provided by law. (G. S. 652, § 7, an1’d.)

SEC. 347 7 . Suits against inr"ant.s not to proceed wit/tout a guardian.——
After the commencement of a suit against an infant defendant, and the
service of process upon him, the suit shall not be prosecuted any further
until a guardian for such infant be appointed. (G. S. 652, § 8—c.)

SEC. 347 8. Appointment of’ ‘guard-ian.—Such appointment shall be
made by the court In which the suit is ending, or by the judge thereof in
vacation, upon the written request of t e infant defendant, if of the age of
fourteen years or more, or if such infant be under said age, on the written
request of a relative or friend of the infant,_ and on the written consent of
any competent person .proposed as guardian, and such request and consent.
shall be filed in the oftice of the clerk of the court before any answer b
such infant shall be filed. (G. S. 652, § 9, amended.) SEC. 3479. Guardian ad litem, when appointed:-If such infant defendant neglect, for one day after the first day of the term at which he is
bound to appear to the suit, to procure the appointment of a guardian to
defend the suit, the court shall appoint some competent person to be guardian for such infant in the defense of such suit. (G. S. 652, § 10.),

SEO. 3480. Guardian only liable for costs in case of miscondue-t.—Ne
person appointed guardian for an infant, for the purpose of defending a
suit against such infant, shall be liable for the costs of such suit, unless

specially charged by the order of the court for some personal misconduct
in such cause. (G. S. 652, § 11.)

SEC. 3481. Suits by summons, where ?2rought.—Suits instituted by
summons shall, except as otherwise provided by law, be brought: First,
when the defendant is a resident of the state, either in the county Within
which the defendant resides, or in the county within which the plaintiff
resides, and the defendant may be found; second, when there are several
defendants, and they reside in different counties, the suit may be brought
in any such county; third when there are several defendants, some residents and others non-residents of the state, suit may be brought _in any
county in which any defendant resides; fourth, when all the defendants
are non-residents of the state, suit may be brought in any county‘ fifth,
any action, local or transitory, in which an county shall be plaintiff, ma
be commenced and prosecuted to final ju «rment in the county in which
the defendant or defendants reside, or in the county suing and Where the
defendants, or one of them, may be found. (G. S. pp. 225 and 653, §§ 4 and
1, amended——a.)

SEC. 3482. B3/.attac/zment, wlzere.—Suits commenced by attachment
against the property of a person, shall be brought in the county in which
such property may be found. (G. S. 653, § 2.)

SEO. 3483. In actions for real estate.—Suits for the possession of real
estate, or whereby the title thereto may be affected, shall be brought in the
§o1(1£§y§Witl1ibn) which such real estate, or some part thereof, is situated. (G.

. , 3-— .

SEC. 3484. Removal of suits b_ consent.—If, at any time after the
commencement of a suit, the parties s all agree in Writing, duly filed, upon
any other county or court of competent jurisdiction, to which they desire
the same to be removed, it shall, by order of the court, be removed accordingl to such county or court of competent jurisdiction; and the same procee ings shall be had, in all respects, for the removal of such cause as are
provided by law in changes of venue in civil cases. (G. S. 653, § 4——c.)

SEC. 3485. Suits, /now 2'.n.3titwted.——Suits may be instituted in courts of
record, except when the statute law of this state otherwise provides,
either: First, by filing in the ofiice of the clerk of the proper court a petition, setting forth the plaintiff’s cause or causes of action, and the remedy
sought, and by thevoluntary appearance of the adverse party thereto; or
second, by filing such petition in suchofiice, and suing out thereon a writ
of summons against the person, or of attachment against the property of
the defendant. (G. S. 654, § 1—a.) ‘

SEC. 3486. Writ, when returnar,ble.—Every such original writ shall be
dated on the day it is issued, and made returnable on the first day of the
next term thereafter; but if the first day of such term be within fifteen
days thereafter, then such writ shall be made returnable on the first day of
the second term, and such writ, when issued, shall, together with the copy
of the petition, be delivered to the ofliccr charged with the execution
thereof. (G. S. 654, §§ 3 and 4, amended.)

' SEC. 3487. When defendant 8/tall ap§ear.—Every. defendant, served
with the summons, fifteen days before t e return day thereof, shall be
bound to ap ear at the return term of the writ; and if such summons be
served less t an fifteen days, he shall be bound to appear at the term next
after the return term of such writ. (G. S. 654, § 5.)

SEC. 3488. Writ, how d2'rected.—The original writ, in all cases where it
is not otherwise provided by law, shall be a summons, which shall be directed to the oflicer to be charged with the execution thereof, and shall
command him to summon the defendant to appear in court, on the return
day of the writ, and at a\place to be specified in such writ, to answer the
petition of the plaintiff. (G. S. 654, § 6-1).)

SEC. 3489. Writ, how served on persons and foreign corporations.—A
summons shall be executed, except as otherwise provlded by law, either:
First, by reading the writ to the defendant, and delivering to him a copy of
the petition; or, second, by delivering to him a copy of the petition and
Writ; or, third, by leaving a copy of the petition and writ at his usual place
of abode, with some person of his family over the age of fifteen years; or
fourth, Where defendant is a corporation or joint stock company, organize
under the laws of any other state or country, and having an office or doing
business in this state, by delivering a copy of the writ a.nd petition to any
officer or agent of such corporation or company, in charge of any oflice or
place of business, or if it have no office or place of business, then to any
officer, agent or employe in any county where such service may be obtained; or, fifth, where there are several defendants, by delivering to the
defendant who shall be first summoned a copy of the petition and writ, and
to such as shall be subsequently summoned, a copy of’ the writ; or by leaving such copy at the usual place of abode of the defendant, with some
person of his family over the age of fifteen years; sixth, where any action
shall be commenced against any county, a copy of the original summons
shall be left with the clerk of the county court fifteen days, at least, before
the return day thereof, and all copies of said writ shall be made Without fee or charge by the officer serving the same. (G. S. 225, § 6; laws 1875,
p. 106, amended——c.) '

Sec. 3490. Acknowledgment of service.—When a defendant shall acknowledge, in Writing, indorsed on the writ, signed by  own proper signature, t e service of such Writ, and waive the necessity of the service
thereof by an otlicer, such acknowledgment shall be deemed as'valid as
service in the manner provided by law. (G. S. 654, § 9.) \

SEC. 3491. What deemed suzficient se'rmIcc.—In all cases when the del_fendant shall refuse to hear the Writ read, or to receive a copy of the Writ

or petition, the offer of the otlicer to read the same or to deliver a copy
thereof, and such refusal shall be a suflicient service of such Writ. (Gr. .
654, § 10.) ,

Sec. 3492. 02?€cer’s return to wv-z't.—E\'ery officer to whom any writ
shall be delivered to be executed, shall make return thereof, in writing, of
the time, place and manner of service of such Writ, and shall sign his name
to such return. (G. S. 654, § 11—d.) _ -. '

SEC. 3493. W '83 may issue to any 3/zeri#' in tire state.——When there
are several defendants residing in different counties, the laintiff ma , at
his option, have a summons directed to “any sherid in t e state of issouri,” or have a separate summons directed to the sheriff of any county,
in which one or more defendants may be found. (G. S. 654, § 12, am’d.)

SEC. 3494. Orders of’ publicat2To72.—In suits in partition, divorce attachment, suits for the foreclosure of mortgages and deeds of trust, and for
the enforcement of mechanics’ liens, and all other liens against either real
or personal roperty, and in all actions, at law or in equity, which have for
their imme 'ate object the enforcement or establishment of any lawful
right, claim or demand to or against any real or personal property within
the jurisdiction of the court, if the plaintiff, or other person for him shall
allege in his petition, or file an aflidavit, stating that part or all- of the defendants are non-residents of the state, or have absconded or absented

themselves fromtheir usual place of abode in this state, or that they have a

concealed themselves so that the ordinary process of law cannot be served
upon them, the court inwhich said suit is brought, or in vacation, the clerk
thereof, shall make an order directed to the non-residents or absentees,
notifying them of the commencement of the suit, and stating briefly the
object and general nature of the petition, and, in suits in partition, describing the property sought to be artitioned, and requiring such defendant
or defendants to appearon a day o be named therein, and answer the petition, or that the petition will be taken as confessed. If in any case there
shall not be sullicient time to make publication to the first term, the order

shall be made returnable to the next term thereafter, that will allow sufficient time for such publication. (G. S. 655, 13——e.)

SEC. 3495. Process a, ainst resident de endants.—-If, in such case, part
of the defendants are resi ents of the state, process shall be issued against
them as in other cases. ( G. S. 655, § 14.) ‘

SEC. 3496. Publication to issue on return of non est.—When, in any
of the cases contained in section three thousand four hundred and ninetyfour, summons shall be issued against any defendant, and the sheriff to
whom it is directed shall make return that the defendant or defendants
cannot be found, the court, being iirst satisfied that process cannot be
served, shall make an order as is required in said section. (G. S. 655, § 15.}

SEc..3497. Suits against railroads terminating opposite to points in
this state.—All railroad corporations that own or operate roads terminating
opposite to any point in this state, and which have ofiices or places of business in this state, shall be sued in the same manner as railroad corporations
chartered by this state. ( Laws 1877, 1). 369, § 1—f'.)

SEC. 3498. Suits against f'oree'gnjo2'.nt stock companies.—'l.‘wo or more
foreign corporations or joint stock companies, or one or more foreign joint
stock companies or corporations, and one or more domestic corporations, or
one or more foreign corporations or joint stock companies and any private

erson or persons, being associated together, and having an oflice or doing

usiness in this state, may be sued by the name in which they contract or
do such business, without setting out the name of the individual joint stock
companies or corporations or persons constituting such association, and service of process in such suits may be had on such association by delivering
a copy of the summons to any member of such association, or to any oilicer or agent of such association, or to any otlicer or agent of any 'oint stock
company or corporation forming a part of such association, W 0 may be
found in the county in which suit is brought; and the property of such association, or any individual member thereof, or of any corporation or joint
stock company forming a part of such association, may be seized on execution and sold as provided by law in other cases, and the proceeds applied
in satisfaction of any judgment obtained in such suit. (New section—g.

SEC. 3499. Pal>l2'cata.'on. against unknozon parties.—If any plainti
shall allege in his petition, under oath, that there are, or that he verily believes there are, persons interested in the subject matter of the petition,
Whose names he cannot insert therein because they are unknown to him,
and shall describe the interest of such persons, and how derived, so far as
his knowledge extends, the court, or the judge or clerk thereof in vacation,
shall make an order as in case of non-residents, reciting, moreover, all
allegations in relation to the interest of such unknown parties. (G. S. 655,
,8 16, amended.)

8150. 3500. Orders of pnblicgztion to be peoblis/zetl, w/zero and /1020 long.
Every order against non-resident, absent or unknown defendants shall be
published in some newspa )0!‘ published in this state, Which the plaintilf, or

18 attorney of record, witli the approval of the judge or clerk malrdng the
order, may designate as most likely to give notice to the person to be noti- '
lied; the publication shall be for four weeks successively, the last insertion

to be at least four weeks before the commencement, of the term at which
the defendants are required to appear. (G. S. 655, § 17, amended-/z.)
SEC. 3501. Personal se7'2n'ce agaeinst 72.on.~7'esi(lcnt der"endant8.—In any

"of the cases mentioned in section three thousand four hundred and ninetyfour, the plaintiff may cause a copy of the petition, with a copy of the summons, t.o be delivered to each defendant residing; or being without this
state, and at anyplace within the United States or their territories, one
month before the commencement. of the term at which such defendant or
defendants are required to appear; and if the defendant shall refuse to receive such copy of the petition and summons, the offer of the officer to
deliver to him the same and such refusal shall be as effectual service as
though such copies were actually delivered to such defendant. Such service may be made b_v any oflicer authorized by law to serve process within
the state or territory where such service is made, and shall be roved by
the affidavit of such oflicer, stating the time and manner of $1101 service,
made before the clerk or judge of the court of which afliant is an officer.
Such clerk or judge shall certify to the oflicial character of the atiiant, and
to his authority to serve process within the state or territory Where such
service was made. When such certificate is made by a clerk or judge of a
court of record, the same shall be attested by the seal of such court, and
when-the same is made by a judge of a court. not of record, the official character of such judge shall also be certified by the proper ofiicer of the state,
under his official seal. And any return of service, made and certified as
above provided, shall be ])r2'ma facie evidence of the facts stated in such
return. If the plaintiff, in any of the causes mentioned in section three
thousand four hundred and ninety-four, shall make the affidavit required
by said section, and shall file in said cause proof of service of process on
any defendant or defendants, in conformity with the provisions of this section, it shall not be necessarv for such plaintiff or p aintiffs to obtain the
order provided in section three thousand four hundred and ninety-four,
or to procure the publication provided in section three thousand five hun~
dred. Service of process in conformity with this section shall be as effectual within the limits of this state as personal service within this state, and
judgments rendered against (lefendants thus served shall have the same
effect and force within the limits of this state as judgments rendered against
defendants personally served with summons in this state. (G. S. 655, § 18,
amended-2'.)

SEC. 3502. Procee(l2'n/] ‘w/zero some of the a'.cf'endant8 appear, and others
do not.-——When there are several defendants, some of whom do not appear,
and are neither notified nor summoned, the plaintiff may proceed against.
those, if any, who do appear or are summoned or notified, and dismiss his
petition as to the others; or he may continue the cause until the next term,
and proceed to bring in the other defendants, by process or publication, as
the case may require. (G. S. 656, § 19——g;'.) '

SEC. 3503. Suit 3/tall not be (lcla_2/ed. w7mg.—But at such second term
the suit shall proceed against all who shall have been served in due time,

and no further delav shall be allowed to bring in the others, unless all that

appear shall consent to such delay. (G. S. 656. § 20.)
SEC. 35 . .cVon-(rye, no cause for delay/.—No suit shall be deferred or
delayed by reason of the non~age of any of the parties. ' (G. S. 656, § 21.4
SEO. 3505. Notir-e.9, how sor2verl.—-Notices shall be in writing, and shal
be served on the party, or his attorney, in the manner prescribed in this
article, unless otherwise provided by law; the service may be made by
delivering to the party, or his attorney, a copy of such notice, or by leaving

a copy at the usual place of abode of the party, or his attorney, with some

person over the age of fifteen years, or with the clerk of the party, or his

attorney. (G. S. 656, §§ 22 and 23.)

SEO. 3506. How served on non-res2'dents.—If neither the adverse party
nor his attorney reside in this state, such notice may be put up in the office

of the clerk of the court wherein the suit is pending or the proceedings are

intended to be had. (G. S. 656, § 24.)

SEC. 3507. Lergqt/1. of service before /i.earing.—Notices shall, unless a
different time is prescribed by law or the practice of the court, be given at
least five days before the time appointed for the hearing of the motion,
pleading or other proceeding if the person to be served reside within fifty
miles of the place where the caring is‘ to be had, and one day for every ad ditional twenty-five miles for the iirst three hundred miles, and beyond
that, one additional day for each hundred miles of distance from the‘ place
of serving or setting up such notice to the place of residence of such party,
or his attorney. ( G. S. 656, § 25.) '_

SEC. 3508. W/2.0 may serve n0tzIces.—The service of any notice required
by this chapter, may be made by any sheriff, marshal or constable, or by
any person who would be a competent witness, who shall make atlidavit to
such service; and any such officer shall be bound to serve notices equally
with summons or other writs, and shall be in like manner liable for neglect.
(Gr. S. 656, 26.) _

SEC. 3 9. Ac/tno.wledgme7z.t of eerviee.—If the adverse party, or his
attorney, shall indorse on the notice his acknowledgment of the service

thereof, and subscribe the same, it shall be deemed a sufficient service.
(G. S. 656, § W.)

ARTICLE V.

OF PLBADING AND THE RUL_Eb‘ OF PLEADING. ‘

 

SLc'rmN Stctrrtox
3.5l0. Forms of pleading prescribed. 3.537. Name of county to be stated in petition.
361]. The petition is the iirst pleading, and shall :5.3.¢s. Anwndi-d pleadings.
contain, what. 3539. Proceedings, when second pleading is inaudi3512. What causes of action may be united in the cit-nt.
petition. . 3540. ll‘ third pleading held insuiiicient, proceed35l3. The delendant may answer or dcmnr. { ings.
3514. Defendant shall plead, when. i 3541 . Pluintit1' not to be non-suited. when.
3515. Defendant may demnr, for what causes. 3542. What deemed responsive in pleading.
3616. Di:-mnrrer must be specific. 3513. Facts may be stated in the alternative.
3617. Defendant may demur to part of the petition. .161-I. Bi.-neilt. of legal bar not lost when.
3518. Plaintiti‘ may amend, when. ' 3545. What deemed admitted. and what denied.
3519. What objections deemed waived, and what 35443. Plemlings to be liberally construed.
not. 3511'. Petition on account.
3520. Demnrrers, when determined. 3548. What need not be pleaded.
3521. The answer shall contain, what. $549. Pleading private statute.
3522. The counter claim must arise, from what. 3550. Statutes, public or private.
3523. When defendants shall answer jointly. 35531. Conditions precedent. how pleaded.
3524. Reply and demurrer to answer. 3552. Libel and slander, actions on.
3525. Del‘:-ndant entitled to judgment, when. 3553. Plea in defense, in libel or slander.
3526. Replies and demurrers, by what rules gov- 35.";4. Plea of payment.
erned. | 3555. Pleadings tiled in vacation .

3527. Allegations in pleading. .. 3528. What pleadings may be stricken out. 3557. Motions to he s eciiic.

3529. Irrelevant matter. 3558. When filed and ward.

3630. Duplicity an objection. i :l559. Suit on lost instrument.

3531. Court may tax costs, when. :L*;(i0. Instrument to be tiled. when.

3532. Evidence need not be stated. 3:56] . Uriginal exhibits to remain on tile, etc.
3533. Dcmurrers, how determined. ’- * 3562. Suits to quiet title.

3534. Court may extend time for filing pleading. 35453. Proceedings on appearance of defendant

35."»t5. Non-suit, when taken.

 
 

. 3535. Answer and reply may allege new (acts. ~ 3564. Parties and attorneys.

3530. Pleadings to be signed by party, or attorney. l

SEC. 3510. Forms of plecul-in,q esc-ril:ed.—-The forms of pleading in
civil actions in courts of record, an the rules by which the sutiiciency of
the pleadings are to be determined, are, except as otherwise specially provided by law. prescribed by this article. (G.  657, § 1.) _ '

SEC. 3511. The petition is Me fi«r.3t pleading and shall contain, «w/Lat.
The first pleadin on the part of the plaintiff is the petition, which shall
contain: First, 1; e title of the cause, specifying the term, the name of the
court and county in which the action is brought, and the names of the
parties to the action, plaintiffs and defendants; second, a plain and concise statement of the facts constifuting a cause of action, without unnecessary repetition; third, a deman of the relief to which the plaintiff may
suppose himself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the
amount thereof shall be stated, or such facts as will enable the defendant and
the court to ascertain the amount demanded. (G. S. 658, § 3, amended—a.)

SEC. 3512. ‘W/tat causes of’ action may be united in the pctit-ion.-The
plaintiff may unite in the same petition several causes of action, whether
they be such as have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or
hot 1, Where they all arise out of: First, the same transaction or transactions
connected with the same subject of action ; or, second, contract, express 017
implied; or, third, injuries, with or without force, to )CI‘SOI1 and property,
or either; or, fourth, injuries to character; or, fifth, claims to recover real
property, with or without damages, for the withholding thereof, and the
rents and profits of the same; or, sixth, claims to recover personal property, with or Without damages, for the withholding thereof; or, seventh,
claims by or against a party in some representative or fiduciary capacity,
by virtue of a contract, or by operation of law. But the causes of action so
united must all belong to one of these classes, and must affect all the parties to the action, and not require different places of trial, and must be
separately; stated, with the relief sought for each cause (if action, in such
manner t at they may be intelligibly distinginislied. (G. S. 657,  2——l2.)

SEC. 3513. T lee defendant may answer or demu~r.—The only pleading
on4t)he part of a defendant is either a demurrer or an answer. (G. S. 658,
§ .

SE0. 3514. Defendant sizall plead, ‘w/¢en.—In all counties having over
forty thousand inhabitants, every defendant Who shall be summoned or notitled, according to law, shall demur to or answer the petition, on or before
the third day of the term at which he is bound to appear, unless longer
time be granted by the court, and in every such case the action shall be
triable at the return term; and when a defendant makes default, the plaintiff shall be entitled to his assessment of damages and final judgment. at
the term at which the default is made: provided, that in all counties having
forty thousand inhabitants, or less than that number, every defendant who
shall be summoned or notified, according to the provisions of this chapter,
shall, except as herein provided, demur to or answer the petition on or before the sixth day of the term at which he is required to appear, if the terrn
shall so long continue, and if not, then before the end of the term, unless
further time be given by the court: provided, that where the suit is
founded upon any bond, bill of exchange, or promissory note for the direct
payment of money or property, and the defendant has been served with
process, he shall demur to or answer the petition on or before the second
day of the term, if it continue so long, otherwise in such time as the court
shall direct; and all suits founded upon bonds, hills of exchange or promissory notes for the direct payment of money or property, shall be determined at the term at which the defendant is required to appear, unless continued for good cause. (G. S. 658, § 5, amended-—c.)

SEC. 3515. Defenrlant may demm' for w/eat crmses.——Tl1e defendant
may demur to the petition, when it shall appear upon the face thereof,
either: First, that the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of the action; or, second, that the plaintiff has not
legal capacity to sue; or, third, that there is another action pending between the same parties, for the same cause, in this state; or, fourth, that
there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant; or, fifth, that several
causes of action have been improperly °united; or, sixth, that the petition
does not state facts sullicient to constitute a cause of action; or, seventh,
that a party, plaintiff or defendant, is not a necessary party to a complete
determination of the action. (G. S. 658, § 6-11.)

SEC. 3516. Demurrer must be 3 eciI‘ic.—Tl1e demurrer shall distinctly
specify the rounds of objection to t ie pleadings; unless it does so, it may
be disregar ed. (G. S. 658, § 7—e.) _ _

SEC. 3517. Defendant may demur to part of the pet2»tzon.—The defendant may demur to the whole petition, or_ to any one or more of the all%gréed§ gauses of action stated therein, and answer the residue. (G. S.
6 , ,‘ .

SEC. 3518. Pia-z'nt2'/f‘ ma 3) amend, w/aen..——Aft.er a demurrer, the plaintiff may amend, of course, and with or withoutgcosts, as the court may
order. Upon the decision of the demurrer, the plaintiff may amend, or the
defendant withdraw his demurrer, and answer. The amended petition,
:?asVvée1;;g§ 1'§e{£))ly,f_s;iall be filed within such time as the-court may prescribe.

. l . , -— .

SEC. 3519. What objections deemed waived and w/cat not.—When any
-of the matters enumerated in section three thousand five hundred and tit'~
teen do not appear upon the face of the petition, the objection may be
taken by answer. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or
answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting
only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court over the subject matter
of the action, and excepting the objection that the petition does not state
facts sullicient to constitute a cause of action. (G. S. 658, § 10-9.?

SEC. 3520. Demm'7'er.9, w/zen. detez-7m'nerl.—-All demurrers sha 1 be determined during the term at which they are filed; and when filed in vacation, shall be determined at the next term after the filing t.her'eof. (G. S.

-659,  11.)

SEC. 3521'. T/ee answer 3/iall contain. w/aat.—The answer of the de
fendant shall contain: First, a general or speciiic denial of each material
allegation of the petition controverted by the defendant, or any knowledge
or information thereof siiflicient to form a belief; second. a statement of
any new matter constituting a defense or counter-claim. in ordinary and
concise language, Without repetition. (Laws of 187 5, p. 106, § 'l—/z,.)

Sec. 3522. (Jo'im_ter-claim must arise from w}tat.—The counter-claim
mentioned in the last section must be one existing favor of a defendant
and against a plaintiff, between whom a several judgment might be had in
the action, and arising out of one of the following causes of action: First,
a cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set forth in the
petition as the foundation of the plaintill"s claim, or connected with the
subject of the action; second, in an action sarising on contract, any other
cause of action arising, also, on contract, and existing at the commencement of the action; The defendant may set forth by answer, as man de?fenses and counter-claims as he may have, whether they be such as have
been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both. They must each
be separately stated, in such manner that they may be intelligibly distinguished, and refer to the cause of action which they are intended to answer.
(G. S. 659, § 13—'i.)

SEC. 3523. W/zen defendants shall answer joint! .—-Two or more defendants, making the same defense, shall answer jointl/y. Different consistent (lefenses may be separately stated in the same answer. (G. S. 659, N‘ 14.)

Sec. 3524. , 1£cpl_z/ and denmrrer to answer.—'l‘he plaintiff may demur
to one or more defenses set up in the answer, stating in his demurrer the
grounds thereof; and where the answer contains new matter, the plaintiff
shall reply to such new matter within such time as the court by rule or otherwise shall require, denying generally or specifically the allegations controverted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to form
a belief, and he may allege in ordinary and concise language and without
repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with the )et.ition, constituting
a defense to the new matter in the answer. To this reply the defendant may
demur within three days after the same has been filed. (Laws 1875,
p. 106. s H.) ,

SEC. 3525. Ijcfemlant entitled tojuafqzfzent, w/¢en.—If the answer contain a statement of new matter, and the plaintiff fail to reply or demur
thereto within the time prescribed by the rule or order of court, the defendant shall have such judgment as he is entitled to upon such statement; and
if the case require it, a writ of inquiry of damages may issue. (G. S. 659,

§ 16.)}

Use. 35%. Iicplies and clam-arrers, by w/Lat rules g0verned.——'1‘he reply
shall be governed by the rules prescribed in relation to answers; and demurrers to the answer or reply shall be governed by those prescribed in relation to demurrers to petitions, where they apply; and when a replication
is filed, the cause shall be deemed at issue. (G. S. 659, § 17.)

SEC. 3527. Allegations in pleading.——No allegation shall be made in
a pleading which the law does not re uire to be proved, and only the sub
stantive facts necessary to constitute t e cause of action or defense shall be
stated. (G. S. 660 § 18—k.) _ .SEC. 3528. W/tat pleadings may be strie/cen.out.—A frivolous demurrer,
answer or reply, may be stricken out, on motion of the adverse party. (G.
S. 660,§ 19.)

SEC. 3529. Irrelevant matter.—If irrelevant or redundant matter be
inserted in a leading, it may be stricken out, on motion of the adverse
party; and W en the allegations or denials of a pleading are so indefinite
or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or denial is not apparent,
and when they fail in any other respect t.o conform to the requirements of
the law, the court may require the pleading to be made definite and certain,
and otherwise to conform to the law, by amendment. (G. S. 660, §l20—l.)

SEC. 3530. Duplieity an objeet2Ion.—Duplicity is a substantia objection to the petition or other pleading, and shall, on motion, be stricken out.
(G. S. 660, § 21.)

SEC. 3531. Court ma_y tax costs, wlzen.—The court shall have power to
tax against the art offending, for every violation of the rules of pleading,
as provided in t 1e t ree last preceding sections,\the sum of five dollars, as
costs, in favor of the adverse party. (G. S. 660, § 22.)

SEC. 3532. Evidence need not be stated.——No party shall be required to
state evidence in his pleading, or to disclose therein the means by which he
intends to prove his case. (G. S. 660, § 23—m.)

SEC. 3533. Demurrers, /tow determined.——Demurrers and motions shall
be considered and determined without delay, and if sustained, in Whole
or in part, the adverse party shall pay costs; if overruled, the party filing

. the pleading shall pay costs. (G. S. 660, § 24.)

SEC. 3534-. Court may extend time for filing plead2In_q.——The courts,
upon good cause shown, and for the furtherance of justice, may extend the
time prescribed in this article for filing any pleading or motion, upon such
terms as shall be just. (G. S. 660, § 25--n.)

Ssc.  Answer and repl_ may allege new facts.-—,An answer or
replication may allege facts whic have occurred since the institution of
the suit. (G. S. 660, § 26.) SEC. 3536. Pleadinys to be signed by party or attorney/.—l13very petition or other pleading and motion shall be signed by the party or his attorney, and the clerk shall indorse thereon the day upon which it shall be
filed, and, if filed in term, shall make an entry thereof upon the minutes.

‘(G. s. 660, § 27.)

SEC. 3537. Name of county to be stated in petltion.—The name of the
county must, in all cases, be stated in the margin of a petition, and shall
be taken to be the venue intended by the plaintiff; and it shall not be necessary to state a venue in the body of the petition, or in any subsequent
pleading. (G. S. 660, § 28.) .

SEC. 3538. Amended ])leadzTngs.—When a petition, answer or reply
shall be adjudged insudicient, in whole or in part, upon demurrer, or the
whole or some part thereof stricken out, on motion, the proper party may
file a further like pleading, within such time as the court shall direct; and
in default thereof, the court shall proceed with the cause in the same manner as if no such original pleading had been filed. (G. S. 660, § 29.)

SEC. 353%). Proceedings where second pleadin is ¢'nsu#icz'ent.—If such
second petition, answer or reply, be filed, and in ike manner be adjudged
insuflicient, or the whole or some part thereof in like manner stricken out,
the party tiling such second pleadiiig shall pay double costs, and tile a like
pleading instanter; or, in default thereof, the court shall proceed with the
cause in the same manner as if no second pleading had been filed. (G. S.
660, § 30.)

SEC. 3540. . I 7" t/¢ird]>lea(li7zg /Leld -lnsudiclevzt, pr0ceed£ngs.—If a third
petition, answer or rep] , be filed and adjudged insufficient, as above, or
the whole or some part t ereof be stricken out, the party tiling such pleading shall pay treble costs' and no further petition, answer or reply, shall be
filed, but judgment shall be rendered. _ (G. S. 660, § 31.)

SEC. 3541. 1’laz'nt2'#'n0t to be 7z.on-suited, w/¢en.——In all actions founded
on contract, and instituted against several defendants, the plaintiff shall
not be non-suited by reason of his failure to prove that all the defendants
are arties to the contract, but may have judgment against such of them as
he s iall prove to be parties thereto. (G. S. 661, § 32.?

SEC. .3542. W/zat deemed responsive in y7lead2'ng.—-A pleading of any
kind or a mot.ion to strike, out, shall be deemed responsive to the adverse
plea ing, or so much thereof as the leading or motion is intended to apply
to, until otherwise determined by t ie court; not can several pleadings be
gpplied )to the same part of a pleading at the same time. (G. S- 661,

33—0.

SEC. 23543. Facts may be stated in the alte7'nat~lve.-—l*]itl1er party may
allege any fact or title alternatively, declaring his belief of one alternative
0; the other, and his ignorance whether it be the one or the other. (G. S.
6 1, § 34.)

SEC.  Benefit of‘ legal bar not lost, wlten.—When the pleading shall
set up the statute of limitation, or the statute of frauds, or any other legal
bar, the party shall not be deprived of the benefit of such defense b reason
of his not denying the facts set forth in the adverse pleading. ((1. S. 661,

§ 35.

 3545.- What deemed admitted and what demIed.—Every material
allegation of the petition not controverted b the answer, and every material allegation of new matter contained in the answer not controverted by
the reply, shall, for the purposes of the action be taken as true; but the
allegation of new matter in the reply shall be deemed controverted by the
adverse party, as upon a direct denial or avoidance.  S. 661, § 36—p.)

SEC.  I’lead2'ngs to be liberally construed.— the construction of
a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be
liberally construed, with a View to substantial justice between the parties.
(G.  661, _s 37- .)

SEC. 3547. etition on acc02mt.—It shall not be necessa for a party
to set forth in a pleading the items of an account therein allege , but if they
be not set forth, he shall attach to his pleading, referring to it therein, a
copy of the account, which shall be a part of the record; but if they be not
set forth in or attached to said pleading, he shall be precluded from giving
evidence thereof. (Laws 1867, p. 133, § 1—'r.)‘

SEC. 3548. W/cat need not be pleaded.——Neither presumptions of law
nor matters of which judicial notice is taken need be stated in pleading.
(G. S. 661 § 39.) _ .

SEO. 3549. * Pleading private statute.——In pleading a private statute, or
a right derived therefrom, it shall be suflicient to refer to such statute by

its title, and the day of its assage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof. (G. ‘. 661, § 40.) ' .

SEC. 3550. Statutes, public or private.—It shall not be necessary, in
any leading, to set forth any statute, public or private or any special matter t iereof; but it shall be sufficient for the party to allege therein that the
act was done by the authority of such statute,or contrary to the provisions
thereof, naming the subject matter of such statute, or referring thereto, in
some general terms, with convenient certainty. _( G. S. 661 § 41—s.

SEC. 3551. (lornditio-ns precedent, how pleaded.—In pleading t e performance of a condition precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary
to state the facts showing such peformance, but it may be stated, generally,
that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and in pleading a judgment or other determination of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction,
but such judgment or determination may be stated to have been dul iven
or made. If such allegations be controverted, the party pleading shall be
bound to establish, on trial, the facts showing such performance, or conferring such. jurisdiction, as the case may require. (G. S. 661, § 42-Lg

SEC. 3552. Libel and slander, actions on.— n an action for ibel or
slander, it shall not be necessary to state in the etition any extrinsic facts,
for the purpose of showing the application to tlle plaintiff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose, but it shall be suflicient
to state generally, that the same was published or spoken concerning the
plaintiff; and if such allegation be not controverted in the answer, it shall
not be necessary to prove it on the trial; in other cases it shall be necessary. (G. S. 661, § 43—u.)

SEC. 3553. Plea in defense in libel or slander.—In the actions mentioned in the last preceding section, the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances admissible in evidence, to reduce the amount of damages; and, whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances. (G. S. 662,  44-42;.)

SEC. 3554. Plea of payment.—When an action shall be brought upon
a bond or upon a judgment, or when a. scire facias is brought upon a judgment, the defendant may plead payment of the amount due upon such
bond or judgment, in bar of such action or writ. (G. S. 662, § 45.)

SEC. 3555. Pleadings filed in 'vacation.——The party filing any replication, answer or amended or supplemental pleading, in vacation, shall give
written notice of the time of filing the same to the adverse party, or his attorney; and until such notice is duly served, such adverse party shall not
be deeme)d to ha.ve had notice thereof, for the purpose of pleading. (G. S.
662, § 46. .

Sec. 3556. Non-suit, when ta/ce-n.——The plaintiff shall be allowed to
dismiss his suit, or take a non-suit, at any time before the same is finally
submitted to the jury, or to the court sitting as a jury, or to the court, and

not afterwards. (G. S. 662, § 47-420.)

SEC. 3557. lllotions to be specifio.—All motions shall be accompanied
by a written specification of t.he reasons upon which they are founded; and
no reason not so specified shall be urged in support of the motion. . (G. S.
662,  48-aa.) SEC. 3558. W/zen filed and /zea7'd.——M0ti0ns in a cause filed in term,
shall be filed at least one day before they may be argued or determined.
(G. S. 662, § 49—;z/.)

SEO. 3559. b'm't on lost z'nstrument.—An action or defense may be
maintained on any instrument of Writing, notwithstanding it may be lost
or destroyed , and in every such action or defense it shall be suflicient for
the party to allege the loss or destruction thereof, as an excuse for the Want
of such filing. .((}. S. 662, § 50.)

SEC. 3560. Instrument to be filed,’ w/Len.—When any petition, or other
‘pleading, shall be founded upon any instrument of writing charged to have
been executed by the other party, or his testator or intestate or other person represented by such party, and not therein alleged to be lost or destroyed, the )same shall be filed with such petition or other pleading. (G. S.
662 ,8 51-2. .

,S1~:c. 3561. ()ri_(;imzl exhibits to remain on ifle, etc.-—Original deeds
and other Writings, relied on by either party, and filed as exhibits, shall remain on file for the inspection of the other party, until allowed by the court
to be withdrawn; and, in such case, copies attested by the clerk shall be
substituted by the party withdrawing the original. (G. S. 662, § 52.)

SEC. :l.36‘2. rS'uz't3 to quiet tz'tle.—~Any person in possession of real property, claiming an estate of freehold, or an unexpired term of not less than
ten years, may file a petition in the ‘circuit court, setting forth his estate,
whether of inheritance for life or years, and describing the remises, and
averring that he is credibly informed and believes that t 1e defendant
makes some claim adverse to the estate of the petitioner, and praying that
he may be summoned to show cause why he should not bring an action to
try the alleged title, if any, and thereupon the court shall order notice to
be given to the defendant; and upon return of such order of notice duly
executed, if the defendant so summoned shall make default, or having appeared, shall disobey the lawful order of the court to bring an action and
try the title, the court shall enter a judgment that he be forever debarred
and estopped from having or claiming an right. or title, adverse to the petitioner, and those claiming by or throng \ him, to the premises described.
If any person who shall be proceeded against u11der the provisions of this

section shall be a non-resident of this state, the fact of non-residence shall
be alleged in the petition, or in an aiiidavit filed in the court, and the order
of notice made by the court shall be returnable to the first day of the next
regular term of the court making such order, and may be removed, from
time to time as occasion may require, and all orders made under the rovisions of this section against non-residents of this state, shall be serve by
delivering a duly exemplified copy thereof to such non-resident at any
place wit in or without this state, by any person above the age of twentyone years, not incompetent to testify as a witness in the cause, and being
proved by the affidavit or de osition of such person, such service shall be
as eifectual as if made by a uly authorized officer i11 this state upon a resident thereof. (G. S. '662,§ 53, amended—a.)

SEC. 3563. Proceedings on appearance of defendant.—If the defendant shall appear and disclaim all r1 ht .and title adverse to the petitioner,
he shall recover his costs; if he sha 1 claim title, he shall, b answer, show
cause why he should not be required to bring an action an try such title;
and the court shall make such judgment or order respecting the brin ing
2&1 8p1éo1s<)scuting of such action as may seem equitable and just. ( . S.

1 - - ‘

SEC. 3564. Parties and attomev s.——Parties may rosecute and defend
their own suits in proper person, or by attorney. It s all not be necessary
to file any warrant of attorney, to authorize any attorney  appear in any

court for either party to an action brought therein, except 111 cases where it
shall be specially required by law. (G. S. 663, § 55.)

ARTICLE VI.

OF AMENDING PLEADINGS AND PROCEEDINGS.

Bncrxox Sucrxox

3565. Variance, when deemed material. 3575. What objections admissible.

3566. Variance, when not material, proceedings. 3576. Pleadings shall embrace, what.

3567. Amendments before tlnal judgment. 3577 . Last preceding section construed.

3568. Amendments bringing in new arties. 3578. Amended pleadin may be answered.

3569. Errors, not affecting substant al rights, dis- 3579. Variance in recort , how amended.
regarded. 3550. Amending returns of otllcers.

8570. Amendments after judgment. 3581 . Amending award'of venire.

3571. Petitiotn and answer, when amended without 3582. Im erfeft 0:38 for which Judgments will not
cos . se as e.

3572. Amending reply. 3583. Imperfections cured by amendment.

3573. Supplemental petition, answer and reply al- 3584. The court, only, can order amendments.
lowed. 35:45. This article to extend to what actions.

3574. Wishélrawal of parts of petition allowed, 3586. Duty or courtinconstruing this law.
w en.

SEC. 3565. Variance when deemed material.—No variance between
the allegation in the pleading and the proof shall be deemed material, unless it has actually misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense u on the merits. When it shall be alleged that a
party has been so misled, t at fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of the
court, by affidavit showing in what respect he has been misled, and thereadverse party; and no j udgmentshall be reversed or affected by reason of
such error or defect. (G. S. 670, § 5.) _

SEC. 3570. Amendments after ,7udgment.—After final judgment rendered in any cause, the court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as may be just, amend, in afiirmance of such judgment, any record,
pleading, process, entries, returns, or other proceedings in such cause, by

adding or striking out the name of a part , or by correcting a mistake 111 '

the name of a party, or a_ mistake in any ot er respect, or by rectifying defects or imperfections in matters of form, and such judgment shall not be
reversed or annulled therefor. (G. S. 670, § 6—d.)

SEC. 3571. Petition and answer, when amended without cost.—A petition or answer may be amended by the proper party, of course, without
costs and without prejudice to the proceeding alread had, at any time before the answer or repl thereto shall be file . (G. . 670,  7.) .

SEO. 3572. Amendying replg/.—A reply may be amen ed, upon such
terms as may be just, at any time before the jury is sworn or the cause submitted to the court. (G. S. 670, § 8.)

SEC. 3573. Supplemental petition, answer and reply allo'wed.—A party
may be alloyved, on motion, to file an amended or supplemental petition,

_ answer or reply, alleging facts material to the cause, or praying for any

other or different relief, order or judgment. (G. S. 670, § 10, amended.)

SEC. 357 4. Withdrawal of parts of petition allowed, w/zen.—The plaintiff, at any time before the jury is sworn, or the cause submitted to the
court, may, on motion, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party, strike
out or withdraw any part of his petition. (G. S. 670, § 11, amended—e.)

SEC. 3575. W/zat objections admissible.—Upon such motion, no objection shall be valid that would not be valid after a finding of the issue for
the plaintiff. (G. S. 670, § 12.)

SEC. 3576. Pleadings s/tall embrace, w/iat.—In every petition, answer
or reply, amendatory or supplemental,.the party shall set forth in one
entire pleading all matters which, by the rules of pleading, may be set forth
in such pleading, and which may be necessar to the proper determination
of the action or defense. (G. S. 670, § 13—f'.)y ’

SEC. 3577. Last preceding section construed.—The last section shall
not be construed to require an amendatory or supplemental pleading to be
made, where the amendment desired may be made by striking from the
pleading portions thereof, or by adding or striking out the name of -a party
or dates, or adding an affidavit, or by correcting t 1e name _of a party, or obvious errors. (G. S. 670, §14.)

SEC. 3578. Amended pleadings may be answered.—If any amendment
be made to any pleading, the adverse party shall be allowed an opportunity, according to the course and practice of the court, to answer or reply
to the pleading so amended. (G. S. 670, § 15.) .

SEO. 3579. Variance in record, how amended.—Any variance in the
record from any process, pleading or proceeding had in a cause, shall be

amended and certified according to the original process, pleading or proceeding. (G. S. 671, § 16.)

SEC. 3580. Amending returns of o#icers.—All returns made by any
sheriff, or other ofiicer, or by any court or subordinate tribunal, to any
court, may be amended in matters of form by the court to which such regu1énIsh§al1l7be n;ade, in its discretion, as well before as after judgment. (G.

- 19 '77‘

SEO. 3581. Amending award of venire.—Any imperfection or defect
in the award of any venire, or any omission to enter of record the awarding of any venire, may be amended or supplied by the court having custody
of such record. G. S. 671, § 18, amended.)

SEC. 3582. mperfections for which judgments will not be set aside.\Vhen a verdict shall have been rendered in any cause, the judgment
thereon shall not be stayed, nor shall such judgment, nor any judgment
after trial or submission, nor any judgment upon confession m’./til dzrcit, or
upon failure to answer, nor any judgment upon a writ of inquir of damages executed thereon, be reversed, impaired, or in any way a ected by
reason of the following im erfections, omissions, defects, matters or things,
or any of them, namely: irst, for want of any writ, original or judicial;
second, for any default or defect of process or for misconceiving any process, or for awarding the same to the wrong officer or for the want of an
suggestion for awarding process, or for any insufficient suggestion; thir ,
for an imperfect or insufficient return of any sheriff or other officer, or
that t e name of such officer is not signed to any return actually made by
him; fourth, for any variance between the original writ and petition; fifth,
for any mispleading, miscontinuance or discontinuance, insuflicient pleading, jeofail or misjoining issue; sixth for want of any warrant of attorney
of either party except in cases of ju gment by confession, when such warrant is expressly required by law; seventh, for any party under twenty-one
years of age having appeared by attorney, if the verdict or judgment be
for him; eighth, for the want of any allegation or averment on account of
which omission a demurrer could have been maintained; ninth, for omitting
any allegation or averment without provin which the triers of the issue
ought not to have given such a verdict; tenfh, for any mistake in the name
of any party or person, or in any sum of money, or in any descri tion of
any property, or in reciting or stating any da , month or year, w en the
correct name, sum or description shall have en once ri htly alleged in
any of the pleadings or proceedings; eleventh, for a mista e in the name
of any juror or officer; twelfth, for the want of any venue, if the cause was
tried in the proper county; thirteenth, for any informality in entering a
judgment or making up the record thereof, or in any continuance or other
entry upon the record; fourteenth, for any other default or negligence of
any clerk or officer of the court, or of the parties, or of their attorneys, by
which neither party shall have been prejudiced. (Laws 1867, p. 134, § 1,
amended—It._)

SEC. 3583. Imperfections cured by amendment.—The omissions, imperfections, defects and variances in the preceding section enumerated, and
all others of a like nature, not being] against the right and justice of the
matter of the suit, and not alterin t e issues between the parties on, the
trial shall be supplied and amen ed by the court where the judgment
shall be given, or b the court into which such judgment shall be removed
by writ of error or y appeal. (G. S. 671, §20.)

SEC. 3584. Tlze court only can order amendments.—No process, leading or record shall be amended or impaired by the clerk or other ofliher of
the court, or by any person, without the order of such court, or of some
court of competent authority. (G. S. 671, § 21-73.)

SEO. 3585. This article to extend to what actions.—The provisions of
this article shall extend to all actions, includin I all suits for the recovery
of any debt due to this state or for an debt, uty or revenue belonging
to tlns state, and, also, to all actions or penalties, to all writs of mandamus and prohibition, to informations in the nature of a quo warranto,
to writs of scire facias, and to the proceedings thereon; but shall not extend to indictments or informations for any criminal matter, or to the pro‘ ceedings thereon. (G. S. 671, § 22, amended.)

SEC. 3586. Duty of court in construing tlzis law.—It shall be the
duty of the courts to so construe the provisions of law relating to pleading, and to so adapt the practice thereunder, as to discourage, as far as possible, negligence and deceit, to prevent delay, to secure parties from being
misled, to place the party not in fault as nearly as possible in the same condition he would be in if no mistake had been made, to distinguish between
form and substance, and toafford known, fixed and certain re uisitions, in

place of the discretion of the court or judge thereof. (G. . 672, § 23,
amended.)

SEC. 3587. Issues ‘defined and classified.—An issue arises upon the
pleadings, when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party
and controverted by the‘ other. They are of two kinds: First, of law;
and second, of fact. (G. S. 673, § 1—a.)

SE0. 3588. Issues of law.—An issue of law arises: First, upon a demurrer to the petition, answer or reply, or to some part thereof; or second,
DEED an allegation of fact in a pleading by the one party, the truth of
W ‘ch is not controverted by the other. (G. S. 673, § 2.)

SEC. 3589. Issues of’ f'act.—An issue of fact arises: First, upon a material allegation in the petition controverted by the answer; or, second,
upon new matter in the answer controverted by the reply; or, third, upon
3%? n:;a)tter in the reply, except an issue of law is joined thereon. (G. S.

, .

S1-:0. 3590. Issues of law and f'act.—Issues, both of law and fact, may
arise upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such
cases the issues of law must be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct.
(G. S. 673, § 4.) . _

SEC. 3591. Suits not disposed of to be continuea’..——Every suit that
shall not be otherwise disposed of according to law, shall be continued at
the term at which the defendant is bound to appear, until the next term
thereafter, and at such second term every such suit shall be determined.
(G. S. 673, § 5.) .

SEC. 3592. Continuances for cause, and costs tlzereof.——Every court of
record in this State, in which any civil action is pending, may, at any term,
for good cause shown, continue the same to a subsequent day in the same
term, or to the next regular term, and every continuance granted upon the
application of either party in any civil action, shall be at the cost of such
party, unless otherwise ordered by the court. (Laws 1874, p. 117, § 1,
amended——b.) .

S1-:0. 3593. Applications for continuance to be in writing, unless, etc.Every application for a continuance shall, unless the adverse party consent.

that it be made orally, on oath in open court, be made by motion in writing,
accompanied by the affidavit of the applicant, or of some other credib e
person, setting forth the facts on which the application is founded. (G. S.

673, S 7, amended.)

SEC. 3594. Neglect of party no cause for continuance.——A continuance
shall not be granted for any cause growing out of the fault or negligence of
the party applying therefor. (New section.)

SEO. 3595. Apjilications shall state w/zat facts.—Applications for a
continuance, on account of the absence of witnesses or their evidence, shall
state facts which show : First, the materiality of the evidence sought to be
obtained, and due diligence upon the part of the applicant to obtain such
witness, or testimony; second, the name and residence of such witness, if
known, or, if not known, the-use of diligence to obtain the same, and also
facts showing reasonable grounds of belief that the attendance or testimony
of such witness will be procured at the next term; ‘third, it shall also state
what particular facts the alliant believes the witness will prove, and that
he knows of no other person whose evidence or attendance he could have
procured at that term, by whom he can prove or so fully prove the same
facts; fourth, that such witness is not absent by the connivance, consent or
procurement of the applicant, and such application is not made for vexation or delay, but in good faith for the purpose of obtaining a fair and impartial trial. (New section.)

SEO. 3596. Insufficient application overruled, otherwise sustained.If the aflidavit does not contain a sufficient statement of facts as herein required the court shall overrule the same; but if, upon the contrary, the
court shall frnd the atlidavit sufiicient, the cause shall be continued, unless
the opposite party will admit that the witness, if present, would swear to
the facts set out in said afiidavit. in which event the cause shall not be continued, but the party moving therefor shall read as the evidence of such
witness the facts so stated in such affidavit,-and the opposite party may
dis rove the facts disclosed, or prove any contradictory statements made by
suc absent witness in relation to the matter in issue and on trial. (New
section.)

SEC. 3597. Amendment of leading, when cause for continuance.When a party shall amend any p eadinv or roceeding, and the court shall
be satisfied, by affidavit or otherwise, that t 1e opposite party could not be
ready for trial, in consequence thereof, a continuance ma be granted to
some day of the same term, or to the next regular term of t 1e court. (G. S.
673, 10, amended—c.) bro. 3598. Application of this artz'cle.—The provisions of this article
shall govern contiuuances in all civil actions. (New section.)

SEC. 3599. Trial, definition of'.—A trial is the judicial examination of
the issues between the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.

(G. S. 673, § 11—d.)

SEC. 3600. Issues of fact to be tried by jury w/zen.—An issue of fact
in an action for the recovery of money only, or 0 s ecific real or personal
property, must be tried by a jury, unless a jury tria be waived, or a reference ordered, as hereinafter provided. (G. S. 673, § 12—e.)

SEC. 3601. 0t/zer issues to be tried by court.—Every other issue must
be tried by the court, which, however, may take the opinion of a jury upon
any specific question of fact involved therein, by an issue made up therein
for that purpose, or may refer it, as hereinafter provided. (G. S. 67-1,§ 13—f'.)

S130. 3602. Jar trial, when deemed waz'ved.—Parties to an issue of
fact shall be deeme to have waived a trial by jury in the following cases :
First, by failing to appear at the trial; second, by written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk; third, by oral consent in court, entered on the minutes. (G. S. 674, ,8 14—_(;.)

SEC. 3603. Separate trials, when ordered.—Where there are several
causes of action united in a petition, or where there are several issues, and
the court shall be of the opinion that all or any of them should be t.ried
separately by the court or jury, it may, on the application of either party,
direct separate trials, which may be had at the same or at different terms of
the court, as circumstances may require. In all cases where there are
separate causes of action united as aforesaid, the court shall award separate
costs against the unsuccessful party, unless for good cause, it shall otherwise
order. The judgment upon each separate finding shall await the trial of
all the issues. (G. S. 674, § 15.)

SEC. 3604. Eit/cer party may proceed to trial.—When the action is
called for trial, either party may proceed to try the issues, and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court, for good cause, otherwise direct.
may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal bf the suit, or a verdict, or
judgment, as the case may re uirc. (G. S. 674, § 16.)

SEC. 3605. Cases referred by c0nsent.—-All or any of the issues of fact
in the action may be referred, upon the written consent of the parties.
(G. S. 674, § 17-11.)

SEC. 3606. W/zen referred by order of court.-—Where the parties do
not so consent, the court may. upon the application of either, or of its own
motion, direct a reference in the following cases: First, where the trial of
an issue of fact shall require the examination of a long account. on either
side in which case the referees may be directed to hear and decide the
Whole issue, or to report upon any specific question of factinvolved therein;
or, second, where the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order
into effect; or, third, where a question of fact other than upon the pleadings shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action. (G. S.
674, 18-23.) ,

EC. 3607. Parties may agree upon referees.—In all cases of reference,

the parties, except when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person or persons, not exceeding three; and, upon filing such agreement, the reference shall be ordered accordingly. If the parties do not
aglree, the court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three,
W 0 shall be free from all exception. G. S. 674, § 19.)

SEC. 3608. Referees to hear and etermine cause without delay.-'l‘he
referee or referees, appointed in pursuanceof any order of reference, shall

roceed with diligence to hear and determine the matter in controversy.
?G. S. 773, § 27.) '

SEC. 3609. Referees to he disinterested parties.—No person shall be
appointed referee who is of kin to either party, or is interested in the
event of the action. (G. S. 773, § 28.)

SEC. 3610. Appointment in case of death.—In case of the death or removal from the state of a referee, another shall, if necessary and proper,
be agpointed to fill the vacancy. (G. S. 7 73, § 29.)

EC. 3611. Oath of referees.—Before proceeding to hear any testimony in the cause, they shall take and subscribe an oath before some oilicer, duly authorized to administer an oath, faithfully and fairly to hear and
examine the cause, and to make a just, impartial and true report, according to the best of their understanding, Which oath shall be filed and returned
with the award. (G. S. 7 74, § 30, amended—j.)

SEC. 3612. Trial, and other proceedings:-They shall appoint a time
and lace for the hearing and give ten days notice thereof, in writing, to
all t e parties; and if either party, being notified, shall fail to appear, they
shall proceed ea: parte, and shall adjourn the hearing, from time to time, as
may be necessary; and for good cause they may postpone the hearing to
any time, not extending beyond the next term of the court in which the
suit is pending, or, when a longer time is given by the order of the court,

-within which to report, not extending beyond such time. (G. S. 774,

§ 31-/3.)

SEC. 3613. Power to compel attendance of witnesses.—-They shall have
the same power that may be given, by law, t.o justices of the peace, to issue
subpcenas for witnesses, and to compel their attendance by attachment, to
administer oaths, and punish contempts committed in their presence during the hearing of the cause, and commit to the jail of the county such witnesses as refuse to testify. (G. S. 7 74, § 32.)

SEC. 3614. Depositions may be taken and read.—Depositions of witnesses or parties, regularly taken in the cause, may be read in evidence before the referees. as in cases of trials before the court. (G. S. 774, § 33.)

SEC. 3615. Referees must all meet and conduct the trial.—If more than
one referee be appointed, all the referees must meet together, and hear all
the proofs and allegations of the parties‘ but a report made, and every
other act done by a majority of them shall be valid. (G. S. 774,  34.)

SEC. 3616. Court may compel referees to report.——The.referees may be

-compelled, by the order of the court in which the cause is pending, to proceed to the hearing, and make report. And the court may require them to
report their decision, in admitting or rejecting any witness, or the depositions of any witness or other testimony, in allowing or overruling any question to any witness, or answer thereto; and all proceedings by them, to"ether with the testimony before them, and their reasons for allowing or
‘ 'sallowing any claim of either party. (G. S. 77 , § 35.)

SEC. 3617. Jllay compel pairties to testify, etc.—Tliey shall have power,
as courts of record have, to examine the parties on oath, to be administered
by the referees, or either of them, and to require the production of all
books, papers and documents in the custody, or under the control of either
party. (G. S. 7 74.  36.)

SEC. 3618. P¢mz's/mzent of parties in contempt.——If any party shall
neglect or refuse to account, pursuant to proper notice, or to produce any
books, papers or documents, required_ by the referees, the referees may report sucli neglect or refusal to the court, who shall proceed against the party
for his disobedience, and imprison him until he submit to account or produce such books, papers and documents; or the referees may receive a
statement of the account from the adverse party, and the witnesses that he
may produce, on oath, in relation thereto, and report such sum to be due
as they, on such examination, shall tind due. (G. S. 7 74, § 37.)

Sec. 3619. Punishment for refusal to testif}/.——If either party shall refuse to be sworn, or, when sworn shall refuse to answer any proper question, the referees may imprison him until he consents to be sworn or to
answer such question. (G. S. 7 74, § 38.) i

SEC. 3620. Testimony; to be wrz'tten.—All testimony taken before ref-erees shall be reduced to writing, and if either party shall except to the

competency of a witness, or the admission or exclusion of evidence, or an

other matter to which exceptions may be taken, the referees, if require ,

shall state the particulars of the exceptions in their report. (G. S. 774,

 39.)

SEC. 3621. Re art of ref'erees.—Tlie referees shall, in all cases, report

as spceclily as possi le, reciting the order of the court, and showing the notice to the parties, the time and place of stating the account or taking the
testimony, and all other proceedings had, an‘ return the same, together
with the testimony taken, to the court. (G. S. 774, § 40-l.)

Snc. 3622. Ecceptions to report.-—All exceptions to the report of the

referees shall be in writing, and tiled within four days, in term, after the_

report is filed, and shall be argued without delay. (G. S. 775, § 41.)
SEC. 3623. Proceedi 3 on report.—If exceptions are allowed, the mat'ter may again be referre , with instructions, if necessary ; but if the report

. witnesses, in any cause, may af

is confirmed by the court, judgment shall be rendered thereon, in the same
manner and with like effect as upon a. special verdict. (G. S. 77 5,§ ~12—m.)

Sac.  Service of notices, Iiow and by whom made.—All notices required to be given by the referees or others, in the progress of a cause, shall
be served by reading the same, or delivering a copy to the , erson to be notified, and may be served by the sheriff or other otiicer aut iorized to serve
proce§ss,3\3'hose return shall be evidence of the facts therein stated. (G. S.
775, .' 4‘ .

SEC. 3625. Service of sub)amas.—Sucli notices, and all subpoenas for
so be served by any person being a competent witness in the cause; and the affidavit of such person shall be re-ceived as evidence of the facts stated relating to the service. (G. S. 775,

§ 440)
SEC. 3626. Cam. ensation of ref'erees.—Referees, in the absence of any
special agreement, s iall receive such compensation for their services as the

court, in which the case is pending, may allow, not exceeding ten dollars
per day. (G. S. 775, § 45, amended.)

SEC. 3627. Compensation of’ witnesses and o/7ice~rs.——Witnesses shall
receive the same fees for attendin before arbitrators and referees _that
may be allowed them for attending efore the circuit court in civil cases;
and sheriffs and all other oflicers shall be entitled to the same fees for service performed in relation to arbitrations and references, that may be
allowed them in their respective courts for similar services. ( G. S. 775, § 46.)

SEC. 3628. Verdicts general and special.-—The verdict of a jury is
either general or special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the pla.intiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury finds the
facts only, leaving the judgment to the court. ‘( G. S. 674, § 20~n.)

SEC. 3629. General verdict, when rendered.——In every issue for the recovery of money only, or specific real or personal property, the jury shall
render a general verdict. (G. S. 674, § 21.)

SEC. 3630. Special, w/zen.—In all other cases, if, at any time during
the progress of any cause, it shall, in the opinion of the court, become necessary to determine any fact in controversy by the verdict of a jury, the
court may direct an issue or issues to be made. (G. S. 674, § 22.)

SEC. 3631. Court to direct issue.——No issue shall be made, except such
as shall be directed by the court. (Gr. S. 675,§ 23.)

SEC. 3632. Issues to be tried by/jury/.—’l‘he trial of such issues shall be
by jury, and the issues shall be disposed of by a general or special verdict
before a final judgment shall be made therein. (G. S. 675, § 24.)

SEC. 3633. New trial, when granted.—The court may award a new
trial of any issue, upon good cause shown; but not more than one new trial
of,the same issue shall be granted to any one party. (G. S. 675, § 25-0.)

SEC. 3634. Verdict in actions for mane;/.—‘When a verdict shall be
found for the plaintiff in an action for the recovery of money only, the jury
shall also assess the amount of the recovery; so, also, if they find for the

<§l%fenda1)1t in case of offsets or other demand for money. (G. S. 675,
, 6-1).

SEC. 3635. Ewceptions, when saved.—Whenever, in the progress of
any trial, in any civil suit pending in any court of record, either party shall
except to the opinion of the court, and shall write his exception and ray

the court to allow and sign the same, the person composing the court 3 al ,
if such bill be true, sign the same. (G. S. 675, § 27-9.)

SEC. 3636. Exceptions to be filed during ter-m.—Such exception_nia_y
be written and filed at the time or during the term of the court at which it
is taken, and not after. All exceptions taken during the trial of a cause or
iscsue before the same jury, shall be embraced in the same bill of exceptions.
( ‘..S. 675 .*28—r.)

SEC.  Duty of fudge refusing to sign bill.-—If the jud e refuse to
sign such bill, on the ground-that it is untrue, he shall certify t iereon, under lbiis  tli<2‘caus<t2_of suclli refu_sal.d b(Gé S.t67§l,  29-I—ig.t)h _ d f

EC. . roe]; eons w zen saqne g 7 s an ers.— e J11 «re re use
tohsign any bill of exce tioiis, such bill may be sig3ie(1l by three llzygtanders,
w o are respectable in iabitants of the state, an t ie court s a permit
every such bill, if the same be true, to be filed indco1;rt. (G. Sé 672, §30—‘-)t.1)l

SEC. 3639. Exceptions to be part of room‘ ween signe .— Jvery i
signed b r the judge or by the bystanders, and filed in court, shall form a
part Sof t ie record of the cause in which it is filed}! ( S. 675, § 31.)

EC. 3640. Proceedings when court refuses t .e -l2"n‘g of‘ e:cceptz'ons.—
\Vhen the judge shall refuse to permit any bill of exceptions, signed by the
bystlanders, to be filed, and shall have certified that it is untrue, eithler party
in t e suit may take afhdavits not exceeding five in num er in re ation to
its truth. (G. s. 675, § 32.) ’ ‘ ’

SEC. 3641. Dz'spos27t2'on of a/7idavz'ts.—Such aflidavits shall _be taken
and deposited in the clerk’s oflice, witvhin live days after the trial 01 the
cause and on appeal or writ of error, copies of such affidavits shall be annexeél to and form a part of the record of the cause. (G. S. 675i;\; 33.) t

EC. 3642. Disposition of e.7:oept2'ons in appellate court.— ‘very cour
to which an ap eal or writ of error shall be taken, shall admit, as part of
the record of t ie cause, every bill of exceptions taken therein, upon its appearing satisfactorily to such court that the truth of the case is fairly stated

in such bill, that the same was taken according to law, and that the court
refused to permit such bill to be filed. (G. S. 675, § 3-1—~u.)

SEC. 3643. Trut/t of bill, now determined.—The truth of every such
bill shall be tried by the affidavits required by this article to be taken and
filed in the clerk’s ofiice. (G. S. 675, § 35.)

SEC. 3644. Production of books and papers.—Every court, or judge
thereof, shall have power to compel any party to a suit pending therein, to

roduce any books, papers and documents in his possession or power, reaging tr; the merits of any such suit, or of any defense therein. (G. S. 67 5,
’ 6-Iv.
§ SEC. 3645. Proceedings to obtain books and papers.—To entitle a party
to the producfgiczlnbof sluch abigoks, piaphers and documents]; he shgllblpresent a
petition, veri e y t e a avit o imse or some ot er cre i e person,
to the court, or to the judge thereof in vacation, upon which an order may
be granted by such court or officer for the production of such books, papers
alnd (ll((1>cum<}>.)11ts, or tliiat the pSar(t3y shov£r7cause why the prayer of the petition
s on not e grante . G. . 75, .

SEC. 3646. Vacating order to gyro uce boo/cs, etc.—Every such order
may be vacated by the court or officer granting the same: First, upon satisfactory evidence that it ou ht not to have been granted; second, upon the
parltly iiequired to produce t is Booksf, pazgéerg  (§1%c8u)rnents denying, on
-oat t e possession or contro t ereo . ‘. . .

SEC. 3647. Penalty for refusing to produce ,booIcs, etc.—If the party
neglect to lobey Slilcll order f(1))l' the production (if Books, pa}pe1;_s anhd documents, wit in suc time as t e court or ju ge s 1a prescri e or t at urpose, the court may non-suit him, or strike out any answer, or debar him

rom any particular defense in relation to which such books, papers and
documen(ts}w§re6F;§qé1i31'e(l to be produced, or may punish him as for a contempt. . . , t 9. *

SEC. 3648. Order permitting adverse party to inspect and copy papers,
~etc.;u—Tl(11e court beforg which an action is peI(id1ng,t(1)lr a judge thereof, maly,
in ‘s iscret-ion, an upon ue notice, or er e1 er party to give to t e
other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to
take a copy of a paper in his possession or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the court, on motion, may exclude the
paper from belingh giszeéi gn 6eiV(;icl§er}18<e), or punish the party refusing as for a
contempt, or ot . . . , .

SEC. 3649. Proceedings to avoid proof‘ ofpapers.—Either party may
exhibit to the other, at any time before the trial, any paper, material to the
action, and re uest an admission, in writing, of its genuineness.' If the adverse party fai to ive the admission within two days after the request,
and if the party ezgiibiting the paper be afterwards put to expense in order
to plrove ilts genuinenleslsl, land théa lsamle be Iinallyf provedhor gdmitted on lthe
tria , suc expense s a e pai y t e party re using t e a mission, un ess
it shall appear, to the satisfaction of the court, that there were good reasons for the refusal. ,(G. S. 676, § 41.)

SEC. 3650. Proo of lost instrument.—Whenever a party to a suit
shall have been permitted to prove the loss of any instrument, in order to
admit other proof of the contents thereof, the adverse party may dis rove

such loss, and account for such instrument. (G. S. 676, § 42, amende —w.).

SEC. 3651. Loss of‘ negotiable notes.—If, in any suit founded upon any
negotiable romissory note or bill of exchange, or in which such bill or
note, if pro uced, might be allowed in the defense of any suit, it appear
on the trial that such note or bill was lost, or destroyed, while it belonged
to the party claiming the amount due thereon, parol or other evidence of,
the contents thereof, may be given on such trial, and such partv shall be

entitled to recover the amount due thereon, as if such note or bi1l'had been
produced. (G. S. 676, § 43, amended.)

SEC. 3652. I3ecover3/ c0ndz't2'on.ed on giving b(md.—To entitle a party to
such recovery, he, or some responsible person for him, shall execute a bond
to the adverse party, in a penalty at least double the amount of such note
or bill, with two sufficient securities, to be approved by the court in which
the trial shall be ha.d, conditioned to indemnify the adverse party against
all claims by any other person, on account of such note or bill, and against
all cos :5 and expenses, by reason of such claims. (G. S. 676, § 44.)

Sr. '. 3653. Instrument, egcecutccl by 0')p03z'te 7 arty, evz'.(Ience,w/zen.\Vhen any petition or other pleading shall be f0l11]Cl]€}}(.l upon any instrument
in writing, charged to have been executed by the other party, and not alleged therein to be lost or destroyed, the execution of such instrument.

shall be adjudged confessed, unless the party charged to have executed the

same deny the execution thereof, by answer or replication, verified by af-fidavit. (G. S. 676, § 45, amended.)

SEC. 3654. Preceding section con.9trued.—-The preceding section shall
not be construed to authorize any instrument of writing to be received in
evidence without proof of its execution, in any suit against an‘ executor or
administrator, or any other person representingtlie person charged to have
executed such instrument, nor any county, city or town, sued upon any instrument alleged to have been executed by such county, city or town, or
any corporate authorities. (G. S. 677, § 46, amended.)

SEO. 3655. [n3tructz'ons.—When the evidence is concluded, and before the case is argued or submitted to the jury, or to the court sitting as a
jury, either party may move the court to give instructions on any point of
law arising in the cause, which shall be in writing and shall be given or refused. The court may, of its own motion, give like instructions, and such
instructions as shall be given by the court shall be carried by the jury to

their room for their guidance to a correct verdict according to the law and
evidence. (Laws 1877, p. 360,§ 1—w.)

SEC. 3656. Suits when consol-idated.—Whenever several suits, founded
alone upon li uidated demands, shall be pending in the same court, by the
same plaintifg
are pending in the same court, by the same plaintiff’ against several defendants, the court in which the same shall be prosecuted, may, in its disagainst the same defendant, or W ienever several such suits.

cretion, if it appear expedient, order such suits to be consolidated into one ,

action. ( G. S. 677, § 48-3/.)

SI-:0. 3657. Costs, w/zen ad/cc-dyed against plain-ti)?‘ failing to consolidate.'—W-hen any plaintiff shall bring in the same court several suits against
the same defendant that may be joined, and when any plaintiff shall bring
in the same court several suits against several defendants that may be
joined, the plaintiff shall recover only the costs of one action, and the costs
of the other actions shall be adjudged against him, unless sufficient reason
appear to the court for bringing several actions. (G. S. 677, § 49.)

SEC. 3658. Defendant may offer compromise.—The defendant in any
action may, at any time before trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintiff
an offer, in writ.ing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum
or to the effect therein specified. If the plaintiff accept the offer, and give
notice thereof, within ten days, he ma file the offer, and an affidavit of
notice of acceptance, and judgment shal be entered accordingly. If the
notice of acceptance be not given the offer shall be deemed Withdrawn, and
shall not be given in evidence or commented on before a 'ury; and if the
plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he shall pay the defendant’s costs from the time of the offer. (G. S. 677, § 50.) ‘

SEC. 3659. Offer to liquidate damage.9.—In an action arising on contract, the defendant may, at the time of filing his answer, serve upon the

plaintiff, an offer, in writing, that if he fail in his defense, the damages. be

assessed at a specified sum; and if the plaintiff do not give notice of acceptance thereof, Within five days after receiving such offer, it shall be
deemed Withdrawn, and no evidence thereof shall be given or comments
made thereon to a jury. If the plaintiff give notice, in writing, of acceptance thereof, within five days, as aforesaid, the damages shall be assessed
accordingly. If the plainti&' do not accept the offer, and the dams es recovered bv him do not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, he sha 1 pay
the defendant’s costs, accrued in consequence of any necessary preparation
or defense in respect to the question of damages. (G. S. 677, § 51.)

SEC. 3660. Appointment of receiver.—'l‘he court shall have power to
appoint a receiver whenever such appointment shall be deemed necessary,
whose duty it shall be to keep and preserve any mony or other thing deposited in court, or that may be the subject of a tender, subject to the order
of court. (G. S. 678, § 52-2.)

SEC. 3661. Iieceiver to give bond.-—Such receiver shall give bond, and
have the same powers and be subject to all the provisions, as far as they
may be applicable, enjoined u on a receiver appointed by virtue of the
law providing for suits by attac nnent. (G. S. 678, § 53.

SEO. 3662. Compensation of receiver.—'l‘he court s all allow such receiver such compensation for his services and expenses as may be reasonable and just, and cause the same to be taxed as costs, and paid as other

-costs in the cause. (G. S. 678, § 54.)

ARTICLE VIII.

OF THE ABATEMENT OF SUITS AND THEIR REVIVAL.

‘Sermon Sncrxox

 Actions shall not abate by death. 3668. Proceedin where representative is not
3864. Proceedings after suggestion of death. brot h in.
3685. Order upon voluntary appearance. 3689. Death a r verdict. proceedings.

3666. Manner of service. 3670. Preceding section construed.

-3867. Pleadings on appearance of representative. 3671. Interest in suit transferred, proceedings.

SEC. 3663. Actions shall not abate by death:-No action shall abate by
the death, marriage or other disability of a party, if the cause of action
survive or continue. In case of the death, marriage or other disabilit of a
party, the court, on or before the third term after the suggestion 0 such
death, marriage or disability, may, on motion, order the action to be continued by or against the representative or successor of such party in interest; when the cause of action does not survive, the action shall abate only
as to the deceased parties, and shall continiie as to the survivors, if any,
without a revival thereof. (G. S. 678, § 1—a.)

SE0. 3664. Proceedings after su gestion of deat/t.—After the suggestion of the death, marriage or disabi ity, the order may be made on the
motion of the adverse party, or of the representatives or successor of the
“party who died or whose power ceased, and the names and capacities of
the representatives or successor shall be stated in the order. (G. S. 678, § 2.)

SEC. 3665. Order upon voluntar appeamnce.—If the order is made
upon the voluntary appearance and by consent of the parties, the action
shall forthwith st-and revived, and if not made by their consent, it shall be
-conditioned that the action be revived in the names of the representatives
or successor of the party who died, or whose powers ceased, and proceed
in favor of or against them, unless good cause be shown against the revivor

at the next term; and a summons shall be issued against the person to be
made a party, and if, after service of the same, sufficient cause be not
shown against the revivor within the first four days of the term to which
the summons is returnable the action shall stand revived. G. S. 678, § 3.)

SEC. 3666. Manner of: service.-—The summons may be irected to any
county in the state, and shall be served and returned in the same manner
and with like effect, to all intents and purposes, as is required in cases of
summoning or notifying ori inal defendants. The court may also make an
order of publication as to a 1 such persons to be made parties as are nonresidents, or whose names are unknown, in the same manner as in case of
original defendants, which order shall be published in like manner as in
original cases. (G. S. 679, § 4.) ' SEC. 3667. Pleadings on appearance of representative.——In all cases
where a representative or successor is made a party to an action as herein

rovided, the pleadings of the party whom he represents or succeeds shall

e taken to be his, which he may be allowed to amend; and proceedings
may be had in all respects in favor of or against him, as if he had been an
original party to the action. (G. S. 679, § 5.)

SEC. 3668. Proceedings w/eere 7°(eIm‘e3entat'z3ve is not brought in.—-In all
cases where the representatives of a eceased or disabled party shall not be
made parties according to the provisions of this article on or before the
third term after the suggestion of the death or disability, the action shall
abate as to such party and the interest of his representatives or successor
therein; and the cause shall proceed in favor of or a ainst the survivors.
In case there be no surviving plaintiff or defendant t e suit shall be dismissed. (G. S. 679, § 6-5.)

SEC. 3669. Death after verdict, yrroceedings.-—After a verdict shall be
rendered in any action, and after an answer of confession in any suit
brought, if either party die before judgment be actually entered thereon
the court may, within one term after such verdict or answer, enter nnal
judgment in the name of the original parties. (G. S. 679, § 7.

SEC. 3670. Preceding section eon.strued.—Nothin§ in t e preceding
section shall be construed to authorize the entry of a ju gment against any
Barty who shall have died before a verdict is actually rendered against

irn, notwithstanding he may have died on the first or any other day of the
term at which such verdict shall have been rendered, but such verdict shall
be void. (G. S. 979, § 8.)

SEC. 3671. Interest in suit transferred, proceedin_qs.—When an interest is transferred in any action now pending, or hereafter to be brought,
other than that occasioned by death, marriage or other disability of a party,
the action shall be continued in the name of the original party, if the party
to whom the transfer is made will indemnify the party in whose name the
suit is to be continued against all costs and damages that may be occasioned thereby; or the court may allow the person to Whom the transfer is
made to be substituted in the action; and in all such cases, the party to
Whom the transfer is made shall be required by the court, upon application
of the party who made the transfer, either to give such indemnity or to

cause himself to be substituted in the action, and upon his omission to do
so, the court shall order the suit to be dismissed. (G. S. 679, § 9—c.)

SEC. 3676. When set aside. —Such judgment may, for good cause
shown, be set aside at any time before the damages are assessed or final
judgment rendered, upon such terms as shall be just. §G. S. 680, § 5-c.)

Ssc. 3677. Judgment of non pros, when entered.—— f the plaintiff shall
fail to file his replication, or other pleading, Within the time prescribed by
law, or the rules of practice of the court, and to serve the adverse party or
his attorneg with a copy thereof when the same is re uired, judgment of
non 0.3. s all be given against him. (G. S. 680, § 6—g.)

EC. 3678. Judgment of non p7'o.s., when set asz'de.—Such judgment
may, for good cause shown, be set aside at any time durin the term at
which it shall be fiver], upon such terms as shall be just. ( . S. 680, .

SEC. 3679. udgment interlocutory against only ' art of the de en ants.—When there are several defendants in a suit, an some of them apgear and plead, and others make default, an interlocutory judgment by

efault may be entered against such as make default, and the cause may
proceed against the others; but only one final judgment shall be given in
the action. (G. S. 680, § 8.

SEC. 3680. Judgment 3/default, how roceeckd on toflnaljudgment.-—
\Vhenever an interlocutory judgment shallabe rendered for the plaintiff by
default, nil clicit, confession, or upon an issue of law, in any suit founded
upon a written instrument, or upon a judgment of any court of record, and
the demand is ascertained by such instrument or the record of an such
judgment, the court shall assess the damages, and final judgment s all be
given thereon. (G. S. 680, § 9-—e.)

SEC. 3681. Final judgment on accounts, when 7°ende7'ed.-—In any action
instituted upon an open account, or an account stated, where the items of
the account are set forth in or annexed to the petition, if the defendant has
been persona-ll served by the delivery to him of a cop , and makes default, he shall he considered as admitting the account to e due,as set forth

or annexed, and final judgment may be rendered against him for the amount
thereof, at the time of entering his default. (G. S. 681, § 10—f'.)

SEC. 3682. Assessment of damages.—In all cases of interlocutory
judgments not provided for in the two precedin sections, the plaintiff
may, if he demand it, have a jury to assess his amages. If no jury be
demanded, the court shall assess the damages, or give the other relief asked
i§n11the petition, and dual judgment shall be given thereon. (G. S. 681,

-9- .

SEC. 3683. Damages not to exceed amount clai7ned.—Whenever such
interlocutory judgment shall be rendered for the plaintiff the damages or
other relief shall not be other or ofreater than that which he shall have demanded in the petition, as originally filed and served on defendant; but in
any other case, the court may grant him a11y relief consistent with the case
made by the plaintiff and embraced within the issues. (G. S. 681, § 12-5..)

SEC. 3684. F2'nal judgment, when vaeated.—When such inter ocutory
judgment shall be made and a final judgment entered thereon against any
defendant who shall have been summoned, as required by this article, or
who shall not have appeared to the suit, or have been made a party as the
representative of one who shall have been summoned or appeared, such
final judgment may be set aside, if the defendant shall, wit in the time
hereinafter limited, appear, and by petition for review, show good cause for
setting aside such judgment. (G. S. 681,  13-21)

SEC. 3685. Bar to petition for review.—If the plaintiff shall, at any
time after such nnal judgment, serve the defendant, within any of the
United States or the territories thereof, with notice of the suit and a copy
of the judgment thereon and such defendant shall not, within one year
alter such service, bring his petition for review, the court, on proof of the
service of such notice, shall make an order that the judgment stand absolute. (G. S. 681, § 14.)

SEC. 3686. Judgment absolute after three 3/ear.s.—If such petition for
review be not filed within three years after such final judgment is rendered,
the same shall stand absolute, whether notice thereof be given or not.
(G. S. 681,§15.) . . . _

SEC. 3684. Petttaon to set aszde must show, w/a.at.—No such judgment.
shall be set aside unless the petition for review shall state the existence of
the facts set forth in section three thousand six hundred and eighty-four,
and that the petition of plaintiff, upon which the judgment complained of
was obtained, is untrue in some material matter, settin it forth, or that he
has and then had a good defense thereto, setting suc defense forth, or
both, and then only on condition that the defendant answer or demur to
the petition of plaintiff on which the judgment was rendered wit.hin a reasonable time, to be ordered by the court. Such petition for review shall be
verified by aflidavit. (G. S. 681, § 16, amended.) .

SEC. 3688. Petition, how served.—The petition of defendant shall be
served on the plaintiff in the gudgment, or notice given by publication to
him, or, if the plaintiff be dea , then 011 or to his legal representatives, in
like time and manner as provided for the service or giving of notice in case
of an original petition upon a defendant. (G. S. 681, § 17.)

SEC. 3689. If answer or demurrer filed, cause to proceed.—If the answer or demurrer is filed wit.hin the time so limited, the cause shall proceed as it would have done had the defendant appeared to the summons
and filed his answer or demurrer to the petition; if not, the judgment shall
be made absolute. (G. S.681, § 18.)

SEC. 3690. Judgment for defendant to be, wIzat.—-If, upon the trial of
a cause, judgment shall be for the defendant, or if the judgment be for the

plaintiff but for less than the original judgment, the defendant may also
have judgment with costs against the plaintiff, for such damages as justice
shall require, as will reimburse him for moneys applied to the satisfaction
of the original judgment, and legal interest thereon, and which the plaintiff
did not finally recover. (G. S. 682, § 19.)

SEC. 3691. Property sold not affected by vacating judgment.—No sale
or conveyance of property for the satisfaction of any judgment, regularly
made, shall be affected or prejudiced by the setting aside any judgment on
the appearance of a defendant, as hereinbefore provided if the property
shall be in the hands of innocent purchasers. (G. S. 682, 20.)

SEC. 3692. Speciac performance of ju(Igments.—In all cases where
judgment is given for the conveyance of real estate, or the delivery of personal property, the court may, by such judgment pass the title of such
property Without any act to be done on the part of the defendant. (G. S.
683,§ 27.)

SEC. 3693. Writs of ossession.—The court may issue a writ of possession, if necessary, to the sheriff of the proper county, to put the party entitled into possession of such real or personal property, or may proceed by
attachment or se uestration. (G. S. 683, § 28.)

SEC. 3694. West of 'ud_qments for conveyance, etc.—When an unconditional judgment shall e made for a conveyance, release or ac uittance,
and the party re uired to execute the same, shall not comply t erewith,
suchjudgment s all be considered and taken to have the same operation
and effect and be as available as if the conveyance,_ release or acquittance
had been executed conformably to the judgment. (G. S. 683, § 29.)

SEC. 3695. Damages in lieu of performance of'judgment.—\Vhen complete justice cannot otherwise be done, the court may, on the petition of the
party entitled t.o the benefit of a final judgment, cause an inquiry to be
made, by a jury of the amount of damages which ought to be paid in lieu
of the performance of the judgment, and may render a judgment for the
damages so assessed, and award execution thereon. (G. S. 683, § 30.)

SEC. 3696. Confession of judgment may be entered, w/zen«——A judgment by confession may be entered without action, either for money due

or to become due, or to secure any person against contingent liabilitér on
behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner herein prescribed. ( . S

682,  21——j.)

EC. 3697. Form of conf'ession.—A statement in writing must be made,
signed by the defendant, and verified by affidavit to the following effect:
First, it must state the amount for which the jut gment may be rendered,
and authorize the entry of judgment thereon; second, if it be for money
due, or to become due, it must state concisely the facts out of which it arose,
and must show that the sum confessed therefor is justly due, or to become
due; third, ifit be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against a contingent liability, it must state concisel ' the facts constituting the liability,
and must show that the sum confesse therefor does not exceed the same.
(G. S. 682, § 22, amended-/c.)

Snc. 3698. Defendant to be identefed to com't.—Such statement and
aflidavit shall be filed, and the court shall render judgment for the amount
confessed, and cause the same to be entered upon the records, first being
satisfied of the identity of the defendant, if present; or, if not present, that
he executed the same in writing, and made the affidavit hereinbefore required. (G. S. 682, S 23.)

SEO. 3699. Confession by attorney in f'act.—A judgment by confession
may also be rendered against any person for a debt owing upon a note,

bond or bill of exchange, under his power of attorney therefor, acknowledged as required of deeds of land for record, and filed in the court rendering the, udgment, at the time of its rendition, together with the note,
bond, or bill of exchange, a.nd the ailidavit of the plaintifl', that the debt is
bona fide, for a fair and valuable consideration, and owing, after allowing
all just credits and setoffs. (G. S. 682, § 24, amended—l.)

SEC. 3700. Submitting a controversy wit/clout actz,'on.—Parties to a
question in difference, Which might be the subject of a civil action, may,
Without action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same to any court which
Would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought; but it must appear,
by affidavit, that the controversy is real and the proceedings in good faith,
to determine the rights of the parties; the court shall thereupon hear and
determine the case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were depending. (G. S. 682, § 25.)

SEO. 3701. Judgment, how enf'orced.——Tlie judgment may be enforced
in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided in the submission ; and, in like ma.nner, shall be with costs,

and subject to an appeal or writ of error, unless otherwise provided in the
submission. (G. S. 682, § 26.)

ARTICLE X.

OF NEW TRIALS, ARREST OF JUDGMENT, APPEALS AND CLl.lRKS‘ DUTIES.

SECTION

3716. Notice. when required.

3717. Appeals. when returnable—-transcript to he
1

Sxcrtox
3702. Failure of proof.
3703. Verdict, on failure of proof, when set aside.

 

3704. Verdict ‘may be set aside and new trial . led, etc.

granted. 3718. Eu'ect of recognizance;
3705. Parties entitled to but one new trial. 3719. Recognizances to be approved, by whom.
3706. Costs, how awarded. 3720. Duties of clerk when appeal granted.
3707. Motions for new trial to be filed, when. 3721. Clerk to prepare docket.
3708. Amendments on arrest of judgment. 3722. Dockets, how arranged and designated.

3709. Costs, who shall pay. ’ 3723. Penalty for failing to repare docket.

2710. Appeals, when granted. 3724. Dismissal of suits an withdrawing exhibits.
3711. Parties, how designated in appeals. 379.5. Failure of consideration, when proved.

3712. Appealsallowed. on what conditions. 3726. Preceding section not to allcct bana jide in3713. Appeals, shall stay execution. when. dorsers.

3714. Certain judges may grant appeals, when. 1 3727 Motion to set aside when to be filed.

3715. Not to be granted unless error committed. I 3728 Periormance of judgment, how enforced.

SEC. 3702. Failure of pr0of'.—W here the allegation of the cause of
action or defence to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some
particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it shall
not be deemed a case of variance, but a failure of proof. G. S. 683, §1.)

SEC. 3703. Verdict on fa2'lm'e 0f'])7'0of‘, when set asi e.——In ease of
such failure of proof, and a verdict of a jury or finding of the court against.
the party so failing, and the court is satisiied from the proof given, that the
party has ‘a good cause of action or defense, the court may, on motion of
such party, set aside the verdict or finding, and grant a new trial, and per th;)pleadings to be amended, on such terms as may be just. (G. S.

, .
EC. 3704. Vera’7'ct may be set a-side and new trial ,r/ra.nted.—In every
case where there has been a mistake or sur )rise of a party, his agent or attorney, or a misdirection of the jury by t e court, or a mistake by the
jury, or a finding contrary to the direction of the court, or a fraud or deceit

SEC. 3709. Costs, who shall aye/.—In such case the party in whose

ggzceegipg the first error was, shal pay all costs incurred thereby. (G. S, .

gnu. 3710. Ap eals, wlcen grar/nted.—Every person aggrieved by any
final judgment or dlecision of any circuit court in any civil cause, or by any
such judgment or decision of the St. Louis court of appeals, from which an
appeal is not prohibited by the constitution, may make his appeal to the
court having appellate jurisdiction of such judgment or decision. (Laws
187' 7 , p. 360, 1, amended—d.)

SEC. 371 . Parties, iaow designated in appeals.—The party appealing
shall be known as the appellant, and the adverse party as the res ondent. ;
but the title of the action shall not be changed in consequence o the appeal. (Laws 1871, p. 50, § 43.)

SEC. 3712. Appeals allowed on what conditions.—No such appeal shall
be allowed, unless: First, it be made during the term at which the judgment or decision appealed from was rendered; and, second, the appellant
or his a ent shall, during the same term, file in the court his ailidavit, stating
that suc appeal is not made for vexation or delay, but because the afliant.
believes that the appellant is aggrieved by the judgment or decision of the
court; and, third, all appeals trom the St. Louis court of appeals shall be
taken Within fifteen days after the day u on which judgment is rendered,
or within ten days after a motion for a re iearing, if made, shall have been
overruled, if the term shall so long continue, if not, then during the term.
(Laws 1877, p. 360, § 1—e.)

SEC. 3713. Appeals 3/tall stay ea:ecution., wleen.—Upon the appeal being
made, the court from which an appeal is prayed shall make an order allowing the appeal; and such allowance thereof shall stay the execution in the
fol owing cases, and no others: First, when the appellant shall be an executor or administrator, guardian or curator, and the action shall be by or
against him as such ; second, when the appellant, or some responsible person for him, together with two suliicient securities, to be approved by the
court, shall, during the term ‘at which the 'udgment. appealed from was rendered, enter into a recognizance to the adverse party, in a penalty double
the amount of whatever debt, damages and costs, or damages and costs,
have been recovered by such judcrment, together with the interest. that may
accrue thereon, and the costs and’ damages that may be recovered in any
appellate court upon the appeal, conditioned that the appellant will prosecute his appeal with due diligence to a decision in the appellate court, and
shall perform such judgment as shall be given by such court, or such as
the said court may direct the circuit court or St. Louis court. of appeals to
give, and if the judgment of such court, or any part thereof, be affirmed,that he will comply with and perform the same. so far as it maybe atlirmed,

and will pay all damages and costs which may be, awarded against the appellant by any appellate court. (Laws 1871, p. 50,  45, amended.)

SEO. 3714. Certain judges may grant ap eals, when.—Any judge of
the supreme court, or St. Louis court of appeals, respectively, in cases appealable to said courts, upon ins ection of a copy of the record, ma.y grant‘
an appeal, by special order for tliat purpose, at any time Within one year
next after the rendition of the final judgment or decision in the cause.
(Laws 1871, p. 51, -16, amended.) ‘

SEC. 3715. at to be granterl unless e-rrorr commz'tted.—No such order
shall be granted by such court or judge unless it appear, from an inspection
of a cop of the record, that error was committed by the circuit court
against t 1e party applying for the order, and materially affecting the merits
of the action. (Laws 1871, p. 51, § 47.) .

SEC. 3716. 1V0t2'ce, when 7'eqm'red.—Unless the appeal be taken in the
court in which judgment was rendered, during the term in which the same
was rendered, notice in writing of such appeal shall be given to the resgondent, at least twenty days before the commencement of the term of
t e appellate court to W ich such appeal is to be sent. (Laws 1871, p. 51,
§ 48, amended.)

SEC. 3717. Appeals, when returnable——transc7‘2;29t to be hled, etc.—All
appeals taken thirty days before the first day of the next term of the supreme court or St. Louis court of appeals, shall be returnable in such next

term, and all appeals taken in less than thirty days before the first day of‘

such next term, shall be returnable in the second term thereafter. The appellant shall cause to be filed in the ofiice of the clerk of the supreme court,
or St. Louis court of appeals, at least fifteen days before the term of such
court to which the appeal is returnable, a perfect transcript of the record
and proceedings in the cause; if he fail so to do, and the appellee produce
in court such transcri t, and it appear thereby that an appeal has been
allowed in the cause, t e court shall aflirm the judgment, unless good cause
to the contrary to be shown. An ap eal Granted by the supreme court or
St. Louis court of appeals, or any ju ge thereof, when the appellant is not
an executor or administrator, guardian or curator suing or sued as such,
shall not operate as a stay of proceedings,“unless a ike recognizance as in
case of other appeals in civil cases be entered into before the supreme

court, St. Louis court of appeals or circuit court, or a judge or a clerk.

thereof, and filed in the ofllce of the clerk of the circuit ‘court in which
the judgment appealed from was rendered. (Laws 1871, p. 51, § 49,
amended—f.)

SEC. 3718. Effect of 7'ecogn2'zance.—On filing such recognizance, there
shall be a stay of all further proceedings upon the judgment appealed
from, except that perishable property may be sold, if the circuit court, or
jud e thereof, shall deem the same necessary and pro er and not injurious
to t e appellant; and, if sold, the proceeds thereof sliall be retained subject. to the order of such court. (Laws 1871, p. 51, § 50.)

SEC. 3719. Iiecognizances to be ap raved, by whom.—The court, judge
or clerk taking such reco nizance, shall) fix the amount or sum in which it
shall be taken, approve t e same and enter the approval thereon. (Laws
1871, p. 51, § 51.) S150. 3720. Duties of clerk when appeal gmnted.—When an appeal is
granted by the circuit court or St. Louis court of appeals, or when an order
made by any judge of the appellate court for an appeal is filed, the clerk
of the court in which the judgment or decision from which the appeal is
taken was rendered shall, Without delay, make out and send to the clerk

of such appellate court, a complete copy of the record. (Laws 1871, p. 52,
§ 52, amended.)

SEC. 3721. Clerk to prepare doc/l'ets.—Every clerk of a court of record
shall, before the commencement of each term of such court, make out two
dockets of all causes in which an issue of fact is to be tried, and inquiry of
damages to be made, a special verdict, agreed case, demurrer, motion, or
other matter of law, to be argued at sudh term, and shall a.rrange such
causes upon the docket in the same order in which they stand in the course
of proceeding, settin a proper proportion for each day. (G. S. 685, 8 20.)

SEC. 3722. Doc ets, /cow arran ed and des2'g~natea’.—One of such docket.s shall be known as the “court ocket,” the other as the “bar docket,"
and shall be arranged appropriately, with spaces for the names of attorneys, and brief statements of the orders and judgments of the court in the
respective cases. Such cases shall be docketed as follows: First all civil
cases for trial ; second, the return cases, showing whether process has been
served or not; third, all criminal cases: ‘provided, that the order in which
civil and criminal cases are above directed to be docketed, may be changed
from time to time by order of the court or of the judge thereof. (G. S.
685, § 21, amended.)

SEC. 3723. Penalty for failing to prepare doclcet.—Every clerk who
shall neglect or refuse to make out such dockets accordin to law, shall be
fined by the court, any sum, not exceeding one hundred ollars for every
such offense. (G. S. 686, S 22.)

SEC. 3724. Dismissa? of suits and w2't/zdrawing ea2ln'bz'-ts.—'l.‘he plaintiff in any suit in any court of record may dismiss such suit in the vacation
of the court, upon the payment of all costs that may have accrued therein;
and no exhibit or other paper filed in any "case shall be withdrawn without
the order of the court and upon depositing in such court a copy thereof.
(G. S. 686, § 23, amended.) i

SEC. 3725. Ifczilure of’ consz'a’erat2'on, when proved.—Wl1enever a specialty or other written contract for the payment of money or the delivery
of property, or for the performance of a_ duty, shall be the foundation of an
action or defense, in whole or in part, or shall be given in evidence in any
court without being pleaded, the proper party may prove the want or failure of the consideration, in whole or in part, of such specialty or other
written contract. (G. S. 686,  24—g.)

SEC. 3726. Preceding section» not to affect bona ifde 2°ndorsees.—Nothing contained in the last preceding section shall affect or impair the right.
of any bona fide indorsee of anv contract in writing, made negotiable by
the laws of this state, when such instrument shall be negotiated before it
becomes due. (G. S. 686, § 25.)

SEC. 3727. jllotion to set aside. when to be filed.-—Judgments, in any
court of record, shall not be set aside for irregularity, on motion, unless
such motion be made within three years after the term at which such judgment was rendered. (G. S. 686, § 26.)

SEC. 3728. Per/brmance of’ j1m'_qmen.t, /cow enforced.-—When a judgment. requires the performance of any other act than the payment of money,
a certified copy of the jud ment may be served upon the party against
whom it is given, and his 0 edience thereto required. If he neglect or refuse, he may be punished by the court. as for a contempt, by fine or im risonment, or both, and, if necessary, by sequestration of property. ( .S.

686,§ 27. )

SEC. 3729. In wlzat cases a c/range of 'venue may be awarded.—A
change of venue may be awarded in any civil suit to any-court of record,
for any of the following causes: First, that the judge is interested or prejudiced, or is related to either party or has been of counsel in the cause;
second, that the opposite party has an undue inlluence over the mind of the
judge; third, that the inhabitants of the county are prejudiced against the
app icant; fourth, that the opposite party has an undue inlluence over the
inhabitants of the county. (G. S. 633, § 1——a.)

SEC. 3730. When c/zange awarded wit/rout application—ea:cept27on.9.If the judge is interested or related to either party, or shall have been of
counsel in the cause, the court or judge shall award such change of venue
without any application from either party, unless all the parties in the
cause consent that such judge mav sit on the trial thereof, or a special
judge for the trial thereof be agreed upon by the iarties, or elected in the
manner provided by law. (G. S. 634, § 5, amended—b.)

SEC. 3731. Application wlzen to be made.—No defendant shall be
allowed a change of venue unless the application therefor be made before
the filing of his answer to the merits, except when the cause for such
change of venue shall arise, or information and knowledge of the existence
thereof shall first come to him after the filing of such answer; in which
case such application shall be made as soon as practicable after the defendant acquires such information and knowledge, and in no case later than the
first day of the next. regular term of the court thereafter; and the defendant must allege in his application, and show to the satisfaction of the court,
that such cause arose, or that he became possessed of his information and

knowledge thereof, since the adjournment of the last regular term of the
court. (G. S. 634, § 2, amended—c.)

SEC. 3732. May; be presented in vacat'io—n.—Any party may present to
the court, or the judge thereof in vacation, a petition, setting forth the
cause of his application for a change of venue, and when he obtained his
information and knowledge of the existence thereof, and he shall annex
thereto an aflidavit to the truth of the petition, a.nd that he has just cause
to believe that he cannot have a fair trial on account of the causes alleged.
(G. S. 634, § 3, amended—d.)

SEC. 3733. After notice given, duty of com°t.—If reasonable notice
shall have been given to the adverse party or his attorney of record, the
court or judge, as the case may he, shall consider the application, and if it
be sufficient, a change of venue shall be awarded to some county where the
cause or causes complained of do not exist, as convenient as may be to the
opposite party.- ( G. S. 634, § 4, amended—e.)

SEC. 3734. Duties in case of’ change in fcacatio-n.—If any judge award
such change of venue, in vacation, he shall immediately transmit to the
clerk of the court wherein the cause is pending, the petition and atiidavit,
with a Written order for the change of venue. (G. S. 634, § 6.)

SEC. 3735. After c/tange, clerk to transmit reco-rd.——When any such
order shall be made by the court or judge, the clerk shall immediately
make out a full transcript of the record and proceedings in the cause, including the petition and affidavit and order of removal, and transmit the
same, duly certified, together with all the original papers filed in the cause.
and not forming a part of the record, to the clerk of the court to which the
removal is ordered, and for failure to do so, shall forfeit one hundred dollags tfo)the party aggrieved, to be recovered by civil action. (G. S. 634,
§ —— . ,

SEC.‘ 3736. Tire cause w/zen transmlttezl to be filed and doc/ceted.—'I‘he
clerk of the court to which such cause is certified shall file the same, and
the cause shall be docketed, proceeded in and determined, as if it had originated therein. (G. S. 634, § S—g.) .

SEC. 3737. Party applying to pay costs.—All the costsand expenses
attending any such change of venue, made on the application of either
party, shall be taxed against and paid by the petitioner, and shall not be
taxed in the costs of the suit. (G. S. 634,  9, amended.)

SEC. 3738. Fee bill may issue for costs, w/zen—If such petitioner fail
to pay such costs within fifteen days after the change of venue, such clerk
may make out a fee bill against him and his sureties, if any, and deliver
the same to any sheriff, who shall levy and collect the same, with fifty per
cent. thereon, for the use of the clerk, as other fee bills. (G. S. 634, § 10,
amended.)

SEC. 3739. Costs may be recovered by civil action.—Such clerk may
recover the amount of such fee bills, and fifty per cent. thereon, by civil
action. (G. S. 634, § 11.)

SEC. 3740. Failure of‘ clerk to transmit, or loss of‘ record, proceedi 3.
If any clerk fail to transmit the transcript and papers in any cauisejlilie
venue whereof has been changed, or if they be sent and lost, such loss or
failure shall not operate as a discont.inuance of such cause, but they may be
filed at the next term of said court; or, if lost, copies of the original may

be furnished and filed, and the cause shall proceed as if no such failure or
loss had happened: provided, however, that the court or the judge grantin any change of venue shall have the power to set aside and annul the
or er therefor, by consent of parties, at any time before such transcript and
papers shall be actually tiled in such other court. (G. S. 634, § 12, am’d.)

SEC. 3741. Jam’-3(I2'cta'0n of court in cases removed.—Tlie court to which
any cause shall be transferred, by change of venue, shall have 'urisdiction
to hear and determine the same, and shall proceed to iinal ju gment and
-execution therein, although such cause would not otherwise be cognizable
in such court. (G. S. 635,§ 16, amended-/z.)

SEC. 3742. This article made ap licable to the city of St. Louis.—The
Word “ county,” as used in this artic e, shall be construed to embrace the
city of St. Louis; and changes of venue shall be awarded to and from the
courts of said city as if it were a county. ( New section.)

ARTICLE XII.

OF Pl%ACTICE IN THE SUPREME COURT.

Siccrxox sscrxox
3743. Writs of error, when to issue. 3767. Appeal or writ shall not abate upon death of
3744. When from circuit to county court. party.
3745. To issue within three years. 3768. Heirs and legal representatives, when made
_ 3746. When bv survivors. . parties.

3747. All parties shall join in writ. 3769. When they shall join in error.
3748. Wherlil party may prosecute without Joining 3770. Female party marrying, husband to be made

ot ers. party.
3749. Parties, refusing to join. may be brought in. 3771. When husband made party on his own appli3750. How brought in and eilect oi’ refusal. cation
3761. Order, how served. 3772. When and how persons may be compelled to
3752. Parties refusing may be admitted on paying comein as parties.

costs. 3773. Statement and brief to be filed , when.
3753. Etlect of refusal to join in writ. 3774. Exceptions disregarded. not decided by lower
3754. Non-residents, not joining, not an‘eeted. court.
3755. Parties admitted on voluntary application. 3775. Case not reversed in absence of error.
3755. No writ shall stay execution unless error ap- 3776. Duty of court in disposition of cases.

pears. 3777 . Court may award damages. when.
3757. Conditions upon which stay will begranted. 3778. Appointment of special judge.
3758. Order to stay to be indorsed on writ. 3779. The court may award execution or remit to
3759. Such order shall arrest the issue 01 an execn- lower court

tion. 3780. The court may make and promulgate rules,
3760. Parties obtaining the writ to give notice. etc.
3761. Return. how made. 3781. Opinions to be in writing.
3762. Penalty for failing to return. 3782. Statement to accompany opinion.
3763. Duty of court in arranging docket. 783. Duty of clerk. _
3761. Assn ment of errors. 3784. The court shall have no powertocompel print3765. Joint er in error. ing oi‘ briefs and record.
3766. Death of party, when suggested. 3785. Practice in St. Louis court of appeals.

SEC. 3743. 'r7Its of error, when to issue.——Writs of error upon any
final judgment, or decision of any circuit court, or other court of record
havin concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit court, in all cases are Writs
of rig t, and shall issue of course, out of the supreme court, in vacation as
well as in term, subject to the regulations prescribed by law.’ (Laws 1871,

p. 46, § 1-—a.)

SEC. 3744. W/zen from circuit to county court.—Writs of error shall
issue on demand, as a matter of right on the final decision or judgment of
the county court, from the circuit court in term time, or in vacation, within
ninety days from such judgment or decision. (Laws 1871, p. 46, § 2,
amended—b.)

SEC. 3745. To isszze wit/tin t/tree 3/ea7'.9.—A1l writs of error upon any
judgment or decision of any court, in any case, whether civil or crimina ,
shall be brought within hree years after the rendering of such judgment
or decision, and not ther after; but persons within the age of twenty-one
years shall be allowed to bring their writs of error in civil cases, within
three years after such disability is removed. (Laws 1871, p. 46, § 3-0.)

SEC. 3746. W/zen by sm'viv0r.9.—It' a judgment shall be rendered against
several persons, and one or more of them die, a writ of error may be
brought thereon by the survivors. ( Laws 1871, . 46,  4.)

SEC. 3747. All parties shall join in wr2't.— f there be several persons
against whom any judgment shall have been recovered, and entitled to
brin a writ of error thereon, living at the time of bringing such writ, they
shali; all join in such writ, except where it is otherwise provided by law;
and if any are omitted, the writ shall be quashed on motion of the defendant in error, made at any time before ‘jomder in error, upon due proof of
the facts by aiiidavits, unless one or more of such persons be allowed to
proceed by the supreme court. (Laws 1871, p. 46, § 5.)

SEC. 3748. "7/1.872. party may prosecute wit/(out joi-n2'ng 0t/ae7‘s.—T0 the
allegations of there being other persons living who ought to join in such
writ of error, if it be established or admitted. the party prosecuting such
writ may answer by due proof on affidavit, that. any of such persons not
joined are either incapable of consenting to join in such writ, by reason of
insanity or imbecility of mind, or that their consent dnld not be obtained
by reason of their being absent out of this state; an( if the court shall be
satisfied of the truth of such answer, such party shall be allowed to prosecute such writ, without joining such persons, in the same manner as if they
were joined. (Laws 1871, p. 46, § 6.)

SEC. 3749. ~ Parties rcf'w.sa7nq to join, may be brought 2'n.—To such allegations the party prosecuting the writ may also answer by due proof on
affidavit, that application has been made to any of the persons not named
in such writ to join therein, and that they have refused; in such case, the
court shall stay further proceedings on such writ, and on the motion to
quash the same until an order shall have been duly served on the persons
so refusing, as hereinafter provided. (Laws 1871, p. 47,  7.)

SEC. 3750. How brought in, and effect of‘ ref'usal.—-The court. shall
thereupon cause an order to be entered on its record, directing the persons
so refusing to join in such writ, to appear in such court Within such time as
shall be prescribed therein, and there join in such writ of error and the pro’

ceedings thereon, or to be forever precluded from bringing another Writ of
error on the same judgment. (Laws 1871, p. 47, § 8.)

SEC. 3751. Order, how served.——A copy of such order shall be served
on the parties named therein at least ten days previous to the time of appearance therein specified, in like manner as an original writ of summons.
(Laws 1871, p. 47  9.)

SEO. 3752. Parties refus-ing, may be admitted on paying oosts.—Upon
the application of any person named in such order, he may be ermitted to
join in such Writ oferror and in the proceedings thereon, upon t e payment
of the costs ofthe proceedings to bring him into court, including the motion
to quash the writ of error, if it shall appear that he refused to join in such
writ. on application and without just cause, and the writ and proceedings
shalgl be)amended by inserting the name of such person. (Laws 1871, p.
47, 3 10.

SEC. 3753. Effect of refusal to join in w7'z't.—If any person named in
such order do not appear by the time therein specified, and 'oin in such
writ of error upon due proof of the service of such order, t e default of
such person shall be entered, and he shall thereby be forever precluded from
bringing any writ of error on the same judgment, and the cause shall proceed in the same manner as if such person had been named in such writ
and in the proceedings thereon. (Laws 1871, p. 47, § 11.) 5

SEC. 375-1. 1Von-residents noljoinin , not af7'ected.—When the name
of any person, out ofthis state, or incapab e of iving consent to the brin ing of a writ of error, shall be omitted in suc writ, and the cause shal
Eroceed without such name, the rights of such person shall not be impaired

y the judgment on such writ, but he may bring his Writ of error in the
same manner separately,asif no such former writ had been brought. (Laws
1871. p. 47,  12.) '

SEC. 3755. Parties admitted on voluntary applz'catlon.—Any Person
who ought to join in a Writ of error may be permitted to do so, on iis application, on such terms as the court shall impose, and the writ and proceedings shall be amended by inserting his name, and shall proceed as in
other cases. (Laws 1871, p. 47, § 13.)

S130. 3756. No writ .3/tall stay eaceerution unless error appea7's.—N o writ
of error shall stay execution unless the supreme court, or some judge
thereof in vacation, be satisfied 11 on an inspection of a copy of the record
that there is error therein, and s iall make an order allowin such Writ of
error to stay the execution, and no such order shall be made y a judge in
vacation after the expiration of ninety days from the rendering of the judgment or decision complained of. (Laws 1871, p. 47, § 14.)

SEC. 3757. Conditions upon ‘wllllcll stay will be 9rante(l.—No order
allowing a writ of error to stay the execution shall be made by the supreme
court, or by any judge thereof in vacation, except in the followin cases:
First, where the plaintiff in error was executor or administrator in t 1e original action, and such action was by or against him as such; or, second,
where the plaintiff in error, or some responsible person for him, together
with two sufficient sureties, to be approved by the court or judge, or by the
judge of the circuit court in which the judgment was rendered, shall enter
into a recognizance before such court or judge, to the adverse party, in a
penalty sufficient to secure whatever debt, damages and costs, or damages
and costs, have been recovered by the judgment complained of, toget er
with the costs and damages that may be recovered in the supreme court,

conditioned that the laintiff in error will rosecute such Writ with effect, .

and pay the money t at shall therein be a judged against him by the supreme court, or otherwise abide the judgment of such court therein.
(Laws 1871, p. 47.§15—d.)

SEC. 3758. , Order to stay, to be endorsed on writ.—The court or oflicer
allowing a writ of error to stay the execution shall cause an order to that
effect to be indorsed upon the writ, under the hand of the judge, when the

same is made in vacation, and under the hand of the clerk of the court,
when the same is made in term. (Laws 1871, p. 48, § 16.)

S130. 3759. Such order shall arrest the issue of an e.2:eoution.——If no

execution be issued, the exhibition of such writ of error, so indorsed, to
the adverse party or his attorney of record, or the clerk of the circuit court
where the judgment or decision complained of was rendered, shall stay the
issuing of any writ of execution. If any execution shall have been issued
and not fully executed, upon the exhibition of such Writ of error to the oilicer charged with the execution of the writ of execution, such ofiicer shall
proceed no further in the execution thereof, but shall return the writ, together with the reason of his not proceeding to the final execution thereof.
(Laws 1871, p. 48, § 17.)‘
. SEC. 3760. Parties obtaining the wit to give not«ioe.—Every person
suing out a writ of error shall cause notice thereof in writing to be served
on the adverse arty or his attorney of record, twenty days diefore the return day of suc 1 writ. If such notice be not served, the writ shall be dismiszged, )unless good cause for such failure be shown. (Laws 1871, p.
48, 18.

SEC. 3761. Return, how made.—Writ.s of error shall be returned,
signed by the clerk of the court to which such writ shall be addressed,
under the seal thereof. (Laws 1871, p. 48, § 19.)

SEC. 3762. Penalty, for failing to return.—Any clerk failing to make
return of any writ to the supreme court, shall be liable to be punished by
such court on attachment for his contempt, in the same manner as otiicers
of other courts for disobeying the process or orders of such courts. (Laws
1871 p. 48, ,8 20.)

8150. 3763. Duty of court in arranging doe/cet.—It shall be the duty of
the judges of the su reme court, at the end of each term of said court, to
direct the number 0 cases to be docketed by the clerk for the next succeeding term of the court, and the clerk shall docket all cases from the
same judicial circuit in succession, in the brder of the circuits, setting not
more than ten cases for each day, and a copy of the docket shall be printed
in the county wherein such supreme court shall be held, at least ten days
before the commencement of the term : provided, that if for any cause any
cases are not reached for hearing at the first term at which they are docketed, then it shall be the duty of the clerk to place all cases remaining undisposed of at any term first upon the docket of the succeeding term.
(Laws 1877. p. 232, §_1.) .

SEC. 3764. A332 -mnent of errors.—On appeals and writs of error the
appellant or plainti in error shall assign errors on or before the first day
on which causes from the same circuit are set for hearing, in default of
such assignment of errors the appeal or writ of error mav be dismissed, or
the judgment affirmed, unless good cause for such failure be shown. (Laws
1871, p. 48, § 22——e.)

SEC. 3765. Joinder in error.—Joinders in error shall be tiled within
20%‘ days after the filing of the assignment of error. (Laws 1871, p. 48,
J ‘— -)

SEC. 3766. Death of party, when suggested.—If there be several appellants or plaintiffs in error, and one or more of them die before errors
are assigned, such death shall be suggested by the surviving plaintiffs.. and
the error shall be assigned by them, and if one or more of several defendants die before joinder in error, such death shall in like manner be suggestcd by the survivor, and they shall plead to the assignment of errors.
(Laws 1871, p. 48, § 24.)

SEC. 3767. A peal or writ shall not abate upon death of party/.—If there
be several appel ants or plaintiffs in error, and one or more of them die
after errors assigned, or if there be several appellees or» defendants in
error, one or more of whom shall die after errors assigned, the appeal or

writ of error shall not thereby abate, but in either of such cases such death

shall be suggested on the record, and the cause shall roceed at the suit of .

the surviving appellant or plaintiff in error, or against t 1e surviving appellee
or defendant in error, as the case may be. (Laws 1871, p. 49, § 25.)

SEC. 3768. Ileirs and legal representatives when made a7'lie8.—If all
the a pellants or laintilfs in error die after the appeal.ta ten, or Writ of
error brought, and efore judgment rendered thereon, the executors or administrators of the last survivincr plaintiff or appellant or the heirs and
devisees of tl1e plaintill’ and appellant, in cases where the would be entitled to bring Writs of error, may be substituted for S1101 plaintiffs, and
the cause shall proceed at their suit. (Laws 1871, p. 49, § 26-9.)

SEC. 3769. W/ten t/2e3/ .9/tall join in err0r.—lf the appellees or a sole
appellee, or if all the defendants or a sole defendant in a writ of error die,
after the appeal taken or writ of error brought, and before judgment
therein, the executors and administrators, or heirs and devisees of such appellees or defendants, may be compelled to become parties and join in
error, in like manner as in an original suit. (Laws 1871, p. 49, § 27.)

SEC. 3770. Female party ma7'ry2'~n.g, husband to be made party/.—If a
female appellant or plaintiff 111 error marry after the appeal taken or Writ
of error brought, her husband may be joined with her, on his a plication,
and hi; 2%a)me shall thereupon be entered in the proceedings. (l:aws 1871,
p. 491 .

S130. 3771. W/zen lmsband made party on 71.2.18 own applz'cat2'on.—If a
female appellee or defendant in error marry after the ap eal taken or writ
brought, and before judgment, her husband ma be ma e a co-defendant,

on hise app)lication, or the application of the a verse party. (Laws 1871,
p. 49 , 29. '

EC. 377‘... W/Len and bow persems may be compelled to come in as parties.—l’ersons may be substituted as parties, or compelled to become parties, in cases pending in the supreme court, in like time and manner and
with like effect as provided for in original suits in circuit courts. (Laws
1871, p. 49, _S 30.)

SEC. 377: . Statement and brief to be aled, wlzen.—0n appeals and
writs of error each party shall. on or before the day next preceding the day
on which the cause is docketed for hearing, make out and furnish the court
with a clear and concise statement of the case, and the points intended to
he insisted on in argument. (Laws 1871, p. 49,  31-/2.)

SEC. 3774. E2/;ce t2'on.s d2'sregar(Ied, not decided by lower court.-No
exception shall be ta {en in an appeal or writ of error to an proceedings
in the circuit court, except such as shall have been express y decided by
such court. (Laws 1871, p. -1!),  3:2—2'.)

S1«:o. 3777. Court may award damages, wIten.—Upon the affirmance of
any judgment or decision, or upon the dismissal of any case, the supreme
court may award to the appellee or defendant in error, such damages, not
exceeding ten per cent., on the amount of the 'udgment complained of, as

may be just. (Laws 1871, p. 49, § 35, amende —l.)
SEC. 3778. x p ointment of special ju e.—The decision of the majority
‘of the judges of t e supreme court shall e the decision of the court, but
if in any case the judges shall be equally divided in opinion, the parties to
the cause ma agree upon some person, learned in the law, who shall act
as special ju ge in the cause, and who shall sit therein with the court, and
give decision in the same manner and with the same effect, as one of the
judges; and such agreement shall be in Writing, signed by the parties or
their attorneys of record, and filed With the papers and form art of the
record in the cause. If the parties cannot agree upon a speci judge, the
court shall appoint, bar an order of record, some person, possessing the
g1§2(a;.l1_'iical);ions aforesai , to act as such special judge. (Laws ‘ 1871, p. 50,
m. .
SEC. 3779. T/ze court ma award execution or remit to lower court.The supreme court, upon the etermination of a’ cause in appeal or error,
ma award execution to carry the same into eifec or may remit the record
wit 1 their decision thereon, to the court from whence the cause came an
such determination shall be carried into execution by such court. (iaws
1871 p. 50, § 37-42..)
$120. 3780. Court may make and promulgate rules, etc.—It shall be
the duty of the supreme court to frame and promulgate, and from time to
time, as may be needful, change, rules prescribing What parts or portions
of depositions, papers, records, entries, returns, process and other proceedings, belonging to a cause, as may not be necessary to the proper adjudication of any question arising ugon ap eal or writ of error, may be omitted
from the record to be prepare and orwarded by the clerk of the proper
court below to the supreme court in cases taken, or brought to such court
by a peal or writ of error. (Laws 1871, p. 50, 38.)

glaze. 3781. Opinions to be in writing.— n each case determined by
the supreme court, or finally disposed of upon a motion, the o inion of the
court shall be reduced to writing and filed in the cause and sha show which
of the judges delivered the same, and which concur therein or dissent
therefrom; (Laws 1871, p. 50, §§ 39 and 40, amended.)

SEC. 3782. Statement to accom any opinion.—The opinion shall always
contain a suflicient statement of tie case, so that it may be understood
without reference to the record and proceedings in the same. (Laws 1871,
p. 50 § 40 amended—o.)

EC. 783. Duty of cler/c.——The clerk of the supreme court shall,
when the opinion of the court is filed in his office, indorse thereon the day
on which it is filed, and enter the same on his minutes, and shall within
thirty da s thereafter, make a true copy thereof, and shall t.ransmit the
same wit out delay to the circuit court, or other court from which the same
was taken. (Laws 1871, p. 50, l§ 41.)

SEC. 3784. T/ze court shal have no power to compel printing of briefs
and record.—The supreme court of Missouri, in making and promulgating
rules in relation to t 1e practice in that court, shall have no power to make
or enforce any rule for the printing of the record, transcript, statement or
brief in any cause which has been or may be removed to that court by
appeal or writ of error, nor to make or enforce any rule requiring any
party to a writ of error or appeal to file a bond for costs in that court.
(Laws 1872, p. 30. § 1.)

SEC. 3785. Practice in St. Louis court of appeals.—The provisions of
this chapter regulating the practice in the supreme court, shall apply to
practice in the St. LOUIS court of appeals, so far as the same may be applicable; and all cases taken to or from the St. Louis court of appeals, by
appeal or writ of error, shall be governed by the provisions of this -chapter,
regulating the taking of cases by appeal or writ of error to the supreme
court, in so far as the same may be applicable. (New section.)

the plaintiff shall deliver to him a bond, executed by two or more sufficient
securities, approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound t.o the
defendant in double the value of the property stated in the aflidavit, for
the rosecution of the action with effect and without delay, for the return
of t 1e property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and, in default of such delivery, for the pa ment of the assessed value of such property, and for the payment of al damages for the taking and detention
thereof, and for all costs which may accrue in the action. ( (1. S. 664,  3-1).)

SEC. 3847. Slzerz'79' .9/zall take and deliver roperty to la2'ntz'/f‘, w/zen.
Upon such bond being executed as aforesaid, tie sheriff s all receive the
property, or, if the same be not delivered, shall take the property and deiver it to the plaintiff, unless, before such delivery to the plaintiff, the defendant shall, with two or more sufficient securities, to be approved by the
sheriff, execute a bond to the plaintiff, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintiff,
for the delivery of said property to the plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and, in default of such delivery, for the a ment of the assessed
value of such property, and for the payment of al amages for injuries to
the property, and for the taking and detention, or detention thereof, and
all costs which may accrue in the action. (G. S. 664, § 4-0.)

SEO. 3848. Qualification of sure2f2'es.—Each of the securities in such
bonds must be a resident and householder or freeholder within the state;
they must be worth the amount for which the bond is given, exclusive of
property exempt from execution, and after paying all debts. (G. S. 66-1, § 5.)

SEC. 38-19. Defendant shall not retain. properly/, w/zen..—If the plaintiff shall state in the affidavit made by him, as provided by section three
thousand eight hundred and forty-four, that the property was wrongfully
taken, and that his right of action accrued within one year, the defendant
shall not be entitled to retain such property by giving bond, as provided
by section three thousand eight hundred and forty-seven, but the same
gllilllqbe )delivered to the plaintiff, upon his giving the bond required. (G. S.

6 , , 6. ,

am. 3850. Bonds taken by .9/zeri/f' shall be filed wit/2. cler/c—w2°t/u°n
what tz°me.—All bonds taken by the officer in virtue of the provisions of
this chapter, relating to the claim and delivery of personal property, shall
be filed with the clerk on or before the first day of the term of court. next
after the same are taken. (G. S. 664, § 7, amended.)

SEC. 385]. Court may order plaz'nl2'7‘r" to give new bond, w/z.en—f'ailu'/‘e
to comply with order— roceedz'ngs.—If the court should, at any time before
trial, be satisfied that the bond of the plaintiff shall not be good and sufficient, an order shall be made that the plaintiff give a new bond with good
and sufficient securities, within such time as the court in such order shall
direct; and upon his failing to comply with such order, the court shall
make a further order that the sheriff or other proper odicer retake the
property and deliver it to the defendant, and that the plaintiff deliver the
same to the officer therefor, and that the cause be dismissed at the costs of
the plaintiff and his securities in the bond. (G. S. 664, § 8.)

SEC. 3852. 1l{a;r/ order (lefendant to give new bond, w/z,en—f'a.e'lm'e to
comply will o1'(ler—z)roceeclin,(]s.-—If the court should, in like time, be satisfied that the bond of the defendant shall not be good and suilicient, a like
order shall be made that the defendant give a new bond, with good and
suflicient securities, within such time as the court in such order shall direct;
and, upon his failing to comply with such order, the court shall make a
further order that the proper officer retake the property and deliver it to the

plaintiff, and that the defendant. deliver the same to the officer therefor, and
that the answer or other pleadings, if any, of defendant be stricken out,
and render such judgment for the plaintiff as the court may, by law, render against the defendant and his securities. (Gr. S. 664,  9.)

Sec. 3853. When order mentioned in two last preceding sections is
made, duty of cler/c.—When any such order shall be made as provided for
in the two last preceding sections, the clerk shall, without delay, deliver
to the proper officer an order for the retaking and delivery of such property
to the proper party, and for the delivery thereof to him therefor, by the
party having it; which shall be directed and executed in like manner as an

order for the taking and deliverv of property to the plaintiff in the first instance. and sha;l be served on the party having the property, as other orders. (G. S. 665, S 10.)

SEC. 3854. 17' plain ti)?‘ fails to prosecute his suit, etc., value of’ property, etc., to be assessed.—If the plaintiff fail to prosecute his action with
effect and without delay, and shall have the property in his possession, and
the defendant in his answer claims the same and demands a return thereof,
the court or°a jury may assess the value of the property taken, and the
damages for taking and detaining the same, for the time such property was
taken or detained from defendant until the day of the trial of the cause.
(G. S. 665, § 11—d.) .

SEC. 3855. Judgment to be renzlered against pla-i-nt2'ff' and his securities, go/2.en.——In such case, the judgment sliall be against the laintiff and

his securities, that he return the property taken, or pay tie value so
assessed, at the election of the defendant, and, also, pay the damages
assessed for the taking and detention of the property and costs of suit.
(G. S. 665, § 12—e.) . SEC. 3856. If })la2'nt2'#' have not the property, damages, how assessed.
If the plaintiff have not the property in possession, damages shall be assessed as directed in section three thousand eight hundred and fifty-four,
for the taking or detention, or both, as the case may be, of the property;
and judgment shall be rendered against the plaintiff and his securities for
the damages, if any, and for costs of suit. (G. S. 665, § 13.)

SEC. 3857. If’ t/ze defendant fail in his defense, damages, how assessed.—If the defendant fail in his defense, and have the property in possession, the court or jury shall assess the value of the property, and the
damages for all injuries to the property, and for the taking and detention,
or detention, of the same, and the judgment shall be against the defendant and his securities, that he return the property or pay the value so assessed, at the election of the plaintiff, and, also, pay the damages so assessed
and costs of suit. If the defendant have not the property in possession, the
court or jury ‘shall assess the damages, and the judgment ‘shall be against
the defendant and his securities, for the damages so assessed, and costs of

suit; and, in all cases the roperty shall be presumed to be with the party

who should have it, until t 1e contrary be shown. SC}. S. 665, § 14—f.)

SEC. 3858. I’art_v/ to elect, wlzen.—A party Slall not be required to
make such election until the property is delivered to the sheriff, on the
proper process, and the party have notice thereof. (G. S. 665, § 15——g.)

SEC. 3859. Officer to levy, eta, w/zen.—If such property be not delivered to the officer within ten days after, process issued, he shall levy and
make the assessed value thereof, the damages and costs, of the property of
the parties against whom the process issued. (G. S. 665, § 16.)

SEC. 3860. Title of jrroperty vested, when.—In such case, the party’s
right to the roperty shall not be impaired by levying the assessed value
thereof on the property of the other party and his securities, or either of
them; but if the property be delivered to the sheriff, and the arty elect to
take the value assessed, such election shall operate to vest a 1 his right to
the property in the other party. (G. S. 665, § 17.)

SEC. 3861. 0-rders, /zow e2_22"oreed.—-'l‘he court may enforce all orders
for thel delivery of property as other orders of court are enforced. (G. S.
4365,  8.

SEC. 3862. Suit on boat], bow and by w/com broug/it.—If, in any case,
it shall become necessary to sue upon any bond given in virtue of this
chapter, the same may be done by civil action against the obligors, jointly
or se§eral)ly, in the name of the party to Whom the bond was given. (G. S.
665 , 19.

’SEC. 3863. 1t’ig/it of action against .9/ietri-ff’, barred, w/ien.—After the
due execution of any bond taken in virtue hereof, the parties to the action
shall be barred of any right of action against the sheriff, or other ofiicer, for
the seizure and delivery of such property. (G. S. 665 § 20.)

SEC. 386}. Court to allow chm: es for ta/cin and delivering wopertg/.
The court shall allow the proper ot%cer reasonalqile charges for t e taking
and delivery of property, as provided herein. (G. S. 666, S 21.)

SEC. 3865. Sheriff’ and his sureties liable, w/cen.— f the sheriff, or
other officer, fail to take or return a bond, as required bv law, or if the bond
taken is adjudged insutiicient at the term next after the same was taken,
and be not made suflicient as hereinbefore provided, he and his securities
shall be liable to the party injured for all damages by him sustained, to be
recovered by civil action, or by civil action on the oflicer’s official bond.
G. S. 666,  22.)

SEC. 3866. 1t'.re<:u.tion may be i88ue(Z—t0 whom (lireeted.—An execution
may issue, for the delivery of personal roperty,‘ to the sheriff of the county
Where the property is situate, and shallprequire him to deliver possession of
the same. suflicient-ly describing it, to the party entitled thereto; and shall,
in allrespects, be governed by the rules governing executions in ordinary
cases, so far as the same may be applicable. (H. S. 666,  :23.)

executor or administrator, upon a contract made by him in his representative capacity, Whether or not the contract shows the representative capacity
in which he contracted. (G. S. 602, § 3———e.)

SEC. 3870. Setof against counties, towns and c'2't2'.e.9.—I11 all actions
or suits at law, or ‘any other legal proceeding instituted by any county, city
or town within this state, against any person for the enforcement, collection orrecovery of any debt, demand, claim or pecuniary liability, any
debt, demand or claim existing, due or owing to such person, and held by
him in his own right, against said county, city or town, before and at the
time of the commencement of said proceeding against such person, may be
set off against such debt, demand, claim or pecuniary liability of said
county, city or town. (G. S. 602, § 4, amended.)

SEC. 3871. W/zen allowed in suits aga2.'nstjo2'nt obligors.--In all actions
brou ht against one or more joint obhgors or promissors, any debt or deman due from the plaintiff to the defendant in the action, or to all the
obligors or promissors in the contract sued upon, may be set off against the
demand of the plaintiff. (G. S. 602,§ 5.)

SEC. 3872. Costs how awarded.—When a setofl’ pleaded shall be an
indebtedness of the plaintiff assigned to the defendant, other than negotiable promisso notes and bills of exchange, and shall equal or exceed the
amount foun due to the Elaintilf, the plaintiff shall, nevertheless, be entitled to all costs made in t e case to the time of the pleading of such setod,
provided he had no notice of such assignment at the time of the commencement of the suit. (G. S. 603, §.6.)

SEC. 3873. Judgment, when setoiz" is equal, or less than laz'ntif/"3 demand.-—A setoff shall be pleaded in the manner provided y law, and if
the amount of setotf be equal to the plaintiff’s demand, the plaintiff shall
recover nothing by his action; if it be less than the plaintiff ’s demand, he

shall have judgment for the residue only. (G. S. 603 § 7-d.)

SEC. 3874. Judgment for defendant when.——If t ere be found a balance due from the plaintiff to the defendant, judgment shall be rendered
for the defendant. for the amount thereof, together with costs. (G. S.
603, " 8——e.

SEC. 3875. Judgment may be set off’, when and /tow.—\Vhenever an
circuit court shall render linal judgment in causes in which the parties shal
be reversed, and shall sue and be sued in the same right and capacity, such
court ma , whether such judgment be rendered in the same court or not, if
rec uired y either party, set off such judgment, the one against the other,
an issue execution in favor of the party to whom the balance may be due,
and credit such execution with the amount of such setoif. (G. S. 603, § 9.)

SEC. 3876. Evecutions may be set o#'.—Executions between the same
parties may be set off one against another, if required by either party, in
the manner prescribed in the following sections.

SEC. 3877. Oiicer, how to proceed upon delivery of ecceeution to lcim.
When any one of the executions is delivered to an officer to be served, the
person who  the debtor therein may deliver his execution to the same othcer, whether the second execution is directed to the same or to some other
otlicer, and the oliicer shall apply it, as far as it will extend, to the satifaction of the first execution; or, if such first execution shall be the smaller
in amount, then to its entire satisfaction, and indorse on such execution the

SEC. 3921. Trespas.9—treble damages may be ')'ec02.'ere(Z, w/a.en.—If any
person shall cut down, injure or destroy, or carry awav any tree, placed or
growing for use, shade or ornament, or any timber, rails or Wood, standing,

eing or growing on the land of any other person or shall dig up quarry
or carry away any stones, ore or mineral, grave , clay or moul , roots,
fruits or plants, or cut down or carry away grass, grain, corn, flax or hemp,
in which he has no interest or right, standing, lying, or being on land not
his own, or shall knowingly break the glass, or any part of it, in any building not his own, the person so offending shall pay, to the party injured,
treble the value of the thing so injured, broken, destroyed or carried away,
with costs. (G. S. 379, § 1-—.a.)

SEO. 3922. For I/zrowing (lawn bars, gates, etc.—If any person shall
voluntarily throw down or open any doors, bars, gates or fences, and leave
the same open or down, other than those that lead into his own inclosure,
or shall voluntarily throw down, open or remove any partition fence, Without giving six months written notice to the person owning the adjoining
fields, if they are cultivated lands, he shall pay to the party injured the
sum of five dollars, and double the amount of damages the party shall sustain by reason of such doors, bars, gates and fences having been thrown
down or opened, with costs. (G. S. 379,  2.)

SEO. 3923. Penalties, /zorw rec0verer.l.—The penalties mentioned in the
precedin section may be recovered by civil action, founded on this statute,
or by in ictment, [or information,] at the option of the party injured, in
any court having jurisdiction of the same; and when the proceeding is b
igngictngient, such penalties shall be paid into the county treasury. (Gr. .

7 ,  . '

SEC. 3924. Single damages only] to be recovered, w/¢en.—0n the trial of
any action or prosecution brought upon this statute, if it shall appear that
the defendant had probable cause to believe that the land on which the
trespass is alleged to have been committed, or that the thing so taken, carried away, in'ured or destroyed, was his own, the plaintiff in the action or
prosecution s all receive single damages only, with costs. (G. S. 379, § 4.)

SEC. 3925. Penalty for wrongfully o ening mines, etc.—If any party
shall open any shaft, mine or quarry, an knowingly and wron ully extend therefrom any room, drift, entry, or other excavation, under ‘t e surface
of lands belonging to another, and not the property of the United States,
and shall wrongfully destroy or take away any coal, lead, copper, stone or
other mineral, or any ores or earths of any kind from the grounds of such
adjoining owner, such part so offending shall be adjudged ilty_of a -misdemeanor, and be punishe accordingly. (G. S. 380, § 5-5‘;

SEC. 3926. Party failing to pay fine shall be committed, etc.-—Every
person who shall be convicted of a misdemeanor, as rohibited by this
chapter, or against whom a judgment shall be obtaine under its provisions, who shall fail to pay t.he amount of the fine or judgment, with costs,
shall be committed by the court before whom the trial is had, until such
judgment and costs are paid or is relieved under the provisions of the law
in re ard to insolvent debtors. (G. S. 380, 9 6.)

EC. 3927. Fine may be commuted, w en.—In all cases of conviction
under this chapter, the person shall be sentenced to imprisonment until
the fine and costs are paid, but the court may commute the fine for imprisonment, not exceeding twenty days, and the person convicted may be discharged from the costs under the act for the relief of insolvent debtors(G. S.'380, § 7.) .

SEC. 3928. Malicious trespass—attac/zment may issue, wIzen.—If any
person shall maliciously or Wantonly damage or destroy any personal property, goods, chattels, furniture or live, stock, the person so offending shall
pay to the party injured double the value of the thing so damaged or destroyed; and upon an affidavit that said damage or destruction was Wantonly or maliciously done, it shall be a good ground for an attachment to
issue, as in other cases by attachment. (G. S. 380, ,3 8-0.)

any civil action or proceeding may compe

his ledger or original book of entries, or both° and no disputed account
shall be allowed upon the oath of the party, when it shall appear that he
has a book of original entries, unless such book shall be produced upon
reasonable request. (G. S. 586, § 2.)
SEC. 4012. Adverse party may be comlpelled to testiffz/.—Any party to
any adverse party, or an person for whose immediate and adverse benefit such action or rocee 'ng is
instituted, prosecuted or defended, to testify as a witness in is behalf, in
the same manner and subject to the same rules as other witnesses: provided, that the party so called to testify may be examined by the opposite
party, under the rules applicable to the cross-examination of witnesses.
(G. S. 586, ’ 3-1).)

SEC. 4 13. Previous sections construed.—Nothing in sections four
thousand and ten and four thousand and twelve, shall in any manner affect
the law relating to the attestation of the execution of last wills and testaments, or of any other instrument re uired, by law, to be attested nor
shall they be so construed as to compe any person’ to subject himself, by
his testimony, to any prosecution for a criminal offense. (G. S. 585, § 4.)

SEC. 4014. When married women may testifgg/.—No married woman
shall be disqualified as a witness in any civil suit or proceeding prosecuted
in the name of or against her husband, whether 'oined or not with her husband as a party, in the following cases, to wit: irst, in actions upon policies of insurance of pro erty, so far as relates to the amount and value of
the property alleged to e i 'ured or destroyed; second, in actions against
carriers, so far as relates to t e loss of property and the amount and value
thereof ° third, in all matters of business transactions when the transaction
was had and conducted by such married woman as the agent of her husband: and no married man shall be disqualified as a witness in any such
civil suit or proceeding prosecuted in the name of or against his wife,
whether he be joined with her or not as a part. , when such suit or roceeding is based upon, grows out of, or is connecte with any matter of Business
or business transaction where the transaction or business was had with or
was conducted by such married man as the agent of his wife: provided, that
nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize or permit any married woman, while the relation exists. or subsequently, to testify to any admission or conversations of her husband, whether made to herself or to
third parties. (Laws 1874, 60—c.) ~

SEC. 4015. Evidence o party not to be used to convict him of fraud.\Vhenever any person shall testify, either as a arty or as a witness, in any
suit or proceedings now or hereafter pending, tie testimony of such person
shall not be used as evidence to prove any fact in any suit or prosecution

against such person for any penalty for violation of any law in relation to
fraudulent conve ance of property. (G. S. 587 ,§ 6.)

SEC. 4016. enalty, where party refuses to testifg/.—If a party, on being duly summoned, refuse to attend and testify, either in co,urt or before
any person authorized to take his deposition, besides bein punished himself as for a contempt, his petition, answer or reply may e rejected, or a
motion, if made by imself, overruled, or, if made by the adverse party,
sustained. (G. S. 587, § 7—d.)

‘ SEC. 4017. Persons incompetent to testiffz/.—The following persons shall
be incompetent to testify: First, a person of unsound mind at the time of
his production for examination; second, a child under ten years of age,
who appears incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined, or of relating t em truly; third, an attorney.
concerning an communication made to him by his client in that relation,
or his advice t ereon, without the consent of such client; fourth, a minister
of the gos el or priest of any denomination, concerning a confession, made
to him in is professional character, in the course of discipline enjoined by
the rules of practice of such denomination; fifth, a physician or surgeon,
concerning any information which he may have acquired from any patient
while attending him in a professional character, and which information was
necessary to enable him to prescribe for such patient as a physician, or do
any act for him as a surgeon. (G. S. 587, § 8-—e.)

SEO. 4018. Witness not excused from testifying, wIzen.—No competent.
witness in a case shall be excused from answering a question relevant to
the matter in issue, on the ground that the answer to such question may
tend to establish the fact that such witness owes a debt or is otherwise subject to a civil suit. (G. S. 587, § 9—f.)

SEC. 4019. Witnesses, how summoned.-—In all cases where witnesses
are re uired to attend the trial in any cause in any court of record, a summons s all be issued by the clerk of the court wherein the matteris pendin ,
or b some nota public or justice of the peace of the county wherein suc
tria shall be ha , stating the day and place, when and where the witnesses
are to appear. (G. S. 587, 10.)

SEC. 4020. Subpoena, w issued and served.-—Such summons shall
contain the names of all witnesses for whom a summons is required, by the
same party in the same cause, at the same time, who reside in the same
county, and may be served in any county in the state. (G. S. 587 , § 11.)

SEC. 4021. Fees to be tendered, w/ten.—A witness shall not be compelled to attend as such, in a civil suit, at a greater distance than forty
miles from his place of residence, unless his legal fees for traveling, in going to and returning from the place of trial, and one da ’s attendance, are
ggiizd oi1'2ti)endered to him at the time of summoning suc witness. (G. S.

, .

§EC. 4022. Attendance, how enforced.—A person summoned as a
witness in any cause pending in any court of record, and failing to attend,
may be compelled, by writ of attachment against his bed , to a pear,
which may be served in any county in the state. (G. S. 587, 13-9.

S1-2c. 4023. Attachment may issue, wlzen.—\Vhen a cause shall be continued on account of the absence of a witness, duly summoned, and the

party for whom such witness shall have been summoned shall make ailidavit that such absent witness is material, and that he cannot safely go to
trial without his testimony, the court may award a writ of attachment, directed to the sheriff or other proper officer of the proper county, commanding him to take the body of such witness, that he a pear and testify in the
cause at the next term thereafter; and the clerk s all issue such writ accordingly, stating therein the day on which the cause is set for trial, as the
day of his appearance. (G. S. 588, § 14.)

SEC. 40%. Witness attao/zed, may be disclzarged on bail.—When a writ
of attachment, authorized by the preceding section, shall be executed, the
sheriff or other oflicer shall discharge such witness, on his entering into a
reco nizance to the state of M.lSSO1ll'1, with suflicient security, in the sum of
one undred dollars, which the officer executing the writ 1s authorized to
take, conditioned for the aptpearance and due attendance of such witness,
according to the exigency 0 such writ. (G. S. 588, § 15.)

SEC. 4025. Fine for non-attendanoe.—The court shall have power to
impose a fine, not exceeding fifty dollars, on every erson duly summoned
as a witness, who shall not appear and testify ' whic fine may be remitted,
for good cause shown, at the term to which he is summoned, or the next
term thereafter.‘ G. S. 588, § 16.)

S130. 4026. itness liable to action, w}cen.—When a party, causingra
18

“witness to be summoned, shall have paid or tendered to such witness

legal fees for traveling, and one da ’s attendance, at the time of summoning such witness, if he fail to atten , he shall be liable to the action of the
party for all damages sustained by the non-attendance, unless he show
sufficient cause to justify such absence. (G. S. 588, § 17-/t.)

SEC. 4027. Penalty for refusing to testifg/.—A person summoned as a
Witness, and attending, who shall refuse to give evidence which may lawfully be required to be given by such person, on oath or affirmation, may
be committed to prison by the court, or other person authorized to take
his deposition or testimony, there to remain, without bail, until he give such
evidence. gG. S. 588, § 18-—i.)

SEC. 40 8. Witness, when free from arrest.—Witnesses shall be privileged from arrest in all cases, except treason, felony and breach of the
peace, during their attendance on any court, or where their attendance is
required by subpoena, and in goin to and returnin thence, allowing one
day for every twenty miles from t 1eir abode. G. . 588 § 19.)

SEO 4029. Subpoenas, by whom served.—Su poenas shall be directed to

i the persons to be— summoned to testify, and may be served by the sheriff,

coroner, marshal, or any constable in the county in which the witnesses to
be summoned reside or may be found; or by any disinterested person who
would be a competent witness in the cause. (G. S. 588, § 20.)

SEC. 4030. Sub cenas, /tow served and returned.—The service of a subpmna to testify shal be by readinlgilthe same or delivering a copy thereof
to the person to be summoned. e returns shall show the manner of service; and, in civil cases, if the witness reside at a greater distance than
forty miles from the place of trial, it shall be so stated in the return, and,
also, whether his legal fees have been tendered or paid; and if served by
an oflicer, his return shall be conclusive of the facts therein stated; if
served by a private person, the return shall be verified by affidavit, which
shall be received as evidence. (G. S. 588, § 21.)

SEC. 4031. Evidence of prisoner, how obtaineci.—Courts of record and
any judge or justice thereof, shall have power, upon the application of any
party to a suit or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending in any court of record, or public body authorized to examine witnesses, to issue a writ of

lzabeas corpus, for the purpose of bringing before such court or public body
any person who may be detained in jail or prison, within the state, for an
cause, except a sentence for felony, to be examined as a Witness in suc
suit or proceedin on behalf of the applicant.’ (G. S. 588, § 22.)

SEC. 4032. ow before justices of the peace.—Such Writ may, also, be
issued by any such court, judge or justice thereof, upon application of a
party to a Slllt or proceeding pending before a justice of the peace, or any
officer authorized to examine witnesses, to bring any person confined in
the jail of the same county, or the county next adjoining that where the
suit or proceeding is to be heard or had, before such justice or ofiicer, to be
examined as a witness. (G. S. 589,§ 23.)

SEO. 4033. Further proceedin s to obtain ev-idence.—An a plication
for such Writ shall be verified by a davit, and shall state the tit e and nature of the proceeding in which the°testimon of the prisoner is desired,
the court or oiiicer before whom pending, an that the testimony of such
prisoner is material and necessary to the agplicant on the trial or hearing
(()fG81écl;8S§Jit grljgroceeding, as he is advised y counsel, and verily believes.

. . , . .

SEC. 40%?»-1. Upon a lication of prosecuting o19icers.—When such application shall be ma e by the attorne general, prosecuting or circuit
attorney, or other public prosecutor, it s a 1 not be necessary to swear to
the truth of the facts set forth in the ap lication. (G. S. 589, § 25.)

Size. 4035. Prisoner to be remande , after testifi/i .—A prisoner who
shall be brought before any court, public body or o cer, upon a Writ of
lzabeas corpus to testify, shall be remanded, after having testified, to the
prison from W ich he was taken. (G. S. 589, § 26.)

Sue. 4036. Powers of commissioners to compel the attendance of witnesses.—Commissionérs appointed by any other state, or any of the territories of the United States or the District of Columbia, for the purpose of
taking depositions and aiiidavits, and the acknowledgments of deeds, powers of attorney, and other instruments of Writing, and residing in this state,
shall have the same power to compel the attendance of witnesses, in the
taking of depositions, and the roof of deeds, and in all other cases Where
it may be necessary in the disc arge of the duties of their office, as is now

'ven, b law, to any court of record in this state, in compelling the attenance o witnesses before such court. (G. S. 589,’ § 27-—j.)

Sac. 4038. Writs issued by authorized ofieer to run, lzow.—All writs
and process issued by any judge or justice of the peace or other ofiicer authorized to issue the same, shall run in the name of the state of Missouri and be subscribed by the officer issuing the same. (G. S. 560, § 2.)

SEO. 4039. Writs hall not be issued on certain days, except in certain
cases.—No person, on unday, on the fourth day of July, on the first day
of January, on any general state election day, on any thanks 'ving day appointed by the governor of this state or the president of the nited States,
or on the twenty-fifth of December, and t e twenty-second day of February, shall serve or execute any writ, rocess, Warrant, order or judgment, except in criminal cases, or for a reach of the peace, or when the
defendant 18 about leaving the county, or in any case of attachment when
the debtor is about fraudulently to secrete or remove his effects; and the

_service of every such writ, process, warrant, order or judgment, shall be

_ process, warrant or

void, and the person serving or executing the same shall be as liable to the
suit of the party aggrieved as if he had done the same Without any writ,
er or judgment. (G. S. 560, § 3, amended.)

SEC. 4040. lVrit not served, other writs shall zssue—in case of death of
party/—writ may issue in vacatio-n.—When an writ or rocess, issued out
of any court of this state, shall not be execute , the cler of such court, on
the application of the party suing out such writ or process, shall issue other
like process ° and if any party to any suit, pending in the said court, shall
die, the clerlt of such court may, in vacation, issue proper writs and 1pmcess to bring in the representatives of such deceased party, on the app ica—
tion of the other arty in such action. (G. S. 560, § 4.)

SEC. 4041. o arrest on civil action.—No person shall be arrested,
held to bail, or imprisoned, on any mesne process or execution founded
upon any civil action whatsoever. (G. S. 560, § 5.)

